
Table of Contents
About CenterPoint Energ.y................................................................ 3 Generation Transition...................................................................... 73
About This Repor.t............................................................................. 5 Just Transitio.n................................................................................. 76
Award.s................................................................................................ 6 EVs & Flee..t...................................................................................... 78
Governanc.e........................................................................................ 8 Carbon Reduction Technologies.................................................... 79
Ethics & Value.s.................................................................................. 9 Renewable.s...................................................................................... 81
Concerns Helplin.e........................................................................... 12 Helping Customers Achieve Net Zero............................................ 83
Senior Leadership Team.................................................................. 13 Energy Efficiency............................................................................. 85
Board of Director.s........................................................................... 14 Energy Access & Affordabilit.y....................................................... 87
Board Committee.s........................................................................... 18 Electric Grid Resiliency................................................................... 88
Sustainability Strategy & Oversigh.t.............................................. 20 Reducing Methane Emission.s........................................................ 90
Enterprise Risk Managemen.t......................................................... 22 Environmen..t.................................................................................... 92
Cybersecurit.y................................................................................... 24 Environmental Compliance............................................................. 94
Data Privac.y..................................................................................... 26 Biodiversity & Land Use.................................................................. 96
Stakeholder Engagemen.t............................................................... 28 Protecting & Restoring Habitats..................................................... 98
Priority Topics.................................................................................. 31 Biodiversity GRI Disclosures.......................................................... 99
Political Engagemen.t...................................................................... 33 Waste & Recycling......................................................................... 100
Social Impac.t................................................................................... 34 Water Managemen..t....................................................................... 102
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion........................................................... 35 Data Cente.r.................................................................................... 104
Workforce Diversit.y......................................................................... 37 Reconciliation of non-GAAP Financial Measures to GAAP....... 123
DEI Initiative.s................................................................................... 39 CenterPoint Energy GRI Content Inde.x....................................... 127
Communitie.s.................................................................................... 42 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB.)................. 131
Strategic Giving................................................................................ 44 EEI/AGA ESG Template Repor..t................................................... 133
Volunteerism..................................................................................... 46 CenterPoint Energy Cautionary Statemen..t................................ 137
Emergency Operations.................................................................... 48
Our People........................................................................................ 50
Training & Developmen.t................................................................. 52
Employee Benefits........................................................................... 55
Labor Relations................................................................................ 56
Our Customers................................................................................. 57
Large Customer.s............................................................................. 58
Safet.y................................................................................................ 59
Public Safet.y.................................................................................... 61
Workplace Safet.y............................................................................. 63
Supply Chain & Diversit.y................................................................ 66
Energy Transition Goal.s................................................................. 68
Carbon Reduction............................................................................ 71
ABOUT CENTERPOINT ENERGY
As the only investor-owned electric and gas utility based in Texas, CenterPoint
Energy is an energy delivery company with electric transmission and distribution,
power generation and natural gas distribution operations that serve more than 7 We Strive to Provide Safe,
million metered customers in Indiana, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, Ohio and Reliable and Resilient
Texas.
Delivery of Electricity
As of December 31, 2023, the company owned approximately $39 billion in assets. and Natural Gas to Our
With approximately 9,000 employees, CenterPoint Energy and its predecessor Customers and Value to Our
companies have been in business for more than 150 years.
Shareholders, Stakeholders
As we look to the future, we look forward to utilizing new, innovative technologies to and Communities
support our long-standing emissions-reduction efforts, while continuing to support
energy safety, affordability, reliability and resiliency.
AFFORDABLE RENEWABLES AND PILOT PROGRAMS SUSTAINABLE
CONSERVATION AND ALTERNATIVE FUEL AND INNOVATIVE INFRASTRUCTURE
ENERGY-EFFICIENCY PROGRAMS TECHNOLOGIES
PROGRAMS
OUR OPERATIONS
As of December 31, 2023
CenterPoint Energy is an energy delivery company with electric transmission and distribution, power
generation and natural gas distribution operations that serve more than 7 million metered customers
in Indiana, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, Ohio and Texas.
3
Electric Transmission & Distribution and Power Generation
Electric Transmission & Distribution
We own and maintain the wires, poles and associated
electric infrastructure serving approximately 2.9 million
metered customers in the greater Houston area and in
southwestern Indiana.
Power Generation
We also own and operate approximately 700 megawatts of
As of December 31, 2023
electric generation capacity in Indiana. Our employees work
to reliably deliver the electricity generated by power plants
and renewable energy resources to homes and businesses.
Natural Gas Distribution
CenterPoint Energy owns approximately 84,000 miles of
distribution and transmission mains across our natural gas
service territory and continues to be a top three natural gas
utility in miles of main pipelines.
We are continuing to invest in modernizing our natural
gas infrastructure and are working toward eliminating the
As of December 31, 2023
remaining cast-iron pipe in our system.
Competitive Energy Business
Our competitive energy businesses include owning and operating intrastate natural gas pipeline systems.
CENTERPOINT ENERGY COMBINED SERVICE AREA MAP
As of December 31, 2023
*In February 2024, we announced the sale of our Louisiana and Mississippi natural gas LDC businesses. The transaction is expected to close toward the end of first quarter
2025, following the satisfaction of closing conditions.
4
ABOUT THIS REPORT
• Publication Date: September 6, 2024
• Reporting Period: January 1 to December 31, 2023
• Date of Previous Report: September 2023 (for 2022)
• Reporting Cycle: Annual
• Contact: sustainability@centerpointenergy.com
We are pleased to provide investors and other stakeholders with transparent information about the company’s corporate
sustainability efforts, while also highlighting relevant data and examples. This website demonstrates our progress on issues
that are integral to our long-term performance.
In response to stakeholder feedback, we redesigned and reorganized our Corporate Sustainability Report into a web-based
structure with a dedicated Data Center. Our reporting follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework and has been
prepared with reference to the GRI Standards.
We disclose information using the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards in the Reports section of
this website. To better serve our stakeholders, we have also incorporated both the American Gas Association’s (AGA) and
Edison Electric Institute’s (EEI) ESG Template 3 into our annual sustainability reporting activities. We also published our first
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) report in 2022.
We announced our first Sustainable Financing Framework in early 2023, setting the foundation for CenterPoint Energy to
clearly identify areas of investments in cleaner and socially focused initiatives.
CenterPoint Energy’s ESG Council, which is led by the Vice President of Environmental and Corporate Sustainability and the
Senior Vice President, Corporate Planning, Investor Relations and Treasury, provided guidance on the development of the
report.
Formed in 2018 and composed of leadership from CenterPoint Energy’s businesses and functions, the ESG Council
identifies, evaluates and recommends strategic directions and opportunities that promote ESG objectives in alignment
with our company’s strategic plan. The council also provides oversight of the company’s Net Zero and carbon emissions
reduction goal implementation and carbon risk management.
Along with input from the ESG Council, various business units and work groups provided data for this report based on
topics that are important to the company, as well as the programs and initiatives that address these opportunities.
LEARN MORE
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
PRIORITY TOPICS
5
AWARDS
Recent Awards and Recognition
ONE OF NEWSWEEK’S MOST RESPONSIBLE COMPANIES
IN THE UNITED STATES: 2020-2023
CenterPoint Energy continues to be recognized by Newsweek as one of America’s
Most Responsible Companies based on publicly available key performance
indicators derived from corporate social responsibility, sustainability and corporate
citizenship reports, as well as an independent survey.
ENERGY STAR’S 19TH ANNUAL SUSTAINED CENTERPOINT ENERGY TAKES FIRST PLACE
EXCELLENCE PARTNER OF THE YEAR AWARD FOR 2021-2022 AMERICAN CUSTOMER
SATISFACTION INDEX
ENERGY STAR® honored CenterPoint Energy with
the 2023 Partner of the Year Sustained Excellence CenterPoint Energy came in first place nationally in
award in recognition of the company’s commitment to the 2021-2022 American Customer Satisfaction Index®
helping customers save energy and reduce costs in its (ACSI) study of investor-owned utilities. ACSI is a
Houston electric territory. Our company has won the national economic indicator of customer evaluations
award more times than any other utility in the country. of the quality of products and services available to
household consumers in the United States.
6
AN ARBOR DAY FOUNDATION 2022 TREE LINE
USA COMPANY
CenterPoint Energy was named a 2022 Tree Line USA company
for the 16th consecutive year by the Arbor Day Foundation for our
dedication to proper tree pruning, planting and caring throughout
our service area.
U.S. VETERANS MAGAZINE 2023
BEST OF THE BEST
U.S. Veterans Magazine named CenterPoint Energy
one of its 2023 “Top Veteran-friendly Companies”
in recognition of our hiring practices, as well as
participation in military job fairs and accessible
hiring practices for those with disabilities.
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY AWARDS
AND RECOGNITION
• Asian Chamber of Commerce: 2022 Corporate
Champion Award
• Houston Minority Supplier Development Council:
2022 Local Corporation of the Year, Prime
Engagement Award and Middle Market Engagement
Award
• Subcontractors USA: 2023 Supplier Diversity
Champion Award
• Women’s Business Enterprise Alliance: Outstanding
Utilization of Women Business Enterprises and
Greatest Expenditures with Women Business CenterPoint Energy’s Supplier Diversity Team
Enterprises in 2022
7
GOVERNANCE
Responsible corporate governance and ethical conduct are key values for CenterPoint Energy.
We believe that corporate governance – including strong ethics and compliance, as well as sustainability programs – are in the best
interests of our customers and stakeholders and critical to our long-term success. Along with our diverse, engaged Board, our corporate
governance and business policies and procedures help us operate effectively with accountability, integrity and transparency.
The Board has charged the Governance, Environmental and Sustainability Committee with oversight responsibility of the company’s
governance and environmental matters, including those matters related to climate change. In addition, this committee assesses the
company’s sustainability strategy and initiatives, including the pathways and progress towards achievement of the company’s Net Zero
and carbon emissions reduction goals.
The Governance, Environmental and Sustainability Committee, the Board or both receive periodic reports from representatives of the
company’s ESG Council regarding the company’s environmental and sustainability activities and risks, including risks related to climate
change and to the achievement of the company’s Net Zero and carbon emissions goals, among others.
The company’s ESG Council, led by our Vice President of Environmental and Corporate Sustainability, and our Senior Vice President of
Corporate Planning, Investor Relations and Treasury, includes officers and other members of management who identify, evaluate and
recommend strategic direction and opportunities that promote ESG objectives aligned with the company’s strategy and goals.
The Board has charged the Audit Committee with oversight of the company’s legal ethics and compliance program. The Audit Committee
receives regular reports from the Executive Vice President and General Counsel, and Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel,
and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer. In addition, the Board has charged the Governance, Environmental and Sustainability
Committee with the responsibility of addressing and resolving any issues with respect to related-party transactions and conflicts of
interests involving our executive officers, directors or other “related parties” under applicable disclosure rules of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.
8
ETHICS & VALUES
OUR VALUES
CenterPoint Energy’s core values of Safety, Integrity, Accountability, Initiative and Respect provide the foundation
for our business practices and standards. We work consistently to develop and enhance a culture based on our
values through our Ethics and Compliance policies, workforce and supplier diversity programs, environmental and
energy conservation initiatives, and our community relations activities.
ETHICS & VALUES
Our reputation, our relationships and our future depend on a
commitment to ethics, values and compliance.
• Our Ethics and Compliance Code forms the foundation for
who we are and how we conduct business. It serves as a
roadmap that incorporates our values into the decisions we
make every day. The Code provides an overview of the laws,
regulations and policies applicable to all directors, officers
and employees.
• CenterPoint Energy’s Code of Ethics for our Chief Executive
Officer and Senior Financial Officers obligates our Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting
Officer, Treasurer and Assistant Controller to address actual
or apparent conflicts of interest between personal and
professional relationships in an ethical manner.
• Our Ethics and Compliance Code of Conduct for Consultants,
Contractors, Suppliers and Vendors describes expectations
for our suppliers to embody CenterPoint Energy’s values
by promoting and maintaining a safe environment free from
discrimination; comply with all applicable labor, employment
and human rights laws; and uphold a zero-tolerance policy for
workplace violence, among other things.
9
ETHICS & COMPLIANCE TRAINING
By investing in and empowering our greatest
Annually, our officers and employees complete Ethics and
Compliance training. Our leadership also completes training on assets – our employees, living our values and
anti-corruption and anti-trust policies and procedures, among maintaining the highest ethical standards, we help
other subjects.
ensure our company’s future success.
All active full- and part-time employees received Ethics and
Compliance training in 2023.
Each year, all employees are required to complete an ethics refresher training and acknowledge their responsibility to comply
with CenterPoint Energy’s Ethics and Compliance policies. All new employees are required to complete ethics and compliance
training within their first 30 calendar days of employment. Our Board members receive Ethics and Compliance training annually.
CenterPoint Energy’s Ethics and Compliance Code provides that all directors, officers and employees should avoid actual
conflicts of interest, as well as the appearance of a conflict of interest. According to our Corporate Governance Guidelines,
Governance, Environmental and Sustainability Committee Charter, and Related-Party Transaction Approval Policy, the Board
has delegated to the Governance, Environmental and Sustainability Committee the responsibility for reviewing and resolving
any issues with respect to related-party transactions and conflicts of interest involving executive officers, directors of the
company or other related individuals under the applicable disclosure rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for assisting the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibility for
compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and our systems of disclosure and internal controls.
Our Executive Vice President and General Counsel is the highest-level executive who maintains responsibility for the
company’s Ethics and Compliance program, including the company’s initiatives related to anti-bribery and anti-corruption. She
is supported by our Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer and the other
members of the Ethics and Compliance Department, including both legal counsel and other compliance professionals.
Per our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Governance, Environmental and Sustainability Committee Charter, and Related-
Party Transaction Approval Policy, the Board has delegated to the Governance, Environmental and Sustainability Committee
the responsibility for reviewing and resolving any issues with respect to related-party transactions and conflicts of interest
involving executive officers, directors of the company or other related individuals under the applicable disclosure rules of the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
AUDITS AND RISK ASSESSMENTS
CenterPoint Energy regularly engages outside experts to perform an external assessment of its Ethics and Compliance
Department and Program. Our Ethics and Compliance Program and Ethics and Compliance Concerns Helpline metrics are
benchmarked against Department of Justice guidelines regularly, as well as with other utilities and industries, to remain vigilant
on trends and best practices. We participate in various organizations and events to keep our program current.
CenterPoint Energy conducts periodic culture surveys in support of its ethical and compliant culture. In addition, the Ethics and
Compliance department conducts in-person roundtable sessions that allow us to interact directly with employees from across
CenterPoint Energy’s footprint. The sessions provide an opportunity to hear directly from, and stay in touch with the pulse
of, employees and to share information on a variety of ethics and compliance topics. The feedback we receive from these
sessions drives continuous and risk-based development of the Ethics and Compliance program.
As part of our third-party risk management structure, CenterPoint Energy regularly screens suppliers and other third parties for
reputational and compliance risks. The Ethics and Compliance department reviews third parties and organizations to identify
those that have been placed on government watch lists and those that have a public history of compliance issues. In cases
where verified issues are found, CenterPoint Energy considers engagement of the third party and takes action as necessary,
which may include termination of the relationship with the third party.
Our Enterprise Risk Management function assists leaders in making risk-based decisions and links key corporate risks with
long-term strategic objectives. The department conducts regular corporate, business unit and project risk assessments.
SAFETY INTEGRITY ACCOUNTABILITY INITIATIVE RESPECT
We Provide a Safe We Act with Integrity We Protect Company We Honor Our We Value Everyone
and Healthy Work and Lead by Example Assets and Preserve Community and
Environment Resources Make a Difference
10
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
CenterPoint Energy expects every employee to act with personal and professional integrity, follow all applicable
laws and regulations, and adhere to any additional policies and procedures that may apply to an employee’s
role. Detailed policies and procedures on topics throughout the Ethics and Compliance Code are available to all
employees through CenterPoint Energy’s Policy Center on our intranet site.
We strive to maintain a culture where all employees are free from discrimination. We respect our employees by
following all labor, employment, and human rights laws applicable to our business.
Our Ethics and Compliance Code provides an overview of the laws, regulations and policies applicable to all
directors, officers and employees.
ANTI-BRIBERY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION
Integrity is one of our core values – we strive to do what is
right for our customers, our communities, our shareholders,
our business partners, and each other. Our Board and senior
leadership team support our values and emphasize the
importance of ethics, compliance, and integrity in everything
we do.
A key aspect of our focus on integrity is anti-bribery and anti-
corruption. Our Ethics and Compliance Code addresses our
expectations of employees about these risks.
Similarly, our Ethics and Compliance Code of Conduct for
Consultants, Contractors, Suppliers and Vendors addresses
our expectations of our vendors about these risks, and our
Vendor Risk Management Program includes a review of
bribery and corruption risks presented by our third parties.
We have further matured our third-party risk management
governance structure to bring greater transparency,
monitoring and controls to this area. As a component of our
ongoing third-party risk management efforts, we annually
distribute a letter to all vendors reminding them of our Ethics
and Compliance Code and the limitations on our employees
about giving and receiving gifts.
As is standard across the industry, we have conducted anti-
bribery training sessions, including case studies, and provided
leadership with toolkit resources. Leaders used the materials
for discussions with employees to drive awareness of these
risks and promote individual and corporate integrity.
In addition to the targeted training and awareness efforts, as detailed in our Ethics and Compliance Code,
CenterPoint Energy does not allow offer, give or accept gifts or entertainment where such exchange could
potentially create a conflict of interest.
REPORTING OR RAISING CONCERNS
Ethics and Compliance Concerns Helpline 888-888-3155
Employees are encouraged to speak up and talk with their supervisors openly about
business ethics and compliance concerns and grievances, and confidential and
anonymous resources are also available via the Ethics and Compliance Concerns Helpline. Employees, customers,
contractors and vendors can reach the Helpline at 888-888-3155 or online at https://centerpointenergy.com/ethics.
For individuals who share their identity when raising a concern, we take steps to maintain confidentiality of the
concernee’s identity and the information shared. We do not disclose their identity unless necessary in the course of an
investigation of their concern.
LEARN MORE
11
CONCERNS HELPLINE
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
CONCERNS HELPLINE
CenterPoint Energy encourages employees to speak up about
perceived ethical issues or suspected or known violations of the law
or policies.
Employees are encouraged to talk with their supervisors openly
about business ethics and compliance concerns, and confidential
and anonymous resources are also available.
EXAMPLES OF CONCERNS: We refer to reports of potential Ethics and Compliance Code
violations or other misconduct as “concerns” and those who report
• Conflicts of interest • Grievances them as “concernees.” Other organizations may refer to them
as whistleblowers or persons of conscience, and their reporting
• Insider trading • Other behavior or
business practices mechanisms as an ethics helpline. Concerns may be raised to any
• Harassment
inconsistent with direct supervisor or manager, confidentially or anonymously through
• Discrimination our Ethics and the Concerns Helpline, the Ethics and Compliance department or
• Theft Compliance Code. any other member of management, such as Human Resources,
Internal Audit, Legal Department or Corporate Security.
Employees, customers, contractors and vendors can reach the
Helpline at 888-888-3155 or online at https://centerpointenergy.com/
ethics. The Helpline is available 24-hours-a-day, seven-days-a-week
Our Ethics and Compliance Concerns
and supports multiple languages. When contacting the Helpline,
Helpline is an important part of
concernees can identify themselves or remain anonymous.
safeguarding our strong ethics and
CenterPoint Energy does not tolerate any form of retaliation or
compliance culture.
negative reaction for raising good faith concerns about violations
of our Ethics and Compliance Code or any applicable laws
or regulations.
We take concerns seriously. Once a report is made, the Ethics and Compliance department will review it and determine
how to best address the concern including, where appropriate, starting an impartial, fair and thorough investigation, or
coordinate other subject-matter experts for handling. If an investigation reveals a violation of our standards, it will be
addressed accordingly.
All concerns are tracked and processed through a system that provides the company with a comprehensive analysis of
reports. After an investigation concludes, Ethics and Compliance personnel complete a follow-up discussion with the
reporter to verify that no retaliation has occurred. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors receives quarterly reports
from the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer about concerns and investigations.
12
SENIOR LEADERSHIP TEAM
Our senior leadership team leads and executes CenterPoint Energy’s long-term growth strategy, goals and priorities in
alignment with our core values and the expectations of our stakeholders, including customers, communities, employees
and shareholders.
Jason P. Wells Christopher A. Foster Lynne Harkel-Rumford
President & Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Executive Vice President & Chief Human
Officer Resources Officer
Monica Karuturi Jason M. Ryan
Executive Vice President & General Counsel Executive Vice President, Regulatory
Services & Government Affairs
To learn more about the company’s senior leadership team, including individual biographies, visit the Leadership section of
CenterPointEnergy.com.
13
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
A DIVERSE, ENGAGED BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Our Board of Directors possesses relevant expertise and skills and represents a diverse mix of professional experience,
backgrounds and perspectives appropriate to oversee our company’s businesses, operations and long-term strategy.
CenterPoint Energy’s Board of Directors serves as the company’s ultimate decision-making body. The Board oversees
executive management, long-term business strategy and performance, succession planning, enterprise risk management
and ESG responsibilities, among other things. Through oversight, review and counsel, the Board establishes and supports
the company’s business, organizational and strategic objectives. In 2023, the Board met nine times.
Our Board is chaired by Phillip R. Smith, an independent director. Our President and Chief Executive Officer, Jason P. Wells,
serves as a member of our Board but does not serve as a member of any of its standing committees. Except for Wells, all
members of the Board are independent according to the standards established by the New York Stock Exchange.
Our Board of Directors believes that having a diverse mix of directors with complementary qualifications, skills and
expertise is essential to effectively discharging its oversight responsibility while advancing the company’s long-term
business strategy. Accordingly, the Board is focused on striking an appropriate balance between retaining directors with a
deep knowledge of the company and adding new directors with a fresh perspective.
CENTERPOINT ENERGY BOARD OF DIRECTORS
As of April 26, 2024
Wendy Montoya Cloonan Earl M. Cummings Barbara J. Duganier Christopher H. Franklin Raquelle W. Lewis Thaddeus J. Malik
Theodore F. Pound Ricky A. Raven Phillip R. Smith Barry T. Smitherman Jason P. Wells
Independent Chair of the Board
14
BOARD DIVERSITY BOARD TENURE
Board Diversity and Tenure as of April 26, 2024
Our Board of Directors collectively represents a variety of backgrounds, key skills and competencies that support
oversight and execution of our strategy.
The chart below summarizes certain information for each of our directors, including their key skills and qualifications:
Skills and Qualifications
nanoolC
.W
sgnimmuC
.E
reinaguD
.B
nilknarF
.C
siweL
.R
kilaM
.T
dnuoP
.T
nevaR
.R
htimS
.P
namrehtimS
.B
slleW
.J
Age (as of March 15, 2024) 44 59 65 58 53 57 69 63 72 66 46
CNP Tenure (in years) 3 4 0 2 2 < 1 9 < 1 10 4 < 1
Current / Former CEO of Public Company: An
understanding of the complexities inherent in running
a public company provides a unique perspective that
helps the Board independently oversee the Company’s ● ●
management, long-term strategic planning, shareholder
value creation, human capital management, risk oversight,
governance, and shareholder engagement.
Risk Management: Managing risk in a rapidly changing
environment is critical. We seek directors with experience
managing or overseeing the management of business, ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●
financial, environmental, and other risks similar to those
faced by the Company.
15
Skills and Qualifications
nanoolC
.W
sgnimmuC
.E
reinaguD
.B
nilknarF
.C
siweL
.R
kilaM
.T
dnuoP
.T
nevaR
.R
htimS
.P
namrehtimS
.B
slleW
.J
Utility Industry Experience: Due to the highly regulated
nature of our business, we believe it is important to seek ● ● ●
directors with experience in the regulated utility industry.
Operations and Safety Experience: We seek directors
with operational experience in businesses with capital
intensive infrastructure projects while ensuring the safety
● ● ● ● ●
of employees and the public to help the Company develop
and implement its capital plan and business strategy and
continuously improve our operations.
Finance and Accounting: A deep understanding of finance
and financial reporting processes is essential to the Board’s
oversight of our strategic performance, capital allocation,
financial reporting, and internal controls. We seek directors
● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●
with knowledge and experience in corporate finance,
accounting, and financial reporting as well as directors with
“accounting or related financial management expertise” as
required by the NYSE listing standards.
Community Involvement: As a utility that provides the
energy necessary to fuel the business, innovation, and lives
● ● ● ● ● ●
of the communities we serve, we seek directors with strong
ties to and engagement with the communities we serve.
Government, Legal, and Regulatory: Our business is
heavily regulated and is directly impacted by governmental
actions. Further, the success of our long-term plan may
be impacted by certain regulatory, legal or governmental
● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●
decisions. We seek to have directors with experience in
law, public policy, and regulatory matters to provide insight
and develop strategies that incorporate current
and potential changes in these areas.
Public Company Governance Experience: Directors with
public company governance experience, including serving
on other public company boards, are able to help ensure
the Board focuses on appropriate matters and functions ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●
effectively in the development and oversight of our
long-term plan and implementation of best practices
for the Company.
Human Capital Management: Building and maintaining
a talented, engaged, and diverse workforce is a critical
part of who we are and our long-term strategy. We seek
directors who understand key drivers of our culture,
● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●
employee health and safety, organizational health, and
talent management and have the knowledge and skills
necessary to oversee our workforce development
and strategies.
16
Skills and Qualifications
Learn more about the company’s Board of Directors, including individual biographies.
CEO AND EXECUTIVE SUCCESSION MANAGEMENT
One of the key responsibilities of the Board is overseeing executive succession management to help us maintain
a qualified management team to execute the company’s strategy and to support a smooth transition when
organizational changes occur. In 2023, the Board continued to execute on its executive succession planning,
announcing in January 2023 a new streamlined organizational structure for the company. Further, in March 2023,
the Board announced the appointment of Christopher Foster as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer. In October 2023, the Board announced the retirement of Dave Lesar and the appointment of Jason Wells
as President and Chief Executive Officer, both effective January 5, 2024.
DATA CENTER: GOVERNANCE
nanoolC
.W
sgnimmuC
.E
reinaguD
.B
nilknarF
.C
siweL
.R
kilaM
.T
dnuoP
.T
nevaR
.R
htimS
.P
namrehtimS
.B
slleW
.J
Technology and Customer Experience: Our industry
is undergoing transformational change as a result
of advances in technology and changing customer
expectations about the products and services they want.
Directors with experience in customer-facing businesses ● ● ● ● ● ●
and new technology can provide the Board with critical
insights and perspectives on adapting to and
implementing new technologies to enhance the
experience of our customers.
Cybersecurity and Physical Security: Maintaining the
security of our assets, both physical and digital, is critical
to our success. Therefore, we seek out directors with an
● ● ● ● ● ● ●
understandig of these risks and who can provide valuable
insight to the Board in connection with its oversight of
these matters.
Strategic Planning: As CenterPoint Energy continues to
execute on its long-term strategy, including the transition to
a pure-play utility, we seek directors who have experience
with strategic transactions and strategic planning in ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●
overseeing the Company’s continued execution of its long-
term strategy as well as development of future plans and
strategies for the Company.
Sustainability: Directors with knowledge or experience
overseeing or advising on environmental, climate,
and sustainability matters will help to ensure that we
● ● ● ● ● ● ● ●
understand and manage the related risks and opportunities
effectively as we seek to create long-term sustainable
value for the communities we serve and our stakeholders.
17
BOARD COMMITTEES
Our President and Chief Executive Officer, Jason P. Wells, serves as a member of our Board but does not serve as a
member of any of its standing committees.
Our Board meets throughout the year with each of the Board committees typically meeting at least four times during the
year. In 2023, our Board met nine times. Directors are expected to attend annual meetings of shareholders. The Board of
Directors routinely meets in executive sessions without members of management present.
The Board’s standing committees help the Board carry out its responsibility for risk oversight by focusing on the following
specific key areas of risk:
Board Committee Risk Oversight Responsibilities
Accounting and financial matters, including compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, financial
Audit reporting and internal controls systems, review of company’s enterprise risk management process,
cybersecurity and the company’s political contributions
Compensation policies and practices; human capital management and management succession
Compensation
planning
Corporate governance, including Board composition and structure, environmental matters, including
Governance, Environmental
those related to climate change and significant environmental hazards, and sustainability, including our
and Sustainability
Net Zero and carbon emissions reduction goals
Safety, including significant safety incidents or events; utility operations, including emergency
Safety & Operations
preparedness and response; significant inquiries by regulatory agencies and oversight groups
18
The Board of Directors appoints committees of its members to help carry out its responsibilities. Currently,
standing committees of the Board are the following:
BOARD COMMITTEE COMPOSITION
As of April 26, 2024
Governance,
Safety &
Board Member Audit Compensation Environmental
Operations
and Sustainability
Wendy M. Cloonan – Member Chair –
Earl M. Cummings Member – – Member
Barbara J. Duganier Chair – Member –
Christopher H. Franklin Member – Member Chair
Thaddeus J. Malik – Member Member Member
Raquelle W. Lewis Member Member – –
Theodore F. Pound – Chair Member –
Ricky A. Raven Member – – Member
Phillip R. Smith* – – – –
Barry T. Smitherman – Member – Member
Number of meetings held
7 5 5 —**
in 2023
*Independent Chair of the Board
**Safety & Operations Committee was formed in April of 2024
LEARN MORE
DATA CENTER: GOVERNANCE
19
SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY & OVERSIGHT
CenterPoint Energy’s Board of Directors has charged the Governance, Environmental and Sustainability Committee of the
Board of Directors with oversight responsibility for assessing the company’s sustainability strategy and initiatives.
The Governance, Environmental and Sustainability Committee, the Board or both receive periodic reports from
representatives of the ESG Council about the company’s environmental and sustainability activities and risks, including
risks related to climate change. The Governance, Environmental and Sustainability Committee helps the Board carry out its
responsibility for ultimate risk oversight by focusing on environmental and sustainability matters.
CenterPoint Energy’s Vice President of Environmental and Corporate Sustainability, who reports directly to the Executive
Vice President and General Counsel, has responsibility for oversight of ESG topics. Our Vice President of Environmental
and Corporate Sustainability and our Senior Vice President, Corporate Planning, Investor Relations and Treasury oversee
the company’s ESG Council.
While prioritizing the importance of safety, reliability and resiliency of the energy systems we operate, CenterPoint
Energy seeks to integrate our sustainability practices, progress and performance into our company strategy, enterprise
risk management program and stakeholder engagement. A percentage of certain executive compensation is tied to ESG
performance, such as diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives. Beginning in 2022, we introduced a carbon reduction goal
as a weighted component of our long-term incentive performance-based awards. This component measures the progress
of our Net Zero emission and carbon emissions reduction goals and holds leaders accountable for the achievement of
these goals. Employees at all levels of the company contribute to achieving these goals.
20
MANAGING ESG AT CENTERPOINT ENERGY:
• The Board of Directors’ Governance, Environmental and
Sustainability Committee is the highest-level Board committee
responsible for the oversight of the corporation’s risk management
and performance related to environmental topics, including climate
change and other ESG matters.
• Our Executive Vice President and General Counsel and our Vice
President of Environmental and Corporate Sustainability provide
executive leadership on ESG matters and engage with the
Governance, Environmental and Sustainability Committee of
the Board.
• Senior management executes the company’s ESG strategy
by working with partners, customers, employees and other
stakeholders to seek to reduce carbon emissions across our
operations and throughout the supply chain.
• Our ESG Council includes officers and other members of
management who identify, evaluate and recommend strategic
directions and opportunities that promote ESG objectives aligned
with our strategy and goals.
NET ZERO EMISSIONS
• Our Corporate Sustainability Department implements the
BY 2035
company’s ESG strategy and reporting, communications, data
collection and responses to investor surveys, ratings and rankings.
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE
The Compensation Committee assists the Board in discharging its
oversight responsibility for the company’s compensation policies
and practices, human capital management and management
succession planning. Management provides regular updates to the
Compensation Committee on human capital management strategy
and programs, and the Board is kept apprised of any developments in
these areas.
21
ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT
CenterPoint Energy’s Board of Directors has responsibility for and is actively involved in the oversight of risks that
could impact the company.
Our Corporate Governance Guidelines specify that the Board has ultimate oversight responsibility for the company’s system
of enterprise risk management. Management is responsible for developing and implementing the company’s enterprise risk
management program.
The company’s enterprise risk management function supports executive management’s, operational management’s
and functional management’s execution of the company’s strategic business objectives by conducting periodic ongoing
assessments, including review of risk mitigation with owners of specific risks.
Throughout the year, the Board participates in reviews with management of the company’s risk management processes, the
major risks facing the company and steps taken to mitigate those risks.
BOARD RISK REVIEWS INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING AREAS, AMONG OTHERS:
Operations and system integrity Cybersecurity and Data Privacy
Safety Human capital management
Business strategy and policy, including industry Environmental matters, including significant
and economic developments environmental hazards
Litigation and other legal matters Annual budget, including capital investment plan
Net Zero and carbon emissions reduction goals and
Supply Chain
generation transition
Regulatory and legislative developments
22
Protecting the Safety, Security and Privacy
of All Employees and Residential and Commercial Customers
• CenterPoint Energy’s company-wide cybersecurity
program includes analysis of threat information
Certain risks are disclosed in our annual report on
from external sources, monitoring network activity
Form 10-K (in particular, see Item 1A regarding Risk
and employee awareness activities.
Factors), our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and
• Our Data Privacy Governance addresses the
other reports CenterPoint Energy or its subsidiaries
collection, storage, usage and destruction of data
may file from time to time with the Securities and
for a specific business purpose, combined with
Exchange Commission. Additional information about
the public expectation and legal requirements that
Enterprise Risk Management oversight is available in
the data will remain private and protected against
our 2024 Proxy Statement.
unauthorized access or modification.
• Our Physical Security Policy addresses several
important topics to help maintain a safe and secure
place to work and ensure safe and reliable service
to our customers.
LEARN MORE
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
DATA CENTER
23
CYBERSECURITY
A key focus for CenterPoint Energy is proactively protecting our digital systems
and data through our cybersecurity management program.
CenterPoint Energy’s Cybersecurity Operations Center (CSOC) is the hub of our
company-wide cybersecurity program. CSOC personnel analyze threat information
from external sources, monitor network activity and respond to users who receive
questionable emails. Phishing campaigns conducted by bad actors are a serious
threat to our network, employees and data.
CenterPoint Energy’s Cybersecurity Awareness Program
A robust Cybersecurity Awareness Program helps employees
and contractors across the company identify vulnerabilities
and minimize risks. Cybersecurity-focused employee
communications, one-click phishing reporting and other
tracking and reporting tools help protect our company’s
information assets.
The Phishing Education and Resistance Program provides
employees the knowledge to avoid social-engineering attacks
by offering:
• Cybersecurity awareness and proactive training, including
regular webinars
• Educational experiences in the form of monthly phishing
simulations and response training
• Remedial response steps for failures to simulated phishing
campaigns or actual social engineering attacks
CenterPoint Energy’s Phishing Education and Resistance Program for Employees
As part of CenterPoint Energy’s Phishing Education and Resistance Program, simulated emails are sent to employees
monthly to help sensitize them to social engineering attacks and help Information Technology address the risk presented
by actual attacks. Phishing campaign results are included as a safety metric for awards made to CenterPoint Energy’s non-
senior leadership team members under the company’s short-term incentive program.
CenterPoint Energy’s Phishing Education and Resistance Program for Contractors
Contractors are covered by a separate Phishing Contractor Compliance Initiative, which is detailed in the company’s
Contractor Phishing Compliance Program Charter. This initiative is similar to the employee Phishing Education and
Resistance Program.
24
Security Auditing
• Regular internal security audits and vulnerability assessments of the company’s systems and user data security practices
are conducted by our Internal Audit team.
• Periodic external security audits and vulnerability assessments of the company’s systems and user data security
practices. An infrastructure audit was conducted in 2022.
GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT
The Governance, Environmental and Sustainability Committee of the Board oversees cybersecurity for the
company and conducts quarterly reviews of cybersecurity programs, practices, initiatives, risks and mitigations, and
strategies. Additionally, the full Board of Directors receives periodic updates regarding cybersecurity matters.
The Information Security Team reports directly to the Executive Vice President and General Counsel and is
responsible for running and maintaining the methodology, processes and architecture that support the company’s
Enterprise Systems Cybersecurity Plan.
Information Security’s responsibilities include:
• Ensuring management is aware and knowledgeable • Selecting, implementing and monitoring
of potential and identified risks and mitigations. technologies to identify threats and vulnerabilities,
and detecting and protecting against any attacks to
• Implementing security measures to meet regulatory
CenterPoint Energy systems.
requirements.
• Coordinating cybersecurity activities and sharing
• Performing Enterprise Systems Risk Assessments.
information with federal, state and local partners
• Interpreting policies and standards as they relate to and regulators.
enterprise systems.
• Collaborating with the company’s Data Privacy
• Helping in the development, execution and Office on cybersecurity and data privacy matters.
implementation of remediation management.
• Remaining abreast of current cybersecurity trends
and threats.
CenterPoint Energy Hosts Cybersecurity Panel
In 2022, CenterPoint Energy hosted a conversation
about cybersecurity with chief information and security
officers in the energy and utility industries, members
of academia and officials from various levels of
government. The event was held in conjunction with
HoustonCIO, which is the preeminent peer leadership
network of Houston chief information officers and
senior technology leaders across various industries. A
cybersecurity panel featured a cross-section of industry
representatives offered insights to help technology
leaders navigate and manage cybersecurity through
periods of energy transition and digital transformation.
25
DATA PRIVACY
The goal of CenterPoint’s Energy Data Privacy Program is to minimize the risk to customer,
employee, financial and critical infrastructure information by creating a culture that encourages
and demonstrates data privacy practices, safeguards personal information, and enables the trust
of our customers, vendors and contractors, regulators, shareholders, the public and employees.
Just as we care for CenterPoint Energy’s physical property, we are focused on protecting the
personal information we use to do our jobs. We maintain safeguards and accountability measures to
help manage and protect the personal information entrusted to the company.
Our Data Privacy governance addresses the collection, storage, usage and destruction of data for a
specific business purpose, combined with the public expectation and legal requirement that the data
will remain private and protected against unauthorized access or modification.
CenterPoint Energy has a dedicated Data Privacy Office to address existing and
emerging laws, regulations, trends, expectations and best practices. Led by the
company’s Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Chief Ethics and
Compliance Officer, our Data Privacy team addresses the collection, storage,
usage, disclosure and destruction of data for specific business purposes. All
employees, contractors and third-party business partners have a responsibility
to handle sensitive, private and confidential information carefully and to protect
the private and personal nature of the information we maintain. In addition to
protections required by law, the company also abides by its own set of internal
policies, including the commitments in our Privacy Policy and Data Classification
and Control Policy.
We take proactive steps for data to remain private and protected against
unauthorized access or modification. We respect the privacy of our customers,
business partners and suppliers and protect their personal information. We also
take proactive steps to protect our employees’ personal information.
GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors oversees the management of data privacy for CenterPoint Energy. The
company’s data privacy strategy is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer, and Executive Vice
President and General Counsel. The full Board of Directors receives periodic updates regarding data privacy matters.
CenterPoint Energy has a dedicated Data Privacy Office to address existing and emerging laws, regulations, trends,
expectations and best practices. Led by the company’s Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel, and Chief Ethics
and Compliance Officer our Data Privacy team addresses the collection, storage, usage, disclosure and destruction of data
for specific business purposes.
26
TRANSPARENCY AND CHOICE
CenterPoint Energy maintains an Online Privacy Policy that explains how we collect, maintain, share and protect our
customers’ personal information. This Privacy Policy also informs customers about the privacy choices available to them
and how they can manage those choices. We provide customers with channels to submit questions and requests about the
company’s privacy practices and maintain processes to review and respond to those questions and requests.
PRIVACY REVIEWS AND INFORMATION LIFECYCLE CONTROLS
We have safeguards in place to help manage and protect personal information throughout its lifecycle, from the point
of collection to destruction. We conduct privacy impact assessments to help identify privacy considerations associated
with the company’s processing of personal information at the outset of planning technology projects and initiatives. We
also maintain records retention policies and schedules to help us keep personal information based on our business and
compliance needs and dispose of the information in a timely manner, in accordance with CenterPoint Energy’s record
retention requirements.
The company has developed a set of Privacy Principles • Privacy Incident Response Plan
governing the processing and protection of customers’
• Customer Identity Theft Prevention Program
personal information and other information. In addition to
protections required by law, the company also maintains its • Data Classification and Control Policy
own set of internal policies: • Data Privacy Principles
• Third-Party Policy
VENDOR RISK MANAGEMENT
We maintain a vendor risk management program to help protect information entrusted to our suppliers and other
third-party business partners. As part of this program, we have processes in place designed to evaluate the privacy
and security practices of our suppliers and obtain contractual assurances from them with respect to their protection
of personal information.
TRAINING AND AWARENESS
CenterPoint Energy provides annual privacy and information security training to our employees to help keep them
informed about their responsibilities related to the handling and protection of personal information. We have implemented
various employee awareness initiatives, such as the company’s Data Privacy principles, a privacy program guide about
implementing best practices at work and security policies. Members of leadership communicate to employees to be vigilant
about phishing attempts, scams and opening unknown links.
Business Records and Internal Controls Data Privacy Awareness
Our core value of Accountability means we are Major companies have been the victims of cyberattacks
transparent and truthful in conducting our business, and data breaches. To help mitigate these challenges,
maintaining financial records and reporting accurate we equip employees with the latest information and
information to our shareholders. We have a responsibility guidelines to appropriately protect personal information.
to be thoughtful in our company expenses and to keep CenterPoint Energy has implemented various employee
accurate and complete records. awareness initiatives, such as the company’s seven
Data Privacy principles, a privacy program guide about
Our compliance efforts include identifying and preserving
implementing best practices at work and security policies.
important historical records of vital historical, fiscal, and
Members of leadership communicate to employees to
legal value – and to disposing non-essential records in a
be vigilant about phishing attempts, scams and opening
timely manner, in accordance with CenterPoint Energy’s
unknown links. All employees are required to complete
record retention requirements.
privacy and information security training annually.
27
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Our major stakeholders include customers, communities, employees, investors, suppliers and regulators. We believe
that good governance practices include maintaining a consistent and transparent dialogue throughout the year with our
stakeholders.
Each year, we engage in shareholder outreach through various engagement channels including direct meetings, analyst
conferences and road shows, among others, and proactively solicit feedback. We also regularly reach out to the proxy
governance teams of certain of our large institutional investors to solicit feedback on a range of topics, including various
ESG matters. This feedback is shared with the Board.
Through CenterPoint Energy’s stakeholder engagement process, we define our Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) priority
topics for ESG disclosures.
PRIORITY TOPICS
Stakeholder Topics How We Engage
Communities • Community impact and engagement • CenterPoint Energy Foundation
• Diversity and inclusion • Online grant applications
• Environmental compliance and stewardship • Community events and sponsorships
• Customer health and safety • Employee volunteerism
• Effluents and waste • Community partnerships to revitalize low-
• Advocacy income neighborhoods
• Economic Development • Low-income energy assistance
• City and county council meeting
presentations
Customers: • Electricity and natural gas emissions • CenterPoint Energy website
Residential, • Effluents and waste • Customer Contact Center
Commercial and • Environmental compliance • Social media, TV, radio, email and marketing
Industrial • Non-discrimination campaigns
• Anti-corruption • Mobile application to report outages and
• Customer health and safety make payments
• Customer satisfaction • Speaker’s Bureau presentations
• Customer privacy • Bill inserts
• Customer surveys and focus groups
• Energy efficiency/demand-side
management initiatives
• Trade shows and customer forums
• Business and commercial account
managers
• Ethics and Compliance Concerns
Helpline for grievances
28
Stakeholder Topics How We Engage
Employees: • Diversity and inclusion • Leadership meetings
Current and • Diversity and equal opportunity • Employee meetings, video-streams and
prospective • Economic performance webcasts
employees, • Environmental compliance • Training and skills development
retirees and labor • Employee recruitment, turnover, benefits • Leadership development programs
unions and retention • Informal, ongoing meetings
• Employee health and safety • Employee engagement surveys
• Training and development • Professional affinity and employee resource
• Non-discrimination groups
• Employee engagement • Workforce recruiting programs
• Ethics and Compliance Concerns Helpline
for grievances
• Ethics and Compliance Roundtables with
employees
• Health and wellness programs
• Labor and management joint engagement
on key topics, such as safety
Government • Economic performance • Regulatory participation with federal,
• Indirect economic impacts state and local governmental agencies on
• Energy consumption and conservation requirements and processes
• Emissions • Workshops
• Compliance • Industry and trade associations
• Occupational health and safety • Legislative sessions
• Diversity and equal opportunity • Collaboration on community investments
• Public policy • Comments on proposed rules
• Customer health and safety • Regulatory filings and hearings
• Customer privacy • State and federal government affairs staff
• Corporate lobbying efforts
Investors • Economic performance • Shareholder engagement program
• Short-term and long-term incentive plan • Energy consumption and conservation
design • Environmental compliance
• Executive succession planning • Community engagement
• ESG matters: corporate governance • Customer satisfaction
practices – board structure, composition • Quarterly earnings conference calls
and refreshment; environmental and • Meetings, road shows and presentations
sustainability matters – climate change and • Analyst/industry conferences
carbon emissions reduction goals; human • Public disclosures
capital management • Annual meeting of shareholders
• Proxy statement disclosure • Website
• Governance outreach
• Shareholder services
• Annual Report
• Investor Relations staff
29
Stakeholder Topics How We Engage
Non- • Indirect economic impacts • Local-level consultations and meetings
Governmental • Community Relations • Website and communications
Agencies • Energy consumption and conservation • Industry associations
• Compliance • Collaboration on community development
• Customer satisfaction projects
• Customer privacy • Impact assessments
• Sustainability reporting
• Annual reporting
• Stakeholder discussions
Suppliers • Economic impacts • Supplier diversity program and events:
• Compliance mentoring and scholarship program;
• Supplier engagement employees and vendors; participation in
• Community investment minority and women supplier development
• Diversity and equal opportunity councils; recognition events; engagement
with diverse business organizations;
industry trade shows
• Request for proposals
• Meetings with suppliers to review Key
Performance Indicators
• Fair dealing
• Timely payments
• Competitive bidding processes
• Ethics and Compliance Code of Conduct
for Consultants, Contractors, Suppliers and
Vendors
• Corporate Governance
• Ethics and Compliance Concerns Helpline
30
PRIORITY TOPICS
Through CenterPoint Energy’s stakeholder engagement process, we define our Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) priority
topics for ESG disclosures.
Topics Scope Topic Boundary
Customers, Investors, Government, Non-
Air Emissions Monitoring and reducing harmful emissions
Governmental Organizations (NGOs)
Employees, Customers, Suppliers,
Anti-Corruption Demonstrating ethical business behavior
Government
Customer Health Focusing on the safety, security and privacy of all Employees, Customers, Suppliers,
and Safety residential, commercial and industrial customers Government
Cybersecurity Keeping customer, consumer and employee
Employees, Customers, Investors
and Data Privacy information safe and private
Advancing diversity, equity and inclusion to
support our colleagues, customers, contractors,
Diversity, Equity suppliers and community members, regardless Employees, Communities, Contractors,
and Inclusion of race, gender, color, sexual orientation, age, Customers, Government, Suppliers
religion, national origin, or physical or mental
disability
Strengthening utility assets, exercising disciplined
Economic cost management and prudently managing Employees, Communities, Suppliers,
Performance operations and maintenance expenses company- Investors, Government
wide; providing customer energy affordability
Effluents and Monitoring our effluents and wastes and
Customers, Communities, NGOs
Waste maintaining compliance with all regulations
Maintaining and retaining a skilled and engaged
Employment Employees, Communities, Customers
workforce
Providing energy-efficient solutions for our
Investors, Government, Customers,
Energy Efficiency customers and maximizing energy efficiency in
Communities
our operations
Complying with environmental laws and
Environmental Customers, Employees, Communities,
regulations and working with regulatory agencies
Compliance Suppliers, Investors, Government, NGOs
on overall compliance efforts
Environmental Engaging in environmentally friendly practices
Communities, Government, Customers,
and to create a more sustainable business and
Investors
Sustainability community
Greenhouse Net Zero and Scope 3 goals, reduce GHG
Customers, Investors, Government, NGOs
Gases (GHG) emissions and intensity
31
Topics Scope Topic Boundary
Local Positively impacting the communities in which we Communities, Customers, Investors,
Communities operate Government
Implementing goals to achieve Net Zero Scope 1
Net Zero and and certain Scope 2 emissions by 2035; reduce Customers, Employees, Communities,
Scope 3 Goals indirect/customer emissions by 20 to 30 percent Suppliers, Investors, Government, NGOs
by 2035
Ensuring no stakeholder will be treated
Non-
differently regarding race, gender, ethnicity, or Customers, Employees, Communities
Discrimination
other prohibited basis
Occupational
Employees, Suppliers, Government,
Health and Keeping employees healthy and safe
Communities
Safety
Participating in the political process with local,
Public Policy Government, NGOs
state and federal elected officials and regulators
Investing in employee and career development
to develop skills and competencies for
Training and Employees, Investors, Customers,
operating our business safely, meeting customer
Education Communities
expectations and identifying opportunities for
innovation, workforce development programs
Topics are listed in alphabetical order and not intended as a ranking in priority.
32
POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT
Engaging with Policymakers and
Trade Associations
Since local, state and federal elected officials
and regulators have a significant impact on
our business and industry, CenterPoint Energy
believes participation in the public policy process
is essential to serving the energy interests of our
Jason Ryan, Executive Vice President, customers and the communities we are privileged CenterPoint Energy Executive Vice President,
Regulatory Services & Government Affairs, to serve. Regulatory Services & Government Affairs,
engages in energy policy discussions with Jason Ryan, meets with Southwestern Indiana
Texas Governor Greg Abbott during an event State Senator Jim Tomes at CenterPoint
at CenterPoint Energy Tower in Houston. Energy Plaza to discuss the ongoing electric
generation transition.
OVERSIGHT
CenterPoint Energy requires all employees to adhere to its policies and procedures concerning political and lobbying activities and contributions, as well
as to all applicable federal, state and local laws.
The company has decision-making and oversight processes in place for political and lobbying activities and contributions to ensure activities and
contributions are legally permissible, supportive of and consistent with CenterPoint Energy’s business strategy, goals and priorities. All company political
contributions require the oversight of CenterPoint Energy’s employee-led PAC council.
Key issues, lobbying activities, lobbying expenses and trade association dues are overseen and evaluated by senior management. These expenses and
dues are also included in the company’s annual budget, which is reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors.
CenterPoint Energy and its employees participate in the public policy process in several ways, including:
• Outreach to government officials to educate them on key issues related to the company’s business
• Employee participation in company or industry Political Action Committees (PACs)
• Membership in trade associations that help advance the company’s business interests
These efforts focus on issues that affect the company, its operations, employees and local communities.
The company has decision-making and oversight processes in place so that our political activities and contributions meet legal and ethical guidelines. Our
political engagement activities, including contributions, employee PAC memberships, trade association memberships and federal lobbying, are disclosed in
compliance with applicable law.
CenterPoint Energy is a member of several trade associations that provide business, technical and industry benefits to the company. These associations may
engage in advocacy activities or lobby with respect to issues that are important to the company and our customers.
LEARN MORE
CENTERPOINT ENERGY’S POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT POLICY CENTERPOINT ENERGY’S 2022 NATIONAL POLITICAL ASSOCIATION
CONTRIBUTIONS
CENTERPOINT ENERGY’S 2023 TRADE ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIPS
CENTERPOINT ENERGY’S 2021 NATIONAL POLITICAL ASSOCIATION
CENTERPOINT ENERGY’S 2022 TRADE ASSOCIATION
CONTRIBUTIONS
MEMBERSHIPS
CENTERPOINT ENERGY’S 2023 FEDERAL LOBBYING DISCLOSURES
CENTERPOINT ENERGY’S 2021 TRADE ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIPS
CENTERPOINT ENERGY’S 2022 FEDERAL LOBBYING DISCLOSURES
CENTERPOINT ENERGY’S 2020 TRADE ASSOCIATION
MEMBERSHIPS CENTERPOINT ENERGY’S 2021 FEDERAL LOBBYING DISCLOSURES
CENTERPOINT ENERGY’S 2023 NATIONAL POLITICAL ASSOCIATION CENTERPOINT ENERGY’S 2020 FEDERAL LOBBYING DISCLOSURES
CONTRIBUTIONS
33
SOCIAL IMPACT
To better serve our customers and communities, CenterPoint Energy actively engages
our stakeholders to build trust, strengthen relationships and make a positive impact
across our footprint.
We are focused on making a positive difference for the people in the communities we
serve, whether maintaining safety practices, serving as a catalyst in helping create thriving
communities, developing our current and future workforce, or keeping our employees safe.
CenterPoint Energy serves customers and communities that are some of the most diverse
in the nation. We believe a positive work environment with our colleagues, customers,
contractors, suppliers and community members, regardless of race, gender, color, sexual
orientation, age, religion, national origin or physical or mental disability, supports the
development of a strong workforce that will achieve our company’s overriding focus on safety, resiliency, reliability and
affordability. We also believe a strong workforce that reflects the communities we serve is a critical component of our long-
term success and an important cornerstone of achieving the level of service, performance and growth our customers and
stakeholders expect.
Our successful performance is a testament to our employees, who validate our values of Safety, Integrity, Accountability,
Initiative and Respect through their actions and commitments.
$16.9 Million $644 Million
Total Community Investments Total Diverse Supplier Spend
in 2023 in 2023
As of December 31, 2023
Continuously strive to provide safe, reliable energy and outstanding customer service.
34
DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION
Delivering electricity and natural gas to millions of customers across
All of Us, our communities takes the energy of everyone in a diverse, equitable
and inclusive environment where we respect, understand and
Always There
appreciate those we serve and the people around us.
CenterPoint Energy strives to create an environment that safely promotes
a sense of belonging for everyone. Diversity, equity and inclusion (DE&I)
CenterPoint Energy joined more are core to who we are, what we do and how we do it. We believe that
DE&I are critical components of our long-term business strategy, serving
than 130 Houston-area companies
as cornerstones of our service, performance and growth.
that participate in the Greater
We strive to find ways, big and small, to appreciate the value in our
Houston Partnership’s racial
differences. It is through the energy of many where we unlock the
equity principles through
potential of our company and workforce while, at the same time,
One Houston Together. supporting our quest to learn better, listen better and do better every day.
DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION STRATEGY WORKFORCE DIVERSITY INITIATIVES
OUR DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION
POSITIONING STATEMENT
At CenterPoint Energy, we strive to advance diversity,
equity and inclusion to support our colleagues, customers,
contractors, suppliers and community members, regardless
of race, gender, color, sexual orientation, age, religion,
national origin, or physical or mental disability, so they have
an equal opportunity to thrive and a sense of belonging.
35
“We are on an important journey Kimberly Murphy was awarded
the 2022 Individual DiversityFIRST
across CenterPoint Energy. I look recognition by the Texas Diversity
Council for her leadership
forward to building on our progress and
excellence. This award is
momentum as we work together and presented annually to those
who demonstrate outstanding
strive to find ways, big and small, to accomplishments in the
promotion and advancement
appreciate the value in our differences.” of diversity through inclusion
and strong leadership.
– Kimberly Murphy, Director,
Recruiting and Diversity & Inclusion
CENTERPOINT ENERGY HAS DEFINED FIVE STRATEGIC PILLARS
OF DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION:
EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY SUPPLIER DIVERSITY TALENT CUSTOMER FOCUS
AND GIVING ACQUISITION
Creating an inclusive Developing strong Recognizing the diversity
work environment where Commitment to support relationships with a Identifying, attracting, of our customers and
business results are the core giving areas diverse supplier base recruiting and retaining meeting the needs of the
achieved through the that are reflective of to continually improve top talent. communities we serve.
diverse skills, abilities and our communities. business opportunities.
talents of our workforce.
GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT
CenterPoint Energy’s Compensation Committee reviews and monitors the
company’s human capital management. CenterPoint Energy
is on a quest.
Our DE&I Council oversees the company’s diversity, equity and inclusion efforts.
Our Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer and our A quest to learn better.
Executive Vice President and General Counsel serve as executive sponsors.
To listen better.
A diversity, equity and inclusion negative-only modifier applies to awards made
To do better. Every day.
to members of our senior leadership team under the company’s short-term
incentive plan.
LEARN MORE
DATA CENTER: WORKFORCE
36
WORKFORCE DIVERSITY
8,827
We value the different perspectives,
experiences and backgrounds our people EMPLOYEES company-wide
We strive to find ways, big
possess, as we work together with a unified
and small, to appreciate the purpose. We work to maintain an open and 624
value in our differences. inclusive work environment where business
results are achieved through the skills, VETERANS
abilities and talents of our diverse workforce.
(as self-identified)
37
WORKFORCE RACE/ETHNICITY
As of December 31, 2023
Race/Ethnicity as Percentage of Workforce (2023)
Workforce diversity data and statistics are based on source information from CenterPoint Energy’s EEO-1 reports, which are posted on our website after
being filed.
We are working to increase and retain employee diversity by:
• Advancing efforts for attracting and retaining diverse students through outreach to Historically Black Colleges
and Universities and Hispanic Serving Institutions.
• Promoting CenterPoint Energy on college campuses to create awareness of our offerings to engineering,
finance and technical occupations. We offer internships, co-ops and entry-level job opportunities throughout the
company.
• Supporting best practices for promoting diversity through our recruitment process, and actively recruiting and
hiring veterans and individuals with disabilities.
Our College Recruiting program partners with a wide array of student organizations
at schools throughout our footprint. These partnerships provide opportunities for
us to engage with a diverse mix of students as they plan their professional careers.
Some of these organizations include:
• Ascend Pan-Asian Leaders • Human Rights Campaign
• Asian Business Student Association • National Association of Black Accountants
• Collegiate Association for Women in • National Society of Black Engineers
Construction
• Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers
• Construction Student Association
• Texas Diversity Council
• Hispanic Business Student Association
We are increasing leadership diversity by:
• Utilizing talent review, succession planning and performance management outputs.
• Promoting leadership, mentorship and support as a way to grow and motivate diverse leaders.
• Reporting by Employee Resource Group leads on progress on various issues relevant to the groups.
• Leveraging diverse interview panels for candidate interviews to represent our workforce diversity when we interview
prospective new hires for opportunities across our company.
38
DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION INITIATIVES
We are progressing several initiatives that help support belonging and diversity, equity and inclusion, including internal
and external initiatives, programs and partnerships.
35%
In 2023, of our external placements
“I believe the success of CenterPoint Energy’s business goals
FEMALE EMPLOYEES.
and strategy will depend on making our organization look more were
like the communities we serve,” said Jason P. Wells, President
and Chief Executive Officer. “When we hold a mirror up to 57%
In 2023,
our communities, it is important that we see the faces of our
of our external placements were either
CenterPoint Energy employees reflected back. We have already
RACIALLY or ETHNICALLY
made a lot of progress, with even more yet to come.”
DIVERSE.
Our company-wide Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Council, comprised of
colleagues from all levels and areas of our businesses and corporate functions, In 2023, CenterPoint Energy had
assists in leading conversations and driving diversity, equity and inclusion efforts
624 VETERANS
across the organization, such as:
(as self-identified).
• An anonymous survey that engaged all employees on attitudes toward
diversity, culture, hiring and recruiting, diversity training programs and other
workplace experiences.
• Launching eight Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) to date.
• Creating a leadership talent pipeline that helps support a diverse workforce and inclusive work environment that is reflective of the
available workforce, placing a focus on driving awareness of the importance of supporting and enabling a diverse workforce.
DE&I TRAINING AND RESOURCES
CNP University, our online learning platform, offers a variety of content and resources, including online courses, audio summaries and
podcasts that focus on DE&I. Curated on-demand content around embracing equity, inclusive leadership, unconscious bias and more
is available to all employees. The Learning and Development team provides ideas for how to leverage the resources, such as group
discussions, meetings, newsletters and book clubs or special gatherings.
AFFINITY AND EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
Our Affinity groups are formed around a shared interest or Affinity Groups:
common goal for employees across CenterPoint Energy. Affinity
• EnPoint: Gas Engineering employees
groups help us build community, enhance purposeful networking
and employee engagement across our company, promote • EPN: Electric Engineering employees
career development, and offer leadership and professional
development opportunities. • EV Point: Employees who are electric vehicle enthusiasts
• MyPoint: Finance, IT and Audit Services employees
• OnPoint: Employees who work in Operations and functional areas
across Houston
39
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
Our eight employee-created and employee-led ERGs are a key part of
CenterPoint Energy’s focus on DE&I. They provide vital opportunities for
employees to get to know one another, share knowledge and experiences,
CenterPoint Energy’s Employee
promote collaboration and professional development, support employee
Resource Groups:
recruitment and retention, raise cultural awareness, and enhance
community engagement. • Black Employees Network
Our ERGs’ goals and activities are aligned with CenterPoint Energy’s • C.A.R.E Connections (Children, Adult,
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Vision and Positioning Statement, as well Resource, Education)
as the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Council’s strategic goals. ERGs are • CNP Asian Professional Network
employee-led, operated with the support of the Diversity, Equity and
• CNP Military Network
Inclusion Council and are open to all employees. ERGs can contribute to
increasing the diversity of the applicant pool and improving retention, as • CNP Pride
well as reaching traditionally underrepresented or underserved customers,
• Cultural Niketan of India
clients, suppliers, and communities. ERGs can also help enhance civic
• Hispanic & Latin Professional Network
engagement and strengthen CenterPoint Energy’s connections and
reputation in the communities we serve. • Women in Leadership
ERG HIGHLIGHTS
In 2023, our ERGs engaged 2,990 employee members and managed 132 events for the entire employee population
throughout the company.
C.A.R.E. Connections (Children, Adult, The Cultural Niketan of INDIA ERG A special ERG showcase of our rich diversity
Resource, Education) is CenterPoint celebrated Diwali – the Festival of Lights in perspective, thought and experience
Energy’s newest ERG. Its mission is to – by holding onsite celebrations at several was sponsored by the DE&I Council
empower members as they navigate their CenterPoint Energy office locations. The so employees could hear directly from
career and family responsibilities, maintain group’s objective is to promote the welfare members and learn how to participate. ERGs
a work/life balance, and support overall of community and an attitude of gratitude. provide vital opportunities for networking,
mental health and well-being. mentoring, professional development and
promotion of the company’s business goals
and strategy.
RECRUITING
Our Talent Acquisition team is at the forefront of our efforts to create a workforce reflective of the communities we serve.
We support best practices for promoting diversity through our recruitment process, and we actively recruit and hire
veterans and individuals with disabilities.
Our College Recruiting program maintains relationships with student organizations at many of the schools throughout our
footprint, providing opportunities to engage with a diverse mix of students as they plan their professional careers. Some of
our partner organizations include:
• Ascend Pan-Asian Leaders • Human Rights Campaign
• Asian Business Student Association • National Association of Black Accountants
• Collegiate Association for Women in Construction • National Society of Black Engineers
• Construction Student Association • Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers
• Hispanic Business Student Association • Texas Diversity Council
Nationally, we partner with Disability Solutions, Hispanic Alliance for Career Enhancement, LocalJobNetwork (Circa)
and RecruitMilitary.
40
COLLEGE RECRUITING PROGRAM
Our College Recruiting program maintains partnerships with student organizations at many of the schools throughout our
footprint. Internships, co-ops and entry-level job opportunities are offered throughout the company.
We use diverse interview panels for candidate interviews to promote a diversity of perspectives
and thought when interviewing prospective new hires for opportunities across our company.
LEARN MORE
DATA CENTER: WORKFORCE
41
COMMUNITIES
CenterPoint Energy recognizes that our success, as well as the success of our customers, neighbors and stakeholders,
is connected to the vibrancy of our communities.
We seek to improve the areas we serve by supporting programs that strengthen relationships, improve quality of life,
and promote inclusion to help communities thrive. We support students having the opportunities and tools they need to
succeed academically, explore potential careers and be equipped to enter the workforce.
We collaborate with our employees, elected officials,
regulators, community and civic leaders, and neighbors in
the communities we serve to assess areas of need. That
is why we focus our charitable investments, volunteerism
and other community-based activities on the nonprofit
organizations and causes in our giving pillars.
COMMUNITY RELATIONS
84,518
CENTERPOINT ENERGY
EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEER FOUNDATION
HOURS IN 2023 2023 GIVING HIGHLIGHTS
32%
Total
$16.9 million
Community
OF EMPLOYEES
Investments:
VOLUNTEERED IN 2023
42
SOCIAL IMPACT HIGHLIGHTS
The Nature Conservancy | $500,000 The CenterPoint Energy Foundation
provided The Nature Conservancy with a grant in 2021 that funded 2022
environmental improvements in four states where we operate.
• In Louisiana, we supported the building of oyster reefs to help clean the
freshwater flowing into the Gulf of Mexico, contributing to the success of
Gulf-wide fisheries.
The Arbor Day Foundation Environmental Grant | $500,000
Reinforcing the company’s Net Zero goals, the CenterPoint
Energy Foundation’s 2021 grant provided environmental
education and tree plantings to elementary school students
throughout the company’s service territory during 2022.
2022 IMPACT
• Engaged 10,000 students in environmental education
• Interacted with 77 schools across 6 states
• Distributed 8,400 trees to customers across 6 states
• Projected community impact of $2,613,327 in environmental
benefits and 6,283,104 megawatt hours saved from shade and
windbreak
Opportunity Housing Project | $250,000 SBP will develop a 7-unit affordable
rental project in Houston. The project will be built to Energy Star® measures and
incorporate storm-resilient measures.
43
STRATEGIC GIVING
Our company-wide community relations strategy focuses on community vitality and education.
The CenterPoint Energy Foundation provides support to nonprofit organizations whose programs and
services align with these core giving pillars and invests in initiatives that not only improve our stakeholders’
lives today, but also build a strong foundation for tomorrow.
COMMUNITY VITALITY
• Affordable Housing – Initiatives leading to increased access to
quality, energy-efficient and affordable housing
• Environment – Ensuring our communities are sustainable and
resilient for the future
• Thriving Communities – Quality of place and resident-led initiatives
leading to vibrant neighborhoods, cities and states
Community Vitality in Action: CommonBond | $500,000
The Rise on 7 is a co-located affordable housing and childcare center
that will be the first development of its kind for CommonBond and
Minneapolis. Funding will support construction of the project, which will
provide 120 units of housing and childcare for low-income residents.
EDUCATION
• Literacy – Literacy and tutoring programs focused on early childhood through adult learners
• STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Math) – Education programs targeted to under-resourced
areas and/or under-represented populations
• Workforce Development – Programs addressing the workforce needs of our communities
44
CENTERPOINT ENERGY SUPPORTS STEM
2023 STEM Giving: $1,225,755
Provided grants for Engaged STEM grants for Distributed
3,100 HOURS 111,117 STUDENTS 254 STEM DEVICES,
of one-on-one literacy tutoring in STEM activities or events including computers and tablets
3,282 STEM KITS
• Children’s Museum of Houston EcoStation Exhibit | $100,000
The educational exhibit allows kids of all ages to explore the
environment, conduct ecological studies and learn how everything
in our ecosystem is connected.
• Compudopt | $115,000 for Evansville and $76,000 for Houston
The CenterPoint Energy Foundation contribution offers technology
access and education to under-resourced youth and their
communities by providing computers and digital literacy programs
to students and families.
• The CenterPoint Energy Foundation works with Carnegie
Vanguard High School’s Women in Science and Engineering
Club in Houston, an organization for students who aspire to work
in the technology and engineering fields. Our female engineers
engage students on using science and technology to help solve
real-life problems and as a catalyst for social change.
45
VOLUNTEERISM
Employee volunteerism is an important part of CenterPoint Energy’s commitment to our communities
and employee engagement strategy.
We provide opportunities for employees to participate in company-organized volunteer efforts and
encourage them to contribute their time and talents to causes they care about. Through building
relationships with each other and the communities we serve, volunteer activities help employees develop
career and leadership skills.
2023 VOLUNTEERISM
SPOTLIGHT ON EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERISM
DEMONSTRATING ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
Our Gas Engineering and Environmental Services team volunteered to replant marsh
grass along the shoreline of Lake Mark Kramer. Located in Armand Bayou Nature
Center in Pasadena, Texas, the area was improved to create a living shoreline,
helping restore it to a wetland habitat that existed before it eroded.
46
In Minneapolis, employees collaborated with Great River
Greening, a CenterPoint Energy Foundation grantee, to plant
nearly 2,000 native plant seedlings and scatter seeds for 30
native species at Lebanon Hills Regional Park in Eagan, the
busiest regional park in the state.
SHARING KNOWLEDGE WITH STUDENTS
Junior Achievement works to educate students in grades K-12
about entrepreneurship, work readiness and financial literacy.
Employee volunteers across the company participate in career
presentations, business trivia and virtual career days.
LEADING THE WAY
Through the company’s 2022-23 United Way
campaign, CenterPoint Energy employees
raised nearly $1 million to support the United
Way of Greater Houston, providing much
needed resources to benefit our friends and
neighbors in the greater Houston area.
47
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS
CenterPoint Energy’s internal Emergency Operations Plan (EOP) guides the company’s
preparation, mitigation, response and recovery from an emergency.
Our emergency preparedness and response procedures are intended to prepare us for all
types of emergencies.
Training, conducting drills, testing equipment and coordination are all important functions to
ensure a successful EOP response. The use of an Incident Command structure establishes a
common set of incident objectives and strategies to follow.
Actions taken during EOP incidents and drills are evaluated to determine lessons learned,
providing a valuable opportunity to learn from our experiences, identify potential areas for
improvement and prevent reoccurrence of potential issues. Emergency plans and procedures
are reviewed annually and updated as needed.
STORM RESPONSE
If severe weather is predicted, CenterPoint Energy
communicates important safety information to
customers and the public.
When restoring power, we begin with facilities vital
to safety, health and welfare, such as hospitals,
water treatment plants and public service facilities.
While addressing key facilities, we follow our priority
restoration process by making repairs to electrical
facilities that will return power to the largest number
of customers first. We then continue the restoration
process by prioritizing repairs to benefit the greatest
number of customers, until power is returned to
everyone.
Throughout the restoration process, we maintain
contact with local emergency management agencies,
news media and public officials.
48
MUTUAL ASSISTANCE
CenterPoint Energy is part of electric utility mutual assistance programs
that provide access to thousands of linemen and tree trimmers from
around the country to lend a hand during widespread power outage
emergencies. Coming to the aid of other utilities is nothing new to our
employees. Over the years, crews have responded and restored power
to hundreds of thousands of customers throughout the country who
have been left in the dark following hurricanes, ice storms, tornadoes
and severe thunderstorms.
In response to Hurricane Nicholas’ impact on our
electric and natural gas systems in Greater Houston
and surrounding communities, more than 3,200 Electric
Operations employees and contractors focused on the
restoration work. About 1,800 linemen and tree trimmers
from the mutual assistance network were assigned to
staging sites across the impacted areas.
In early 2023, CenterPoint Energy deployed nearly 70
employees and support personnel from Houston to assist
Austin power restoration efforts due to the winter storm’s
extensive damage that resulted from freezing rain and
fallen trees.
49
OUR PEOPLE
We believe delivering electricity and natural gas to millions of customers across our
communities takes the dedication of a hard-working and committed workforce.
CenterPoint Energy places a high priority on promoting strong human capital management;
sustaining a strong culture of ethics; providing professional development opportunities;
fostering mutual respect at all levels; and following all labor, employment and human rights
laws applicable to our business. We promote belonging, diversity and inclusion and strive
to maintain a safe and productive work environment where all employees are supported,
valued for their contributions and free from all forms of discrimination.
Our employee benefits are designed to help employees stay healthy, care for their families,
plan for their futures and enjoy peace of mind. To support our employees’ personal and
professional needs, we offer a wellness program, an Education Assistance Program,
volunteer opportunities, and Affinity and Employee Resource Groups.
HIGHLIGHTS
• All full- and part-time employees receive annual training on CenterPoint Energy’s Ethics and Compliance Code, which
covers fair treatment, equal opportunity and workplace respect, among other topics.
• 100% of eligible employees received a performance evaluation in 2023.
• CenterPoint Energy’s 2023 internship program provided real-world experience, training and mentoring to 97 interns.
• A veteran-friendly employer with 624 self-identified veterans at year-end 2023.
U.S. Veterans Magazine named CenterPoint Energy one of its 2023 “Top Veteran-friendly Companies”
in recognition of our hiring practices, as well as participation in military job fairs and accessible hiring
practices for those with disabilities.
OUR WORKFORCE
CenterPoint Energy employees are the driving force behind our
company’s success, and we are focused on providing employee
development and building our culture.
Our human capital priorities include attracting, retaining and
developing high-performing talent through its talent management
activities. We work to maintain a workforce reflective of our
communities and the available workforce within the territories we
serve by attracting quality candidates through our recruitment and
selection processes.
50
A CULTURE OF ENGAGEMENT
CenterPoint Energy’s goal is to create a work environment in which
every employee is engaged, aligned with our strategy, goals and
priorities, and understands how they contribute to the company’s
long-term performance. To achieve this goal, we strive to connect with
our employees in meaningful ways.
• Our senior leadership team holds quarterly town hall meetings with
all employees to share key company updates. Employees across
the company participate in-person or via video conference and are
encouraged to engage in the question-and-answer session.
• CenterPoint Energy conducts internal surveys to better understand
the company’s successes, challenges and opportunities.
Employees share feedback on attitudes toward the company’s
culture, hiring and recruiting, training programs and other
workplace experiences.
• Our employee pulse surveys have focused on career development,
safety, innovation and collaboration. These surveys help us identify
strengths and opportunities for improvement.
In 2023, an enterprise-wide Employee Engagement Survey was
shared with all employees to gather valuable insights about our
company and its culture. Leaders communicated results with their
teams and developed both enterprise-wide and targeted action plans
to support making our company an even better place to work.
LEARN MORE
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
LABOR RELATIONS
51
TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT
CenterPoint Energy’s continuous efforts to safely and reliably deliver electricity and natural gas to
millions of people, includes focusing on the continuous development of our greatest assets – our
employees – to build a sustainable leadership pipeline.
We identify performance gaps and skills training for departments across the company to ensure employees
have the right skills to perform their jobs safely and effectively. We offer employees opportunities to
increase skills both professionally and technically through leadership development programs, technical
skills training, and professional development training and resources.
2023 TRAINING
CNP University College of Professional Development –
Instructor/Virtual Instructor-Led Training:
CNP University is CenterPoint Energy’s corporate university
made up of six colleges that represent formal learning and
• Total participants: 4,304
training operations designed to meet employees’ needs.
• Total hours completed: 16,586
• Total online courses completed: 255,141
• Total hours of online courses completed: 127,571*
*Each course averages approximately 30 minutes or 0.5 hours
Training Highlights
• All full- and part-time employees receive annual training on CenterPoint Energy’s Ethics and
Compliance Code of Conduct, which covers fair treatment, equal opportunity and workplace respect,
among other issues.
• 100% of eligible employees received a performance evaluation in 2023.
• CenterPoint Energy’s 2023 internship program provided real-world experience, training and mentoring
to 97 interns.
52
LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT
CenterPoint Energy’s leadership development programs aim to provide a
set of solutions and programs that develop leaders’ capabilities at all levels
to support business growth and maintain a high-performing workplace.
Our leadership development programs include:
• Leadership Academy – Targeted to current, high-potential leaders
who are nominated and selected to be part of this one-year program to
broaden their networks and advance their business acumen.
• Learning to Lead – Targeted to current high-potential individual
contributors who are nominated and selected to be part of this six-
month program that will help them grow professionally and gain
leadership skills.
• Leadership Essentials – Automatic enrollment program designed to
assist new leaders in their transition into leadership and set them up for
success during their first year of leading others.
• Leading Leaders – Automatic enrollment program designed to assist
first-time leaders of other leaders with their transition as they take on
increased leadership responsibility.
2023 LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
Racial
Leadership Development Programs Male Female
Diversity
Leadership Academy 55% 45% 33%
Learning to Lead 68% 32% 35%
Leadership Essentials 73% 27% 42%
Leading Leaders 85% 15% 26%
TALENT REVIEW AND SUCCESSION PLANNING
We take a strategic approach to attracting, retaining and developing our
workforce, combining annual talent review and succession planning as
essential elements of overall workforce planning. To ensure business
continuity and identify the future leaders of our company, we invest in
employee development to align performance to business needs, drive
development planning and contribute to career progression.
We offer development programs for employees at all phases of their
career, including technical and leadership pathways. Our processes and
progress are reviewed annually for continuous improvement.
53
WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
• In collaboration with the National Energy Foundation, we began the Energy Safe Skills program, geared toward Indiana
students studying in fields such as construction, maintenance and related areas. Free training materials for instructors
cover characteristics of natural gas, natural gas leak recognition and response, and 811 and safe digging best practices.
• CenterPoint Energy joined with Ivy Tech Community College to offer the Achieve Your Degree program to line
workers and gas apprentices in Indiana. The program makes an interdisciplinary and technical certificate or an Energy
Technology Associate of Applied Science degree available by completing coursework and on-the-job training while
using the company’s tuition reimbursement plan.
• CenterPoint Energy and Texas Southern University initiated an Experts-In-Action speaker series as a pillar of a
larger strategic partnership between the company and the university. This collaboration provides direct access for
undergraduate, graduate and university faculty to utility experts and allows innovative discussions relative to energy
management and the workforce of the future.
• CenterPoint Energy is a member of the Center for Energy Workforce Development, a consortium of energy utility
companies, associations, unions, educators and business partners. Members work together to position our industry to
recruit and retain a skilled workforce for the energy industry.
LEARN MORE
DATA CENTER: WORKFORCE METRICS
WORKFORCE DIVERSITY
54
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
CenterPoint Energy offers a robust, comprehensive benefits package designed to help employees stay
healthy, care for their families, plan for their futures and enjoy peace of mind.
The company provides competitive, customizable benefits for all regular full-time and part-time employees
who are scheduled to work at least a certain minimum number of hours a week. Benefits include medical,
dental, vision, life, long-term and short-term disability and accident coverage, as well as retirement plans,
paid time-off and career development opportunities.
CenterPoint Energy’s pay philosophy is to maintain employee total compensation that is competitive with
relevant markets, internally equitable, and based on company and individual performance.
BENEFITS HIGHLIGHTS
• Our Employee Assistance Program provides mental • Dependents of CenterPoint Energy employees can apply
health, consulting, legal, financial and other services. for scholarships to help cover education costs.
• We assist with public transportation commuting costs • We offer alternate work schedules where feasible for
through subsidized bus passes or reimbursement for the business. Employees may choose between a 9/80
certain carpool expenses. work schedule or a partly remote work schedule.
• Our Education Assistance Program helps employees • Our wellness program rewards employees for making
finish a degree or embark on a new one by providing healthy choices and reaching personal health goals.
reimbursement for certain tuition expenses and required
• We provide Paid Parental Leave for non-bargaining, full-
fees toward an associate’s, bachelor’s or master’s degree
time employees.
from a state or federally accredited school.
SUPPORTING WELLNESS AND MENTAL HEALTH
To support physical and mental health and wellness, we communicate self-care and stress management
resources, leadership video messages on personal well-being, resources for employees using company
benefits providers and Employee Assistance Program services.
55
LABOR RELATIONS
We work with our union-represented employees to achieve business
results and operational efficiencies that benefit our employees, our
customers and the communities we serve.
As of December 31, 2023, approximately 40 percent of CenterPoint
Energy’s employees were represented by labor unions.
Through the collective bargaining process, we have established
various career paths and apprenticeship programs to develop the
talent pipeline and skills needed for the future and to provide clear
opportunities for advancement within the bargaining unit. The
respective contracts outline work schedules, time off and other working
rules and conditions. Most of our agreements have five-year terms in
place to enhance continuity for both the company and our workforce.
When we are not in the collective bargaining process, regular labor management meetings are scheduled to collaborate on
union issues, such as talent acquisition, training and safety, as well as diversity and inclusion activities.
CenterPoint Energy is committed to complying with contract provisions when labor contracts require notice of a given
action or decision to employees or their representatives.
SAFETY COLLABORATIONS
Employees of CenterPoint Energy’s Electric Transmission and Distribution Topics covered in formal labor
business and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) Local agreements related to safety include:
66 launched a Union Safety Program in 2017. This collaborative approach is
• Membership support of a safe
aimed to help achieve continuous improvement and a safer workplace. The
working environment
program’s goal is to improve safety performance, safety culture and morale
• Provision of personal protective
through updates to important work practices. Roles and Rules to Live By help
equipment and uniforms
to empower employees to engage in safety with increased accountability.
• Formation of safety committees
We have Safety Culture Advisory Committees in our Indiana/Ohio operational
region, including the Electric Safety Culture Advisory Committee and the • Additional benefits for employees
Gas Safety Culture Advisory Committee. Members include senior leaders, who suffer work-related
safety personnel, union leadership and key operations representatives. injuries beyond state worker
The committees meet quarterly to discuss current safety initiatives, develop compensation provisions
safety strategy and cover lessons learned. The meetings are led jointly by
• Implementation of safety rules
company and union officials. This committee approach is being evaluated for
implementation in other areas of the company.
LEARN MORE
DATA CENTER: WORKFORCE METRICS
56
OUR CUSTOMERS
Our dedication to customer service for those in the communities we serve
is vital to who we are as a company. Customer service and brand reputation
remain a critical factor in our company’s continued success.
We have developed self-service processes for bill payment, account setup and
proactive outage notification, which have enabled most customer transactions to
be resolved through our digital channels.
Our customer engagement philosophy is based on the importance of continuously
striving to improve by learning from and listening to our customers.
We continue to look for opportunities to improve our customers’ experience,
leverage tools and technologies to enhance our outreach and communications and
raise the bar even higher on the service we provide.
CONTACT CENTER’S
COMMITMENT TO SERVICE
Just as our field employees continue to be out
on the front lines providing safe and reliable
electricity and natural gas to our customers, our
Contact Center agents also have a critical role
in supporting our customers’ energy needs.
With a reassuring voice, they support electric,
natural gas and Home Service Plus customers
across our service territory.
LEARN MORE
HELPING CUSTOMERS ACHIEVE NET ZERO
57
LARGE CUSTOMERS
CenterPoint Energy’s goal is to be a company that is easy to do business with, provides comprehensive energy
solutions for customers, drives internal business efficiencies, and captures growth opportunities across residential,
commercial and industrial customer classes.
We work to deliver on our priorities to invest in the safety, reliability and resiliency of our electric and natural gas systems, while also
advancing energy transition.
• In our Houston service area, we deliver energy to the world’s largest medical center, the nation’s largest petrochemical complex, and
the country’s largest port for waterborne tonnage.
• In Ohio, we serve one of the largest and most complex military bases controlled by the U.S. Air Force.
• In Minnesota, we are the state’s largest natural gas utility and serve Minneapolis, its most populous city.
We are anticipating increased load demand across our system over the next three to five years to accommodate continued investment
and development needs. We are continuing to work with industrial and manufacturing customers across our service territory to identify
their needs for increased safety, reliability and sustainable investments.
We will also continue working to help our residential and commercial customers reduce emissions attributable to their use of natural gas
as part of our goal to achieve a 20-30% reduction in Scope 3 end-use emissions by 2035.
CENTERPOINT ENERGY HOSTS CUSTOMER ADVISORY COUNCIL
MEETINGS IN HOUSTON
Large customers, business and community leaders who are part of our Customer
Advisory Council provide feedback on how we can help support customers’ expectations
regarding resiliency, reliability and a cleaner energy future. This insight helps guide our
methodology and resiliency investments in order to continue to build a more resilient
Houston by continuously improving our support of critical infrastructure. Meetings have
featured panelists discussing key topics, objectives and the significance of addressing
the needs of vulnerable communities and businesses by working together.
OFFERING CLEANER ENERGY SOLUTIONS TO OUR MINNESOTA
CUSTOMERS
CenterPoint Energy and Radisson Blu Mall of America, part of Choice Hotels International,
recently announced the groundbreaking installation of a carbon capture technology
unit, CarbinX™, developed by CleanO2. This marks the first hotel in the world to use this
innovative system that captures greenhouse gas emissions from heating equipment.
CenterPoint Energy is deploying the CarbinX technology in a pilot program with 10 of our
commercial customers in Minnesota, including Radisson Blu MOA. Additional CarbinX
installations are being proposed as part of our first five-year innovation plan under the
Natural Gas Innovation Act, a landmark new Minnesota energy law.
LEARN MORE
HELPING CUSTOMERS ACHIEVE NET ZERO
58
SAFETY
Our goal is to maintain a safe work environment and deliver
electricity and natural gas safely to the communities we serve.
“From COVID-19 to severe weather, we face many events that can
take our focus away from the job at hand. We cannot be driven by the
events of the day. We must plan and act upon our vision of serving our
customers safely and reliably today, tomorrow and beyond.”
– Al Payton, Vice President of Safety and Technical Training
To achieve our safety goal, CenterPoint Energy is guided by the following principles:
• Compliance: We are committed to complying with applicable safety laws and regulations.
In fact, the implementation of best practices we have developed over years of service
allows us to exceed the requirements detailed in some regulations governing our industry.
Employees are expected to adhere to and abide by all company policies, procedures and
guidelines for working around and operating our systems in a safe manner. Contractors who
perform work for the company are expected to do so safely, in compliance with applicable
laws and regulations.
• Accountability: Safety is the responsibility of all employees and is a condition of
employment. While management sets clear expectations and provides support and training, Al Payton, CenterPoint Energy’s VP,
Safety & Technical Training, was awarded
employees are accountable for understanding and incorporating safe work practices into
the 2023 Thomas F. Farrell, II Safety
their daily work activities. Employees are also accountable for reporting incidents, injuries
Leadership and Innovation Award by the
and unsafe practices or conditions so they can be promptly evaluated and addressed. Edison Electric Institute.
• Continuous Improvement: We strive to continuously improve our safety culture and
performance, embracing training, innovation and technology. We identify opportunities
to improve and gain knowledge from proactive learning events, incidents, near-misses,
inspection programs and observations submitted by the public or employees. We frequently
share learnings with peer utilities to advance safety throughout the industry.
• Customer and Community Focus: We will continue to develop and maintain effective safety
programs that educate and inform customers and the public in the communities where we
operate. We have increased our outreach to high schools and technical schools to provide
educational support while opening the door to job opportunities in the utility industry.
59
2023 SAFETY PERFORMANCE
Employee Days Away Restricted or Transferred (DART) Rate 1.48
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Recordable Work-Related Injuries 154
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 1.78
Number of Hours Worked 17,315,074
GOVERNANCE
The Safety & Operations Committee of the Board of Directors, which was formed in April of 2024, is the highest governance
body charged with oversight responsibility of the company’s safety matters, including its safety performance, strategy, risks and
processes, and any significant safety incidents or events. It is also charged with oversight of the company’s utilities operations,
including emergency preparedness and response, risk management and compliance with regulations and standards.
It is intended that the Safety & Operations Committee, the Board or both will receive periodic reports regarding the company’s
safety and operations activities and risks, including safety performance and any significant incidents or events.
SAFETY AND CUSTOMER SERVICE
PERFORMANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY
Because the safety and well-being of our employees,
contractors, customers and communities is top of mind, our
short-term incentive plan metrics for all employees except
our senior leadership team, among other items, measure
the effectiveness of our safety protocols and leadership
engagement on safety initiatives, as well as customer reliability
and responsiveness.
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors may
determine to exercise its discretion and has committed, with
management’s support, to reducing the payout to named
executive officers to align with the non-executive short-term
incentive payouts, which reflect non-financial performance, such
as safety.
LEARN MORE
PUBLIC SAFETY
WORKPLACE SAFETY
DATA CENTER: SAFETY
60
PUBLIC SAFETY
CenterPoint Energy’s public safety program and public safety awareness campaign 2023 COMMUNITY
provide our customers and other stakeholders with information about potential SAFETY GRANTS
hazards and how to avoid and respond to them.
$232,394
Regular safety communication with customers and the public include education about
staying away from power lines, how trees and vegetation affect electric safety, calling
in Funds Awarded
811 before any work requiring digging, severe weather preparedness and natural
gas safety. We use multiple channels, including social media, stakeholder outreach,
105
training, websites and community programs.
Grants Awarded
COMMUNITY SAFETY GRANTS
CenterPoint Energy’s Community Safety Grant program provides an
opportunity to support organizations within our communities with
a shared commitment to safety. Matching grants up to $2,500 are
available for eligible safety and emergency response equipment.
Grants are awarded to local fire departments, police departments,
ambulance services and other first responders, as well as to support
community safety initiatives. This support maintains our connections
with emergency officials and helps them keep our neighbors and
communities safe.
For 15 years, CenterPoint Energy and the Houston Fire Department have both supported the Get Alarmed
Houston program, which provides and installs smoke and carbon monoxide detectors to needy seniors and families in the
greater Houston area. Get Alarmed Houston’s goal is to reduce – and possibly eliminate – fire-related accidents and deaths
due to a lack of working smoke detectors. All smoke alarms are provided through donations or grants. Throughout the year,
firemen from various Houston fire stations allocate time to install smoke detectors and carbon monoxide detectors that are
requested by disadvantaged senior citizens and families through the Houston Fire Department Public Affairs Division.
EMERGENCY RESPONDER SAFETY AWARENESS SESSIONS
In 2022, CenterPoint Energy conducted training for 212 firefighters in 15 total
sessions conducted over a three-day period in Evansville, Indiana. The sessions
included understanding the hazards of downed electrical conductors, solar panels
and electrical distribution automation systems. The sessions were designed to aid
the first responders in their decision making when they respond to incidents where
electric utilities might be involved.
61
EXTREME WEATHER PREPAREDNESS
Since 2005, CenterPoint Energy has been a proud
sponsor of the Houston Extreme Weather Ready Expo,
which helps residents prepare for hurricane season and
weather emergencies. The 2022 expo was held in June.
NATURAL GAS SAFETY
Each year during National Fire Prevention Week, CenterPoint
Energy participates in community safety fairs and fire department
open house events throughout our Minnesota service territory.
Employees staff booths and share important natural gas safety
messages, activity booklets and promotional materials highlighting
our Safe and Smart education program for students.
CenterPoint Energy employees recently participated in annual
pipeline safety training meetings across our service territory. The
meetings were hosted by an outside organization that provides
public awareness and damage prevention services to assist
with the regulatory requirements in the natural gas industry.
These meetings are a compliance-based effort to connect with
emergency responders who serve our communities and educate
professional excavators who are working near buried utilities.
811 AND SAFE DIGGING
Because third-party damage is a significant cause of pipeline incidents for CenterPoint Energy, we partner with the
Common Ground Alliance to raise awareness of 811, the national “Call Before You Dig” number. Each year on August 11,
CenterPoint Energy conducts an outreach campaign promoting 811 as the resource for marking utility lines before digging.
For 12 years, CenterPoint Energy employees have participated in the annual Children’s Farm Festival at Peden Farms in
Bloomington, Indiana, by educating families about the importance of calling 811 before any digging project.
ASSET SAFETY
Our investments in smart residential natural gas meters are another example of
providing our customers with an added layer of safety protection. CenterPoint Energy
plans to install 4 million Intelis natural gas ultrasonic smart meters by 2032 for its
natural gas distribution system. These innovative meters contain an internal shutoff
valve that automatically activates if excessive gas flow or high temperatures are
detected. High temperatures could indicate a fire at the location and shutting off the
gas would prevent further damage. The automatic shutoff feature also helps protect
the environment by reducing methane and carbon dioxide emissions.
62
WORKPLACE SAFETY
Our Safety Forward approach promotes a strong safety culture across all of our operations.
Our enterprise-wide safety programs provide a consistent approach to safety for all employees, implement
best practices to prevent workplace injuries and illnesses, and increase awareness of hazards and
preventive measures. Safe work practices are documented to support compliance with Occupational
Safety and Health Administration and other regulations. If an employee feels a situation is not safe, he or
she has the authority to stop work at any time until the situation has been appropriately addressed.
We expect our employees to help with the identification, elimination or effective mitigation of hazards that
threaten the company’s ability to deliver energy services without harm to employees, customers, members
of the public or the environment.
SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
CenterPoint Energy’s Safety Management System (SMS) provides
the framework for our electric and natural gas systems, our
corporate functions and our subsidiary operations to effectively
identify and manage risks to our operations. Our SMS was
implemented as a voluntary program and modeled after American
Petroleum Institute’s API RP 1173 guidelines for the development of
Pipeline Safety Management Systems, as well as OSHA guidance.
This model is a best practice within the industry and highly rated by
peer benchmarking groups, such as the American Gas Association.
CenterPoint Energy has voluntarily extended its SMS to include
Electric Operations, where implementation is ongoing.
SMS PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES
• Workforce safety • Technical training and operator qualification
• OSHA and United States Department of Transportation • Risk management
compliance
• Incident investigation and management
• Audits and inspections
• Root cause analysis
• Quality assurance and control
• Corrective action
• Contractor monitoring and quality management
• Lessons learned
programs
• Damage prevention
• Change management
63
EMPLOYEE SAFETY PARTICIPATION
Our employees are the driving force for identifying and correcting unsafe behaviors and conditions. Our behavior-based
safety program allows employees to conduct safety observations with the ability to remain anonymous. Core teams
composed of employees with support from managers and employee safety leaders use safety observation and incident
data to create safety performance action plans.
Departments are encouraged to start safety committees to discuss improvement opportunities and communicate safety
information through meetings and annual safety summits. Monthly safety meeting kits cover topics specific to the time
of year, relevant issues or current safety performance. Core teams leverage safety meetings to cover pertinent safety
information from safety observations, along with updating employees on the status of corrective actions to address hazards.
TRAINING AND PROTOCOLS
A well-trained and qualified workforce is vital to the • Through our learning and development platform, an
success of utility companies. CenterPoint Energy prevents employee safety onboarding and development plan
and mitigates health and safety impacts for employees provides safety and technical training courses focused
through appropriate skills training and education based on on employee workplace safety and driving.
employee roles.
• Safety specialists and industrial hygienists provide
We have established a structured employee safety ergonomic assessments, hands-on training, educational
onboarding and development plan through our learning resources and early mitigation of discomfort for work-
and development platform, offering safety and technical related medical issues.
training courses focused on driving, worker safety and
• Our Physical Security Policy addresses important topics
safety culture, as well as other safety programs designed to
to help maintain a safe and secure place to work and
encourage employee engagement and participation.
ensure safe and reliable service to our customers.
Employees across the organization receive safety training
• To promote employee wellness, CenterPoint Energy
upon hire and refresher training on a periodic basis.
provides employee communications, educational
Enrollments for computer-based training and instructor-led
resources and general health coaching in some areas.
courses are made based on the employee role and their
level of hazard exposure. • In 2022, the second Enterprise Safety Forum was
held to engage employees on safety importance,
including identifying and addressing high-energy
hazards, leadership engagements and lessons learned.
Employees from across the organization shared safety
initiatives they have been implementing to improve
safety culture, morale, and conditions within their
work areas.
RECOGNIZE • EVALUATE • ANTICIPATE • DEFINE • YES
READY – Serious Injury And Fatality Prevention Model
READY is CenterPoint Energy’s model designed to eliminate serious injuries and fatalities. This model
is built upon recognizing high-energy hazards and providing capacity to mitigate and prevent possible
incidents on a worksite.
To help drive positive change, CenterPoint Energy has worked with other peer utilities to collaborate on
effective methods that result in improved safety performance. We have engaged with the Edison Electric
Institute to identify ways to reduce serious injuries and fatalities with the goal of addressing the challenge
for the industry as a whole.
Through our READY implementation process, we introduced employee champions and learning teams
to help shape the program and increase its adoption and effectiveness. All employees are required to
complete READY computer-based training.
The READY model is driving a change to see safety differently, and we are confident that it will become
how we do business, create a culture of learning and encourage more employee participation.
64
CONTRACTOR SAFETY
In the spirit of continuous improvement, we have been
strengthening our contractor safety program. In 2022,
we introduced the CenterPoint Energy Contractor Safety
Management Lifecycle, which outlines the stages of contractor
engagement from pre-bid to off-boarding. The model
provides expectations for engagement by CenterPoint Energy
stakeholders. Our contractor oversight process includes
required training on safety policies, evaluating contractor
safety performance, reviewing operator qualification training,
conducting onsite program audits and communicating contractor
performance metrics.
Contractors who perform field operations work on behalf of
CenterPoint Energy participate in the annual Contractor Safety
Summit, where leaders discuss how to implement risk-reducing
measures to promote a culture of safety. With the ultimate
goal of improving the overall performance of our workforce,
systems and assets, the annual summit started small with Electric
Operations contractors in 2017. It has grown to include Gas
Operations contractors, along with representatives from a range
of CenterPoint Energy departments that support operations.
Contractors have become more engaged in the event by
presenting on best practices and lessons learned from near
misses and actual incidents.
LEARN MORE
DATA CENTER: SAFETY
LABOR RELATIONS AND UNION SAFETY PROGRAM
65
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
Our internal Procurement Policy aligns with our corporate strategy and
takes a risk-based approach on controls while driving increased value
to the company. Supply Chain maintains a Vendor Risk Management
Program with – among other important criteria, such as safety and
compliance risks – environmental, social and governance (ESG)
evaluation criteria. Our Ethics and Compliance Code of Conduct
for Consultants, Contractors, Suppliers and Vendors explains our
expectations for service providers.
SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE
CenterPoint Energy’s Supply Chain organization oversees our robust
supplier diversity program, which is guided by our internal Procurement
Policy and Supplier Diversity Policy Statement. The Board receives reports
on the company’s supplier diversity program.
2023 SUPPLIER DIVERSITY SPEND PROFILE
$4.69 billion
Total Supply Chain Sourceable Spend:
$644 million
Total Diverse Supplier Spend:
13.7%
Percent Spend with Diverse Suppliers:
CenterPoint Energy recognizes the economic importance of diverse suppliers, such as minority-owned,
women-owned, veteran-owned, HUBZone certified and all categories of small businesses. We strive to
develop strong relationships with diverse suppliers, using innovative approaches to continually enhance
business opportunities through:
• Participation in local, state and national diverse business councils
• Sponsorship of diversity trade shows, networking events and educational workshops for diverse and
prime suppliers
• Sponsorship of scholarships to diverse suppliers through funding to local diversity business councils
and Edison Electric Institute
• Supplier mentoring
• Partnering with prime suppliers to create Tier 2 business opportunities
66
CenterPoint Energy engages with various supplier diversity
advocacy organizations in capacities ranging from board,
committee and organizational memberships, as well as
sponsorships. Some of these organizations include:
• Asian Chamber of Commerce (Houston)
• Disability:IN
• National Veteran-owned Business Association
• Edison Electric Institute Business Diversity Committee
• North Central Minority Supplier Development Council
• Greater Houston Business Procurement Forum
• Southern Region Minority Supplier Development Council
• Greater Houston Hispanic Chamber of Commerce
• Southwest Minority Supplier Development Council
• Great Lakes Women’s Business Council
• Veterans In Business Network
• Houston Minority Supplier Development Council
• Women’s Business Council Ohio River Valley
• Houston Veterans Chamber of Commerce
• Women’s Business Council Southwest
• Indiana Energy Association Supplier Diversity Committee
• Women’s Business Development Center Midwest
• Mid-States Minority Supplier Development Council
• Women’s Business Enterprise Alliance
• National Association of Women Business Owners
• Women’s Business Enterprise National Council
• National Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Commerce
• Women’s Business Enterprise National Council South
• National Minority Supplier Development Council
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
CenterPoint Energy was honored as the Local Corporation of the Year by the Houston Minority Supplier Development
Council (HMSDC) and the Asian Chamber of Commerce Houston for its demonstrated commitment to supporting minority
business enterprise development in the region, partnering with prime suppliers to enhance support for minority business
development, and more.
ADDITIONAL AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
SUPPLY CHAIN
CenterPoint Energy’s Supply Chain organization partners with business units to develop strategic relationships that
provide the best value to the company.
Our collaborative, comprehensive approach supports the goal that supplier agreements are reflections of our core values
and commitment to diversity and inclusion.
We strive to maintain a forward-leaning position focusing on continuous improvement and collaboration to enhance the
performance, resiliency and efficiency of our operations by:
• Implementing an improved digital procurement platform to enhance operations across our sourcing and material
management processes.
• Joining the Sustainable Supply Chain Alliance to engage in sustainability-focused working groups, share best practices
and develop strategies for effective supplier engagements.
• Enhancing the supplier relationship management framework to better facilitate supplier partnerships; engaging with key
suppliers as needed to address supply allocations to meet surging demand.
• Retooling the risk assessment process to strengthen our overall vendor risk assessment protocols.
LEARN MORE
DATA CENTER: SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE CODE OF CONDUCT FOR CONSULTANTS, CONTRACTORS, SUPPLIERS AND VENDORS
67
ENERGY TRANSITION GOALS
CenterPoint Energy is the first combined
electric and natural gas utility with generation
to announce its Net Zero goals for its Scope 1
and certain Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions
(GHG) by 2035, nearly 15 years ahead of certain
of our peers’ average goals.
Our Net Zero by 2035 goal is a company-wide
goal across our electric, natural gas and power
generation businesses for both Scope 1 and
certain Scope 2 emissions.
In addition to our Net Zero goals, CenterPoint
Energy strives to be a leader in enabling our
customers to transition to a cleaner energy future.
We have set a Scope 3 emission reduction goal
across our entire multi-state footprint. Specifically,
CenterPoint Energy aims to help our residential
and commercial customers reduce GHG
emissions attributable to their end use of natural
gas by 20-30% by 2035 from a 2021 baseline. The
total emission reductions for this Scope 3 goal are
PROJECTED GHG REDUCTIONS
comparable to the total emission reductions for
both our Scope 1 and certain Scope 2 Net Zero
2026 2027 2035
goals.
To achieve our Net Zero and Scope 3 goals, Complete exit
60% reduction of operating coal
CenterPoint Energy will take the following steps: Net Zero**
in emissions* generation by
• Offer customers affordable conservation and year-end
energy efficiency programs,
*With the retirement of Brown Units 1 and 2 and Culley Unit 2,
• Continue to develop alternative fuel programs,
and exiting operations at Warrick unit 4, we expect to see a
• Collaborate with our suppliers to help lower 60% reduction in emissions of carbon, sulfur dioxide, particulate
matter and mercury attributed to our generation fleet.
their methane emissions, and
**Emissions are projections based on our strategy to reach Net
• Pilot and support innovation. Zero by 2035 from a 2005 baseline and are subject to change.
68
CARBON EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS
Guided by our carbon policy and long-term electric generation transition plan, we intend to achieve our Net Zero goals
through measurable emission reductions as we work to significantly reduce carbon emissions attributable to our assets.
Our Indiana-based electric business recently announced an Integrated Resource Plan (IRP) preferred portfolio to further
invest in renewable generation and end its use of Indiana coal by the end of 2027.
Modeling conducted within the IRP analysis points CenterPoint Energy
toward the following goals: Progress on our Net Zero
goals and carbon emissions
• In 2023, retired A.B. Brown 1 and 2 coal units and exited joint operations in
reductions goals will advance
Warrick 4 unit
as we continue to work to
• In 2025, retire Culley 2 coal unit significantly reduce carbon
emissions attributable to
• By the end of 2027, convert F.B. Culley 3, the last coal unit operated by
our assets. In 2026, with the
CenterPoint Energy, to natural gas, maintaining its 270 MW capacity
retirement of Brown Units 1 and
º Preserving the 270 MW of dispatchable generation is expected to maintain 2 and Culley Unit 2, and exiting
operations at Warrick unit 4, we
reliability during long duration summer and winter weather events
expect to see a 60% reduction
• By 2030, add 200 MW of wind and 200 MW of solar, with the potential need in emissions of carbon, sulfur
for an additional 400 MW of wind resources by 2032 dioxide, particulate matter
and mercury attributed to our
generation fleet.
2023 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS
Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG Emissions 2023 GHG Emissions by Scope and Source
(million metric tons of CO₂ equivalent)
Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3
17.97% 0.16% 81.86%
90.59% 58.52% 100%
ELECTRIC FACILITY NATURAL GAS
GENERATION1 ELECTRICITY USE SUPPLIED TO END
USE CUSTOMERS5
8.10% 41.48%
NATURAL GAS POWER LINE
OPERATIONS2 LOSSES4
0.61%
FLEET VEHICLES
0.69%
SF6 EMISSIONS3
1. Electric Generation as reported under Subpart D of the mandatory Greenhouse Gas
SEE DETAILED EMISSIONS DATA CARBON POLICY Reporting Program (GHGRP) as required by the US EPA. Scope 1 GHG emissions from
Electric Utility Power Generation are third-party verified and registered with the EPA
Clean Air Markets Division.
2. Natural Gas Local Distribution Company (LDC) operations Subpart W GHG emissions
are determined using emissions factors and calculations as required by the EPA’s rule
for the mandatory GHGRP.
3. Electric Transmission Substation and Distribution equipment GHG emissions in the
form of SF6 are determined using emissions factors and calculations as required and
reported under Subpart DD of the EPA’s rule for the mandatory GHGRP.
4. Does not include line loss attributable to CenterPoint Energy’s Houston electric
transmission and distribution assets because CenterPoint Energy does not own the
electricity in Texas and only transports electricity owned by others. This aligns with
Edison Electric Institute guidance on reporting guidelines.
5. Subpart NN indirect emissions are GHG emissions reported to the US EPA based on
the amount of natural gas supplied to all end-use customers.
69
CLIMATE MODELING FOR MITIGATING SF6 EMISSIONS PARTICIPATING IN THE
2° AND 1.5° SCENARIOS METHANE CHALLENGE
Sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), a GHG, is an insulating
gas used in high-voltage electric transmission and
To support our strategy, our Net Zero goals The EPA Natural Gas STAR Program provides a
distribution switchgear equipment. Since 1999,
for Scope 1 and certain Scope 2 emissions by framework for partner companies with U.S. oil
CenterPoint Energy’s electric operations business
2035 are aligned with the Paris Agreement. The and natural gas operations to implement methane
has been actively involved in SF6 emission
actions we are taking today as part of our electric reducing technologies and practices, as well as
programs with the U.S. Environmental Protection
generation transition plan support the long-term to document their voluntary emission reduction
Agency (EPA).
target set by the Paris Agreement to limit global activities. CenterPoint Energy joined the program
temperature increases to 2° Celsius by 2100. As in 1997 and submits its reports annually.
we implement our Net Zero plan, we intend to
Based on our 2021 performance, we anticipate
continuously assess steps needed to meet the
an approximately 33% reduction in methane
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s
emissions by 2035 resulting from our pipeline
short-term target of limiting global warming to
modernization efforts.
1.5° Celsius.
SCOPE 3 CUSTOMER END-USE GOAL BY 2035
70
CARBON REDUCTION
Progress on our Net Zero goals and carbon emissions
reductions goals will advance as we continue to decarbonize
our assets. To achieve our goals, we will work with partners,
customers, employees and other stakeholders across our
service territory.
GENERATION TRANSITION JUST TRANSITION EV’S & FLEET
To reduce GHG emissions, CenterPoint Energy plans to take
the following steps:
• Enact our long-term electric generation transition plan.
• Invest in research and development projects, infrastructure
modernization and renewables, like solar and wind energy.
• Offer effective and affordable energy conservation and
energy efficiency programs.
• Provide more consumer choices for alternative transportation
fuels and expanding EV infrastructure in Indiana and Texas.
• Work with our natural gas suppliers to take meaningful steps to lower methane emissions across the natural gas
value chain.
• Pilot a green hydrogen production facility in Minneapolis to study the effects of blending hydrogen with our natural
gas system.
• Install carbon capture technology, CarbinX™, developed by CleanO2, with natural gas commercial customers in
Minnesota, including the Radisson Blu Mall of America, part of Choice Hotels International.
• Invest in methane reduction technologies:
 Employ ZEVAC® (Zero Emission Vacuum and Compressor),
an innovative and environmentally responsible technology
that uses compressed air to suction a pipeline segment,
transferring the gas to an adjacent pipeline so it is not
released into the atmosphere.
 Operate the world’s second largest fleet of state-of-the-
art Picarro Surveyor™ leak survey technology, which is far
more sensitive and faster at locating methane leaks than
traditional methods.
71
NATURAL GAS INNOVATION ACT
According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, more
than two-thirds of Minnesota households depend on natural gas
for heating, as do many businesses and industries in the state.
CenterPoint Energy provides natural gas service to more than
920,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers in
Minnesota.
In 2021, Minnesota passed a bipartisan landmark state
energy law, the Natural Gas Innovation Act (NGIA), which was
originally proposed by CenterPoint Energy. The law created a
new regulatory framework for natural gas utilities to invest in
renewable energy resources and innovative technologies that
help reduce Minnesota’s GHG emissions.
CenterPoint Energy’s innovation plan was approved by the
Minnesota Public Utilities Commission in July 2024, allowing
us to implement pilot projects and research efforts that aim to
reduce carbon emissions. We will invest in made-in-Minnesota
low and zero-carbon gases like renewable natural gas and
green hydrogen, as well as emerging technologies such as
networked geothermal systems and onsite carbon capture. Our
plan includes 17 pilot projects to deploy and evaluate a broad
array of innovative resources and technologies aimed at reducing
greenhouse gas emissions. The plan is expected to deliver
significant benefits to Minnesota, including:
• Reduce or avoid an estimated 1.2 million tons of carbon
emissions over the lifetime of the projects
• Create an estimated 3,000 full-time equivalent jobs over the
lifetime of the projects
• Leverage $17 million or more in federal clean energy
incentives and support for Minnesota
LEARN MORE
NATURAL GAS INNOVATION ACT FACT SHEET
MINNESOTA CLEANER ENERGY
MIDWEST CLEANER ENERGY
TEXAS CLEANER ENERGY
72
PGAEGNEE RTAITTLIEON TRANSITION
Positive Environmental Impact • Maintaining Reliable and
Affordable Service • Flexible, Balanced and Diverse Portfolio •
Effective Regulatory and Legislative Partnerships
Our newest Integrated Resource Plan, released in May 2023 and
submitted to the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission, explains
CenterPoint Energy’s complete exit of operating coal-fired
generation by year-end 2027 and investing further into renewable
energy sources backed by natural gas-fired generation.
“Our recommended mix of renewable and
natural gas resources is expected to maintain
the ability to turn on generating resources
during times of greatest demand supporting
reliability and continuing our strategy of
providing cleaner electricity that meets
customers’ future energy needs.”
— Shane Bradford, Vice President, Indiana Electric
Generation is expected to shift from coal to renewables and
gas in the near term with a long-term shift from natural gas to
mostly renewables.
We are progressing on our Indiana energy transition plan that
seeks to provide a balanced, flexible renewable energy mix to
help support a cleaner environment, while responsibly managing
costs for our customers.
We have plans to retire 730 megawatt hours (MWs) of coal-
fired generation in favor of renewables. We expect to have
approximately 1,000 MWs of power generation from sources such
as wind and solar by 2025.
• By 2030, 80% of energy produced is expected to be from wind
and solar resources
• From 2023 to 2030, CO2 emissions are expected to drop by
88% and 97% by the end of the period
73
GENERATION TRANSITION PLAN EXPECTED PLAN GOALS:
• Convert F.B. Culley 3, the last coal unit operated by • Add 200 MW of wind and 200 MW of solar by 2030,
CenterPoint Energy, to natural gas by the end of 2027, with the potential need for an additional 400 MW of
maintaining its 270 MW capacity wind resources by 2032
 Preserving the 270 MW of dispatchable generation is • Two Gas-fired Combustion Turbines at A.B. Brown
expected to maintain reliability during long duration
summer and winter weather events
The construction of two natural gas generation turbines and the retirement of our smaller, inefficient coal units will continue
to reduce our emissions and maintain our focus on the environment while providing our customers a cost-effective option
for delivering energy.
74
GENERATION TRANSITION EXPECTED PLAN BENEFITS:
• Supports reliability, preserving 270 MW of capacity • Expected to reduce carbon emissions from our
electric generation fleet by more than 95% over the
• Expected to save customers nearly $80 million in the next 20 years
aggregate compared to the continued use of coal at F.B.
Culley 3 • Expected to reduce future customer cost risk by
preserving interconnection at Culley 3
 Savings reflect low upfront capital costs, reduced
Operations and Maintenance, and reduced fuel costs • Preserves tax base in Warrick County
result in savings for customers when compared to
continuing to run on coal.
Generation transition plan involves forward-looking statements and risk and uncertainties. For more information, see Cautionary Statement
and the risk factors included in our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly report on Form 10-Q and in other reports we filed with SEC.
LEARN MORE
75
JUST TRANSITION
“By investing in new projects that lead to good-
As we advance our plan to retire our coal-fired power plants and
paying, greener jobs, CenterPoint Energy is
transition our generation fleet to renewable resources in the
helping to support local communities, while
coming years, new opportunities for affected workers will emerge.
showing how energy companies can be a partner
Existing skills will be in demand in new places, while new skills will
in building America’s energy transition.”
be in demand company-wide. Employees will be provided with
– Angila Retherford, Vice President of Environmental and opportunities and the training needed to perform new jobs safely.
Corporate Sustainability
Based on customer growth Infrastructure resiliency will require A cleaner energy future will require
projections, economic development workers who can: workers who can:
will require workers who can:
• Harden our transmission, • Construct, operate and maintain
• Extend our overhead transmission substations and distribution renewable energy generation
lines grids, as well as modernize our facilities and renewable natural
infrastructure gas and hydrogen facilities
• Upgrade our transmission
capacity, distribution lines and • Implement new distribution grid
substations resiliency and reliability design
criteria
• Construct new substations
• Expand intelligent grid and smart
• Install miles of new overhead
metering technologies for faster
distribution lines and new
outage resolution
underground distribution lines
• Advance digital solutions for
operational resiliency
Workforce development CenterPoint Energy is developing new training centers and training opportunities
initiatives will help to enhance employees’ development. We are partnering with the Center for
Energy Workforce Development, a nonprofit consortium of energy companies,
to prepare Houston’s
contractors, associations – including the Edison Electric Institute and the American
workforce to respond to the
Gas Association, unions, educators and business partners – to train and reposition
energy needs of the future.
workers displaced by the closing of coal-fired power plants.
76
Serving the Evolving As CenterPoint Energy transitions from fossil-based systems of energy production
to cleaner sources like wind and solar, we must also respond to the changing
Needs of Our Customers
needs of our customers and communities, especially those where this transition is
and Communities
felt the most.
We have a dedicated capital improvement budget for modernizing our operations
and a digital transformation that will bring improved customer experiences. The
expansion of electric vehicle infrastructure, redevelopment of potentially stranded
assets and attraction of diverse economic investment require partnerships
at all levels. Partnerships include all levels of government, advocacy groups,
philanthropic foundations and the private sector to quickly maximize their positive
environmental, social and economic impacts.
We seek to minimize negative local social and economic impacts, and we will
continue to financially support our core giving areas that serve our communities’
needs.
Our customers and communities will see safety investments:
• Smart metering enables us to automate shutoffs in certain circumstances to
enhance the safety of our customers and communities.
• Microgrid solutions will support emergency operations.
Our customers and communities will be served with cleaner energy:
• Smart metering enables us to reduce the number of times our vehicles need to
mobilize, which helps reduce vehicular emissions.
• Renewable energy generation sources emit fewer air pollutants where they are
located.
• EVs are less expensive to fuel and maintain than gas-powered vehicles and
their use avoids air pollution from tailpipe emissions.
• Accelerated leak detection and repairs help reduce fugitive emissions of
methane.
• Transitioning to a cleaner energy future creates infrastructure growth
opportunities.
• Renewable Natural Gas feed-in tariffs in Indiana, Minnesota and Texas create
new revenue streams for existing businesses and tax levies for government.
The retirement of our smaller, inefficient coal-fired power generation units and the addition of the natural gas
combustion turbines will continue to reduce our operational carbon emissions and maintain our progress
toward a cleaner energy future, providing our customers an affordable option for delivering energy.
LEARN MORE
GENERATION TRANSITION
77
PEAVGS E& TFILTELEET
CENTERPOINT ENERGY’S FLEET
Our corporate
ELECTRIFICATION GOALS fleet goals include
electrifying 100%
As part of our plan to achieve Net Zero by 2035, CenterPoint Energy has begun to
of sedans and
transition our vehicles to EVs through our fleet electrification program. Some EV
SUVs by 2030.
benefits include the reduced operating cost for fuel and vehicle maintenance.
CenterPoint Energy has been actively promoting off-road electrification, including electric
forklifts and carts. When approached about field testing the first-ever fully-electric bucket
truck, we saw a great opportunity to provide valuable feedback that can help all of our
industry peers as we move toward a cleaner energy future.
ELECTRIC VEHICLES IN HOUSTON
CenterPoint Energy co-founded Evolve Houston in 2019
to help enable electric transportation solutions. Evolve
Houston is a coalition of sustainability-minded civic, business
and academic leaders who seek to accelerate cleaner
transportation through electrification.
CLEAN AIR TECHNOLOGIES (CAT) EV-POINT EMOBILITY
PROGRAM
With more than 200 members, EV- eMobility was formed to improve the
The Clean Air Technologies (CAT) Program Point is a fast growing, employee-led economic vitality and air quality in
focuses on promoting the electrification of affinity group designed to accelerate our communities by amplifying the
various technologies in the greater Houston electric vehicle deployment among adoption of EVs. eMobility support will
area. The program supported the initial CenterPoint Energy employees. enable customer fleet electrification,
deployments of EV fast charging networks EV-Point’s mission is to provide a while helping customers meet carbon
provided by several private companies. mutually supportive and positive reduction goals and lower operations
CenterPoint Energy maintains our place as environment in which members can and maintenance fleet costs in the
a leader in the local business community learn about EVs, network with fellow long term. eMobility is supporting
by expanding the CAT Program’s efforts EV enthusiasts and gain professional METRO’s electrification of 20 public
to include promoting Electric Transport development through EV-Point transportation buses, helping to reach
Refrigeration Units and continuing research in awareness and leadership programs. their goal of transitioning their entire
the electrification of light-duty passenger and public transit fleet to zero-emission
medium-heavy duty fleet vehicles. vehicles by 2030.
78
CARBON REDUCTION TECHNOLOGIES
CenterPoint Energy is leveraging innovative technology in an effort to reduce
emissions and lower the carbon intensity of the energy we deliver to our customers.
NATURAL GAS INNOVATION ACT
In June 2023, CenterPoint Energy proposed the first five-year innovation plan under
Minnesota’s Natural Gas Innovation Act (NGIA) – a landmark state energy law passed
in 2021. NGIA creates a new regulatory framework for natural gas utilities to invest
in renewable energy resources and innovative technologies that aim to reduce
the state’s greenhouse gas emissions. Our innovation plan was approved by the
Minnesota Public Utilities Commission in July 2024.
Under NGIA, at least 50% of an innovation plan’s total investments must be dedicated to procurement or
distribution of certain alternative gases. CenterPoint Energy plans to invest in low-carbon and zero-carbon
energy resources that can supplement or replace conventional natural gas, including RNG and green
hydrogen, and emerging technologies such as networked geothermal systems and onsite carbon capture.
TAPPING MINNESOTA-MADE RNG
RNG is produced by capturing and recycling organic waste materials from farms, Benefits of RNG:
food waste, wastewater treatment facilities and other sources to produce pipeline-
• Reduces greenhouse gas
quality gas. We would purchase RNG for our gas supply, reducing lifecycle
emissions
greenhouse gas emissions attributed to the energy used by customers. Our
• Diversifies energy sources
proposal includes obtaining RNG through requests for proposals, as well as from a
planned Hennepin County organics recycling facility in Brooklyn Park and a similar • Supports rural economic
planned facility for the Ramsey/Washington County organics recycling program. development
We secured regulatory approval in 2020 to begin accepting RNG into our system • Improves waste management
from Minnesota suppliers, with plans to seek additional regulatory approval for a
green tariff program to give our customers the option to purchase RNG for their
own gas supply.
79
PILOTING A GREEN HYDROGEN PROJECT
CenterPoint Energy is proud to be one of the first natural
gas utilities in the United States to produce and add green
hydrogen to its distribution system. In 2022, we launched a
green hydrogen pilot project in Minneapolis, using renewable
electricity to safely split hydrogen from water and then blend the
hydrogen at low concentrations with natural gas. Because there
are essentially no carbon emissions from either its production or
end-use, green hydrogen has the potential to be an important
zero-carbon supplement to conventional natural gas.
Our NGIA plan proposes a second green hydrogen facility,
powered by a dedicated solar array, on CenterPoint Energy
property in the Mankato area.
OFFERING CARBON CAPTURE SOLUTIONS
CenterPoint Energy and Radisson Blu Mall of America, part of Choice
Hotels International, recently announced the groundbreaking installation
of a carbon capture technology unit, CarbinX™, developed by CleanO2
to capture GHG emissions from heating equipment. We are deploying
the CarbinX technology in a pilot program with 10 of our commercial
customers in Minnesota.
Additional CarbinX installations are being proposed as part of our first
five-year innovation plan under the NGIA.
CleanO2’s CarbinX™ device
80
PRAEGNEE WTIATBLELES
CenterPoint Energy has a plan for reliable, reasonably priced and well-balanced
energy mix for southwestern Indiana.
Renewables represent the next component of our Smart Energy Future Plan in
Indiana through our long-term generation portfolio transition plan.
Our generation transition plan shifts generation from coal to renewables and natural
gas in the near term with a long-term shift from natural gas to mostly renewables.
Currently, 85% of electricity generated for southwest Indiana customers comes from
coal. By 2030, we expect that more than 80% of CenterPoint Energy’s electricity will be
generated by solar and wind, with the remainder provided by natural gas.
2023 TO 2030 ENERGY PRODUCTION
81
PAGE TITLE
DIRECT RENEWABLE INVESTMENTS SUPPORTING RENEWABLE INVESTMENTS
Expanding Our Renewable Portfolio in Indiana Connecting Renewable Generation in the Houston area
• Support our Net Zero transition • Planned $750 million of investments over 10 years
• Work toward conversion of F.B. Culley 3, the last coal • 10 utility-scale solar projects are under development
unit operated by CenterPoint Energy, to natural gas by
• Evaluating incremental renewable and storage projects
the end of 2027
in 2023
• Expect to add 200 MW of wind and 200 MW of solar by
2030, with the potential need for an additional 400 MW
of wind resources by 2032
Piloting Green Hydrogen as a Zero-Carbon Energy Resource for
Use in Our Local Gas Distribution Systems
We are proud to be one of the first natural gas utilities in the United
States to produce and add green hydrogen to its distribution system.
In 2022, we launched a green hydrogen pilot project in Minnesota,
using renewable electricity to safely split hydrogen from water and
then blend the hydrogen at low concentrations with natural gas.
Because there are essentially no carbon emissions from either its
production or end-use, green hydrogen has the potential to be an
important zero-carbon supplement to conventional natural gas.
82
PHAEGLPEI NTIGT LCEUSTOMERS ACHIEVE NET ZERO
HELPING CUSTOMERS ACHIEVE THEIR NET ZERO GOALS
CenterPoint Energy strives to be a company that provides comprehensive energy
solutions for customers, drives internal business efficiencies, and captures growth
opportunities across residential, commercial and industrial classes.
We are also taking a leadership role in assisting our customers in transitioning to a lower
carbon future by offering effective and affordable conservation and energy efficiency
programs. We are working closely with stakeholders across our service territories
in support of their communities’ climate action goals. This will include increasing
consumers’ choices in alternative transportation fuels, such as compressed natural gas,
and expanding EV charging infrastructure.
We are supporting our communities’ climate action goals:
• We sponsor the Houston Climate Action Plan, a • Since 2014, we have partnered with the Minneapolis
science-based, community-driven strategy for the Clean Energy Partnership, working with the City of
City of Houston to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) Minneapolis and Xcel Energy to help the city reach its
emissions, meet the Paris Agreement goal of carbon climate action and cleaner energy goals.
neutrality by 2050 and lead a global energy transition.
• We are collaborating with the City of Evansville, Indiana,
• We helped fund the Houston Advanced Research on the creation and implementation of its Climate
Center, a research hub providing independent analysis Action Plan. By 2050, Evansville plans to be a regional
on energy, air and water issues to people seeking leader in equitably addressing climate change and a
scientific answers, as well as C40 Cities, a climate zero-waste community powered by renewable energy.
leadership group.
We have co-founded active cleaner energy and innovation partnerships, including:
• Evolve Houston, a nonprofit organization dedicated to improving air
quality and reducing GHG emissions through electrified transportation
in support of the Houston Climate Action Plan’s goal to become carbon
neutral by 2050.
• Greentown Labs Houston, an energy technology incubator to support
economic development and secure Houston’s position as a global
center for energy innovation, entrepreneurship and collaboration.
83
PAGE TITLE
In support of Houston METRO’s 2030 Net Zero goal for bus procurement, CenterPoint Energy is
developing a targeted 10-year infrastructure master plan focused on growth in demand and ensuring
resiliency.
Many of CenterPoint Energy’s Houston customers rely on METRO, one of the largest public transportation
systems in the country, that has served the Greater Houston Area since 1978. The City of Houston is
planning to electrify part of its METRO bus fleet with CenterPoint Energy leading infrastructure readiness
for the initiative. The infrastructure plan will provide targeted investments to enhance resiliency in
anticipation of the additional load on the system due to METRO’s projected fleet growth from 1,250 to
1,500 electrified buses. METRO’s bus electrification program will begin with 20 buses.
LEARN MORE
LARGE CUSTOMERS
OUR CUSTOMERS
84
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
2023 ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year –
Sustained Excellence Award
CenterPoint Energy provides our customers with greater choice and
control over their energy consumption.
We are encouraging innovative products and services that give
customers greater insights into how they use energy and promoting
the implementation of energy efficiency measures.
Our energy efficiency programs benefit and incentivize customers
across all rate classes, including commercial, residential and low-
income sites. The programs target builders, developers, cities, ENERGY STAR honored CenterPoint Energy’s long-term
commercial and industrial facilities, homeowners, renters and schools. dedication to energy efficiency and a greener future for the
18th consecutive year.
2023 INVESTMENTS IN ENERGY EFFICIENCY INCENTIVES: $64,414,899
We offer 20+ electric energy efficiency programs and services for business and residential customers.
Some of our programs include:
• The Schools Conserving Resources (SCORE) • The Healthcare Energy Efficiency
Program provides financial incentives, Program is offered at no cost and
technical assistance, engineering analysis and provides technical support and cash
performance benchmarking for qualified projects incentives to commercial healthcare
to schools, universities, municipalities, faith- facilities, including hospitals, clinics,
based organizations, nonprofits, and county assisted living and nursing care,
and select state agencies. Eligible participants medical laboratories and medical
can receive free technical assistance, including office buildings.
energy-use benchmarks and an energy master
plan to help manage energy costs.
Since joining the High Efficiency Homes
• High Efficiency Homes promotes the construction
program in 2001, we have:
and certification of high efficiency homes that
achieve the ENERGY STAR label, as well as other • Incentivized the construction of more than
high-performance homes. This voluntary program 3,000 ENERGY STAR-certified homes
provides financial incentives and other assistance annually, for a total exceeding 74,000 homes
to home builders who commit to construct energy-
• Saved more than 504,000 megawatt hours of
efficient homes in our electric service territory.
energy
85
Energize Evansville community block party highlights
energy efficiency and assistance for local residents:
CenterPoint Energy joined local community organizations
and agencies to sponsor the Energize Evansville block
party. Our energy efficiency department spearheaded
this event to raise awareness about energy efficiency
programs and energy assistance opportunities as the
winter heating season approached. Local residents could
sign up to receive a free home energy assessment.
CONSERVATION IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
Rebates from our Conservation Improvement Program (CIP) encourage residential and business natural
gas customers in Indiana, Minnesota, Mississippi and Ohio to choose energy efficient equipment and our
energy-saving programs.
Supporting our communities while helping our customers save money and maximize efficiency:
• CenterPoint Energy and Radisson Blu Mall of • The CenterPoint Energy Foundation provided a
America, part of Choice Hotels International, $250,000 grant to SBP to fund an Opportunity
recently announced the groundbreaking Housing Project. SBP will develop a 7-unit
installation of a carbon capture technology unit, affordable rental project in Houston that will be
CarbinX™, developed by CleanO2. This marks built to Energy STAR® standards and incorporate
the first hotel in the world to use this innovative storm-resilient measures.
system that captures GHG emissions from
heating equipment. • CenterPoint Energy presented Katy Independent
School District in Texas with energy incentive
grants totaling more than $294,000. The school
district participated in three of our energy
efficiency programs: Commercial High Energy
Efficiency Foodservice (CHEF), Commercial Load
Management (CLM) and Schools and Non-Profit
Efficiency (SCORE).
LEARN MORE
DATA CENTER: ENERGY EFFICIENCY
86
PEANGERE GTYIT ALECCESS & AFFORDABILITY
We remain focused on keeping customer bills affordable with continued discipline on our operating and maintenance
expenses. We have opportunities across our system that we expect will result in an annual average 1-2% of operations
and maintenance savings over the course of our 10-year plan. Our continued execution of our generation transition plan
is helping avoid potential significant customer bill increases related to coal generation.
As CenterPoint Energy transitions from fossil-based systems of energy production to cleaner sources like wind and solar,
we must also respond to the changing needs of our customers and communities, especially those where this transition is
felt the most. Our Indiana generation transition plan will meet growing demand to provide cleaner energy for our service
territories while maintaining reliability and affordability for our customers.
In Texas, the legislature has enacted a number of laws that enhance and support grid resiliency.
HOME REPAIR PROGRAM HIGHLIGHTS:
• 60 of the 287 homes located in Houston’s Home Repair Program designated
region have received weatherization and home repair services.
• In 2022, 336 homes were weatherized, producing 264 kilowatts (kW) and
348,178 kWh in demand and energy savings.
The Weatherization Program provides free energy audits for income-qualified
residents to assess the energy-saving needs of single-family homes in CenterPoint
Energy’s Houston Electric service area. The energy audit qualifies customers for
energy efficiency upgrades, such as air infiltration, HVAC tune-ups or upgrades, and
ceiling or wall insulation.
ENERGY ASSISTANCE
Customers who are receiving energy assistance through the federal Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program
(LIHEAP) may be eligible to receive additional funds through the Gas Affordability Program, offered by CenterPoint Energy
in partnership with the Energy CENTS Coalition.
ustomers who have difficulty paying their CenterPoint Energy bill can request a payment plan or extension by calling
713-659-2111 or visiting CenterPointEnergy.com/PaymentAssistance.
87
ELECTRIC GRID RESILIENCY
CenterPoint Energy continues to focus on the safety, reliability
and resiliency of our systems as we serve residential and
business customers across our service territory.
Serving approximately 2.9 million homes and businesses in
the greater Houston area and southwestern Indiana, and with
approximately 700 megawatts (MWs) of electric generation
capacity in Indiana, our Electric Business expects strong
growth opportunities ahead.
The current 10-year capital plan for our Electric Business
includes nearly $27 billion in customer-driven investments
to grow, modernize and harden our existing infrastructure to
support a more reliable and resilient energy delivery system.
Areas of focus for our strategic capital investments include:
• Enhance our transmission and distribution systems through
modernization to further support safety, reliability and resiliency,
• Deploy advanced meter upgrades and expanding the intelligent grid
to help reinforce reliability and reduce the duration of unexpected
outages when they occur,
• Expand electric assets to support expected annual customer growth of
2% or more,
• Execute on new tools enabled by legislation, and
• Move forward with our Net Zero transition and preparing for
accelerated electric vehicle adoption.
We continue to progress on our energy transition plan that seeks to
provide a balanced and flexible renewable energy mix while responsibly
managing costs for our customers. In Indiana, we plan to retire 730 MWs
of coal-fired generation in favor of renewables, and we expect to have
approximately 1,000 MWs of power generation from sources such as wind
and solar by 2025.
As we continue to invest our system, we will enable the expansion of
electric transportation and electric vehicle infrastructure, support additional
renewable power to aid load growth, and adopt newer decarbonization
energy technologies that have the added benefit of creating economic
growth opportunities.
88
ELECTRIC GRID HIGHLIGHTS
Hardening of the Transmission, Substation and Distribution Grid to Improve Reliability and Resiliency of Our System
• Upgrading Transmission and • Creating a smarter grid system to • Leading advancements in digital
Distribution system for extreme improve reliability solutions for operational resiliency
weather conditions
• Expanding intelligent grid and • Executing on new tools enabled
• Modernization, hardening and upgrading advanced meter by legislation
upgrading our system technology systems
• New distribution grid resiliency and
reliability design criteria
HOUSTON ELECTRIC INDIANA ELECTRIC
• Serves approximately 2.8 million • Serves approximately 150,000
electric metered customers electric metered customers
• Owns and operates approximately • Owns and operates more than 1,000
4,000 miles of transmission lines miles of transmission lines
• Owns and operates more than • Owns and operates more than 7,000
56,000 miles of distribution lines miles of distribution lines
• Has generation capacity of
approximately 700 MW
LEARN MORE
DATA CENTER: SUSTAINABLE INFRASTRUCTURE
89
REDUCING METHANE EMISSIONS
CenterPoint Energy is focused on responsibly reducing methane
emissions related to our natural gas operations to help achieve
our Scope 1 Net Zero goal.
We are also working to help our residential and commercial
customers reduce emissions attributable to their use of natural
gas as part of our goal to achieve a 20-30% reduction in Scope
3 end-use emissions by 2035. Our approach aligns with the U.S.
commitments made at the 26th UN Climate Change Conference
of the Parties in Glasgow to reduce global methane emissions by
30% by 2030.
Investments for Future State: 2030
• System modernization and improvement In our Natural Gas Business, the 4.3+ million homes and businesses
we serve across our six-state service territory continue to choose
• Legacy steel and plastic pipe replacement
natural gas as a preferred source of energy, we remain dedicated to
• Mains for new growth and new customers our capital investment strategy for safety, reliability and growth. Our
• Smart metering technology current capital investment plan of $16 billion is expected to largely
support pipeline modernization, smart metering technology, growth,
• Peak shaving and renewable supply
and customer additions.
MODERNIZING OUR PIPELINE
We are continuing to upgrade pipelines across our service
territory, further reducing methane emissions and enhancing
safety. We are actively working to eliminate the last remaining
known cast-iron pipe, which is in our Indiana and Ohio system,
by 2025.
Overall, we anticipate reducing methane emissions by
approximately 33% by 2035 as a result of our modernization
efforts and methane-reduction technologies.
90
NATURAL GAS HIGHLIGHTS
• We operate one of the world’s largest fleets of Picarro • Our five-year plan under Minnesota’s Natural Gas
Surveyor advanced natural gas leak survey detection. Innovation Act was approved in July 2024. Our plan
includes projects to promote made-in-Minnesota low
• We employ ZEVAC® (Zero Emission Vacuum and
and zero-carbon gases like renewable natural gas and
Compressor), an innovative and environmentally
green hydrogen, as well as emerging technologies such
responsible technology that uses compressed air
as networked geothermal systems and onsite carbon
to suction a pipeline segment, transferring the gas
capture.
to an adjacent pipeline so it is not released into the
atmosphere. • In our Natural Gas business, we plan to electrify one-
third of our fleet by 2030.
• We are one of the first natural gas utilities in the United
States to produce and add green hydrogen to our • RNG feed-in tariff projects are under review in Indiana,
distribution system. In 2022, we launched a green Minnesota and Texas.
hydrogen pilot project in Minnesota, using renewable
electricity to safely split hydrogen from water and then
blend the hydrogen at low concentrations with natural
gas. With essentially no carbon emissions from either
its production or end use, green hydrogen has the
potential to be an important zero-carbon supplement to
conventional natural gas.
ADVANCED METERING SYSTEM
We were the first utility in the nation to deploy state-of-the-art Intelis meter safety features and efficiencies:
Intelis residential natural gas meters for customer billing nearly
• Meter reading capability from centralized locations
two years ago. Since then, we have installed more than 600,000
meters across our footprint. We expect to install more than 4 • Remote shutoffs for enhanced safety
million meters by 2032. The new meters improve natural gas
• Alerts to Customer Service for valve shutoffs and
usage measurement accuracy for our customers and feature a
potential meter tampering
safety shutoff valve that automatically activates if natural gas flow
or high temperatures exceed certain thresholds.
LEARN MORE
DATA CENTER: SUSTAINABLE INFRASTRUCTURE
91
ENVIRONMENT
Guided by CenterPoint Energy’s Environmental Policy, which is approved by our
Executive Vice President and General Counsel, environmental stewardship and
biodiversity are integral parts of our overall corporate sustainability approach.
We have a long history of conducting our businesses in a safe, reliable and
environmentally responsible manner.
Our primary environmental focus areas include compliance; air quality; emissions
reductions, environmental and sustainability activities and risks, including risks
related to climate change; biodiversity, land use and preservation; waste and
recycling; and water management.
OVERSIGHT
CenterPoint Energy’s Vice President of Environmental and Corporate Sustainability, who reports directly to the Executive
Vice President and General Counsel, has responsibility for oversight of environmental matters, as well as assessing the
company’s sustainability strategy and initiatives.
The Governance, Environmental and Sustainability Committee of our Board of Directors, the full Board or both receive
periodic reports from representatives from the ESG Council about the company’s environmental and sustainability activities
and risks, including risks related to climate change.
NET ZERO BY 2035
By 2035, our Scope 1 and certain Scope 2 Net Zero goal is for our operations to
remove or eliminate more carbon-related emissions from the environment than
we produce.
We have established the following goals to seek to:
• Achieve Net Zero Scope 1 and certain Scope 2 carbon emissions directly
attributable to our operations and facilities by 2035 as part of our ESG
NET ZERO EMISSIONS
strategy and in alignment with the Paris Agreement
BY 2035
• Achieve a corporate Scope 3 goal of a net reduction of 20-30% in carbon
emissions attributed to residential and commercial customer end-use from
2021 levels by 2035
LEARN MORE In support of these goals, we plan to:
• Offer customers affordable conservation and energy efficiency programs
OUR NET ZERO GOALS
• Continue developing alternative fuels programs, such as renewable natural
CARBON POLICY
gas, to provide customers with new energy choices
• Pilot and support research and development of new, innovative low-carbon
technologies, including carbon capture
92
IMPROVING LOCAL AIR QUALITY
Nitrogen oxide (NOx), sulfur dioxide (SO2), mercury
(Hg) and particulate matter (PM) are produced as a
result of burning coal to produce electricity. These
emissions, if not controlled, can negatively impact
local air quality. Since 2001, CenterPoint Energy has
invested more than $500 million in emissions control
equipment to capture these pollutants and directly
improve local air quality.
LEARN MORE
BIODIVERSITY AND LAND USE
Guided by our Corporate Biodiversity Policy, CenterPoint
Energy’s biodiversity, conservation and land use initiatives
include habitat restoration projects, endangered species
conservation activities, and native wildlife rescue and release
efforts. We work diligently with stakeholders in the conservation
community and the public to preserve natural habitat through
charitable contributions and volunteerism.
LEARN MORE
93
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
CenterPoint Energy responds to changing environmental regulations for our facilities and operations.
While annual air emissions are dependent on meeting customer demand for electricity and weather, the retirement of our
coal-fired Brown Units 1 and 2 and our exit of ownership in Warrick Unit 4 in 2023 – as well as the planned retirement of
Culley Unit 2 by year-end 2025 – is expected to result in reductions of 60% in emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO2), mercury
(Hg) and other hazardous air emissions; particulate matter and carbon dioxide; and a 40% reduction in emissions of
nitrogen oxide (NOx).
AIR QUALITY HIGHLIGHTS
SCRUBBED FOR EMISSIONS CAPTURING PARTICULATE MATTER
Our coal-fired electric generation fleet is: All coal-fired units in our system are equipped with an
electrostatic precipitator or a fabric filter that can remove
particulate matter at an average of
100% 80-85% REDUCING
• > 99% efficiency at A.B. Brown
MERCURY
scrubbed for controlled for emissions to • > 97% efficiency at F.B. Culley
SULFUR NITROGEN
meet reduction
DIOXIDE OXIDE requirements CONTROLLING MERCURY AND SULFUR TRIOXIDE
Enhancements to our system to comply with the Mercury
and Air Toxics Standards began in 2014 with a focus on
*Culley 3 units use a selective catalytic reduction system;
reducing sulfur trioxide and mercury emissions, as well as
Culley Unit 2 has low-NOx burners.
mercury reductions in wastewater.
RESPONSIBLY MANAGING WATER
CenterPoint Energy recognizes water-related issues are a growing global concern. We strive to use water responsibly and
minimize impact on local water supplies.
We use industry best practices to conserve and manage water supplies. We also continuously evaluate and monitor our
systems and processes so the water we return to local waterways is safe and meets the discharge limits contained in our
Clean Water Act permits.
LEARN MORE
94
REDUCING WASTE
CenterPoint Energy’s waste is derived primarily from the maintenance and replacement of electric transmission and
distribution, natural gas infrastructure and our offices. We manage all operational controls, policies and procedures as part
of our compliance procedures.
When wastes are generated, we operate in accordance with applicable regulations on safe handling and proper disposal
and training for our personnel. Hazardous and key nonhazardous waste volumes are tracked and reported through
quarterly key performance indicators.
The Environmental Department developed an Environmental Inspection and Audit Guide that provides guidance on
auditing and approving waste and recycling vendors. Audits on hazardous and non-hazardous special waste and recycling
vendors are conducted prior to entering a contract and at least every three-to-five years thereafter.
LEARN MORE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE INSPECTIONS
An environmental specialist conducts environmental compliance inspections at each of our 13 Houston Electric service
centers at least annually. Each inspection is documented and any concerns identified are resolved in a timely manner. A
specialized waste management contractor monitors each service center’s designated waste storage area for compliance
with storage and shipping requirements and manages the waste in collaboration with an environmental specialist.
In Power Generation, operations and the environmental department perform and document visual inspections, depending
on permit or regulation requirements.
The inspections include checks on:
• Operations that could generate fugitive dust;
• Ash pond dams and landfills for signs of erosion or structural concerns;
• Stormwater channels and material storage areas and containers;
• Erosion control measures; and
• Operating conditions of continuous emissions monitoring system equipment.
In our Natural Gas Operations business, 96 service centers are inspected on a weekly basis. The service centers generate
hazardous waste but mostly in small quantities. With the help of assigned environmental coordinators at each facility,
weekly waste collection and storage area inspections include:
• Visual inspections for closed and correctly labeled drums
• Inspections for leaks or damage
• Checking any new items placed in the waste storage area.
Inspections are documented and submitted to an environmental specialist each quarter. Gas Operations’ goal for
environmental compliance is for each service center to be visited by the local environmental specialist annually.
CenterPoint Energy has dedicated emergency response cleanup contractors that respond to spills from equipment and
other sources and act quickly to remediate a spill.
LEARN MORE
ENERGY TRANSITION GOALS
95
BIODIVERSITY & LAND USE
CenterPoint Energy’s biodiversity, land use, preservation and
We operate in a service territory conservation initiatives include habitat restoration projects,
with a rich diversity of habitats that endangered species conservation activities, and native wildlife
support an abundance of wildlife, rescue and release efforts.
including 300 species of birds. CenterPoint Energy strives to:
• Assess proposed locations for electric transmission facilities and
pipeline routes and identifies sensitive areas, including protected
species and habitats,
• Avoid environmentally or culturally sensitive areas when practical
and when alternative locations or routes are feasible,
• Reduce project footprints and ecological impacts to facilities,
• Mitigate impacts through restoration and careful vegetation
management of pipeline rights-of-way, avoiding active bird nests
during the breeding season,
• Monitor and work collaboratively with regulatory agencies in the
management of affected listed species and ecosystems, and
LEARN MORE
• Partner with federal and state regulatory agencies and nonprofit
PROTECTING & RESTORING HABITATS conservation groups to support biodiversity conservation efforts
beyond our operational footprint.
BIODIVERSITY GRI DISCLOSURES
Construction routing for new natural gas or electric transmission lines is planned to avoid or minimize the disturbance of
environmentally sensitive areas. We focus on recycling and conservation during the planning and design phase of a project
in an effort to limit long-term environment impact.
• Our Electric Operations’ facilities and construction activities typically consist of narrow linear power lines and
substations, along with service centers with relatively small footprints.
• Our Natural Gas Operations business reviews projects during the design phase using an Environmental Review
Worksheet to assess potential impacts to air, water and land. Based on the review, it may be necessary to survey
habitats for the presence or absence of species that are threatened, protected or endangered. In these cases, we
coordinate with state and federal agencies prior to initiating construction.
96
AVIAN PROTECTION PROGRAM AND TRAINING
CenterPoint Energy’s Environmental department maintains a robust
avian protection program, taking great care to prevent harm to birds.
We develop and implement appropriate avian protection management
guidelines, such as conducting avian risk assessments that include
mitigation measures, employing avian-friendly infrastructure design
and upgrades, and providing alternate nesting structures.
Our interdepartmental avian protection team, comprised of managers
and professionals representing businesses and functions across
the company, works to identify and address avian concerns in a
comprehensive, coordinated and effective manner.
Avian training is delivered regularly to management and staff
of relevant departments, including Operations and Vegetation
Management personnel and contractors. In addition to in-person
training, virtual training has been adopted for our electric line
construction contractors.
SUPPORTING ASSOCIATIONS THAT HELP AVIAN HABITATS
• Artist Boat: Financial contributions, education and outreach
• Galveston Bay Estuary Program: Board service
• Galveston Bay Foundation: Board service, financial contributions and volunteerism
• Gulf Coast Bird Observatory: Board service, financial contributions and volunteerism
• Houston Audubon: Financial contributions, education and outreach, and avian monitoring and data collection
• The Nature Conservancy of Texas: Financial contributions for education and habitat conservation
• Texas Parks and Wildlife Foundation: Financial contributions and participation in avian monitoring and data collection
• Wildlife Center of Texas: Financial contributions and collaboration on wildlife rescue and rehabilitation
The Great Texas Birding Classic Hosted by Texas Parks
and Wildlife Department
Each year, CenterPoint Energy sponsors the classic and
employee teams participate in the event. Leadership
from Scenic Galveston, a local coastal conservation
organization, and other agencies serve on CenterPoint
Energy’s team. Winning teams help direct conservation
funds raised through the event.
97
PROTECTING & RESTORING HABITATS
Guided by our Biodiversity Management Policy, CenterPoint Energy engages
in many activities that help protect biodiversity within our service territory.
Our facilities and construction activities are typically contained within narrow
linear overhead power and gas pipeline corridors, minimizing the overall footprint.
We maintain strong relationships with stakeholders impacted by our facilities,
engaging the conservation community, as appropriate, in building and
maintaining company facilities.
Our leadership is involved with a number of conservation organization,
contributing time and guidance to nonprofits and promoting stewardship to local
governments and the public. Our employees also serve on the boards for and
volunteer with many other habitat conservation organizations.
Supporting the Artist Boat Coastal Heritage Preserve
CenterPoint Energy Foundation contributed to restoring and
enhancing an 898-acre conservation area of important coastal island
habitats. Located on West Galveston Island near Houston, the Artist
Boat Coastal Heritage Preserve is owned and operated by Artist
Boat, a nonprofit organization that promotes the awareness and
preservation of coastal margins and the marine environment through
the sciences and arts.
In 2022, CenterPoint Energy Foundation presented a $60,000 grant
to Artist Boat to support:
• Removal of active invasive species, which are non-native or out-of-control plants that can diminish prairie grasses and
native prairie plants
• Mowing the coastal prairie to allow prairie grasses to grow swiftly and unshaded by shrubs and other non-native grasses
• Creating a 70-tree oak mott to provide an important habitat for migratory birds
We also developed a technical advisory committee for the preserve and support a coastal care program in partnership with
Galveston Independent School District. Our Environment Director serves as a member of the Artist Boat’s Board.
Nature Conservancy and The Arbor Day Foundation Grants Reinforce Our Net Zero Goal
In 2021, the CenterPoint Energy Foundation announced a $1 million contribution to two environmental organizations
focused on land and water conservation, environmental education and tree plantings to help build sustainable futures for
communities the company serves. The Nature Conservancy and The Arbor Day Foundation each received a $500,000
grant to support restoration of the Mississippi River and provide environmental education and tree plantings to elementary
school students throughout the company’s service territory.
LEARN MORE
98
BIODIVERSITY GRI DISCLOSURES
GRI: 304-1 – BIODIVERSITY GRI DISCLOSURES
Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value
outside protected areas.
Geographic Area: CenterPoint Energy’s Houston Electric in Texas and Indiana Electric Distribution and Transmission
Delivery service territory. CenterPoint Energy plans to cover the entire company footprint in four years.
Houston Electric Territory Indiana Electric Territor
• Armand Bayou Nature Center • Katie Prairie Preserve • Bluegrass Fish and Wildlife Area
• Brazoria National Wildlife Refuge • San Bernard National Wildlife Refuge • Harmonie State Park
• Brazos Bend State Park • San Jacinto State Park • Hovie Lake Fish and Wildlife Area
• Coastal Heritage Preserve • Sheldon Lake State Park • Twin Swamps Nature Preserve
• Galveston Island State Park • Trinity River National Wildlife Refuge • Wabash Lowlands Wetland
Conservation Area
• Justin Hurst Wildlife Management Area • Virginia Point Preserve
GRI: 304-4 – BIODIVERSITY GRI DISCLOSURES
IUCN Red List species and National Conservation List species with habitats in areas affected by operations:
A total of 24 federally-listed endangered species reside in – or visit seasonally – CenterPoint Energy’s electric service
territories in Texas and Indiana. In these states, only two designated critical habitats are located in our service territory.
During facility construction and maintenance activities, we work closely with U.S. Fish and Wildlife to avoid potential
impacts, where possible, and mitigate impacts if they are impossible to avoid.
• No known IUCN red list species’ habitats in the category of “critically endangered” appear in CenterPoint Energy’s
electric service territory.
• Four known IUCN red list species’ habitats in the category of “endangered” appear in CenterPoint Energy’s electric
service territory.
• Four known IUCN red list species habitats in the category of “vulnerable” appear in CenterPoint Energy’s electric
service territory.
• Five known IUCN red list species with habitats in the category of “near threatened” appear in CenterPoint Energy’s
electric service territory.
• A large number of IUCN “least concern” species exist within CenterPoint Energy’s electric service territory. Notable
among these are bald eagles and brown pelicans, which have been delisted in recent years due to remarkable
recoveries from near-extinction and benefits from CenterPoint Energy’s avian protection efforts.
99
WASTE & RECYCLING
Responsible waste management and recycling are integral parts of our
corporate environmental stewardship strategy.
Guided by our internal Waste Management Policy, CenterPoint Energy works
to reduce waste and prevent pollution.
CenterPoint Energy continues to seek commercial opportunities to recycle
and reuse our waste products wherever possible, and we have a robust
recycling program in place across all of our businesses.
Waste streams diverted from landfills include paper, aluminum, plastic,
cardboard, lamps, electronic waste, scrap metal, oil and wood debris, which
are recycled, reused or donated to local charitable organizations through our
Investment Recovery Services group.
To reduce the amount of hazardous waste generated, we strive to find
suitable nonhazardous alternatives to solvents and other products needed to
conduct our operations.
INDIANA WASTE AND RECYCLING HIGHLIGHTS
• In our power supply business, our generation facilities have recycled nearly 80% of the fly ash generated since 2010 for
use by a cement processing plant as a replacement for virgin materials. Our F.B. Culley plant has recycled nearly 100%
of the synthetic gypsum it has produced since 1996.
• We have been recycling scrubber by-product generated at the F.B. Culley plant for use as synthetic gypsum in wallboard
applications. With the retirement of the Brown 1 and 2 units in 2023, CenterPoint Energy eliminated the scrubber
byproduct that was being landfilled on site.
• Our solid waste reduction strategy is further enhanced by the recently approved recycling of 6 million tons of ponded fly
ash currently contained in a 150-acre surface impoundment at the A.B. Brown plant.
100
Waste 2020 2021 2022 2023
Coal Combustion Products
Coal Combustion Residuals Generated - Metric Tons 437,372* 612,940 482,165 626,375
Percent of Coal Combustion Residuals Recycled 84% 72% 78% 71%
Fly Ash - Metric Tons – 121,463 63,169 110,970
Gypsum - Metric Tons – 237,609 130,160 191,456
Bottom Ash - Metric Tons – 6,792 1,499 36,241
Excavated Ponded Material - Metric Tons – 77,956 181,918 274,919
*2020 Coal Combustion Residuals totals are inclusive of filter cake per revised 2020 EPA regulations
Hazardous Waste
Total Hazardous Waste - Metric Tons 396 85 106 13
Non-Hazardous Waste
Total Non-Hazardous Waste - Metric Tons – 115,088 82,791 131,310
Universal Waste
Total Universal Waste - Metric Tons – 15 22 40
Recycled Scrap Metal Waste
Total Recycled Scrap Metal - Metric Tons – 6,384 13,204 12,864
Batteries Recycled
Total Batteries Recycled - Metric Tons – 64 16 29
Electronic Waste Recycled
Total Electronic Waste Recycled - Metric Tons – 152 205 196
Recycled Used Oil
Total Recycled Used Oil - Metric Tons – 2,183 3.088 2,626
101
WATER MANAGEMENT
Guided by our internal Water Management Policy and in line
with our focus on sustainable operations, our water-related
priorities include:
• Complying with environmental laws and regulations and
working with regulatory agencies,
• Making water conservation and protection an important part
of our planning and risk management processes,
• Improving the water efficiency of our operations to conserve,
recycle and reuse water,
• Considering water management and conservation
technologies when building facilities to manage stormwater
runoff and control water pollution,
• Reducing effluent concentrations in our water discharges by
using new technologies,
• Decreasing water use for power generation by 70% by 2035 as we replace our coal-fired power plants,
• Tracking and reporting water metrics through key performance indicators, such as water withdrawal, discharge and
consumption,
• Communicating with government agencies and other stakeholder groups to encourage responsible regulations to
protect water,
• Promptly investigating and correcting water quality incidents related to our operations,
• Providing access to safe water, sanitation and hygiene for our employees, and
• Supporting community projects focused on maintaining a clean water supply.
102
In our Indiana electric utility operations, water is withdrawn from
the Ohio River and groundwater sources to support our power plant
operations in this water-rich region.
The withdrawn water is mainly used for non-contact cooling water
and potable needs, while recirculated water is used for ash transport
and process water in the scrubbers. Water is discharged following any
necessary treatment to meet regulatory requirements and minimize
impacts. Most contact storm water is routed through the plants and
treated prior to its discharge. Treatment can include an oily water
separator, settling ponds and a physical-chemical treatment system that
is optimized for mercury removal.
At our A.B. Brown facility, additional treatment removes copper from the circulating water blowdown that is discharged.
This water is monitored regularly, as required by National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permits. If water impacts
are detected, the facility works with appropriate parties to determine the cause and implement corrective and preventive
measures as quickly as possible.
• At the A.B. Brown facility, water withdrawal is calculated using circulating water flows, outside temperature, percentage
of evaporation loss, cooling tower cycles and generating hours.
• At the F.B. Culley facility, water withdrawal is calculated using circulating temperature and flow data.
As CenterPoint Energy’s electric generation portfolio transitions over the next few years with the retirement of coal-fired
generation, our water withdrawal and consumption are expected to decrease.
After completion of the following planned activities, we expect all non-stormwater effluent to be eliminated from our
electric generation system:
• Early 2023: We completed a Zero Liquid Discharge wastewater treatment system for the Culley 3 coal-fired unit.
• 2023: We retired the A.B. Brown coal-fired units 1 and 2, which is expected to reduce our water consumption by
approximately 2,000 million gallons annually. We also exited our ownership of Warrick unit 4.
• 2025: We plan to retire the Culley 2 coal unit.
103
DATA CENTER
CenterPoint Energy’s Data Center reflects our transparency by regularly reporting our sustainability performance data in a
central location. The Data Center informs our stakeholders of our progress on issues that we believe are most relevant for
our business and identifies areas for continuous improvement.
Our voluntary reporting is also mapped to commonly used frameworks, including the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index,
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards, and the Edison Electric Institute (EEI) and the American Gas
Association (AGA) ESG/sustainability reporting template.
We also voluntarily published our first Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Report in 2022 to enhance the
disclosures around the progress of our energy transition.
Energy
Energy 2020 2021 2022 2023
Installed Capacity - Megawatt: MW
Total Installed Capacity 1,167 1,217 1,212 727
Installed Capacity: Coal 1,000 1,000 995 510
Installed Capacity: Natural Gas 160 160 160 160
Installed Capacity: Landfill Gas 3 3 3 3
Installed Capacity: Solar 54¹ 54 54 54
1 - 50 MW Troy Solar included. Trial operation began in December 2020 and commercial operation began in April 2021.
Total Purchased Capacity 112 112 112 727
Purchased Capacity: Coal 32 32 32 32
Purchased Capacity: Wind 80 80 80 80
Purchased Capacity: Contract – – – 615
Net Generation Output - Megawatt Hours: MWh 2020 2021 2022 2023
Coal 3,960,929 5,713,128 4,659,330 4,159,727
Natural Gas 24,432 46,064 79,795 31,776
104
Energy (continued)
Energy 2020 2021 2022 2023
Landfill Gas 9,685 10,284 9,810 9,116
Purchased Coal 116,405 134,484 178,594 186,286
Purchased Wind 201,655 206,605 232,654 191,599
Solar 7,542² 103,248 110,811 99,033
Total Energy Output 4,320,647 6,213,813 5,270,994 4,677,537
2 - Includes MWh’s produced by Troy Solar during trial operation
Materials/Fuels Used to Produce Electricity 2020 2021 2022 2023
Coal - Tons 1,939,369 2,731,901 2,229,033 2,017,623
Natural Gas - Mcf 914,762 1,507,437 1,596,433 1,321,860
Fuel Oil - Gallons 2,574 26,457 2,975 40,124
Emissions
Scope 1 GHG Emissions Resulting from the Direct
2020 2021 2022 2023
Operation of CenterPoint Energy Assets
Electric Generation (Owned) CO2e - Metric Tons 4,620,963 6,370,671 4,355,838 4,684,443
SF6 Houston Electric (CEHE) CO2e - Metric Tons 24,633 101,320 23,070 31,777
Natural Gas Operations CO2e - Metric Tons 533,572 519,567 424,657 418,945
Fleet CO2e - Metric Tons 58,105 57,600 50,424 35,697
Total Scope 1 Emissions CO2e - Metric Tons 5,237,273 7,049,158 4,853,990 5,170,862
Scope 2 Emissions CO2e - Metric Tons 2020 2021 2022 2023
CenterPoint Energy Purchased Energy - Metric Tons 44,370 37,841 27,028 26,923
Power Line Losses - Metric Tons 14,200** 9,092** 10,361** 19,081**
**Does not include line loss attributable to CenterPoint Energy’s Houston electric transmission and distribution assets
because CenterPoint Energy does not own the electricity in Texas and only transports electricity owned by others. This is
in conformance with EEI guidance on reporting guidelines.
Total Scope 2 Emissions CO2e - Metric Tons 58,570 46,933 37,389 46,005
Total Scope 3 Emissions CO2e - Metric Tons 2020 2021 2022 2023
Scope 3 Indirect Emissions are GHG Emissions
Reported to the US EPA Based on the Amount of 26,636,806 28,401,576 26,410,305 23,551,806
Natural Gas Supplied to End-Use Customers
105
Emissions (continued)
Air Quality - Annual Electric Generation Systems
2020 2021 2022 2023
Emissions
Non-GHG Pollutants
Sulfur Oxide (SO2) - Metric Tons 3,912 5,162 4,708 3,974
Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) - Metric Tons 4,233 4,377 3,509 3,170
Particulate Matter (PM) - Metric Tons 210 337 213 146
Lead - Metric Tons 0.04 0.86 0.39 0.68
Mercury - Metric Tons 0.0105 0.0100 0.0089 0.0056
Intensity Factors
Non-GHG Pollutants 2020 2021 2022 2023
Sulfur Oxide (SO2) - MT/MWh 0.00098 0.00088 0.00097 0.00092
Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) - MT/MWh 0.00106 0.00075 0.00072 0.00074
Particulate Matter (PM) - MT/MWh 0.00005 0.00006 0.00004 0.00003
Mercury - kg/MWh 0.000003 0.000002 0.000002 0.000001
Greenhouse Gas 2020 2021 2022 2023
CO2e - MT/MWh 1.15 1.08 0.90 1.09
Net Generation - MWh 4,002,488 5,872,724 4,859,746 4,299,652
CO2e Summary - Scope 1 GHG Emissions Detail by Operating Company for CenterPoint Energy Natural Gas
Operations
2020 2021 2022 2023
Facility (e-GGRT ID #)
Metric Ton CO2e Metric Ton CO2e Metric Ton CO2e Metric Ton CO2e
Arkansas Arkla (526483) 84,578 81,795 – –
Louisiana Arkla (526485) 15,555 15,915 – –
Louisiana Entex (526496) 18,992 14,071 34,982 34,800
Minnesota Gas (526480) 69,272 67,815 68,221 67,973
Mississippi Entex (526498) 19,458 19,724 19,748 20,000
Oklahoma Arkla (526488) 19,058 14,019 – –
Texas Arkla (526491) 1,614 1,638 – –
Texas Entex (526494) 162,434 166,452 167,742 168,763
Indiana Gas Co. (526064) 73,664 73,890 73,085 70,461
Southern Indiana Gas Co. (525996) 24,105 22,495 20,092 18,834
106
Emissions (continued)
CO2e Summary - Scope 1 GHG Emissions Detail by Operating Company for CenterPoint Energy Natural Gas
Operations
Vectren Energy Delivery of Ohio (526066) 44,843 41,754 40,788 38,115
Total 533,572 519,567 424,657 418,945
Data taken from the e-GRRT summary for each facility each year.
CO2e Summary - Scope 3 Indirect Emissions are GHG Emissions Reported to the US EPA Based on the Amount of
Natural Gas Supplied to End Use Customers
2020 2021 2022 2023
Facility (e-GGRT ID #)
Metric Ton CO2e Metric Ton CO2e Metric Ton CO2e Metric Ton CO2e
Arkansas Arkla (526483) 2,871,381 3,048,751 – –
Louisiana Arkla (526485) 628,005 586,278 – –
Louisiana Entex (526496) 371,995 433,765 968,179 917,540
Minnesota Gas (526480) 6,885,669 7,599,164 8,530,474 7,486,836
Mississippi Entex (526498) 812,936 888,074 863,177 792,303
Oklahoma Arkla (526488) 516,454 562,841 – –
Texas Arkla (526491) 69,125 75,895 – –
Texas Entex (526494) 6,546,424 7,447,793 7,386,967 6,933,760
Indiana Gas Co. (526064) 5,010,060 4,681,374 5,424,288 4,586,038
Southern Indiana Gas Co. (525996) 629,909 760,492 764,642 654,819
Vectren Energy Delivery of Ohio (526066) 2,294,849 2,317,148 2,472,580 2,180,510
Total 26,636,806 28,401,576 26,410,305 23,551,806
Data taken from the e-GRRT summary for each facility each year.
Sustainable Infrastructure
Sustainable Infrastructure 2020 2021 2022 2023
Electric Grid Overview
Transmission Lines: Texas Gulf Coast - Miles 3,831 3,947 3,974 3,936
Transmission Lines: Indiana - Miles 1,032 1,062 1,045 1,060
Transmission Lines: Total - Miles 4,863 5,009 5,019 4,996
Distribution Lines: Texas Gulf Coast - Miles 56,045 56,926 57,668 56,537
Distribution Lines: Indiana - Miles 7,085 7,160 7,198 7,266
Distribution Lines: Total - Miles 63,130 64,086 64,866 63,803
107
Sustainable Infrastructure (continued)
Sustainable Infrastructure 2020 2021 2022 2023
ELECTRIC RELIABILITY 2020 2021 2022 2023
Houston Electric
System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI) -
226.43 2,366.55* 231.61 353.80
Minutes
System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI)
1.78 4.67* 1.94 2.14
- Number of Interruptions
Customer Average Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI)
127.46 506.62* 119.58 165.12
- Minutes
*2021 Winter Storm Uri severe disruption
Indiana Electric 2020 2021 2022 2023
System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI) -
121.9 78.6 454.3 450.5
Minutes
System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI)
1.00 0.87 1.82 1.57
- Number of Interruptions
Customer Average Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI)
121.4 89.9 249.9 286.3
- Minutes
Natural Gas Pipeline Overview
Natural Gas Distribution Pipeline - Linear Miles 99,000 99,507 83,761 84,378
Natural Gas Transmission Pipeline - Linear Miles 1,517 1,446 1,322 1,257
Cathodically Protected Steel (Bare and Coated) -
39,191 38,600 30,854 30,478
Miles
Total Plastic Pipe - Miles 58,187 59,969 52,145 53,285
Reportable Pipeline Incidents - Total 3 2 2 5
Corrective Action Orders (CAO) - Total – 1 – 41
Notices of Probable Violation (NOPV) - Total – 1 – 50
NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION PIPELINE REPLACEMENT
Bare/Coated Unprotected Steel
Unprotected Steel Pipe in System at Beginning of
1,118 972 858 703
Year - Miles
Unprotected Steel Pipe at Year End per Department
972 858 703 578
of Transportation Report - Miles
Unprotected Steel Pipe Replaced - Miles 146 114 155 125
Percent of Unprotected Steel Pipe Replaced 13% 12% 18% 18%
Percent of Unprotected Steel Distribution Pipe 0.99% 0.86% 0.84% 0.69%
108
Sustainable Infrastructure (continued)
Sustainable Infrastructure 2020 2021 2022 2023
Cast Iron
Cast-Iron Pipe in System at Beginning of Year - Miles 133 114 80 59
Cast-Iron Pipe at Year End per Department of
114 80 59 37
Transportation Report - Miles
Cast-Iron Pipe Replaced - Miles 19 34 21 22
Percent of Cast-Iron Pipe Replaced 14.20% 29.90% 26.41% 37.18%
Percent of Cast-Iron Distribution Pipeline 0.12% 0.08% 0.07% 0.04%
Water
The boundary of these disclosures applies to the utility group operating units (CenterPoint Energy Indiana-North, Indiana-South and Ohio).
Water 2020 2021 2022 2023
Water Withdrawal
Total Water Withdrawal - Millions of Gallons/Year 51,814 89,645 47,667 74,441
Total Water Withdrawn - Cubic Meters 196,137,364 339,342,482 180,438,733 281,789,272
Water Withdrawal by Source Breakdown
Surface Water Withdrawal - Millions of Gallons/Year 51,363 89,121 47,118 74,009
Groundwater - Millions of Gallons/Year 451 524 549 434
Water Discharge - Non-Consumptive
Total Water Discharge - Millions of Gallons/Year 48,074 86,957 44,825 77,843
Water Withdrawal Consumption
Total Water Consumption - Millions of Gallons/Year 3,740 2,688 2,841 (3,403)*
Total Water Consumed - Cubic Meters 14,157,440 10,173,938 10,768,868 (12,897,370)*
Water Intensity Factors: Water Withdrawals – Consumptive and Non-Consumptive Rate
Intensity Factor: Consumptive Rate - Millions of
0.00093 0.00043 0.00058 (0.00079)*
Gallons/Net MWh
Intensity Factor: Non-Consumptive Rate - Millions of
0.012 0.014 0.009 0.017
Gallons/Net MWh
*Contributing factors include retirement of AB Brown Generating Station Units 1 & 2 in October 2023, as well as initiation of closure and
dewatering of FB Culley Generating Station, East Ash Pond unit.
109
Waste
Waste 2019 2020 2021 2022
Coal Combustion Products
Coal Combustion Residuals Generated - Metric Tons 437,372* 612,940 482,165 626,375
Percent of Coal Combustion Residuals Recycled 84% 72% 78% 71%
Fly Ash - Metric Tons – 121,463 63,169 110,970
Gypsum - Metric Tons – 237,609 130,160 191,456
Bottom Ash - Metric Tons – 6,792 1,499 36,241
Excavated Ponded Material - Metric Tons – 77,956 181,918 274,919
*2020 Coal Combustion Residuals totals are inclusive of filter cake per revised 2020 EPA regulations
Hazardous Waste
Total Hazardous Waste - Metric Tons 396 85 106 13
Non-Hazardous Waste
Total Non-Hazardous Waste - Metric Tons – 115,088 82,791 131,310
Universal Waste
Total Universal Waste - Metric Tons – 15 22 40
Recycled Scrap Metal
Total Recycled Scrap Metal - Metric Tons – 6,384 13,204 12,864
Batteries Recycled
Total Batteries Recycled - Metric Tons – 64 16 29
Electronic Waste Recycled
Total Electronic Waste Recycled - Metric Tons – 152 205 196
Recycled Used Oil
Total Recycled Used Oil - Metric Tons – 2,183 3.088 2,626
110
Community Impact
Community Impact 2020 2021 2022 2023
CenterPoint Energy Foundation Charitable Giving by
Focus Area
Number of Organizations Supported: Education 191 240 235 263
Number of Organizations Supported: Community Vitality 245 180 160 160
Number of Organizations Supported: Local Initiatives 107 54 10 32
Total Community Investments $12,727,606 $18,606,153 $15,224,207 $16,919,206
Employee Engagement 2020 2021 2022 2023
Employee Matching Gift Program $512,500 $541,556 $987,251 $888,929
Employee Volunteer Grants $41,800* $51,400* $41,188* $71,000
*2020-2022 totals include retiree volunteer grants
Education Grants 2020 2021 2022 2023
Number of Books Distributed – 100,370 61,144 266,130
Number of Hours of One-on-One Literacy Tutoring – 8,539 10,792 3,100
Number of Students Engaged in STEM Activities or
– 55,288 553,980 111,117
Events
Number of STEM Devices Distributed (includes
– 1,670 22,267* 254
computers and tablets)
Number of STEM Kits Distributed – 1,341 51,968* 3,282
*Includes large educational initiative with the Children’s Museum of Houston
Community Vitality Grants 2020 2021 2022 2023
Number of Affordable Housing Units: Rental and Single/
– 1,476 8,260 1,115
Multi-Family Units
Number of People Who Received Financial Education – 5,505 2,791 21,992
Number of Trees Planted – 1,193 9,701 2,903
Number of People Who Received Environmental
– 13,632 85,955* 48,226
Education
Number of Acres Preserved (Wildlife Habitat/
– – – 18,673
Conservation)
*Includes large educational initiative with the Children’s Museum of Houston
Community Safety Grants Awarded (up to $2,500 per
2020 2021 2022 2023
grant)
Community Safety Grant Contributions $256,934 $233,035 $263,832 $232,394
Number of Safety Grants Awarded 129 106 121 105
111
Community Impact (continued)
Community Impact 2020 2021 2022 2023
Employee Volunteerism
Total Volunteer Hours Donated by Employees 42,000 65,035 86,180 84,518
Number of Company Leaders on Boards 97 68 80 87
MEMBERSHIP/ORGANIZATIONAL INVOLVEMENT IN ASSOCIATIONS ENGAGED IN CLIMATE CHANGE
• Air Alliance Houston – CenterPoint Energy is a Corporate • Houston Clean Cities Coalition
Sponsor
• Houston-Galveston Area Council – Transportation & Air
• American Biogas Council Quality Committee
• American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy • Houston Region Zero Emission Truck Collaborative
• American Gas Association • Hydrogen Economy Collaborative
• C40 Cities • Lafayette Chamber of Commerce Green Committee
• Center for Houston’s Future • Midwest Energy Efficiency Alliance
• City of Evansville Climate Action Plan • Minneapolis Clean Energy Partnership
• Edison Electric Institute • Minnesota Energy Utility Diversity Group
• Electric Power Research Institute • Minnesota Public Utility Commission Cyber Security Summit
• Environmental Protection Agency • Minnesota Regional Indicators Initiative
• Environmental Protection Agency Natural Gas Star and • Midwest Governor’s Association Mid-Grid
Methane Challenge Program
• North Central Minority Supplier Development Council –
• Evolve Houston – CenterPoint Energy is a Corporate CenterPoint Energy is a Corporate Sponsor
Sponsor
• RNG Coalition
• g21 Initiative – Minnesota Decarbonizing Natural Gas End
• Southeast Energy Efficiency Alliance
Uses Stakeholder Group
• Sustainability Supply Chain Alliance
• Greater Houston Partnership Energy 2.0 Committee
• Texas Commission of Environmental Quality
• Greater Houston Partnership Sustainability Committee
• Utility Networked Geothermal Collaborative
• Greentown Labs Houston
• Houston Climate Action Plan – CenterPoint Energy is a
Corporate Sponsor
112
Customers & Energy Efficiency
Customer & Energy Efficiency 2020 2021 2022 2023
Customers - Electric (metered)
Residential 2,433,474 2,490,293 2,534,731 2,588,510
Commercial 315,642 321,027 323,518 327,518
Total 2,749,116 2,811,320 2,858,249 2,916,028
Customers - Natural Gas
Residential 4,328,607 4,372,428 3,964,221 4,010,113
Commercial 349,725 354,602 301,834 303,841
Total 4,678,332 4,727,030 4,266,055 4,313,954
CUSTOMER ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAMS AND SMART METERS
Smart Meters
Percent of Total Electric Customers with Smart Meters 99% 99% 99% 99%
Total Investment in Energy Efficiency Incentives $47,863,203 $69,685,274 $61,231,663 $64,414,899
Energy Efficiency Incentives - Indiana (Electric), $ – – $3,105,345 $3,901,526
Energy Efficiency Incentives - Indiana (Gas), $ – – $4,477,827 $3,802,781
Energy Efficiency Incentives - Ohio (Electric), $ – – $1,407,989 $1,014,330
Energy Efficiency Incentives - Minnesota, $ – – $18,864,825 $18,703,199
Energy Efficiency Incentives - Mississippi, $ – – $588,672 $506,564
Energy Efficiency Incentives - Louisiana, $ – – – –
Energy Efficiency Incentives - Texas (Electric), $ – – $32,787,006 $36,486,499
Energy Efficiency Incentives - Austin Pilot Program – – – –
Incremental Annual Investment in Energy Efficiency
$46,364,706* $99,255,146 $88,483,619 $96,985,276
Programs - Electric and Gas (Nominal Dollars)
*Electric Energy Efficiency Programs
Incremental Annual Investment in Energy Efficiency
– – $5,648,557 $6,051,291
Programs - Indiana (Electric), $
Incremental Annual Investment in Energy Efficiency
– – $5,338,719 $5,215,219
Programs - Indiana (Gas), $
Incremental Annual Investment in Energy Efficiency
– – $1,648,616 $3,721,939
Programs - Ohio (Electric), $
Incremental Annual Investment in Energy Efficiency
– – $39,312,872 $41,484,184
Programs - Minnesota, $
113
Customers & Energy Efficiency (continued)
Customer & Energy Efficiency 2020 2021 2022 2023
Incremental Annual Investment in Energy Efficiency
– – $1,007,377 $973,066
Programs - Mississippi, $
Incremental Annual Investment in Energy Efficiency
– – – –
Programs - Louisiana, $
Incremental Annual Investment in Energy Efficiency
– – $35,527,478 $39,539,578
Programs - Texas, $
Total Annual Demand Savings (MCF/Dth) 6,776,046 2,911,698 2,519,424 2,517,993
Annual Demand Savings - Indiana (Gas), MCF/Dth – – 392,975 300,626
Annual Demand Savings - Ohio (Gas), MCF/Dth – – 96,611 178,271
Annual Demand Savings - Minnesota, MCF/Dth – – 2,003,321 2,009,051
Annual Demand Savings - Mississippi, MCF/Dth – – 26,516 30,045
Annual Demand Savings - Louisiana, MCF/Dth – – – –
Annual Demand Savings - Texas (Gas), MCF/Dth – – – –
Total Annual Demand Savings (MWh) 244,794 275,155 262,285 227,478
Annual Demand Savings - Indiana (Electric), MWh – – 33,426 41,396
Annual Demand Savings - Texas (Electric), MWh – – 228,859 186,082
Energy Assistance Funds Provided to Low-Income
– – – $29,984,938
Customers
Total Number of Customers Participating in Energy
– – – 646,187
Efficiency Programs
Number of Customers Participating in Energy
– – – 183,015
Efficiency Programs - Indiana (Electric)
Number of Customers Participating in Energy
– – – 58,008
Efficiency Programs - Indiana (Gas)
Number of Customers Participating in Energy
– – – 28,595
Efficiency Programs - Ohio
Number of customers Participating in Energy
– – – 313,391
Efficiency Programs - Minnesota
Number of Customers Participating in Energy
– – – 2,641
Efficiency Programs - Mississippi
Number of Customers Participating in Energy
– – – –
Efficiency Programs - Louisiana
Number of Customers Participating in Energy
– – – 60,537
Efficiency Programs - Texas
114
Workforce
*Workforce diversity data and statistics are based on company filed reports with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
Workforce 2020 2021 2022 2023
Total Number of Employees 9,541* 9,418* 8,988* 8,827
*2020-2022 responses include Energy Systems Group
Number of Full-Time Employees 9,487 9,374 8,931 8,821
Number of Full-Time Employees by Region
Indiana – – 1,446 1,457
Minnesota – – 1,224 1,246
Mississippi – – 151 150
Louisiana – – 339 345
Texas – – 5,304 5,446
Ohio – – 171 176
Number of Employees - Other Locations – – 352 1
Number of Part-Time Employees 54 44 57 6
Percent of Collective Bargaining Employees 36% 37% 39% 40%
Number of Senior Executives 16 15 17 14
Number of Vice Presidents/Directors 200 208 208 191
Number of Managers/Supervisors 998 1,043 972 911
Number of Professionals 2,465 2,328 2,295 2,286
Number of Customer Service Employees 700 683 633 585
Number of Office and Clerical Employees 531 430 561 560
Number of Technicians* (Union) 3,191 3,262 3,473 3,265
Number of Technicians* (Non-Union) 1,440 1,449 979 1,006
*Technicians, Helpers, Craft Operatives and Laborers
Number of Interns Hired 61 105 82 97
Number of Veteran Employees 575 630 610 624
Workforce Diversity
Number of Employees by Age Group: Under 30 1,177 1,276 1,382 1,459
Number of Employees by Age Group: 30-50 4,747 4,998 4,894 4,747
115
Workforce (continued)
Workforce 2020 2021 2022 2023
Number of Employees by Age Group: Over 50 3,617 3,144 2,712 2,621
Percent of Employees by Gender - Male 76% 77% 75% 75%
Percent of Employees by Gender - Female 24% 23% 25% 25%
Number of Employees by Gender - Male 7,247 7,256 6,744 6,652
Number of Employees by Gender - Female 2,294 2,162 2,244 2,175
Number of Female Senior Executives/Vice
64 73 79 74
Presidents/Directors
Number of Female Managers/Supervisors 216 221 217 208
Number of Female Professionals – – – 746
Number of Minority Employees 3,342 3,386 3,580 3,719
Percent of Minority Employees 35% 36% 40% 42%
Number of Minority Senior Executives/Vice
– – – 56
Presidents/Directors
Number of Minority Managers/Supervisors – – – 281
Number of Minority Professionals – – – 1,044
Employee Hires and Turnover
Employee Hire Rate - Percent 8% 12% 19% 17%
Percent of Hires by Gender – Male 69% 72% 59% 65%
Percent of Hires by Gender – Female 31% 28% 41% 35%
Number of Hires by Gender – Male 522 830 995 705
Number of Hires by Gender – Female 238 317 704 384
Percent of Minority Hires 46% 46% 60% 57%
Number of Minority Hires 351 522 969 629
Percent of Minority Managers/Supervisors/
32% 34% 37% 41%
Professional Hires
Percent of Hires by Age Group: Under 30 50% 51% 48% 54%
Percent of Hires by Age Group: 30-50 41% 42% 44% 37%
Percent of Hires by Age Group: Over 50 9% 7% 8% 9%
Turnover Rate - Voluntary 6% 11% 14%* 9%
Turnover Rate - Involuntary 3% 2% 3% 3%
*Reflects retirements due to unique pension design
116
Workforce (continued)
Workforce 2020 2021 2022 2023
Retirement Eligibility
Percent of Employees Eligible for Retirement: Age
26% 23% 19% 19%
55+ and 5 Years of Service
Percent of Employees Eligible for Retirement in 5
38% 36% 28% 30%
Years: Age 55+ and 5 Years of Service
Percent of Employees Eligible for Retirement in 10
48% 46% 37% 36%
Years: Age 55+ and 5 Years of Service
Employee Training and Development
Percent of Employees Receiving Regular
100% 100% 100% 100%
Performance/Career Reviews
Percent of Employees Receiving Annual Training
– – – 100%
(includes annual compliance training)
CNP University Total Online Courses Completed
373,039 298,984 264,032 255,141
(excludes field safety and technical training courses)
Total Hours of Online Courses Completed* 186,519* 149,492* 132,016* 127,571*
*Each course averages approximately 30 minutes or 0.5 hours
College of Professional Development: Instructor/
2,110 2,898 3,074 4,304
virtual instructor-led training – Total Participants
College of Professional Development: Total Hours
6,601 8,051 8,948 16,586
Completed
Racial
Leadership Development Programs Male Female
Diversity
Leadership Academy 55% 45% 33%
Learning to Lead 68% 32% 35%
Leadership Essentials 73% 27% 42%
Leading Leaders 85% 15% 26%
117
Workforce (continued)
UNION WORKFORCE NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES NEW EMPLOYEE
(2023) BY GENDER (2023) MINORITY HIRES (2023)
Out of 1,089 Total External Hires
EEO-1 Summary Form - Analysis Data as of December 31, 2022
MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE Total
HISP HISP WHITE BLACK NHOPI ASIAN NAT AM 2+RACE WHITE BLACK NHOPI ASIAN NAT AM 2+RACE
Job Categories (A) (B) (C) (D) (E) (F) (G) (H) (I) (J) (K) (L) (M) (N) A - N
Executive/Senior
(1.1) 1 2 32 7 0 1 0 0 15 2 0 1 0 0 61
Managers
First/Mid-Level
(1.2) 67 25 668 94 0 24 2 5 170 56 0 23 0 0 1,134
Managers
Professionals (2) 224 113 985 192 1 137 1 16 349 179 0 81 3 11 2,292
Technicians (3) 52 18 161 52 0 5 0 2 54 42 0 3 1 3 393
Sales Workers (4) 1 0 5 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 8
Admin Support (5) 47 183 90 67 0 9 0 6 391 384 2 10 1 30 1,220
Craft Workers (6) 442 2 1,577 307 1 42 7 27 17 5 0 0 0 0 2,427
Operatives (7) 286 3 823 212 2 12 5 19 43 7 0 1 0 0 1,413
Laborers and
(8) 1 0 7 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 11
Helpers
Service Workers (9) 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1
Total Employees (10) 1,121 346 4,349 933 4 230 15 75 1,040 676 2 119 5 45 8,960
*Workforce diversity data and statistics are based on company filed reports with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
118
Supplier Diversity
Supplier Diversity 2020 2021 2022 2023
Total Supplier Spend $2,900,000,000 $3,500,000,000 $5,050,000,000 $4,692,981,072
Diverse Supplier Spend $278,000,000 $406,000,000 $620,000,000 $643,738,297
Percent Spend with Tier 1 Diverse
9%* 11%* 11.30% 11.90%
Suppliers
Percent Spend with Direct Tier 2
– – 0.90% 1.90%
Suppliers
*2020-2021 data represents total diverse supplier spend
Safety
Safety 2020 2021 2022 2023
Employee DART Rate 1.00 1.15 1.12 1.48
Employee Fatalities 1* – 1* –
OSHA Recordable Work-Related Injuries 112 136 118 154
Lost Time Case Rate 0.66 0.77 0.77 1.14
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 1.24 1.50 1.45 1.78
Number of Hours Worked 17,995,590 17,605,557 16,268,365 17,315,074
*In 2020 and 2022, respectively, we tragically lost a colleague in our Electric business.
Economic
Economic 2020 2021 2022 2023
Summary of Consolidated Financial Information
Total Revenue 7,418 Million 8,352 Million 9,321 Million 8,696 Million
Total Assets 33,471 Million 37,679 Million 38,546 Million 39,715 Million
Total Annual Capital Expenditures/Investments
2,596 Million 3,164 Million 4,419 Million 4,401 Million
(Nominal Dollars)
Expenditures for Long-lived Assets (Capex) 2,536 Million 3,339 Million 4,418 Million 4,370 Million
Taxes Paid 2020 2021 2022 2023
Income Tax Payments (Refunds), Net 143 Million 46 Million 421 Million 215 Million
State 45 Million 15 Million 39 Million 19 Million
Federal 98 Million 61 Million 382 Million 196 Million
119
Economic (Continued)
Economic 2020 2021 2022 2023
Earnings Performance 2020 2021 2022 2023
Diluted Earnings (Loss) per Common Share (GAAP) 1.79 2.28 1.59 1.37
Diluted Earnings (Loss) per Common Share (Non-
1.40 1.64 1.38 1.50
GAAP)*
Cash Dividends Paid per Common Share 0.74 0.65 0.70 0.77
Cash Dividends Declared per Common Share 0.90 0.66 0.72 0.78
*Non-GAAP EPS is a non-GAAP measure. Please see the reconciliation to the nearest GAAP measure.
Governance
Board of Directors information is current as of April 26, 2024
Board Information 2020 2021 2022 2023
Board Meetings Held - Audit Committee 5 8 7 7
Board Meetings Held - Compensation Committee 7 4 4 5
Board Meetings Held - Governance, Environmental
5 6 5 5
and Sustainability Committee*
*The Governance Committee was renamed to Governance, Environmental and Sustainability Committee on September 9, 2021
Board Information 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
Number of Directors on Board of
10 9 9 11 11
Directors
Number of Independent Directors 8 8 8 10 10
Independent Chair* No Yes Yes Yes Yes
*Prior to July 2021, the CenterPoint Energy Board had an Executive Chair. The independent directors of the Board adopted a new
independent leadership and governance structure effective July 2021.
Director Gender
Men 8 6 7 9 8
Women 2 3 2 2 3
Director Age
40s – 1 1 1 2
50s 3 4 4 4 4
60+ Years 7 4 4 6 5
120
Governance (continued)
Board Information 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
Director Tenure
0-5 Years 5 7 7 9 9
6-10 Years 3 2 2 1 2
>10 Years 2 – – 1 –
BOARD DIVERSITY
As of April 26, 2024
121
Policies & Procedures
PUBLICLY AVAILABLE POLICIES AND DISCLOSURES
Environment Governance
• Carbon Policy • CenterPoint Energy Ethics and Compliance Code
• Corporate Environmental Policy • Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer and Senior
Financial Officers
Social
• Ethics and Compliance Code of Conduct for Consultants,
• Equal Employment Opportunity Affirmative Action
Contractors, Suppliers and Vendors
Statement
• Corporate Governance Guidelines
• Workforce Diversity Statement
• Audit Committee Charter
• Equal Employment Opportunity is the Law
• Compensation Committee Charter
• Pay Transparency Policy Statement
• Governance, Environmental and Sustainability Committee
• Your Rights Under the Family Medical Leave Act
Charter
• Third Amended and Restated Bylaws
• Articles of Incorporation
• SEC Filings
• Political Engagement Policy
PUBLICLY AVAILABLE POLICIES AND DISCLOSURES
Many company policies are only available internally. All employees have access to all policies through the Policy Center on
our internal site.
Environment Governance
• Avian Protection Plan Policy • Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy (described within
the “Questionable Payments” section of the Ethics &
• Biodiversity Management Policy
Compliance Code)
• Waste Management Policy
• Antitrust Compliance Policy
• Water Management Policy
• Cybersecurity Categorization Controls Standard
Social
• Data Classification and Control Policy
• Anti-Harassment and Non-Discrimination Policy
• Insider Trader Policy
• Employee Concerns Policy
• Procurement Policy
• Non-Retaliation Policy (as described within our Ethics &
• Risk Control Policy
Compliance Code, Employee Concerns Policy and Anti-
Harassment and Non-Discrimination Policy) • Third-Party Policy (addressing third-party agreements
providing access to personal information)
• Parental Leave Policy
• Physical Security Policy (includes employees, contractors
and facilities)
• Supplier Diversity Policy Statement
• Workplace Violence Policy
122
Reconciliation of non-GAAP Financial Measures to GAAP
This sustainability report contains financial measures, non-GAAP income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share (non-
GAAP EPS), that are not determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of
America (GAAP). Management believes that presenting these non-GAAP financial measures enhances an investor’s
understanding of the company’s overall financial performance by providing them with an additional meaningful and relevant
comparison of current results across periods. The adjustments made in these non-GAAP financial measures exclude items
that management believes do not most accurately reflect the company’s fundamental business performance. These
excluded items are reflected in the reconciliation tables below. Non-GAAP financial measures should be considered as a
supplement to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, the company’s reported results prepared in accordance with
GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures also may be different than non-GAAP financial measures used by other
companies.
Non-GAAP EPS includes net income from the company’s Electric and Natural Gas segments, as well as after tax Corporate
and Other operating income and an allocation of corporate overhead based upon Electric’s and Natural Gas’s relative
earnings contribution. Corporate overhead consists primarily of interest expense, preferred stock dividend requirements,
and other items directly attributable to the parent along with the associated income taxes. It is also adjusted for certain
factors to reflect what we consider to be our fundamental business performance. Please see below for the adjustments to
non-GAAP EPS in 2023, 2022, 2021 and 2020. Beginning in 2022, CenterPoint Energy no longer separates utility and
midstream operations and reports on a consolidated non-GAAP EPS basis.
Reconciliation of Consolidated income (loss) available to common shareholders and diluted earnings (loss) per
share (GAAP) to non-GAAP income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share
Year-to-Date Ended
December 31, 2023
Dollars in Diluted
millions EPS(1)
Consolidated income (loss) available to common shareholders and diluted EPS $ 867 $ 1.37
ZENS-related mark-to-market (gains) losses:
Equity securities (net of taxes of $7)(2)(3) (25) (0.04)
Indexed debt securities (net of taxes of $6)(2) 21 0.03
Impacts associated with mergers and divestitures (net of taxes of $64)(2)(4) 89 0.14
Consolidated on a non-GAAP basis $ 952 $ 1.50
1) Quarterly diluted EPS on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis are based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding
during the quarter, and the sum of the quarters may not equal year-to-date diluted EPS.
2) Taxes are computed based on the impact removing such item would have on tax expense. Taxes related to the operating results of Energy Systems
Group, as well as cash taxes payable and other tax impacts related to the sale of Energy Systems Group, are excluded from the non-GAAP EPS.
3) Comprised of common stock of AT&T Inc., Charter Communications, Inc., and Warner Bros. Discovery, Inc.
4) Includes $4.4 million of pre-tax operating loss related to Energy Systems Group, a divested non-regulated business, as well as the $13 million loss
on sale and approximately $2 million of other indirect related transaction costs associated with the divestiture.
Year-to-Date Ended
December 31, 2022
Dollars in Diluted
millions EPS(1)
Consolidated income (loss) available to common shareholders and diluted EPS $ 1,008 $ 1.59
ZENS-related mark-to-market (gains) losses:
Equity securities (net of taxes of $66)(2)(3) 247 0.39
Indexed debt securities (net of taxes of $68)(2) (256) (0.40)
Midstream-related earnings (net of taxes of $2)(2)(4) (46) (0.07)
Impacts associated with mergers and divestitures (net of taxes of $165)(2)(5) (80) (0.13)
Consolidated on a non-GAAP basis $ 873 $ 1.38
123
1) Quarterly diluted EPS on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis are based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding
during the quarter, and the sum of the quarters may not equal year-to-date diluted EPS.
2) Taxes are computed based on the impact removing such item would have on tax expense.
3) Comprised of common stock of AT&T Inc., Charter Communications, Inc., and Warner Bros. Discovery, Inc.
4) Includes earnings and expenses related to ownership and disposal of Energy Transfer LP units, a corresponding amount of debt related to the units
and an allocation of associated corporate overhead. Includes costs associated with early extinguishment of $600 million debt at CenterPoint Energy,
Inc. of approximately $35 million, net of taxes.
5) Includes a settlement charge of $35 million, net of tax, related to CenterPoint Energy pension plan’s purchase of a group annuity contract in December
2022 to transfer benefit obligations of CenterPoint Energy’s previously divested businesses to an insurance company.
Year-to-Date Ended
December 31, 2021
Corporate and
Utility Operations Midstream Investments Other(7) Consolidated
Dollars in Diluted Dollars in Diluted Dollars in Diluted Dollars in Diluted
millions EPS(1) millions EPS(1) millions EPS(1) millions EPS(1)
Consolidated income (loss) available to
common shareholders and diluted EPS $ 878 $ 1.44 $ 818 $ 1.34 $ (305) $ (0.50) $ 1,391 $ 2.28
ZENS-related mark-to-market (gains)
losses:
Equity securities (net of taxes of $11)(2)(3) — — — — 40 0.07 40 0.07
Indexed debt securities (net of taxes of $11)(2) — — — — (39) (0.06) (39) (0.06)
Impacts associated with gas LDC sales
(net of taxes of $2, $3)(2)(4) (4) (0.01) — — 5 0.01 1 —
Cost associated with the early
extinguishment of debt (net of taxes of
$7)(2) — — — — 27 0.04 27 0.04
Impacts associated with Enable & Energy
Transfer merger:
Gain at merger close, net of transaction costs
(net of taxes of $134 and $0)(2) — — (546) (0.90) (1) — (547) (0.90)
Loss on equity securities (net of taxes of
$24)(2)(5) — — — — 98 0.16 98 0.16
Costs associated with the early
extinguishment of debt (net of taxes of $1)(2) — — — — 6 0.01 6 0.01
Impacts associated with other mergers
and divestitures (net of taxes of $2, $13)(2)(6) 4 0.01 — — 20 0.03 24 0.04
Corporate and Other Allocation (105) (0.17) (44) (0.07) 149 0.24 — —
Consolidated on a non-GAAP basis $ 773 $ 1.27 $ 228 $ 0.37 $ — $ — $ 1,001 $ 1.64
1) Quarterly diluted EPS on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis are based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding
during the quarter, and the sum of the quarters may not equal year-to-date diluted EPS. EPS figures for Utility Operations, Corporate and Other and
Discontinued Operations are non-GAAP financial measures.
2) Taxes are computed based on the impact removing such item would have on tax expense.
3) Comprised of common stock of AT&T Inc. and Charter Communications, Inc.
4) Includes gain from remeasurement of state deferred taxes, costs to achieve the sales and costs associated with the early extinguishment of debt.
5) Comprised of Energy Transfer LP common and Series G preferred units.
6) Includes impacts associated with the Vectren merger and the sales of Infrastructure Services (CIS) and Mobile Energy Solutions (MES).
7) The Corporate and Other allocation includes after tax Corporate and Other operating income, earnings from the Midstream preferred distributions
net of an associated amount of debt, and an allocation of corporate overhead based upon Utility’s and Midstream’s relative earnings contribution.
Corporate overhead consists primarily of interest expense, preferred stock dividend requirements, and other items directly attributable to the parent
along with the associated income taxes.
124
Year-to-Date Ended
December 31, 2020
Midstream Investments Corporate and CES(1) & CIS(2)
Utility Operations (Disc. Operations) Other(6) (Disc. Operations) Consolidated
Dollars in Diluted Dollars in Diluted Dollars in Diluted Dollars in Diluted Dollars in Diluted
millions EPS(3) millions EPS(3) millions EPS(3) millions EPS(3) millions EPS(3)
Consolidated income
(loss) available to
common shareholders
and diluted EPS(3) $ 508 $ 0.95 $ (1,074) $ (2.02) $ (201 ) $ (0.38 ) $ (182 ) $ (0.34) $ (949 ) $ (1.79)
Timing effects impacting
CES(1):
Mark-to-market (gains)
losses (net of taxes of $3)(4) — — — — — — (10 ) (0.02) (10 ) (0.02)
ZENS-related mark-to-
market (gains) losses:
Equity securities (net of
taxes of $11)(4)(5) — — — — (38 ) (0.07 ) — — (38 ) (0.07)
Indexed debt securities
(net of taxes of $13)(4) — — — — 47 0.09 — — 47 0.09
Impacts associated with
the Vectren merger (net
of taxes of $1, $3)(4) 3 0.01 — — 12 0.02 — — 15 0.03
Impacts associated with
BREC activities and
Severance costs (net of
taxes of $4, $0)(4) 14 0.03 — — 3 — — — 17 0.03
Impacts associated with
the sales of CES(1) and
CIS(2) (net of taxes of
$10)(4) — — — — — — 217 0.41 217 0.41
Impacts associated with
Series C preferred stock
Preferred stock dividend
requirement and
amortization of beneficial
conversion feature — — — — 58 0.11 — — 58 0.11
Impact of increased share
count on EPS if issued as
common stock — (0.06 ) — 0.12 — 0.01 — — — 0.07
Total Series C impacts — (0.06 ) — 0.12 58 0.12 — — 58 0.18
Losses on impairment
(net of taxes of $0,
$408)(4) 185 0.33 1,269 2.25 — — — — 1,454 2.58
Corporate and Other
Allocation (48) (0.09 ) (64) (0.12) 119 0.22 (7 ) (0.01) — —
Consolidated on a non-
GAAP basis 662 1.17 131 0.23 — — 18 0.04 811 1.44
Exclusion of CES(1) and
CIS(2) Discontinued
Operations(7) — — — — — — (18 ) (0.04) (18 ) (0.04)
Consolidated on a non-
GAAP basis, excluding
CES(1) and CIS(2) $ 662 $ 1.17 $ 131 $ 0.23 $ — $ — $ — $ — $ 793 $ 1.40
(1)Energy Services segment
(2)Infrastructure Services segment
(3)Quarterly diluted EPS on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis are based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding
during the quarter, and the sum of the quarters may not equal year-to-date diluted EPS. EPS figures for Utility Operations, Corporate and Other, and
Discontinued Operations are non-GAAP financial measures.
(4)Taxes are computed based on the impact removing such item would have on tax expense.
125
(5)Comprised of common stock of AT&T Inc. and Charter Communications, Inc.
(6)The Corporate and Other allocation includes after tax Corporate and Other operating income, earnings from the Midstream preferred distributions net
of an associated amount of debt, and an allocation of corporate overhead based upon Utility’s and Midstream’s relative earnings contribution. Corporate
overhead consists primarily of interest expense, preferred stock dividend requirements, and other items directly attributable to the parent along with
the associated income taxes.
(7)Results related to Energy Services and Infrastructure Services discontinued operations are excluded from the company’s non-GAAP results.
126
CENTERPOINT ENERGY GRI CONTENT INDEX
CenterPoint Energy has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period of January 1 to December
31, 2023, with reference to the GRI Standards. CenterPoint Energy discloses additional information though the GRI Electric
Utility Sector Supplement, providing industry-specific information. For additional information, please visit About This Report.
GRI 1: Foundation 2021
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
About CenterPoint Energy
1111 Louisiana Street, Houston TX 77002
2-1 Organizational details
CenterPoint Energy operates solely in the United States, and 100%
of taxes are paid in the United States.
Entities included in the organization’s sustainability
2-2 About CenterPoint Energy
reporting
CenterPoint Energy’s Corporate Sustainability Report covers the
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point same period as our Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is January 1
to December 31, 2023.
There are no restatements of information in CenterPoint Energy’s
2-4 Restatements of information
Corporate Sustainability Report in 2023.
Scope 1 GHG Emissions from Electric Utility Power Generation are third-
2-5 External assurance party verified and registered with the United States Environmental
Protection Agency’s (USEPA) Clean Air Markets Division.
About CenterPoint Energy
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships
Supply Chain
Our People
2-7 Employees
Workforce Data
Governance
2-9 Governance structure and composition Details can be found in CenterPoint Energy’s 2024 Proxy
Statement - Pages 25-29
Governance
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body Details can be found in CenterPoint Energy’s 2024 Proxy
Statement - Pages 20 - 22
Board of Directors
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body
Independent Chair of the Board: Phillip R. Smith
Governance
Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the
2-12 Details can be found in CenterPoint Energy’s 2024 Proxy
management of impacts
Statement on pages 21 - 23
Governance
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Details can be found in CenterPoint Energy’s 2024 Proxy
Statement on pages 26-27
Role of the highest governance body in sustainability Governance
2-14
reporting Strategy and Oversight
Ethics & Compliance
2-15 Conflicts of interest Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer and Senior
Financial Officers
2-16 Communication of critical concerns Ethics & Compliance
Details can be found in CenterPoint Energy’s 2024 Proxy
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body
Statement on pages 10 - 20
Governance
Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance
2-18 Details can be found in CenterPoint Energy’s 2024 Proxy
body
Statement on page 23
Details can be found in CenterPoint Energy’s 2024 Proxy
Statement. For the Board, see Director Compensation Table
2-19 Remuneration policies on page 33
Design of Executive Compensation Program on page 39
2023 Executive Compensation Program" on page 40
127
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
Details can be found on page 26 in CenterPoint Energy’s
2024 Proxy Statement
2-20 Process to determine remuneration
2023 Executive Compensation Program on page 43
Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation on pages 82-83
Details can be found in CenterPoint Energy's 2024 Proxy
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio Statement under Chief Executive Officer Pay Ratio on page
69
Sustainability Strategy and Oversight
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy
Energy Transition Goals
2-23 Policy commitments Policies & Procedures
Policies & Procedures
2-24 Embedding policy commitments
Ethics & Compliance
Environmental Stewardship
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts
Ethics & Compliance
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns Ethics & Compliance
Ethics and Compliance Code
Policies & Procedures
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations
Environmental Compliance
Political Engagement
Trade Association Memberships
2-28 Membership associations Energy Efficiency
Supply Chain & Sustainability
Our major stakeholders include customers, communities,
employees, investors, suppliers and regulators. We believe that
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement good governance practices include maintaining a consistent and
transparent dialogue throughout the year with our stakeholders.
Stakeholder Engagement
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements Our People - Labor Relations
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3-1 Process to determine material topics Stakeholder Engagement
3-2 List of material topics Priority Topics
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
Economic
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed
Community Impact
Details can be found in CenterPoint Energy’s 2023 Form
10-K on page 79
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans
and 2024 Proxy pages 78-81
Our People - Employee Benefits
GRI 202: Market Presence 2016
CenterPoint Energy does not actively keep track of this metric.
Proportion of senior management hired from the local
202-2 However, hiring and promotion is based on merit, not whether a
community
candidate is from a particular local community.
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Energy Transition Goals
Just Transition
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts
Social Impact
GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 2016
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Ethics & Compliance
Communication and training about anti-corruption policies
205-2 Ethics & Compliance
and procedures
128
GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior 2016
During the reporting period, no legal actions for anti-competitive
Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices are pending or were
206-1
monopoly practices completed regarding anti-competitive behavior and violations of
anti-trust and monopoly legislation.
GRI 301: Materials 2016
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Energy
GRI 302: Energy
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Emissions
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Sustainable Infrastructure
Reductions in energy requirements of products and
302-5 Energy Efficiency
services
GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018
Water Management - The boundary of these disclosures is applicable to the following utility group operating units: CenterPoint Energy Indiana - North,
Indiana - South and Ohio.
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Water Management
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Water Management
303-3 Water withdrawal Water Management
303-4 Water discharge Water Management
303-5 Water consumption Water Management
GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent
304-1 to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value Biodiversity GRI Disclosures
outside protected areas
Significant impacts of activities, products and services on
304-2 Biodiversity & Land Use
biodiversity
304-3 Habitats protected or restored Biodiversity GRI Disclosures
IUCN Red List species and national conservation list
304-4 Protecting & Restoring Habitats
species with habitats in areas affected by operations
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
Emissions
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Emissions
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Emissions
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Energy Transition Goals
Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other
305-7 Emissions
significant air emissions
GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016
Waste and Recycling Management
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts
Waste
GRI 308: Effluents and Waste 2016
New suppliers that were screened using environmental
308-1 Supply Chain & Sustainability
criteria
GRI 401: Employment 2016
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Workforce
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not
401-2 Our People - Employee Benefits
provided to temporary or part-time employees
401-3 Parental leave Our People - Employee Benefits
129
GRI 402: Labor Management Relations 2016
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Our People - Labor Relations
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Workplace Safety
Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident
403-2 Workplace Safety
investigation
403-3 Occupational health services Workplace Safety
Worker participation, consultation, and communication on
403-4 Workplace Safety
occupational health and safety
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Workplace Safety
403-6 Promotion of worker health Workplace Safety
Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety
403-7 Workplace Safety
impacts directly linked by business relationships
Workers covered by an occupational health and safety
403-8 Workplace Safety
management system
403-9 Work-related injuries Safety
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Workforce
Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition Training and Development
404-2
assistance programs Communities
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance
404-3 Workforce
and career development reviews
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
Board of Directors
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees
Workforce
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
Operations with local community engagement, impact Communities
413-1
assessments, and development programs Training & Development
GRI 415: Public Policy 2016
415-1 Political contributions Political Engagement
Electric Utility Sector Supplement
G4-EU1 Installed Capacity Energy
G4-EU2 Net Energy Output Energy
Number of Residential, Industrial, and Commercial
G4-EU3 Energy Efficiency
Customer Accounts
Length of Above and Underground Transmission and
G4-EU4 Sustainable Infrastructure
Distribution Lines by Regulatory Regime
G4-EU15 Employees Eligible for Retirement Workforce
G4-EU28 Power Outage Frequency Sustainable Infrastructure
G4-EU29 Average Power Outage Duration Sustainable Infrastructure
130
SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (SASB)
CenterPoint Energy 2023 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Report
The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) has established voluntary
industry-specific disclosure standards across environmental, social and governance
(ESG) topics that facilitate communication between companies and investors in order to
simplify company-to-company comparisons.
This Report marks CenterPoint Energy’s third year of annual mapping our disclosures to
the SASB Standards for the Infrastructure Sectors of Electric Utilities & Power Generators
and Gas Utilities & Distributors. Our response reflects year-end 2023 performance for
topics that we have identified as key issues.
As we continue to assess our data, we may choose to include additional SASB metrics
in future reports. Unless otherwise stated, data relates only to the sector of our business
indicated in the chart headings. Previous reports can be found in the Report Archive.
ELECTRIC UTILITIES & POWER GENERATORS
Topic SASB Code Accounting Metric CNP 2023 Response (as of December 31, 2023)
IF-EU-110a.1 (1) Global Scope 1 emissions (Metric Tons CO2e) 5,170,862
IF-EU-110a.1 (2) Percentage covered under emissions-limiting regulations 0%
IF-EU-110a.1 (3) Percentage covered under emissions-reporting regulations 99.31%
Greenhouse
IF-EU-110a.2 GHG emissions associated with power deliveries (Metric Tons CO2e) 4,684,443
Gas Emissions
& Energy Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope
Resource IF-EU-110a.3 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of performance Energy Transition Goals
Planning against those targets.
(1) Number of customers served in markets subject to renewable portfolio
152,493
IF-EU-110a.4 standards
(2) Percentage fulfillment of RPS target 64.1%
IF-EU-120a.1 (1) Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) Metric Tons 3,170
IF-EU-120a.1 (2) Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) Metric Tons 3,974
Air Quality IF-EU-120a.1 (3) Particulate Matter (PM) Metric Tons 146
IF-EU-120a.1 (4) Lead (Pb) Metric Tons 0.680
IF-EU-120a.1 (5) Mercury (Hg) Metric Tons 0.0056
(1) Total water withdrawn (Millions of Gallons) 74,441
IF-EU-140a.1
(2) Total water consumed (Millions of Gallons) (3,403)
Water Number of incidents of non-compliance associated with water quantity and/
Management IF-EU-140a.2 or quality permits, standards and regulations 0
Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies and
IF-EU-140a.3 Water Management
practices to mitigate those risks
Coal Ash Amount of coal combustion residuals (CCR) generated 626,375
IF-EU-150a.1
Management Percentage of coal combustion residuals recycled 71%
Average retail electric rate for (1) residential, (2) commercial, and (3) industrial CenterPoint Energy Indiana Electric Rates & Tariffs
IF-EU-240a.1
Energy customers CenterPoint Energy Houston Electric Rates & Tariffs
Affordability Discussion of impact of external factors on customer affordability of
IF-EU-240a.4 CenterPoint Energy 2023 Form 10-K: See Pages 19 - 23
electricity, including the economic conditions of the service territory
Workforce
Health and IF-EU-320a.1 Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) 1.78
Safety
Percentage of electric utility revenues from rate structures that are
IF-EU-420a.1 0.35%
End Use decoupled or contain a lost revenue adjustment mechanism
Efficiency &
IF-EU-420a.2 Percentage of electric load served by smart grid technology 99%
Demand
IF-EU-420a.3 Customer electricity savings from efficiency measures 227,478
Total number of nuclear power units, broken down by U.S. Nuclear
Nuclear Safety IF-EU-540a.1 Regulatory Commission (NRC) Action Matrix Column N/A
& Emergency
Management IF-EU-540a.2 Description of efforts to manage nuclear safety and emergency N/A
preparedness
131
Number of incidents of non-compliance with physical and/or cybersecurity
IF-EU-550a.1 CyberSecurity
standards or regulations
CenterPoint Energy Houston Electric: System Average Interruption Duration
353.80
Index (SAIDI)
CenterPoint Energy Houston Electric: System Average Interruption
2.14
Frequency Index (SAIFI)
CenterPoint Energy Houston Electric: Customer Average Interruption
Grid Resiliency 165.12
Duration Index (CAIDI)
IF-EU-550a.2
CenterPoint Energy Indiana: System Average Interruption Duration Index
450.53
(SAIDI)
CenterPoint Energy Indiana: System Average Interruption Frequency Index
1.57
(SAIFI)
CenterPoint Energy Indiana: Customer Average Interruption Duration Index
286.31
(CAIDI)
Number of metered residential customers served 2,588,510
IF-EU-000.A Number of metered commercial customers served 327,518
Number of metered industrial customers served 0
Total electricity delivered to (1) residential customers served 35,166
IF-EU-000.B Total electricity delivered to (2) commercial customers served 73,600
Activity Metrics
Total electricity delivered to (3) industrial customers served 0
Length of transmission lines 4,996
IF-EU-000.C
Length of distribution lines 63,803
Total electricity generated (MWh) 4,299,652
IF-EU-000.D
Percentage of electricity generated in regulated markets 100%
GAS UTILITIES & DISTRIBUTORS
Topic
Average retail gas rate for (1) residential, (2) commercial, (3) industrial CenterPoint Energy Texas Gas Rates & Tariffs
IF-GU-240a.1
Energy customers and (4) transportation services only CenterPoint Energy Indiana Gas Rates & Tariffs
Affordability Discussion of impact of external factors on customer affordability of gas,
IF-GU-240a.4 CenterPoint Energy 2023 Form 10-K: See Pages 19 - 23
including the economic conditions of the service territory
Percentage of gas utility revenues from rate structures that (1) are decoupled
IF-GU-420a.1 21%
or (2) contain a lost revenue adjustment mechanism (LRAM)
Customer gas savings from efficiency measures by market: Indiana (MCF/
300,626
Dth)
End-Use
Customer gas savings from efficiency measures by market: Ohio (MCF/Dth) 178,271
Efficiency
IF-GU-420a.2 Customer gas savings from efficiency measures by market: Minnesota (MCF/
2,009,051
Dth)
Customer gas savings from efficiency measures by market: Mississippi
30,045
(MCF/Dth)
Number of (1) reportable pipeline incidents 5
IF-GU-540a.1 Number of (2) Corrective Action Orders (CAO) 41
Number of (3) Notices of Probable Violation (NOPV) 50
Integrity of
Percentage of distribution pipeline that is (1) cast and/or wrought iron 0.04%
Gas Delivery IF-GU-540a.2
Infrastructure Percentage of distribution pipeline that is (2) unprotected steel 0.69%
IF-GU-540a.3 Percentage of gas transmission pipelines inspected 23%
Description of efforts to manage the integrity of gas delivery infrastructure, Safety
IF-GU-540a.4
including risks related to safety and emissions GHG Emissions
Number of: (1) residential customers served 4,010,113
IF-GU-000.A Number of: (2) commercial customers served 303,841
Number of: (3) industrial customers served 0
Amount of natural gas delivered to: (1) residential customers (Bcf) 199
Activity Metrics
IF-GU-000.B Amount of natural gas delivered to (2) commercial customers (Bcf) 418
Amount of natural gas delivered to: (3) industrial customers (Bcf) 0
Length of gas (1) transmission pipelines 1,257
IF-GU-000.C
Length of gas (2) distribution pipelines 84,378
132
EEI/AGA ESG TEMPLATE REPORT
EEI REPORT
Parent Company: CenterPoint Energy
Operating Company(s): CenterPoint Energy
Business Type(s): Vertically Integrated Electric Utility and Natural Gas Local
Distribution Company
State(s) of Operation: Indiana and Texas
Regulatory Environment: Both
Report Date: September 6, 2024
Comments,
Refer to the 'EEI Definitions'
Ref. Links, Additional
Tab for More Information on 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
No. Information, and
Each Metric
Notes
Portfolio
Owned Nameplate Generation
1 1,167 1,167 1,217 1,212 727
Capacity at End of Year (MW)
1.1 Coal 1,000 1,000 1,000 995 510
1.2 Natural Gas 160 160 160 160 160
1.3 Nuclear – – – – –
1.4 Petroleum – – – – –
Total Renewable Energy
1.5 – – – – –
Resources
1.5.1 Biomass/Biogas 3 3 3 3 3
1.5.2 Geothermal – – – – –
1.5.3 Hydroelectric – – – – –
1.5.4 Solar 4 54 54 54 54
1.5.5 Wind – – – – –
1.6 Other – – – – –
Net Generation for the Data Year
2 4,627,288 4,002,488 5,872,724 4,859,746 4,299,652
(MWh)
2.1 Coal 4,587,228 3,960,929 5,713,128 4,659,330 4,159,727
2.2 Natural Gas 21,863 24,432 46,064 79,795 31,776
2.3 Nuclear – – – – –
2.4 Petroleum – – – – –
Total Renewable Energy
2.5 – – – – –
Resources
2.5.1 Biomass/Biogas 10,724 9,685 10,284 9,810 9,116
2.5.2 Geothermal – – – – –
2.5.3 Hydroelectric – – – – –
133
2.5.4 Solar 7,473 7,542 103,248 110,811 99,033
2.5.5 Wind – – – – –
2.6 Other – – – – –
Capital Expenditures and Energy
3
Efficiency (EE)
Total Annual Capital Payments for capital
3.1 $2,506,000,000 $2,596,000,000 $3,164,000,000 $4,419,000,000 $4,401,000,000 expenditures, excluding
Expenditures (Nominal Dollars)
AFUDC equity.
Incremental Annual Electricity
3.2 Savings from EE Measures 260,265 244,794 275,155 262,285 227,478
(MWh)
Incremental Annual Investment
3.3 in Electric EE Programs $46,252,020 $46,364,706 $41,852,771 $42,824,651 $45,590,869
(Nominal Dollars)
Retail Electric Customer Count (At Reflects total numbers of
4 2,682,228 2,749,116 2,811,320 2,858,249 2,916,028
End of Year) metered customers.
4.1 Commercial 310,093 315,642 321,027 323,518 327,518
4.2 Industrial – – – – –
4.3 Residential 2,372,135 2,433,474 2,490,293 2,534,731 2,588,510
Emissions
GHG Emissions: Carbon Dioxide
5 (CO2) and Carbon Dioxide
Equivalent (CO2e)
5.1 Owned Generation (1) (2) (3)
5.1.1 Carbon Dioxide (CO2)
Total Owned Generation
5.1.1.1 – – – – –
CO2 Emissions (MT)
Total Owned Generation
5.1.1.2 CO2 Emissions Intensity (MT/ – – – – –
Net MWh)
Carbon Dioxide Equivalent
5.1.2
(CO2e)
Total Owned Generation
5.1.2.1 6,071,283 4,620,963 6,370,671 4,355,838 4,684,443
CO2e Emissions (MT)
Total Owned Generation
5.1.2.2 CO2e Emissions Intensity 1.12 1.31 1.15 1.08 0.90
(MT/Net MWh)
Non-Generation CO2e Emissions
5.4
of Sulfur Hexafluoride (SF6) (5)
SF6 emissions are reported
for CenterPoint Energy
Total CO2e Emissions of SF6 Houston Electric territory;
5.4.1 3,625 24,633 101,320 23,070 31,777 SF6 emissions for our Indiana
(MT)
service territory is below the
EPA GHG regulatory reporting
threshold.
Nitrogen Oxide (NOx), Sulfur
6
Dioxide (SO2), Mercury (Hg)
Generation Basis for Calculation
6.1 – – – – –
(6)
6.2 Nitrogen Oxide (NOx)
6.2.1 Total NOx Emissions (MT) 4,530 4,233 4,377 3,509 3,170
Total NOx Emissions Intensity
6.2.2 0.00098 0.00106 0.00075 0.00072 0.00074
(MT/Net MWh)
6.3 Sulfur Dioxide (SO2)
134
6.3.1 Total SO2 Emissions (MT) 4,643 3,912 5,162 4,708 3,974
Total SO2 Emissions Intensity
6.3.2 0.00100 0.00098 0.00088 0.00097 0.00092
(MT/Net MWh)
6.4 Mercury (Hg)
6.4.1 Total Hg Emissions (kg) 13.5 10.5 10.0 8.9 5.6
Total Hg Emissions Intensity
6.4.2 0.000003 0.000003 0.000002 0.000002 0.000001
(kg/Net MWh)
Resources
7 Human Resources
7.1 Total Number of Employees 9,429 9,541 9,418 8,988 8,827
Percentage of Women in Total
7.2 25% 24% 23% 25% 25%
Workforce
Percentage of Minorities in Total
7.3 35% 35% 36% 40% 42%
Workforce
Total Number of Board of The number of board members
7.4 9 10 9 9 11 reflects the year end of each
Directors/Trustees
year referenced.
Percentage of Women on Board
7.5 22% 20% 33% 22% 18%
of Directors/Trustees
Percentage of Minorities on
7.6 – – – – –
Board of Directors/Trustees
7.7 Employee Safety Metrics
7.7.1 Recordable Incident Rate 1.70 1.24 1.50 1.45 1.78
7.7.2 Lost-Time Case Rate 0.62 0.66 0.77 0.77 1.14
Days Away, Restricted and
7.7.3 1.03 1.00 1.15 1.12 1.48
Transfer (DART) Rate
Fresh Water Resources used
8 in Thermal Power Generation
Activities
Contributing factors include
the retirement of A.B. Brown
Water Withdrawals - Generating Station Units 1
and 2 in October 2023, as
8.1 Consumptive (Millions of 2,311 3,740 2,688 2,841 (3,403)
well as initiation of closure
Gallons) and dewatering of F.B. Culley
Generating Station, East Ash
Pond unit.
Water Withdrawals - Non-
8.2 Consumptive (Millions of 60,154 48,074.00 86,957 44,825 77,843
Gallons)
Contributing factors include
the retirement of A.B. Brown
Water Withdrawals - Generating Station Units 1
and 2 in October 2023, as
8.3 Consumptive Rate (Millions of 0.0005 0.00093 0.00043 0.00058 (0.00079)
well as initiation of closure
Gallons/Net MWh) and dewatering of F.B. Culley
Generating Station, East Ash
Pond unit.
Water Withdrawals - Non-
8.4 Consumptive Rate (Millions of 0.013 0.012 0.014 0.009 0.017
Gallons/Net MWh)
9 Waste Products
Amount of Hazardous Waste
9.1 Manifested for Disposal (Metric 138 396 85 106 13
Tons)
Percent of Coal Combustion
9.2 91% 84% 72% 78% 71%
Products Beneficially Used
135
EEI/AGA ESG TEMPLATE REPORT
AGA REPORT
Parent Company: CenterPoint Energy
Operating Company(s): CenterPoint Energy
Business Type(s): Gas Distribution
Texas, Minnesota, Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi,
State(s) of Operation:
Oklahoma, Indiana and Ohio
Regulatory Environment: Regulated
Report Date: September 6, 2024
Refer to the "Definitions" column
Ref.
for more information on each 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Notes
No.
metric.
Natural Gas Distribution
METHANE (CH4) EMISSIONS AND On January 10, 2022, CERC
1 MITIGATION FROM DISTRIBUTION – – – – – Corporation completed the sale of
MAINS its Arkansas and Oklahoma Natural
1.1 Number of Gas Distribution Customers 4,600,000 4,678,332 4,727,030 4,266,055 4,313,954 Gas assets.
1.2 Distribution Mains in Service – – – – –
1.2.1 Plastic (Miles) 57,107 58,187 59,969 52,145 53,285
Cathodically Protected Steel - Bare &
1.2.2 39,369 39,191 38,600 30,854 30,478
Coated (Miles)
1.2.3 Unprotected Steel - Bare & Coated (Miles) 1,118 972 858 703 578
Cast Iron / Wrought Iron - Without
1.2.4 134 114 80 59 37
Upgrades (Miles)
Plan/Commitment to Replace / Upgrade CenterPoint Energy continues to
1.3 Remaining Miles of Distribution Mains (# – – – – – upgrade pipelines across our service
Years to Complete) territory, further reducing methane
emissions and enhancing safety. We
Unprotected Steel (Bare & Coated) (#
1.3.1 118 146 114 155 125 are actively working to eliminate the
Years to Complete)
last remaining known cast-iron pipe,
Cast Iron / Wrought Iron (# Years to which is in our Indiana and Ohio
1.3.2 21 19 34 21 22
Complete) system, by 2025.
2 Distribution CO2e Fugitive Emissions – – – – –
CO2e Fugitive Methane Emissions from
2.1 541,004 533,572 519,567 424,657 418,945
Gas Distribution Operations (Metric Tons)
CH4 Fugitive Methane Emissions from
2.2 21,654 21,317 20,743 16,966 16,738
Gas Distribution Operations (Metric Tons)
CH4 Fugitive Methane Emissions from
2.2.1 1,129 1,110 1,080 884 872
Gas Distribution Operations (MMSCF/year)
Annual Natural Gas Throughput from Gas
2.3 Distribution Operations in Thousands of 726,681,357 660,839,141 667,859,592 657,754,404 623,640,146
Standard Cubic Feet (Mscf/year)
Annual Methane Gas Throughput from
2.3.1 Gas Distribution Operations in Millions of 690,347 627,797 634,467 624,866 592,458
Standard Cubic Feet (MMscf/year)
Fugitive emissions data for 2020-
2021 includes CenterPoint Energy's
Fugitive Methane Emissions Rate (Percent natural gas emissions from local
2.4 MMscf of Methane Emissions per MMscf 0.16% 0.18% 0.16% 0.14% 0.15% distribution companies, along with
of Methane Throughput) historical emissions for assets
acquired from Vectren Corporation
in 2019.
136
CENTERPOINT ENERGY CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
This report contains statements concerning our expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, strategies, initiatives, future operations, events, financial position, earnings, growth, costs, prospects,
capital investments or performance or underlying assumptions and other statements that are not historical facts. These statements are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements. You can generally identify our forward-
looking statements by the words “aim,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “commit,” “continue,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “focus,” “forecast,” “goal,” “increase,” “intend,” “may,” “objective,” “plan,” “potential,”
“predict,” “project,” “seek,” “should,” “target,” “will,” “would,” or other similar words. The absence of these words, however, does not mean that the statements are not forward-looking.
We have based our forward-looking statements on our management’s beliefs, expectations and assumptions, which are based on information available to our management at the time the statements
are made. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, changes in circumstances and assumptions that are difficult to predict and are often beyond our control and inherently
uncertain. Actual events and results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, and the actual conduct of our activities, including the development,
implementation, progress towards, continuation of, measurement and reporting of any goals, commitments, strategies, and initiatives discussed or forecasted in this report, may differ materially in the
future. Moreover, certain forward-looking statements included in this report are based on assumptions, standards, metrics, methodologies and frameworks for measurement, reporting and analysis
that continue to evolve and vary across jurisdictions and regulatory bodies, which may impact our future measurement and reporting, as well as the results of the efforts set forth in this report, and we
therefore cannot guarantee that the data set forth in this report will be consistent year-to-year.
Any statement in this report regarding future events, such as CenterPoint Energy’s GHG emission reduction goals, including its Net Zero and Scope 3 GHG emission goals, and its ability to achieve
such goals and related timing thereof, the advancement of and use of new technologies for alternative energy sources, CenterPoint Energy’s ability to achieve its generation transition, including
its energy transition goals, and the timing thereof, CenterPoint Energy’s ability to continue to modernize its distribution grid, executive management continuity and succession planning, future
board composition, corporate governance commitments, enterprise risk management, cybersecurity and data privacy, safety, human capital management, supply chain, social impact commitments,
environmental stewardship, strategic plans and value creation, capital investments (including with respect to renewables projects, mobile generation spend), business opportunities, future financial
performance and results of operations, renewable energy growth objectives and any other statement that is not historical fact are forward-looking statements. We caution you not to place undue
reliance on any forward-looking statements and that assumptions, beliefs, expectations, intentions and projections about future events may and often do vary materially from actual results.
There can be no assurance that our sustainability-related policies, procedures, initiatives and goals (including climate-related initiatives and goals) as described in this report will continue. CenterPoint
Energy is permitted to determine in its discretion that it is not feasible or practical to implement or complete certain of its sustainability-related policies, procedures, initiatives and goals based on
cost, timing or other considerations.
Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the provided forward-looking information include risks and uncertainties relating to: (1) CenterPoint Energy’s
business strategies and strategic initiatives, restructurings, joint ventures and acquisitions or dispositions of assets or businesses, including the announced sale of its Louisiana and Mississippi natural
gas local distribution company (LDC) businesses and the completed sale of Energy Systems Group, LLC, which we cannot assure will have the anticipated benefits to CenterPoint Energy; (2) industrial,
commercial and residential growth in our service territories and changes in market demand, including the effects of energy efficiency measures and demographic patterns; (3) CenterPoint Energy’s
ability to fund and invest planned capital and the timely recovery of CenterPoint Energy’s investments, including those related to Southern Indiana Gas and Electric Company’s electric transmission
and distribution service’s generation transition plan as part of its Integrated Resource Plan; (4) CenterPoint Energy’s ability to successfully construct, operate, repair and maintain electric generating
facilities, natural gas facilities, temporary emergency electric energy facilities (TEEEF) and electric transmission facilities, including complying with applicable environmental standards and the
implementation of a well-balanced energy and resource mix, as appropriate; (5) timely and appropriate rate actions that allow and authorize requested and timely recovery of costs and a reasonable
return on investment, including the timing and amount of recovery of TEEEF leases of CenterPoint Electric and Houston Electric, LLC (Houston Electric) and restoration costs relating to the May 2024
storm events and Hurricane Beryl, and requested or favorable adjustments to rates and approval of other requested items as part of base rate proceedings; (6) economic conditions in regional and
national markets, including changes to inflation and interest rates, and instability of banking institutions, and their effect on sales, prices and costs; (7) weather variations and other natural phenomena,
including the impact of severe weather events on operations, capital, legislation and/or regulations, such as seen in connection with the February 2021 winter storm event, the May 2024 storm events
and Hurricane Beryl; (8) increases in commodity prices; (9) volatility in the markets for natural gas as a result of, among other factors, armed conflicts, including the conflict in the Middle East and any
broader related conflict, and the conflict in Ukraine and the related sanctions on certain Russian entities; (10) disruptions to the global supply chain, including volatility in commodity prices, and tariffs
and other legislation impacting the supply chain, that could prevent CenterPoint Energy from securing the resources needed to, among other things, fully execute on its 10-year capital plan or achieve
its Net Zero (Scope 1 and certain Scope 2) GHG and carbon emissions reduction goals; (11) non-payment for our services due to financial distress of our customers and the ability of our customers,
including retail electric providers (REPs), to satisfy their obligations to CenterPoint Energy, Houston Electric and CERC, and the negative impact on such ability related to adverse economic conditions
and severe weather events; (12) public health threats and their effect on CenterPoint Energy’s operations, business and financial condition, its industries and the communities it serves, U.S. and world
financial markets and supply chains, potential regulatory actions and changes in customer and stakeholder behavior relating thereto; (13) state and federal legislative and regulatory actions or
developments affecting various aspects of CenterPoint Energy’s businesses, including, among others, the transmission and distribution system resiliency plan filed by Houston Electric with the Public
Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT), any actions resulting from the May 2024 storm events and/or Hurricane Beryl, energy deregulation or re-regulation, pipeline integrity and safety and changes in
regulation and legislation pertaining to trade, health care, finance and actions regarding the rates charged by our regulated businesses; (16) our ability to execute Houston Electric’s initial hurricane
preparedness and response action plan, as described to the PUCT on July 25, 2024, including enhancing the resiliency of Houston Electric’s electric system through various investments, improving
customer communications, and strengthening emergency response (17) direct or indirect effects on CenterPoint Energy’s facilities, resources, operations and financial condition resulting from
terrorism, cyberattacks or intrusions, data security breaches or other attempts to disrupt their businesses or the businesses of third parties, or other catastrophic events such as fires, ice, earthquakes,
explosions, leaks, floods, droughts, hurricanes, tornadoes and other severe weather events, pandemic health events or other occurrences; (18) risks relating to potential wildfires, including costs of
potential regulatory penalties and damages in excess of insurance liability coverage; (19) tax legislation, including the effects of the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) (which includes but is not limited to any
potential changes to tax rates, Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax imposed, tax credits and/or interest deductibility), as well as any changes in tax laws under the current or future administrations, and
uncertainties involving state commissions’ and local municipalities’ regulatory requirements and determinations regarding the treatment of excess deferred income taxes and CenterPoint Energy’s
rates; (20) CenterPoint Energy’s ability to mitigate weather impacts through normalization or rate mechanisms, and the effectiveness of such mechanisms; (21) actions by credit rating agencies,
including any potential downgrades to credit ratings; (22) matters affecting regulatory approval, legislative actions, construction, implementation of necessary technology or other issues with respect
to major capital projects that result in delays or cancellation or in costs that cannot be recouped in rates; (23) local, state and federal legislative and regulatory actions or developments relating to the
environment, including, among others, those related to global climate change, air emissions, carbon, waste water discharges and the handling and disposal of coal combustion residuals that could
impact operations, cost recovery of generation plant costs and related assets, and CenterPoint Energy’s Net Zero (Scope 1 and certain Scope 2) GHG and carbon emissions reduction goals; (24) the
impact of unplanned facility outages or other closures; (25) the sufficiency of CenterPoint Energy’s insurance coverage, including availability, cost, coverage and terms and ability to recover claims;
(26) the availability and prices of raw materials and services and changes in labor for current and future construction projects and operations and maintenance costs, including our ability to control
such costs; (27) impacts from CenterPoint Energy’s pension and postretirement benefit plans, such as the investment performance and increases to net periodic costs as a result of plan settlements
and changes in assumptions, including discount rates; (28) changes in interest rates and their impact on costs of borrowing and the valuation of CenterPoint Energy’s pension benefit obligation; (29)
commercial bank and financial market conditions, including disruptions in the banking industry, CenterPoint Energy’s access to capital, the cost of such capital, impacts on CenterPoint Energy’s
vendors, customers, and suppliers, and the results of CenterPoint Energy’s financing and refinancing efforts, including availability of funds in the debt capital markets; (30) inability of various
counterparties to meet their obligations to CenterPoint Energy; (31) the extent and effectiveness of CenterPoint Energy’s risk management activities; (32) timely and appropriate regulatory actions,
which include actions allowing securitization, for any hurricanes or other severe weather events, or natural disasters or other recovery of costs, including stranded coal-fired generation asset costs;
(33) acquisition and merger or divestiture activities involving CenterPoint Energy or its industry, including the ability to successfully complete merger, acquisition and divestiture plans on the timelines
we expect or at all, such as the proposed sale of our Louisiana and Mississippi natural gas LDC businesses; (34) CenterPoint Energy’s ability to recruit, effectively transition, motivate and retain
management and key employees and maintain good labor relations; (35) changes in technology, particularly with respect to efficient battery storage or the emergence or growth of new, developing
or alternative sources of generation, and their adoption by consumers; (36) the impact of climate change and alternate energy sources on the demand for natural gas and electricity generated or
transmitted by us; (37) the timing and outcome of any audits, disputes and other proceedings related to taxes; (38) the recording of impairment charges; (39) political and economic developments,
including energy and environmental policies under the current administration; (40) CenterPoint Energy’s ability to execute on its strategy, initiatives, targets and goals, including its Net Zero and carbon
emissions reduction goals and its operations and maintenance expenditure goals; (41) the outcome of litigation, including litigation related to the February 2021 winter storm event and Hurricane Beryl;
(42) obligations related to warranties, guarantees and other contractual and legal obligations; (43) the effect of changes in and application of accounting standards and pronouncements; (44) physical
and transition risks associated with climate change; (45) risks related to CenterPoint Energy’s public statements with respect to such matters that may be subject to heightened scrutiny from public
and governmental authorities related to the risk of potential “greenwashing,” i.e., misleading information or false claims overstating potential sustainability-related benefits; (46) risks that CenterPoint
Energy may face regarding potentially conflicting anti-sustainability initiatives from certain U.S. state, other governments or other actors; and (47) other factors discussed in CenterPoint Energy’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2024 and June 30, 2024, and other reports CenterPoint
Energy or its subsidiaries may file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Other unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this report could also have material
adverse effects on CenterPoint Energy, its operations, performance or the outcomes described in the forward-looking statements in this report.
While this report describes potential future events and matters that may be significant, and with respect to which we may even use the word “material” or “materiality,” the potential significance of
these events and matters should not be read as equating to “materiality” as the concept is used in connection with our required disclosures made in response to applicable rules and regulations,
including the rules and regulations of the SEC.
This report contains time-sensitive information that is accurate as of September 6, 2024. Some of the information in this report has not been audited or subject to any third-party assurance processes
and may be subject to change. Additionally, some of the data provided in this report may be estimated or reliant on estimated information, which are inherently imprecise, and we cannot guarantee
that estimates are identified as such in every instance. We undertake no obligation to update the information presented herein, except as required by law. CenterPoint Energy makes no representation
or warranty, express or implied, with respect to the accuracy, fairness, reasonableness or completeness of any of the information contained in this report and expressly disclaims responsibility or
liability therefore.
137
CENTERPOINT ENERGY CAUTIONARY STATEMENT (CONT’D)
Net Zero Disclaimer: CenterPoint Energy’s Scope 1 emissions estimates are calculated from emissions that directly come from its operations. CenterPoint Energy’s Scope 2 emissions estimates
are calculated from GHG emissions that indirectly come from its energy usage, but because Texas is in an unregulated market, its Scope 2 GHG estimates do not take into account Texas electric
transmission and distribution assets in the line loss calculation and exclude GHG emissions related to purchased power between 2024E-2026E. CenterPoint Energy’s Scope 3 emissions estimates
are based on the total natural gas supply delivered to residential and commercial customers as reported in the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) Form EIA-176 reports and do not take
into account the GHG emissions of transport customers and GHG emissions related to upstream extraction. While CenterPoint Energy believes that it has a clear path towards achieving its Net Zero
GHG emissions (Scope 1 and certain Scope 2) by 2035 goals, its analysis and path forward required it to make a number of assumptions. These goals and underlying assumptions involve risks and
uncertainties and are not guarantees. Should one or more of our underlying assumptions prove incorrect, CenterPoint Energy’s actual results and ability to achieve Net Zero Scope 1 and certain
Scope 2 GHG emissions by 2035 could differ materially from its expectations. Certain of the assumptions that could impact our ability to meet its Net Zero Scope 1 and certain Scope 2 GHG emissions
goals include, but are not limited to: GHG emission levels, service territory size and capacity needs remaining in line with company expectations (inclusive of changes related to the announced sale
of CenterPoint Energy’s Louisiana and Mississippi natural gas LDC businesses); regulatory approval of Indiana Electric’s generation transition plan; impacts of future environmental regulations or
legislation; impacts of future carbon pricing regulation or legislation, including a future carbon tax; price, availability and regulation of carbon offsets; price of fuel, such as natural gas; cost of energy
generation technologies, such as wind and solar, natural gas and storage solutions; adoption of alternative energy by the public, including adoption of electric vehicles; rate of technology innovation
with regards to alternative energy resources; CenterPoint Energy’s ability to implement its modernization plans for its pipelines and facilities; the ability to complete and implement generation
alternatives to Indiana Electric’s coal generation and retirement dates of Indiana Electric’s coal facilities by 2035; the ability to construct and/or permit new natural gas pipelines; the ability to procure
resources needed to build at a reasonable cost, the lack of or scarcity of resources and labor, the lack of any project cancellations, construction delays or overruns and the ability to appropriately
estimate costs of new generation; impact of any supply chain disruptions; changes in applicable standards, metrics, methodologies or frameworks; and enhancement of energy efficiencies. Please
also review the section entitled “CenterPoint Energy Cautionary Statement” included in this report.
138

