Innovating biomedical research
through science and technology
Corporate Citizenship Report 2023
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 2
Contents
Welcome to the Charles River Laboratories 2023 Corporate Citizenship Report. This report details
our progress across four strategic Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) pillars: Accelerate
Life-Saving Therapies; Lead with Integrity; Inspire our People; Protect our Planet. The report covers
all subsidiaries and operations for which Charles River has direct management control. We publish
our Corporate Citizenship Report every two years, and this report covers the period of 2022–2023.
Our previous report was published in April 2022.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data
3 11 23 39 59 66
About This Report 3 Accelerate Life-Saving Lead With Integrity 23 Inspire Our People 39 Protect Our Planet 59 Data Appendix 66
Therapies 11
CEO Message 4 Animal Welfare 24 Our People Strategy 40 Climate and GHG Emissions 60 GRI Content Index 66
Our Role in Global Healthcare 12
Our Company 6 Data Security and Privacy 27 Talent Acquisition 43 Responsible Supply SASB Index 78
Our Capabilities 15 Chain Management 63
Our Strategy 7 Governance 29 Total Rewards and Well-being 44 ESG Performance Data 80
Technology and Innovation 19
Our Corporate Citizenship Quality Assurance Employee Engagement
Other
Strategy 8 and Management 31 and Development 46
Memberships and
Our Public Goals 9 Compliance and Ethics 32 Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 49
Organizations 89
Human Rights 34 Health and Safety 52
Regulatory Affairs 35 Community Engagement
and Support 55
Risk Management 36
Business Resilience 37
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 3
About This Report
Our 2023 report is in accordance with the latest GRI The 2023 GHG and Energy Consumption Assurance • Employees: twice-yearly Pulse surveys, company
Universal Standards, as well as the Sustainability Letter, as well as any updated 2023 greenhouse gas portal and intranet, digital communications and
Our Alignment to the UN
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Biotechnology (GHG) emissions data, will be published later in 2024 social media, webcasts, town hall meetings,
Sustainable Development
and Pharmaceuticals Standard. These indices to the ESG Library on Charles River’s website. Our Charles River Helpline
Goals (SDGs)
can be found at the back of this document on full data disclosures can be found on p.66 of this • Clients and Partners: regular surveys, client panels
p.66–79. We have also aligned our approach with report, and the four data restatements from our 2021 and meetings, site visits, tradeshows and events,
the recommendations set out by the Task Force on Corporate Citizenship Report can be found on p.80. website and live chat, social media, digital portals, SDG 3 – GOOD HEALTH
AND WELL-BEING
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which We always welcome feedback and questions on and emails
will be available in a separate report later in 2024. our report and broader Corporate Citizenship strategy. As a leading global scientific
• Investors: annual shareholders meeting, quarterly
partner for drug research
For more information, please refer to the Corporate
earnings calls, U.S. Securities and Exchange
and innovation – from target
Report content is assured through an extensive internal
Citizenship section on our website or email us at discovery and non-clinical
Commission (SEC) filings, website, conferences,
review process, which includes executive oversight
development to market approval
corporatecitizenship@crl.com. As the leading
site tours, and direct engagement via email,
and subject matter reviews and validation. A third-party – we are proud that our work
scientific partner of choice, it is vital that we establish
telephone calls, and meetings has a positive impact on the
consultancy calculates our energy and our Scope
trusted relationships with our stakeholders. By building health, well-being, and quality of
• Suppliers: annual and periodic meetings with key
1, 2, and 3 emissions data using the Greenhouse
life of people around the world.
strong, mutual relationships that support our ESG
suppliers, and environmental survey of top suppliers
Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate Accounting and
practices, policies, and priorities, we are driving
• Government and Industry Associations:
Reporting Standard. A distinct and separate third-party
positive progress.
participation as panelists at policy meetings,
SDG 5 – GENDER EQUALITY
consultancy verifies the accuracy of this information.
Stakeholder Engagement industry association memberships and participation,
The GHG data presented represents information Operating as a responsible
compliance inspections, audits, and inquiries partner is essential to our
available as of December 31, 2023, including We identify stakeholder groups in coordination with
continued success. For us this
• Government Officials and Policy Makers: periodic
certain end-of-year estimates and assumptions. executive leadership and the Board of Directors
includes upholding fundamental
Historical estimates may be subject to revision. (Board), as well as subject matter experts (SMEs) engagement with global federal, state, regional, and human rights of all people across
our value chain and working hard
local policy makers and legislative and regulatory
and employee working groups across Charles River.
to promote a diverse, inclusive,
bodies to share our perspective on policies and
We regularly engage our stakeholders through both
and equitable culture.
regulations that impact our industry
formal and informal processes that allow us to identify
and proactively address emerging ESG needs, risks, • Local Communities: volunteer support and
SDG 13 – CLIMATE ACTION
and opportunities. Our key stakeholders and the philanthropic giving
primary ways in which we engage with them include: We are committed to reducing
our environmental impact across
our global footprint, through
both our long-term emissions
reduction commitments and
industry collaboration.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 4
CEO Message
At Charles River, we are motivated by a common Since publishing our previous Corporate Citizenship
purpose: Together, we create healthier lives. Report in early 2022, we have implemented new
ESG-driven initiatives and established additional
As the leading global scientific partner with an
long-term targets, as we continue to make progress
integrated, early-stage portfolio that spans the drug
toward our commitments.
research process from target discovery and non-
clinical development to market approval, Charles River Accelerate Life-Saving Therapies
is committed to being the preferred solution for our We help to make new therapies a reality for the
clients. We do this by collaborating with them from patients who need them, and we are committed to
target discovery through the manufacture of innovative, taking time out of the drug development timeline to
safe, and effective therapies for the patients who need deliver life-saving treatments. To achieve this, we are
them. The success of our strategy is demonstrated intensely focused on innovating scientifically, and
by the fact that we have worked on more than 80% broadening our portfolio of products and services to
of the drugs approved by the U.S. Food and Drug ensure our clients have access to emerging therapies
Administration (FDA) in the past five years. and technologies that help bring safe, effective
treatments to market faster (see p.13).
We are proud of the work we do and the integral role
we play in improving people’s lives. We believe that A significant area of focus for Charles River is our
every day each of us has the ability to lead by example digital transformation. We are combining our scientific
and be the difference. For more than 75 years, we have expertise with an innovative digital approach to
worked together to live our purpose and to contribute create insights that enable our clients to make better
to society – not only by accelerating the delivery decisions, faster. Through our continued investments,
of life-saving treatments, but also by operating our ongoing strategic partnerships, and implementation
business with integrity, supporting our people, serving of technology solutions such as our Apollo™ platform,
our communities, and safeguarding the planet. These we are accelerating the drug development process
commitments are the foundation of our success and (see p.12).
Charles River is demonstrating that we can
the key to our continued growth.
Lead with Integrity
make a meaningful impact – making us a
The Charles River Corporate Citizenship program, We take pride in our role as the scientific partner of
better company and a better corporate citizen. in alignment with our strategy, business model, choice, which has been achieved through the building
and core values, targets four strategic ESG pillars. of trust and confidence with our clients.
Our collective efforts are powerful, and our
influence is transforming our industry.”
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 5
Operating as a responsible partner is essential to and pursuit of ways to make a difference. In 2023, our Guided by our strong sense of purpose, we share
our success and longevity, and our focus on ensuring people volunteered an unprecedented amount – more a dedication and commitment to achieving positive
We are proud of the work we do and
respect for the fundamental rights of all people than 29,000 hours of their time – to support their local impact for all our stakeholders, including our clients,
the integral role we play in improving
across our value chain reflects that dedication. communities (see p.55). We continued to strengthen the patients who depend on us, and each other.
people’s lives. We believe that every
After publishing our Human Rights Statement aligned engagement by delivering an exceptional employee
For everyone at Charles River, that also means
day each of us has the ability to lead
to the U.N. Declaration of Human Rights and the U.N. experience through a distinctive culture and enhancing
promoting and supporting business practices that are
by example and be the difference.”
Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights, our leadership development opportunities (see p.46).
environmentally sustainable, socially conscious, and
we also became a signatory to the U.N. Global Our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are cultivating
aligned with sound corporate governance practices.
Compact (UNGC) in 2023 (see p.34). a sense of belonging and inclusion by bringing people
We are proud of our progress and achievements.
together from across the Company. Our ERGs have
For decades, we have embraced and invested in
grown to include nearly 4,000 employees spanning Charles River is demonstrating that we can make
the 3Rs principle (Replacement, Reduction, and
11 global groups (see p.51). a meaningful impact – making us a better company
Refinement) to provide a framework for performing
and a better corporate citizen. Our collective efforts
ethical animal research. We believe that advancing Protect our Planet
are powerful, and our influence is transforming
responsible science starts with a foundational At Charles River, we contribute meaningful solutions
our industry.
fourth R (Responsibility), developed specifically by to drive positive change within the healthcare sector.
Charles River, that ensures we are placing a lens of To do our part in promoting a sustainable workplace
Responsibility on everything we do, and continues and achieving meaningful energy conservation
to drive progress for the patients and animals that measures, we launched a series of public science-
depend on our work. We are committed to furthering based commitments in 2021 which cover our Sincerely,
the use of alternative tools and technologies, to Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions. Our plan also James C. Foster
maintain patient safety while reducing reliance on includes a target to utilize 100% renewable electricity Chair, President, and Chief Executive Officer
animal testing (see p.25). across our operations by 2030.
Inspire our People We have already achieved 100% renewable electricity
Our people are our best asset, and we strive to inspire across our regional operations in North America and
them to bring their best selves to work every day. Europe (see p.60). Furthermore, we have reduced
From day one, their involvement in our business has our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 37% over the last
a meaningful impact on patient outcomes and global five years (see p.60). We are immensely proud of our
healthcare, which is why we are passionate about progress and our continued focus on reducing our
supporting their ongoing success and satisfaction, environmental impact across our global footprint.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 6
Our Company
Global scale
We are committed to collaboration, responsibility,
and leadership within the global scientific
We are Charles River Laboratories research community. 21,800
employees worldwide
Charles River Laboratories is the leading global non- Read more about Our Capabilities on p.15
(including 20,400 full-time and
clinical drug development partner, with a mission to and Our Role in Global Healthcare on p.12.
1,400 part-time employees)
create healthier lives. We perform a vital role in the
Proven results
biomedical industry, providing essential products and 2,600
services to help pharmaceutical and biotechnology
• #1 market position globally in scientific professionals with
companies, government agencies, and leading academic
Research Models, Safety Assessment, advanced degrees
institutions around the globe to discover, develop, test,
and Microbial Solutions
and safely manufacture new therapies. To achieve this, >4,000
• Supported >80% of U.S. Food and Drug
we provide a full suite of products and services that span
biopharma clients
Administration (FDA)-approved novel drugs
from target identification and discovery through non-
over the last five years (2019–2023)
clinical drug development and manufacturing (see Our ~70%
• $4.13B revenue in 2023 and $3.98B in 2022
Capabilities on p.15).
of revenue from
biopharma industry
Our products and services help to identify and
determine the efficacy and safety of potential molecules
1 55
for future drug development, as well as support our
clients’ manufacturing activities, including our contract locations
development and manufacturing (CDMO) business.
>20
Our products and services play a significant role in
supporting fundamental scientific research to advance countries
the basic understanding of general biology and
HQ
life science.
headquartered in Wilmington,
As the partner of choice for our clients’ non-clinical
Massachusetts
drug research and development needs, we differentiate
ourselves through our broad portfolio, scientific expertise,
global scale, and excellent service. We enable our clients
to create a more flexible drug development model to
deliver innovative, safe, and effective medicines, which
enhances their productivity and efficiencies, reduces their
costs, and increases speed to market.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 7
Our Strategy We are passionate about our role in improving the quality of people’s lives and are committed to operating our business responsibly.
We are guided by our purpose that centers around the patients who rely on the life-saving treatments we are helping to develop,
the animals in our care, and our people and planet. To achieve this, our Corporate Citizenship strategy targets action across four key pillars.
Accelerate Life-Saving Therapies Lead with Integrity
Making accelerated, accessible therapies Making a positive impact on patients,
a reality for patients who need them. n g animals in our care, and communities
i
v
a L
S e where we work.
a
-
e d
f
Li
e
s w
i
i t
>80% e p 2023
h
t a
a r I
r e n
e h t
of drugs approved by the FDA over the last five years l T e Established a Responsible Animal Use Board
e
g
c r Committee and Office for Responsible Animal Use
i
c
t (ORAU) to expand commitment to animal welfare
A y
Together,
Go to pages 11–22 Go to pages 23–38
we create
healthier
Protect our Planet Inspire our People
lives
Operating our business responsibly and e Providing an exceptional employee
P l
p
promoting a sustainable future in the r experience where our people can learn,
o
o
t e
communities where we live and work. grow, and make an impact.
e P
c
t r
u
o o
u
37% r e 410K
r
P i
l p
a s
n n
e t I
reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions learning sessions completed by our employees,
on an absolute basis from 2018 to 2023 representing an average of 19 completed sessions
per employee
Go to pages 59–65
Go to pages 39–58
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CCHHAARRLLEESS RRIIVVEERR LLAABBOORRAATTOORRIIEESS || CCOORRPPOORRAATTEE CCIITTIIZZEENNSSHHIIPP RREEPPOORRTT 22002233 8
Our Corporate Citizenship Strategy
ESG Materiality Assessment
Aligned with the requirements of the Global Reporting
To objectively determine the ESG topics that matter Initiative (GRI), our evidence-based approach mapped
most to our business and stakeholders, we worked and prioritized ESG topics, risks, and opportunities
with an independent, third-party advisor in 2021 to in terms of their importance to Charles River and Our Top Ten
conduct a detailed ESG materiality assessment. our stakeholders to guide our Corporate Citizenship
ESG Material Topics
strategy, focus areas, and reporting priorities.
1 Animal Welfare
2 Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
OUR THREE-STEP PROCESS:
3 Cybersecurity and Data Privacy
In 2022, we partnered with an external firm to determine that our ESG material topics remained valid and
aligned to the GRI Universal Standards. As part of this process, we conducted an updated review of 4 Technology and Innovation
industry data, emerging trends, and peer benchmarking, which helped us to accelerate progress and led
5 Talent Attraction and Retention
us to grouping our new and existing ESG material topics under four strategic pillars (see Our Strategy).
Coverage of our top ten topics can be found throughout this report. 6 Supply Chain Management
7 Climate Change and GHG Emissions
1 2 3
8 Impact on Healthcare
IDENTIFYING TOPICS ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERS PRIORITIZING RESULTS 9 Employee Engagement and Development
• Evaluated 20 potential • Engaged with internal SMEs to • Assigned each topic a value
10 Quality Assurance and Management
ESG topics fine-tune topic list and identify based on importance to
possible impacts, risks, and Charles River’s business and
• Secured topic input from
opportunities across Charles stakeholders, to identify the
key internal and external
River’s value chain highest priority ESG topics
stakeholders
• Interviewed 26 internal and • Reviewed highest priority
• Analyzed industry, market,
external stakeholders topics to understand ESG
and regulatory data
reporting priorities
• Validated results and affirmed
• Conducted thorough review of
alignment on highest priorities
emerging trends
• Performed peer research
and benchmarking
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 9
Our Public Goals
Our long-term Corporate Citizenship goals are targeting key areas of our strategy. Our progress is as follows.1
CLIMATE CHANGE GOAL PROGRESS THROUGH 2023 OUR PEOPLE GOAL PROGRESS THROUGH 2023
37% 1%
Scope 1 and 2 Reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by Total Recordable Reduce TRIR by 50% from a baseline
2030 by 50% from a baseline year of 2018 REDUCTION Injury Rate (TRIR) year of 2018 REDUCTION
30% 42%
Scope 3 Reduce Scope 3 GHG emissions by 2030 Diversity, Equity, Increase women in VP+ roles to 45%
by 15% from a baseline year of 2019 INCREASE2 and Inclusion through 2025 ACHIEVED
92% 53%
Renewable Achieve 100% renewable electricity Maintain 50% women in manager roles
Electricity by 2030 ACHIEVED through 2025 ACHIEVED
Increase managers from
21%
underrepresented racial/ethnic groups
ACHIEVED
in the U.S. to 30% by 2025
KEY
Positive Progress
67
Achieve 71 as employee engagement
score for Belonging by 20253 ACHIEVED
Negative Progress
1 All data rounded to the nearest whole number. For detailed figures, see the ESG Performance Data table (p.80).
2 Increase in Scope 3 emissions due to increased supplier spending to support business growth. We will continue engaging with our suppliers in order to reach our 2030 commitment.
3 We continue to review feedback and develop relevant resources in support of this goal. Learn more about our focus on belonging (p.50).
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 10
Progress is... being part of your
family’s health recovery
It is not every day that you can say your job played a This was the case with Bob Zaccardi, who has
pivotal role in helping a family member recover from worked at Charles River for 39 years. Bob’s cancer
a health crisis – but working for Charles River, our diagnosis meant that he had to endure 16 weeks of
people have real life examples of doing just that. chemotherapy and was susceptible to fatal infection.
Having participated in an internal marketing campaign
Take Chris Lowrie, who joined Charles River as a
about therapies that Charles River had worked on,
scientist over 30 years ago. Always proud of his
Bob was familiar with the name of a drug prescribed
important role, Chris never thought he would see his
to him to help stimulate his white blood cell growth.
work hit so close to home. In 2012, Chris’s dad was
Bob never thought he would be a recipient of this
rushed to the hospital unexpectedly and diagnosed
drug, which would end up saving his own life.
with stage 4 cancer. Part of his treatment plan was
to take a new drug, which Chris soon realized was These are just a few of our Charles River Moments,
not only a drug he had worked on but one he had and they are the reason why we continue to do what
published a paper about. In the end, this very drug we do every day.
helped to extend his dad’s life by nearly five years –
and remains a powerful reminder for Chris of the
true impact of his work.
Similarly, when Louise Scott’s mother was diagnosed
There are 21,800 people who come
with ovarian cancer for the third time in 2014, she was
to work every day, all of whom may
concerned. However, when Louise was told that her
not be on the frontline in science,
mother would be put on an oral medication indicated
for certain types of advanced or recurrent ovarian but everything that they do is playing
cancer, she recognized the drug name. Her laboratory a vital role in saving people’s lives.
in Edinburgh had performed vital safety work to assist I appreciate them every day.”
in its approval. Nine years later, Louise’s mom remains
Bob Zaccardi, Senior Director Creative Services,
in remission.
Charles River
It is one thing to help your family with their cancer
journey, it’s different again when it is your own story.
Louise Scott and her mother
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 11
Accelerating Life-Saving
Therapies
Our Focus 85% +4,000
As the scientific partner of choice for our clients,
we accelerate life-saving therapies by helping them OF FDA APPROVED GLOBAL
DRUGS AND 80% OF BIOPHARMACEUTICAL
develop and deliver safe, effective, and responsible
RARE AND ORPHAN CLIENTS, INCLUDING
treatments as quickly as possible. Working with clients
DISEASE DRUGS IN THE 100 LARGEST
from discovery and early-stage development through 2023 WERE WORKED COMPANIES
ON BY CHARLES RIVER
the safe manufacture of life-saving therapies, we
recognize that every moment matters. By combining
our established expertise with digital solutions, we
can dramatically accelerate the delivery of innovative
>$4.5B
treatments for patients who need them.
INVESTED IN 25+
Our Aim
ACQUISITIONS
Every day we are innovating to reduce drug development SINCE 2012
timelines, enhance operational efficiencies, and accelerate
client decision-making.
Our ESG material topics in this area include:
Role in Global Healthcare (p.12)
Our Capabilities (p.15)
Technology and Innovation (p.19)
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 12
Our Role in Global Healthcare
SPOTLIGHT STORY
Innovating to Increase
Why It Matters Delivering Life-Saving
Together, we create healthier lives. To achieve this, Treatments, Faster the Use of New
we leverage the expertise, commitment, and passion We pride ourselves on being the scientific partner Alternative Methods
of our 21,800 employees to improve the health and of choice to accelerate biomedical research and
well-being of people across the globe. The discovery therapeutic innovation. Our goal is to deliver innovative, We are committed to delivering drugs
and development of new therapeutics is a long, safe, and effective medicines to the patients who need and therapies to patients faster, using
complex, and rigorous process. Various studies them quickly and efficiently, reducing time to market the most advanced alternative tools and
and reports estimate that it takes between 10 to 15 and lowering costs (see p.15 for Our Capabilities). technologies possible. One important way
years to develop a new medicine, with research and Our role in global health can be summarized we broaden our reach is to forge strategic
development costs estimated to be up to $2.5B. But by our emphasis on the following three areas: partnerships with companies whose
the past should not determine the future – and we Innovate, Accelerate, and Manufacture. next-generation technologies are rapidly
believe that change is not only possible, it is inevitable. accelerating healthcare outcomes.
Innovate: To be the Scientific Partner of Choice
As an established global leader that has partnered We are embracing the opportunity to lead our industry Our partnership with biotech company As a result, we can reduce our reliance
with clients across the drug development continuum in the next frontier of drug research and development Cypre is breaking new ground in the on animal testing while accelerating
for over 75 years, we understand the pivotal role we to better serve patients around the world. Through our development of 3D cancer models that patient diagnosis.
play in helping to transform our industry. To drive broad portfolio of high-quality products and services, recapitulate the complex tissue in and
Both Cypre and Valo Health are examples
meaningful change and make a significant contribution we partner with biomedical researchers to discover around tumors to identify new therapeutic
of the more than $200M in investments
to improving global health, we will continue to utilize new and impactful therapeutics. targets and open research to a whole new
we have made in the past three years
our scientific expertise, augmented by best-in-class generation of cancer drugs.
By leveraging the power of technology and innovation, in alternative method advancements.
services and technology, to collaborate and enhance
we are transforming every aspect of our business to Our partnership with Valo Health supports In 2024, we have launched the Alternative
connectivity with our clients, and speed up the
provide faster data, better application, more educated the evaluation of drug candidates early Methods Advancement Project (AMAP),
development process for new drugs and therapies.
results, and improved timelines. The launch of our in the development cycle, leveraging the which will enable us to chart our growth
The development of all approved COVID-19 vaccines flagship digital platform ApolloTM, provides clients with adoption of in-silico solutions that use purposefully and intentionally in support
is testament to what science, speed, and collaboration access to study data, milestones, documents, cost computational models to predict whether of reducing and replacing the use of
can deliver when we come together on a global estimates, and program planning tools to save time, a compound is likely to be efficacious or animals in medical research. AMAP will
scale to produce life-saving treatments. This matters reduce friction and barriers in preclinical studies, and toxic; how much of it will reach different strengthen and improve Charles River’s
because every minute, every hour, and every day we contribute to more efficient and effective processes organs; and how quickly it will be leadership position in alternatives and
can save in the process makes a difference to the lives (see p.20). metabolized to identify novel compounds. further highlights our decades-long
of patients and their families. commitment to animal welfare.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 13
Our Role in
SPOTLIGHT STORY Global Healthcare
CONTINUED
Valo Health
and LogicaTM
Being a partner of choice also means helping to Manufacture: To Treat, Develop and Support
The increasing complexity of therapeutics
break new scientific ground. Over the last two years, the Production of Advanced Therapies
and the vast quantity of data generated
we have continued to focus on contributing to the We provide comprehensive solutions to support
from the process of drug discovery and
areas of personalized medicine and rare diseases to biopharmaceutical manufacturers in the testing,
development requires the application
drive significant progress in these underserved areas. process development, and production of advanced
of computational tools. To drive rapid
In 2023, we worked on 80% of all rare and orphan therapies. This helps to ensure that our clients
progress, we partnered with Valo Health
disease drugs approved by the FDA. are consistently producing safe, high-quality,
in 2022 to develop LogicaTM – a joint
and regulatory-compliant products. We have
product that uses artificial intelligence Accelerate: To Bring Safer Drugs to Market, Faster
partnered with over 4,000 biopharma clients
(AI), a broad range of small molecule We deliver a flexible and efficient outsourced model for
across the globe, including each of the 100 largest
ID platforms, and deep drug discovery preclinical development to enable quick progression
biopharmaceutical companies.
know-how to deliver optimized and de- from lab to clinic. By embracing the opportunity to
risked preclinical leads and candidates support research across the drug discovery and The scale of our contribution is significant – and our
to clients. Promising candidates can development continuum, our mission is to identify manufacturing solutions reach a broad range of
then be delivered for further testing and novel solutions that solve one of the toughest barriers areas to achieve a targeted impact with reach. As an
readied for Investigational New Drug to new therapies: drug development timelines. example, our business conducted more than 38,000
(IND) applications. tests in 2023 to assess drug candidates for their safety
Our collaboration with Valo We strive to maintain the gold standard for outsourced
and to bring new therapies to market (see p.18).
is another step we’re taking drug development by adopting key technologies and
Since the Logica™ platform offers the
optimizing our processes. This includes accelerating Our Discovery Services and Biologics businesses
toward accelerating drug
potential to reduce optimization cycles
timelines around safety assessment studies, integrated have supported the development of 20 FDA-approved
discovery and development.
and assess compounds for risk much
drug development projects, Cell and Gene Therapy C&GT therapies and conducted more than 1,000
By leveraging disruptive,
earlier than traditionally possible,
(C&GT) projects, and microbial contamination testing. studies in the field.
it also presents us with the opportunity AI-powered tools, we can
to reduce the number of animal studies support our clients in more We are also enhancing speed and execution through
conducted in a typical program. quickly progressing their seamless access to real-time client data and data-
driven insights that leverage both scientific and
discoveries to the clinic.”
operational data. In 2022–23, we digitized our client-
Birgit Girshick, Executive Vice President, facing functions to deliver best-in-class solutions –
Chief Operating Officer, Charles River including the implementation of ApolloTM across our
businesses (see p.20 for more).
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 14
Our Role in
that develop differentiated treatments, we can enhance Advocacy Charles River is a founder of The 3Rs Collaborative,
Global Healthcare our scientific offering and expand our portfolio. We want to use our vast experience and industry- serving as both a Board and Gold–level member.
leading position to drive meaningful change in global We also collaborate with the Center for Alternatives
At the end of 2023, we held 27 active partnerships and
CONTINUED
healthcare. Leaning into our scientific expertise, to Animal Testing (CAAT) at Johns Hopkins. Public-
have invested more than $145M in partnerships and
we present at hundreds of industry events each private initiatives include participation in RiskHunt3r, a
licensing arrangements. Recent strategic partnership
year, publish posters with scientific outcomes, new European effort to develop a modular framework
highlights include:
Our Strategy for Growth
provide scientific webinars, and publish in scientific for animal-free, next-generation risk assessment
To achieve our purpose, we continue to enhance • Valo – partnering to transform the drug discovery publications. (NGRA) driven by world-leading experts from various
and expand our suite of products and services. process with integrated AI and LogicaTM disciplines, and the Virtual Human Platform for
We are also an active advocate for animal welfare and
We offer solutions by molecule type, research phase, • Cypre – human translatable in vitro platform for Safety Assessment (VHP4Safety).
the reduction and replacement of animals in research.
therapeutic area, and industry to ensure we are cancer immunotherapy using patient derived
targeting the areas our broad range of clients need tumor material
help to address (see Our Capabilities on p.15). Through
• Wheeler Bio – extending our antibody discovery
our robust mergers and acquisitions (M&A) strategy,
platforms into state-of-the-art integrated cell line
organic investment in our businesses, and our
development and manufacturing
strategic partnership model, we are well positioned for
• Vernal Biosciences – expanding our modality
continued future growth and evolution.
coverage to accelerate mRNA design and
manufacture
Mergers and Acquisitions
We invest through acquisitions, technology • Deciphex – partnering to lead preclinical pathology
partnerships, and internal development to obtain into a fully digital landscape, empowering our
access to new innovations and expertise to further pathologists with AI tools and delivering insights
accelerate pathways to improved healthcare outcomes. to clients faster
Since 2012, we have invested >$4.5B in more than
In addition to our M&A approach and strategic
25 acquisitions. These investments are focused on
partnerships, we have a robust strategy to establish
enhancing the breadth of our scientific capabilities,
Charles River as a preferred partner to emerging
expanding our global scale, and maintaining
venture capital (VC)-backed biotech companies and
leadership in advanced and emerging therapies.
extend our access to next-generation science and
Strategic Partnerships technology. In 2023, approximately 10% of our
Forming strong strategic partnerships positions annual revenue came from VC-backed businesses.
us to positively impact global healthcare through
collaboration. Our partnership strategy seeks to
strengthen our capabilities by adding relevant and
innovative technologies and capabilities to meet the
market’s evolving needs. By partnering with companies
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 15
Our Capabilities
Driving Progress Across the Drug Research and Development Continuum
Charles River is the scientific partner of choice to accelerate biomedical research and
therapeutic innovation across the drug research and development continuum. The following
Why It Matters
are the five main components that comprise the process to bring a drug to market. Charles
Today’s drug developer faces many unique challenges
River is an active partner in each of these areas within the research and development
and opportunities to develop new therapies that meet
continuum, with the exception of clinical trials:
the world’s medical needs. The drug development
landscape is ever changing, due to accelerating
technology, the introduction of new complex drug
Basic Research
modalities, evolving regulatory requirements, and high
Basic Research, the foundation of all scientific breakthroughs, improves our understanding of biology and
expectations for responsible non-clinical research.
advances knowledge of the life sciences. The results of these efforts can have broad reach and tremendous
Together, these factors can increase the level of impact, with results that improve the health and well-being of millions of people around the world.
uncertainty in determining an optimal strategy for clear
pathways to clinical trials and seeking market approval.
Discovery
Positive healthcare outcomes depend on the success
Discovery represents the earliest stages of drug research, which are directed at the identification, screening,
and speed with which drug developers can develop
and selection of a lead molecule for future drug development.
vital interventions that contribute to the betterment
of human and animal health.
Preclinical Testing
To tackle these challenges, Charles River partners with
Preclinical Testing determines the safety, tolerability, and clinical efficacy of selected drug candidates. During the
clients from discovery and early-stage development
non-clinical stage, a drug candidate is tested in vitro (nonanimal, typically on a cellular or sub-cellular level in a
through the safe manufacture of life-saving therapies to
test tube or multi-well petri plate) and in vivo (in research models) to establish drug safety prior to and in support
deliver long-term clinical success. Our unique portfolio
of human clinical trials.
of products and services, supported by outstanding
customer support, enables drug developers to access
our deep scientific expertise to achieve faster and Clinical Development
more cost-effective results. Clinical trials are the culmination of years of work, as potential drug candidates move into the three phases of
human clinical trials. Timing is vital to a clinical trial’s cost-effective execution, and clients can front-load clinical
timelines as early as the preclinical phase.
Manufacturing and Commercialization
Contract manufacturing and support services ensure the quality, safety, and regulatory compliance of client
products over the long term and promote the optimum use of resources.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 16
Our Capabilities
Cell Solutions
UNIQUE AND SCIENTIFICALLY DIFFERENTIATED PLATFORM
Our Cell Solutions business supplies controlled,
CONTINUED
Our Capabilities consistent, customized primary cells and blood
Our Business Segments
Charles River’s unique and scientifically differentiated platform delivers products and components derived from normal and mobilized
services across three key areas: Research Models and Services; Discovery and Safety peripheral blood and bone marrow to support the
Assessment; and Manufacturing Solutions. Each business segment targets a key phase Research Models and Services (RMS) development and production of cell therapies.
of the drug research and development continuum to drive progress across the drug Our RMS business helps clients research, discover,
development journey. and develop vital new therapies through our network
RMS Products and Services
of commercial breeding facilities, rigorous genetic
+ Research Animal Models
standards, and core values of animal welfare and
+ Research Animal Diagnostic Services (RADS)
biosecurity. We operate three core businesses:
+ Genetically Engineered Models and Services
Research Products
(GEMS)
We are the global leader in the production of the most
+ Surgery and Preconditioning Services
widely used small research models and associated
RESEARCH MODELS DISCOVERY AND MANUFACTURING + Genetic Testing Services
services. With a global footprint that ensures proximity
AND SERVICES SAFETY ASSESSMENT SOLUTIONS
+ Human Immune Cell Sourcing and Services
to major bio hubs around the world, we provide
Global leader in the Largest global partner Full-service process
+ Vivarium Staffing and Training Services (IS)
foundational tools that enable clients to discover new
production of the most for outsourced drug development, clinical-
+ CRADLTM Rentable In Vivo Vivarium Space
molecules. Our consistent, high-quality research
widely used small discovery, non-clinical to-commercial
research models and development, and manufacturing, and models are an essential, regulatory-required, low-cost
associated services regulated safety testing quality-control testing scientific tool for drug discovery.
services products and services
~1 OF 2 200+
Foundational tools
Services
that enable clients Enabling preclinical Ensuring the
We deliver flexible and unique services that support small research GMP-compliant
to discover new success and efficiently quality and safety
models sold in North products using cells
our clients’ use of research models in the screening
molecules advancing ideas into of manufacturing
America and Europe from a donor source to
of potential drug candidates. These are provided
the clinic activities and
for preclinical support clinical-phase
commercial therapies through three service offerings: Genetically Engineered research come from manufacturing of cell
Charles River therapies for patients
Models and Services (GEMS), Insourcing Solutions
(IS), and Research Animal Diagnostic Services (RADS),
~30 3,600+
which address the need for pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies to outsource the non-core CRADLTM facilities genetically modified
managed by IS as GEMS strains cared
aspects of their drug discovery activities.
of year-end 2023 for in an average week
comprises the largest through full-service
Basic Drug Non-Clinical Clinical Market Commercial
global network of colony management
Research Discovery Development Development Approval Manufacture
contract vivaria facilities programs
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 17
Our Capabilities
Safety Assessment (SA)
DSA Products and Services
We provide a full suite of safety studies that are
CONTINUED
Discovery Services
required for regulatory submission across a broad
+ Integrated Drug Discovery
range of therapeutic areas.
Discovery and Safety Assessment + LogicaTM – Transformative Drug Discovery
Our DSA business enables preclinical success and • We are global leaders in non-regulated and
+ Antibody Discovery Services
efficient advancement of potential ideas into the clinic. regulated (GLP) outsourced SA services supporting
+ Pharmacology Studies
We are the largest global partner of outsourced drug small and large molecules, biologics, cell and gene
+ Assay Development, Screening and
discovery, non-clinical development, and regulated therapies, agrochemicals, industrial chemicals,
Profiling Assays
safety testing services with a dedicated staff of over and novel products
+ Chemistry
1,200 scientists. We have two businesses in this area: • Our broad scientific capabilities include general
+ Pharmaceutical Sciences and Formulation
and specialty toxicology, bioanalysis, pathology,
+ ADME Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics
Discovery Services safety pharmacology, drug metabolism and
(DMPK) Studies
We provide a single source of services for discovering pharmacokinetics (DMPK) services
and characterizing novel drug candidates for preclinical Safety Assessment Services
• We hold the industry’s largest toxicology
development. + IND-Enabling Studies
offering, from inhalation to developmental and
+ Toxicology Services
reproductive toxicology
• Our early discovery, in vivo and in vitro capabilities
+ SEND – Standard for Exchange of
drive candidate discovery, and we have dedicated
Nonclinical Data
expertise in most major therapeutic areas, with
+ Pathology Services
a focus on oncology and neuroscience
+ Environmental Safety
• Our integrated programs feature the ability to
+ Laboratory Sciences
engage clients at any stage of their discovery or >100 ~300
+ Scientific and Regulatory Affairs Services
early-stage development programs
small and large completed
• Our broad capabilities extend across small molecule pre-clinical Investigational New
molecule discovery, antibodies, and C&GT candidates delivered Drug (IND) programs
to our clients conducted each year,
since 2001 with 1,500 IND studies
supported in 2023
>480 >290
patents for specific scientific journal
scientific findings publications
generated for our co-authored and
partners since 2001 published since 2002
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 18
Our Capabilities
Biologics Testing Services
MFG Products and Services 1ST 38,000+
We provide process development and quality-control
CONTINUED
Microbial
testing to support the manufacture of biologics. CDMO in North biologic testing
+ Endosafe® Bacterial Endotoxin Testing
America to receive reports sent each
• We are a premier partner in navigating the complex
+ Celsis® Rapid Microbial Detection EMA approval to year, supporting
Manufacturing Solutions
pathway to biologic effectiveness produce an allogeneic more than
+ Accugenix® Microbial Identification and
Our Manufacturing Solutions business offers full-
cell therapy drug for 40 commercial
• We support developers and manufacturers with
Strain Typing
service process development, clinical-to-commercial distribution in Europe client compounds
their testing, characterization, and cell bank
manufacturing, and quality-control testing products Biologics Testing Services
manufacturing needs 20 >20M
and services, to ensure the highest quality and safety + Viral Clearance Studies
• We conduct testing and assay development
of manufacturing activities and commercial therapies.
+ Protein and Cell Line Characterization FDA-approved C&GT FDA-licensed
throughout drug development, clinical, and
We have three businesses in this area: therapies supported cartridges for use
+ Cell Banking
commercial manufacturing through development with Endosafe® rapid
+ Contamination and Impurity Testing
and >1,000 studies bacterial testing
Microbial Solutions
+ Lot and Final Drug Product Release Testing conducted in the field platforms sold since
Our rapid testing platform for microbial quality control Cell and Gene Therapy (C&GT) CDMO Services
product launch
+ Stability Testing
detection and identification of sterile and non-sterile We are a leading scientific partner for C&GT
in 2003
+ Bioactivity and Impurity Testing
applications drives the safe production and release development, testing, and manufacturing.
of manufactured products for our clients. Our unsurpassed end-to-end offering creates + Anti-Infective and Vaccine Challenge Studies
• We are a leading provider of quality-control (QC) enhanced access to scientific and regulatory Cell and Gene Therapy (C&GT) CDMO
testing products and services expertise via our multidisciplinary bench of experts. Services
• We provide FDA-mandated lot release testing for • We offer solutions across all major CDMO platforms + Integrated Cell and Gene Therapy Contract
biopharmaceutical products for C&GT Development and Manufacturing Organization
(CDMO) Solutions
• We support our clients with market-leading • We hold primary expertise in gene-modified cell
platforms such as: Endosafe® endotoxin detection; therapy with growing capabilities in gene therapy, + Cell Therapy, Viral Vector, and Plasmid DNA
Accugenix® microbial identification and strain typing; including plasma DNA and vital vectors Production
and Celsis® rapid microbial detection • Provide integrated value chain from foundational + Research, High Quality (HQ), and GMP Grade
cellular materials through analytical testing and the Materials
production of advanced therapies + Cellular Material for Research and GMP
Human Cells
+ Plasmid and Viral Vector Products
+ Viral Vector Packaging Services
+ Custom Cloning
+ Genetic Model Creation
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 19
Technology and Innovation
SPOTLIGHT STORY
Why It Matters
basis, including progress on ongoing technological
Advancements in technology and innovation are at investments and initiatives, and an overview on the
the forefront of global drug research and development. Company’s broader information security program.
Our collective efforts are powerful, and together we The Board is responsible for ensuring appropriate
are working with purpose and speed to make life- management of risk covering the areas of technology,
saving therapies available to help patients around innovation, and cybersecurity.
the world. By harnessing the power of technology,
Quarterly planning sessions are conducted with
we are working to accelerate early-stage
Driving Digital
senior leaders to report progress, define next steps,
development timelines and take time out of the
and request additional resources for our technology Pathology Solutions
drug development process.
programs. Planning sessions are open to all
Technology is constantly evolving – and it is vital that leaders across the organization to ensure ongoing
our people, processes, and systems work together input, collaboration, and oversight into our digital Digital pathology is an exciting technology clients – in turn, giving them access to
to adapt. The digital revolution is inspiring us to push transformation program. that revolutionizes the way pathologists the most advanced preclinical pathology
the envelope to ensure we offer the best science analyze biological samples and make program in the industry.
to our clients and leverage digital innovation and a diagnosis. Instead of transporting
Now, we are collaborating with Deciphex
new platforms to drive long-term value in a way that traditional glass (in vitro) slides to
Enablers and Capabilities to develop exclusive AI models that will
augments and continuously improves science. pathologists, samples are scanned and
further accelerate digital pathology reviews.
converted into high-resolution digital
Through our Global Technology and Digital Strategic Launched in 2023 at our new Charles River
Agile operating images for examination anytime, anywhere
plan, our ambition is to evolve Charles River into the Investment in talent site in Kansas, deep learning AI algorithms
model driving rapid
and capabilities in the world.
decision-making
digitally-native scientific partner of choice for our will be utilized to provide decision support
clients. We will continue to implement best-in-class In 2020, we partnered with leading digital for pathologists and automate select
technologies that optimize internal processes into pathology software-as-a-service provider processes in the digital pathology workflow.
digital-first solutions to deliver innovative, safe, and Deciphex, to integrate their product
Analytics capabilities We are also using our digital pathology
Metrics and KPIs
effective treatments to patients quickly and effectively. to unlock value of Patholytix Preclinical into our general
aligned to aspirations
workflow in support of animal welfare.
clients’ data
and specialized pathology services.
Ultimately, digitized slides will be a part
Management Approach
Over the last two years, we have
of Virtual Control Group data sets, which
Our Global Technology and Digital Strategic Plan is successfully operationalized a state-of-
will reduce the number of animals used
managed by our Corporate Senior Vice President, Modernized the-art digital peer review platform and
Prioritized investment
technology assets in studies by utilizing historical data and
portfolio with focus
Chief Information Officer (CIO) in collaboration with co-developed deep-learning tools that
to turn digital vision
only on what matters digital images instead of animals.
into reality
key business and functional leaders. Updates on the accelerate pathology analytics for our
strategy are presented to the Board on a quarterly
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 20
Technology and Innovation
Global Technology and Digital Strategic Plan Scientific
Our vision is to become the digitally-native trusted By looking at the use of data, analytics, and
CONTINUED
scientific partner of choice by integrating our unrivalled automation to continuously improve scientific
expertise, seamless offerings, and digital delivery to outcomes, we provide our customers with tools that
our clients. To achieve this, we are working to bridge help them expedite their drug development journeys.
the gap between traditional drug discovery and This is why we are investing heavily in creating more
digital science – and to develop and refine innovative efficient workflows and viable solutions that can solve
solutions that improve human health and animal welfare. complex problems more efficiently. In the last two
years alone, new technologies like our Endosafe®
Our Global Technology and Digital Strategic plan
cartridge deliver safer solutions for patients, and
covers five areas that embed technology and innovation
in vivo implantable microdevice technologies
in everything that we do:
enhance tumor studies to improve healthcare outcomes.
Commercial
Operational
We want to help our customers understand more
To sustain our global footprint and drive
about the drug development journey and learn how
operational leverage, we must continue to focus
we can help them at the right time and provide them
more time on science, while easing the burden of
with the tools they need. In 2022–23, we continued
administrative tasks. In doing so, we can accelerate
to rapidly strengthen our commercial offering to
the delivery of innovative, safe, and effective treatments.
provide cutting-edge solutions across a broad range
Our digital journey combines, unites, and extracts
of therapeutic areas. This includes the launch of digital
value from the data generated across our operations
commercial solutions like RMS e-commerce and the
to sustain and advance our market position. Nowhere
ApolloTM Biologics sample submission form. Through
is this clearer than in the launch of ApolloTM, our
the delivery of high-impact technology like Apollo™,
industry-leading cloud-based platform for real-time
Charles River is enabling data-driven decision-making
data solutions.
that creates value for our clients by creating efficiencies
in the drug development process.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 21
Technology and Innovation
SPOTLIGHT STORY
CONTINUED
Virtual Control Groups
To further enhance our operational model, we achieved
ISO 27001 certification in 2023 for our Information Technology is helping to rapidly reshape drug
Security Management Systems (ISMS) to ensure the development. From the use of AI to the growth
protection and integrity of client information and data. of analytical tools and Agile workstreams, the
In 2023, Forbes named Charles River as one of pharmaceutical industry is in the midst of a significant
America’s Most Cybersecure Companies in 2023 digital transformation. But technology can also help
(see p.27 for more). us meet our animal welfare objectives – and focus
on our 4Rs model of Reduction, Replacement,
General and Administrative (G&A)
Refinement, and Responsibility in important ways
Our focus within G&A involves digitizing and
(see more on p.25).
automating our internal processes to continue to make
Charles River a company where colleagues can spend We recently began a pilot project to evaluate the use of
more time on high-value analysis and strategies and virtual control groups (VCGs) as an alternative to using
less time on manual, transactional work. animals in toxicity studies. VCGs replace the animals
in testing control groups with existing randomized
Key initiatives include enhanced, digitally enabled
data sets and statistical evaluations. The use of VCGs,
financial planning and analysis; digitization across
also referred to as synthetic control arms, is already
the employee hire-to-retire journey; and technology
an established concept in clinical research, but rare in
simplification, automation, and leveraging of
animal studies.
the cloud to create more secure, resilient, and
efficient processes. Through this process, we plan to replace rat and
non-human primate (NHP) control groups with VCGs
Cultural
that are built with quality data from large and well-
By adopting a mindset of design-thinking we are
structured randomized data sets. The long-term goal By delivering high-impact technology that gives
constantly targeting ways to do what we do better.
of the VCGs is to reduce animal usage, increase
clients greater access to data, we are enabling
Since the launch of ApolloTM, we have responsibly
statistical power, and free up capacity not utilized
data-driven decision-making that creates value for
grown our organization in line with overall corporate
by control animals.
growth to ensure we have industry-leading talent in their businesses and reaching our goal of creating
place to meet our digitally-native focus. We are also
efficiencies in the drug development process.”
targeting new talent through our recruitment process
to ensure we have the best technical team at hand to Mark Mintz, Senior Vice President,
achieve our digital aspirations. Chief Information Officer, Charles River
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data 22
Progress is... speeding up drug
discovery for nano-rare diseases
Susannah was born with a single gene mutation that Susannah started her new course of medication
causes her significant movement disorder, seizures, in the fall of 2022. By December of that same year,
speech, and vision challenges, as well as a painful she began to show signs of improvement. Most
neuropathy in her hands and feet. For her family, significantly, she could stand from a seated position,
having a child with nano-rare disease is distressing, demonstrating a level of coordination and muscle
especially as there is often little to no research that control previously absent. In 2023, she continued to
exists for these types of diseases and rarely any receive treatment and was able to do activities that
therapeutic options that address their cause. were previously not possible, including swimming
A nano-rare disease is a disease that is even rarer and kicking her legs independently. Most profoundly,
than a rare disease, with a prevalence of 1 to 30 Susannah has been able to focus more, engage with
patients worldwide. In most cases, a nano-rare her peers and others in more meaningful ways,
patient is the only one in the world with the disease. and can now actively participate in school.
In line with our mission to create healthier lives,
we reduce drug development timelines to deliver
safe and innovative new treatments for patients
Susannah may be one in a million,
in partnership with organizations like the n-Lorem
even one in fifty million, but that
Foundation. This innovative non-profit organization
helps to discover, develop, and provide personalized doesn’t mean we leave her behind.”
antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) medicines to
Bill Barbo, Executive Vice President,
patients for free, for life. When n-Lorem approached
Community Relations, Charles River
us, they had already completed the discovery and
lead identification in Susannah’s program, which they
wanted us to test through a three-month safety study
on Susannah’s lead ASO. This work was run out of
our site in Senneville, Canada and – due to the rapid
progression of the disease – our team focused on
an accelerated pathology evaluation to urgently help
Susannah access treatment.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 23
Lead With Integrity
Our Focus Our ESG material topics in this
ISO
We lead with integrity by cultivating an area include:
environment with the highest standards for
27001
Animal Welfare (p.24)
quality, compliance, and ethics. In doing
Data Security and Privacy (p.27)
so, we build trust with our clients, partners, CERTIFICATION
Governance (p.29) ACHIEVED FOR
investors, suppliers, and communities
INFORMATION SECURITY
Quality Assurance and
around the world.
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Management (p.31)
We believe that by leading with integrity, Compliance and Ethics (p.32)
we set an example for the practices we Human Rights (p.34)
want to see in our industry. Moreover, our
Regulatory Affairs (p.35)
36%
focus on compliance, ethics, human rights,
Risk Management (p.36)
animal welfare, and operational excellence
Business Resilience (p.37)
36% BOARD
allows us to attract and retain exceptional
REPRESENTATION
talent while continuing to advance
OF WOMEN AND
responsible science. INDIVIDUALS FROM
UNDERREPRESENTED
RACIAL AND ETHNIC
Our Aim
GROUPS (UREGS), AS OF
To demonstrate an uncompromising YEAR-END 2023
commitment to build and maintain
value, trust, and accountability through
transparency, strong governance,
and sound ethics and compliance.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 24
Animal Welfare
Why It Matters Management Approach
organisms. Our portfolio of proven research models Our Global Animal Welfare and Training (GAW&T)
The humane treatment of animals in our care is one and services enable our clients to responsibly Our Board and Executive Leadership team receive group is formed of 11 professionals who are
of our deepest and most unwavering values. Animals manage study conduct and data outcomes as a regular reports on our programs, initiatives, and committed to upholding animal welfare throughout
are essential to our shared understanding of disease critical component of the research and development performance regarding animal welfare. These are the organization. They are supported by a network
progression and biological mechanisms, as well as of therapeutics. provided to our newly established Board Committee, of Animal Welfare Specialists that include 330+
drug safety and efficacy. Before any drug or therapy the Responsible Animal Use Committee, who hold veterinarians and 4,000+ animal care professionals
With over 75 years of experience in supplying
is brought to market, strict regulations require animal responsibility for reviewing, evaluating, and advising who hold expertise in laboratory animal medicine
researchers with laboratory animals that improve
testing models to identify any health or safety risks the Board and management on responsible animal and science, training, and ethics. This approach
the quality and consistency of preclinical research,
and effectiveness. When animal models are required, use. The Committee is supported by the Office of ensures accountability from every site – with over 80
we have a long track record of robust animal welfare.
they are regulated to ensure responsible, ethical, Responsible Animal Use (ORAU), which oversees our locations globally reporting into GAW&T. We encourage
Our commitment advances responsible science,
and humane care. commitment to driving scientific advancement to better employees to raise any concerns through anonymous
improves research and development outcomes,
translatable models, replacing and reducing animal feedback mechanisms such as the Charles River
As a leading provider of drug development products and creates a positive, healthy workplace for our
use, and ensuring patient safety. The ORAU consists Helpline (see p.33). All concerns are reviewed by
and services, we understand that many of the ground- employees and the animals in our care.
of executive leaders who manage all activities within corporate experts to ensure that any identified
breaking treatments our clients develop require live
our animal welfare program. issues are resolved quickly and effectively. We also
have a robust risk-management process that is
At a site and divisional level, our recently updated 4Rs
supported by regular visits to facilities, mandatory
program of Replacement, Reduction, Refinement, and
training on animal welfare, and a suite of voluntary
Responsibility forms a critical component of our annual
educational opportunities.
strategic planning process, and we require all business
unit leaders to provide quarterly reports on their results
and progress. These plans are overseen by our 3Rs
Global Advisory Working Group, our ORAU, and our
animal oversight and welfare bodies who monitor site
progress, establish procedures, and review relevant
study protocols.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 25
Animal Welfare
• Care of Employees Working with Animals
OUR 4RS MISSION
Our Compassion Science Program ‘C.A.R.E.S.’
CONTINUED
(Compassion, Awareness, Resilience, Engagement, Since Russell and Burch’s conception of the 3Rs in the 1960s, there has been an
and Support) promotes self-care and well-being in active pursuit to replace, reduce, and refine the use of animals in drug development
Creating a Culture of Care
our people. Through a holistic set of initiatives, our and to create new technologies that may, in time, eliminate the use of animals
We are committed to advancing responsible science,
program provides meaningful support and helps altogether. To achieve this, a collaborative spirit is needed to shape policy and
improving research and development outcomes,
personnel to recognize signs of compassionate regulation within the broader research community.
and creating a positive, healthy workplace for
stress in themselves and others.
our employees and the animals in our care. We We have a long and proud history of investing in and embracing the components
• Scientific Quality
actively work with industry partners to identify new of the 3Rs model when conducting animal research. We also want to adapt to new
We know that industry-leading animal welfare
technologies, and we support efforts by global realities within the biomedical research industry in a forward-thinking way. With an
matters, both ethically and scientifically. Animals
regulatory bodies to advance solutions that replace increased focus on the rapid development of more complex drugs using both in vivo
that are healthier, happier, and better taken care
and reduce the use of animals in non-clinical research. and in vitro methods, Charles River added a fourth “R” to the 3Rs model in 2023,
of provide more reliable scientific results. We drive
to bring a renewed focus to our ongoing commitment to Responsibility, and the
We seek to create a Culture of Care that prioritizes responsible science further and faster by funding
responsible use of animals:
the compassionate treatment of animals under our organizations and projects that support education
care as well as the professionals who work with them. and training through the Charles River CHARTER
These principles are mapped against our values, which Program for Lab Animal Welfare.
all employees receive training on. We prioritize action
• Openness and Transparency
across four key areas:
We comply with expected standards of practice,
REPLACEMENT REDUCTION REFINEMENT
legislation, and guidance for the care and use of
• Care of Animals Replacement and investing Collaborating with clients on Developing procedures
laboratory animals across our global jurisdictions. in technology alternatives study design and planning that significantly reduce
We have the utmost duty to ensure the responsible
We also participate in voluntary oversight programs, to animal models, like to minimize the use of animal impacts on animals such as
treatment of animals within our care. We manage
Endosafe® Trillium® models, like reduction in the less invasive identification
such as AAALAC International, to assess our
this through our Corporate Policies, Humane Care
recombinant technology, use of spare animals, JET methods, harmonized
compliance through evaluations of our facilities and
Initiative (HCI), Behavior Management Programs,
in vitro oncology models, studies, and validating Virtual blood collection guidelines,
practices. We have signed transparency agreements
ORAU, and GAW&T teams. Through these in silico approaches Control Groups species-appropriate social
in the U.K., Netherlands, Germany, and France that
mechanisms, we have established expectations for housing, and species-specific
specify our commitment to enhancing transparency habituation trainings
excellence in animal care and management across
and education. Please refer to our Animal Welfare
the organization.
and Humane Treatment of Animals Policy for
RESPONSIBILITY
more information.
Leading progressive change within the industry regarding animal use through
cooperative efforts internally, with clients, and with regulatory agencies
Charles River’s office for Responsible Animal Use (ORAU) was established in 2023 and is made up of dedicated
teams committed to driving scientific advancement, reducing animal use, and ensuring patient safety.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 26
Animal Welfare
SPOTLIGHT STORY
CONTINUED
SPOTLIGHT STORY
Driving Scientific
New Alternative Methods (NAMs)
Advancement Through
Eliminating the use of animals in research is a
In Vitro Solutions
complex challenge with many factors to consider.
While there have been significant advancements in
We continue to invest in innovation to broaden
the development of in vitro methods, the complete
our reach through strategic partnerships for
elimination of animals in research is likely a gradual
cutting-edge technologies that promote in vitro
process that will take many years, if not decades,
methods. This includes investments in non-
to achieve.
animal technologies such as:
However, the emergence of new alternative methods
• Endosafe® Trillium® – animal-free
(NAMs) represents a significant leap forward in
recombinant testing solutions for endotoxin
accelerating progress towards animal replacement.
detection (see p.38)
We want to find new NAM pathways that will
• Bit.bio – precision reprogrammed iPS
reduce our reliance on research animals and bring
derived human stem cells for drug discovery
lifesaving drugs to market faster and recognize that
and cell therapies
new methods must be supported by solid data and
• Valo Health – human-centric data and
regulatory acceptance.
computational AI solutions for drug discovery
In its push to eliminate all mammalian study Organ-on-a-Chip Models that recapitulate one or more tissue-specific function.
and development (see p.13)
requests by 2035, the U.S. Environmental Protection Researchers can direct drugs through the
• Cypre – 3D tumor modelling platform and
Agency (EPA) published a list of NAMs that are Organ-on-a-chip technology represents a channels to simulate how they might travel through
immuno-oncology assays (see p.12)
acceptable to the EPA for identifying chemical risk and potential pathway to developing drugs that can a particular part of the body.
• PathoQuest – next-generation sequencing
hazard. The EPA has been meeting with stakeholders, bypass animal testing. Organ chips are devices
(NGS) platform for in vitro viral safety testing Charles River’s Cleveland site is currently using
including Charles River, to develop new technologies the size of a single AAA battery. They contain
a Liver-Chip model to test how well two different
and new ways of determining chemical risk. Additionally, we have begun exploring the use engineered or natural miniature tissues which
assays detect DNA damage in the organ-on-a-chip
of virtual control groups (VCGs) as an are derived from various organs grown inside
model. With the FDA encouraging sponsors to
alternative to animals in toxicity studies, to miniaturized fluid channels molded into glass,
include data from NAMs in their IND applications,
reduce animal usage, lower costs, free capacity, silicon, or polymer.
what we learn from these chip models could help
and increase statistical power (see p.21).
The hair-fine microchannels guide and manipulate affirm viable next-generation methods.
minute volumes of solution to create environments
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 27
Data Security and Privacy
Why It Matters
Policies, procedures, and guidelines relating to data The Privacy team comprises Legal Compliance and
As the biomedical industry becomes increasingly security and privacy are reviewed annually to ensure Information Security staff who provide regular program
driven by digital data, AI, and cloud-computing, it is they are in line with the latest developments. updates to the Privacy Steering Committee and to the
vital that we remain up-to-speed with systems and Audit Committee regarding program developments
standards to protect and secure company, client, and and risks.
stakeholder data. We support an environment where
At the site level, Privacy Site Stewards support
privacy, security, collaboration, transparency, and
ongoing privacy initiatives, communication, monitoring,
innovation are seamless. In doing so, we are focused
IS 780367 and escalation of privacy issues. Charles River’s
on meeting global standards of system security and
Data Protection Officer (DPO) is responsible for
data privacy to responsibly manage, protect, and Charles River maintains a 24-7 Security Operations
ensuring compliance with data privacy obligations.
safeguard information. Center which conducts continuous threat hunting,
In addition, we utilize third-party tools and services
ethical phishing tests, and simulated incidents.
to mitigate our global privacy risks and to manage
Management Approach
In the event of an incident, we have a security incident
our compliance obligations.
Data Security management program in place that includes a plan
To manage data and system security at an enterprise with identified team roles, responsibilities, and security In accordance with data privacy laws, Charles
level, we maintain an information security team within procedures. To ensure continuity of our systems, River only collects personal data for specified and
the IT organization. The team is led by our Corporate we also maintain a Disaster Recovery data center. legitimate purposes, and we ensure that such data
Vice President, Chief Information Security Officer is processed in a secure manner and not stored
Data Privacy
(CISO), who reports to the CIO and the Executive for longer than necessary.
The Charles River Privacy Governance Framework is
Committee. The CISO provides updates on Charles
detailed in our Global Privacy and Data Protection We strive to adhere to all applicable laws and
River’s threat profile and incidents to the Audit
Policy. The Framework is intended to ensure the regulations, including but not limited to the EU
Committee of the Board on a quarterly basis.
Company’s compliance with relevant laws and the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), California
Our Global Security program was augmented in protection of the personal data we collect and process. Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) and California Privacy
2022–23 as part of our continuous improvement efforts. Rights Act (CPRA). Please refer to the Charles River
Our Privacy and Information Security teams work
The program is supported by Charles River policies, Privacy Notice for additional information on data
together to mitigate risks, enforce policies and
procedures, guidelines, and standards certified collection, sharing, use, and protection.
compliance, and ensure privacy for the data
under the ISO 27001 framework (BSI issued certificate
we manage.
IS 780367) and aligned with the National Institute of
Standards and Technology (NIST) security frameworks.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 28
Data Security and Privacy
Our Recognized
SPOTLIGHT STORY
CONTINUED
Commitment to
Training and Development
Information Security
Employees receive regular training and communication
and Integrity
on privacy and data protection, including annual
Information Security training, targeted Global Data
As a reflection of our commitment to protecting
Privacy training, and regular interactive exercises.
customer data, Forbes recognized Charles
Our security training includes an initial onboarding
River as one of “America’s Most Cybersecure
session for new hires, a mandatory annual refresher
Companies,” in June 2023, naming us the most
course, as well as topic-specific training throughout
cybersecure company in the research and
the year. Specialized training is also given to IT staff
development industry. We were also granted
and employees at a higher risk of targeted attacks.
ISO 27001 certification, the international
In 2022–23, 99% of our staff received training on
standard for information security management
information security awareness.
systems (ISMS) in 2023. This is a comprehensive
We also continue to conduct regular communications framework that helps organizations protect their
and awareness campaigns, including a monthly information assets from a variety of threats,
employee newsletter. In 2023, Charles River celebrated including unauthorized access, use, disclosure,
its inaugural Privacy Day event to recognize and raise modification, and destruction.
awareness among employees on the importance of
data privacy.
This certification and recognition
helps demonstrate our dedication
to our customers and fellow
employees and that we adhere
to industry standards to keep
their information safe.”
Andy Griffin, Vice President,
Chief Information Security Officer, Charles River
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 29
Governance
2023
ESTABLISHED A
Why It Matters
updated in October 2023 to reflect our inclusion in the science and technology, and strategic planning and RESPONSIBLE ANIMAL
USE BOARD COMMITTEE
We are committed to operating our business with S&P 500 Index. These are supported by a suite of Legal capital allocation.
AND OFFICE FOR
integrity to deliver our purpose of creating healthier Compliance Policies which highlight our commitment
To support ESG oversight, the Audit Committee RESPONSIBLE ANIMAL
lives. This commitment is supported by ownership to establishing formal accountability and guidance
USE (ORAU)
assumes primary responsibility for our risk
and accountability at all levels of the organization for priorities and programs, including our ESG and
management framework as it applies to our financial
– starting with our CEO and Board, and extending corporate citizenship activities.
reporting and disclosures, system of internal controls,
to every role within Charles River. By establishing
We believe in creating a diverse and representative and operations, including the identification of the
a robust governance structure that sets out clear
senior leadership team that reflects our business, primary risks and interim updates of those risks.
roles and responsibilities, we are continuing to drive
client partners, and wider society. Since 2021, A full list of the Audit Committee’s duties can be 27%
positive change while maintaining high standards of
representation of diverse groups in leadership at the found on the Charles River website, and details on
compliance to drive our business performance.
WOMEN AND
Board level has increased as of year-end 2023 to our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework
9%
36%, with 27% women in leadership and 9% from can be found on p.36.
Management Approach
underrepresented racial or ethnic groups (UREGs).
The Board oversees and monitors our corporate The Corporate Governance and Nominating
UREG REPRESENTATION
Furthermore, our executive leadership team (VP and
governance practices, including our auditing and Committee develops and oversees compliance with
ON THE BOARD
above) is made up of 42% women leaders and 10%
quality assurance practices, science and technology our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of
leaders from UREGs, also as of year-end 2023.
strategy, financial performance, compensation program, Business Conduct and Ethics, including oversight of
We continue to explore further opportunities to
cybersecurity, compliance and ethics, risk oversight, our corporate citizenship program. It also oversees our
advance diversity and inclusion at every level of our
and regulatory compliance. We are led by James C. engagement efforts with stockholders and other key
organization in line with our DE&I goals (see p.49
Foster, who has served as our President since 1991, stakeholders. A full list of their duties can be found on
for more).
our CEO since 1992, and Chair of the Board since the Charles River website.
42%
2000. As of the year-end 2023, the Board is comprised For more information on the Board Structure and
To reflect our commitment to animal welfare,
of 11 Directors, including Mr. Foster, nine of whom are Composition, including nomination, collective
WOMEN AND
we established a new Board Committee in
independent (including a Lead Independent Director). knowledge, performance evaluation, and conflicts
1 0%
2023 – the Responsible Animal Use Committee.
of interest, please refer to our 2023 Proxy, 10-K,
The Board oversees our clear corporate governance This Committee is responsible for reviewing,
and the Charles River website.
UREG REPRESENTATION
practices which align the interests of Directors evaluating, and advising the Board on the Company’s
IN EXECUTIVE
and management with those of our shareholders. Committee Structure and Composition impact on animal utilization, including progress in
LEADERSHIP (VP AND
The Board ensures adherence to our Code of The Charles River Board is supported by standing developing, investing in and/or acquiring the scientific ABOVE)
Business Ethics (see p.32 and p.34) and Corporate committees that meet regularly to assist the Board in and technological resources required to reduce the
Governance Guidelines – the latter of which was oversight of areas such as: auditing, compensation, impact of animal use in our operations.
corporate governance, finance, responsible animal use,
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 30
Governance
CONTINUED
ESG Oversight
In 2022, we adopted centralized responsibility and
oversight of all ESG governance functions under an
ESG Governance Council, led by our Chief Operating
Officer (COO). The Council’s inaugural meeting took
place in 2022, and the Council met two times in 2023
to discuss relevant ESG priorities.
To drive internal action, the ESG Governance Council
is supported by a cross sectional ESG Working Group.
The ESG Working Group is responsible for overseeing
the delivery of our Corporate Citizenship Report, which
is produced every two years.
Remuneration
The Compensation Committee oversees Charles
River’s compensation policies and plans, including
executive remuneration and compensation packages
for our CEO and Executive Vice Presidents (EVPs)
and provides input on compensation for our Senior
Vice Presidents (SVPs). It reviews and approves
compensation including annual base-level salaries,
annual incentive compensation, long-term incentive
compensation, employment and severance
agreements, and any other compensation as
appropriate. A full list of their duties can be found here.
Our executive remuneration process and performance
can be found in our 2023 Proxy statement and 10-K.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 31
Quality Assurance and Management
Why It Matters
These KPIs are based on internal and external These include:
Quality Assurance is a key organizational design feedback, including but not limited to inspections and
• Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) and current Good
element to ensure that our wide range of products and internal audits, at each Good Laboratory Practices
Manufacturing Processes (cGMP) – North America
services meet global compliance, mitigate risk, and (GLP) or Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) site.
and E.U. operations
ensure high levels of client satisfaction.
To further strengthen oversight, Quality Management • U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) –
Reviews (QMRs) are conducted with management U.S. operations
Management Approach
teams to identify additional opportunities to enhance
• U.S. Department of Agriculture – U.S. operations
To deliver consistent standards of quality, we operate a
our QMS. These also ensure that operating units
• European Medicines Agency – European operations
robust set of processes and procedures that are built
continue to perform and provide robust data for their
into the Charles River Quality Management System • European Chemicals Agency – European operations
day-to-day activities. We reinforced our “Culture of
(QMS). Our QMS reviews, tracks, and monitors quality • Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory
Quality and Ownership” in 2022–23 through the
control across the organization, ensuring a consistent Agency (GxP) – U.K. operations
CRL DNA, which forms part of our employee
and aligned process across our labs, business
• Organization for Economic Cooperation and
onboarding and performance reviews (see p.41).
activities, and regional operations. Our Quality
Development (OECD) – Worldwide
Unit team provides periodic reports detailing the Our internal audit program provides an
• ISO 9100 and 17025
performance of the QMS to operational management independent assessment of our compliance to
In 2022 and 2023, Charles River received no official
on a rolling basis. government regulations.
regulatory actions or fines for non-compliance during
Alignment to Global Compliance Requirements any site inspections. We continued to fully comply
How We Are Driving Progress
As a global drug development organization, with all regulatory audits and inspections at our sites,
Quality Management System (QMS)
Charles River’s operating units are required to with all meaningful findings actioned and addressed.
Charles River operates an overarching Global Quality
undergo numerous client and regulatory inspections For more information on our QMS, please refer to
Policy which defines the framework for delivering
throughout the year to ensure alignment to Quality our 2023 10-K. More information on our Governance
products and performing services. This is supported
and Compliance standards. Our locations comply process can be found on p.29.
by our global QMS, which acts as the underlying
with applicable global standards and regulatory
mechanism for evaluating regulatory compliance
bodies, and our approach is further enhanced by
across all operating units.
our alignment to leading voluntary frameworks
In 2022 and 2023, our Quality Assurance Units and guidelines.
delivered periodic updates to management on specific
actions to address Key Quality Performance Metrics
across our sites.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 32
Compliance and Ethics
Why It Matters
In 2023, we combined our Human Resources (HR) The following updates were made to align the Code to
As a trusted business partner, it is essential that Compliance function with our Legal Compliance team current best-practices and requirements in 2022–23:
Charles River upholds the highest standards of to further streamline our global compliance activities. I-Comply Program
• Values-integration – we utilized the CRL DNA to
compliance and ethical conduct. With 21,800 The mission of our Legal Compliance (I-Comply)
structure the Code and to define expected behaviors
How We Are Driving Progress
employees across 155 locations in more than program is to be a partner to our business and
that align to our values
20 countries around the world, our Legal Compliance Policies and Processes corporate functions by helping employees and third-
• Ethical decision-making framework – we
(I-Comply) program mission is to embed compliance We are committed to upholding the highest standards party partners meet global regulations and prioritize
incorporated a new framework to support our
and ethics in all areas of business practices. This mission of ethics and compliance. The Charles River Code ethical decision-making when working for or on behalf
employees in making the right ethical choices
is aligned with our values of Care, Lead, Own, and of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code) serves of Charles River.
• Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion – we included a
Collaborate to drive good corporate citizenship and as the foundational policy guiding our approach. It
The I-Comply program is comprised of ten
new section to highlight and reinforce our ongoing
the advancement of responsible science. details the Legal Compliance Policies that apply to
components that are designed to ensure adherence to
commitment to DE&I principles
our employees and business partners, including the
applicable external regulations and Company policies
Management Approach • Working with third parties – we enhanced existing
responsibilities we share for maintaining an ethical
across the organization. Our Legal Compliance team
content regarding compliance and ethical conduct
Our Legal Compliance (I-Comply) program is overseen work environment, the expected behaviors of our
led I-Comply in 2022–23, including the delivery of
with third parties
by our CSVP, General Counsel, Corporate Secretary people, and where they can turn to raise any legal or
training and engagement activities. Over the last two
and Chief Compliance Officer and is led day-to-day by ethical concerns. • Human rights – we added a new section focused
years, this included training and communications
our Senior Director, Corporate Compliance. The Legal on human rights
Our Legal Compliance team last updated our Code relating to: Anti-Bribery, Anti-Harassment and Anti-
Compliance team manages our program on a global • Fraud updates – we updated content around fraud
in December 2021, and launched the revised Code Discrimination, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics,
scale and provides quarterly updates to leadership to align to the latest legislative requirements
in 2022. Gifts and Conflicts of Interest, Insider Trading, and our
and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
The new Code was launched to employees through Speak-up Culture. We also continued to host an annual
The I-Comply program is also supported by our global
Company-wide communications in 2022 and required Global Compliance Day in 2022 and Compliance Week
network of 45+ I-Comply Liaisons, each of whom is
training, which all existing employees and new hires event in 2023.
responsible for serving as a local point-of-contact for Comply AntTM
are now required to complete. As of 2023, 98% of our
compliance and ethics issues, supporting training, In 2023, we updated several Legal Compliance policies
The mission of our
people have completed this training.
reinforcing key messaging, and helping to drive (including our Conflicts of Interest and Business
Legal Compliance
consistent performance across the business. Courtesies Policy), added new I-Comply Liaisons to
(I-Comply) program
support our Legal Compliance team (including new
The program is designed to provide for systematic, is to be a partner to
liaisons for the sites of our newest acquisitions), and
ongoing measures aimed at ensuring that Charles our business and
supported the continued maturity of the Company’s
River and its employees comply with all applicable
corporate functions.
Privacy program (see p.27).
laws and regulations, and to support continuous
improvement.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 33
Compliance and Ethics
Raising Ethical Concerns Anti-Bribery and Corruption
To help our people make the right ethical choices, the Our Anti-Bribery Policy defines our efforts to prevent, SPOTLIGHT STORY
CONTINUED
I-Comply program offers tools, information, resources, detect, and report all forms of direct and indirect
Risk Assessment and answers to common questions related to compliance bribery and other forms of corruption across our
The U.S. Department of Justice guidance continues and ethics. We also encourage employees to “Speak business activities. Legal Compliance oversees this
to emphasize that a company’s risk assessment Up” by raising any ethical concerns to their line manager, risk area and provides annual updates to the Audit
process should be the starting point when it comes a member of HR, our Legal Compliance team, Legal Committee of the Board on legal developments and
to assessing compliance program effectiveness. Department, or through our dedicated helpline. related Legal Compliance priorities in the areas of
In response, our team conducts a detailed Legal bribery and corruption. We also conduct regular
The Charles River Helpline is hosted by an
Compliance risk assessment every other year to employee communications and training for relevant
independent third party, and available 24 hours a day
refresh the Company’s global compliance risks staff, and in 2022–23, 98% of our employees undertook
in over 12 languages. As well as being accessible for
and processes. training on our Anti-Bribery Policy and procedures.
our employees, it is open to suppliers and third-party
Our most recent risk assessment process kicked vendors to raise any concerns they have over the In partnership with Internal Audit, Legal Compliance
off in Q4 2023, and includes a review of the impact, phone or online. The confidential service promises no conducts regular audits of risks related to bribery and
likelihood, and control effectiveness of 105+ risk retaliation for making a good faith report of a complaint corruption. Charles River received no fines related to
topics, spanning 17 compliance risk areas. Input will be or concern. non-compliance in legal, ethical, anti-competitive
gathered from over 100 subject matter experts and key behavior, anti-trust or monopoly practice matters in
2023 Compliance
In 2022–23, 129 reports were made through the
stakeholders via facilitated sessions led by our Legal 2022 or 2023, including with respect to anti-bribery
Charles River Helpline, with an average close-out time Week Event
Compliance team. and corruption. We also received no monetary losses
of 36 days. While the number of complaints received
associated with false marketing claims.
On November 1–7, 2023, Charles River
New for 2023, colleagues from our C&GT business through our helpline has risen since 2021, we consider
celebrated Compliance Week. The event
took part, and we expanded the scope of the this to be reflective of the success of our “Speak Up”
represented the ninth annual Legal Compliance
assessment to include additional Human Rights campaign which has raised internal awareness of this
global event dedicated to raising awareness
risk topics (see p.34 for more). The results of the mechanism significantly.
and engaging employees on important
assessment will be reported to the Audit Committee
compliance and ethics topics. The 2023 theme
in Q1 2024 before actions and recommendations are
was “Doing Business the I-Comply Way”
implemented internally.
and featured messaging from Flavia Pease,
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer, on the importance of the Company’s
Anti-Bribery program. The week also included
a wide range of local events at our sites as well
as interactive activities and communications on
key risks.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 34
Human Rights
Why It Matters How We Are Driving Progress
We promote and publicize avenues for raising
Charles River is committed to supporting and Policies and Frameworks concerns regarding legal, compliance, or ethics
protecting human rights globally and opposes any Charles River published a formal Human Rights issues, including Human Rights concerns. Our most
form of human trafficking or forced labor in any aspect Statement in January 2022, aligned with the principles prominent avenue is the Charles River Helpline
of our business, whether within the Company or supply outlined in the United Nations (U.N.) Universal (see p.33), where employees and external parties can
chain. We believe that every individual is born free and Declaration of Human Rights and the U.N. Guiding raise concerns 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
equally and deserves to be treated fairly and Principles for Business and Human Rights. In 2022–23, the Helpline received 0 cases linked to
with dignity. Human Rights issues or concerns.
Additionally, we ensure global compliance via the
Our commitment encompasses the risks posed following policies and processes: In 2022–23 we received no fines or legal actions
by forced, prison, indentured, bonded, and child regarding instances of Human Rights violations within
• Code of Business Ethics and Conduct – sets forth
labor, debt servitude, or trafficking where coercion, our direct or indirect operations and activities.
our expectations regarding compliance with laws,
threats, or deception are used to intimidate, penalize,
ethical conduct, and responsible business practices, Alignment to International Standards
or deceive workers, thereby creating situations of
including standards relating to Human Rights We respect all fundamental Human Rights and are Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
involuntary work and exploitation.
• Statement regarding the Prohibition of Human committed to eliminating all forms of discrimination, We respect the rights of our people to take part in
Trafficking – outlines our opposition to any forms harassment, workplace violence, human trafficking, collective bargaining arrangements and to join trade
Management Approach
of human trafficking or forced labor and our slavery, torture, and child labor in and outside of unions, as outlined in our Human Rights Statement.
Our Senior Director of Corporate Compliance oversees
commitment to prevent any such activity the workplace. We also align to legally binding collective agreements
our approach to Human Rights. To ensure consistent
based on regional legislation in our main countries
• Supplier Code of Conduct – communicates the
action across the business, we adopt a cross- We are a member of the Pharmaceutical Supply
of operation.
expectations of our suppliers to comply with all
functional approach through our risk-based model, Chain Initiative (PSCI), and adhere to their principles
applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and our
with oversight by subject matter experts in Human on Human Rights, ethics, labor, health and safety, Our employees are not unionized in the United
standards regarding Human Rights, ethics and
Resources, Legal Compliance, and Procurement. and the environment. We also leverage the PSCI States. Employees at some of our European facilities
compliance, health and safety, and the environment
Human Rights is a risk area that is evaluated as framework and share best practices with our suppliers are represented by works councils, employee
• Conflict Minerals Statement – ensures that the
part of our Legal Compliance team’s biennial Risk to encourage their adherence to these principles. representative groups, and/or unions, which is
metals and minerals used within our products
Assessment process, with the latest review initiated This includes utilizing the PSCI Self-Assessment consistent with local customs for our industry.
are sourced and produced in an ethical and
in Q4 2023. Questionnaire and Audit Report to help us monitor how We collaborate with works councils and believe
responsible manner
closely our suppliers are taking appropriate action. we have good relationships with our employees.
• Modern Slavery Statement (U.K.) – outlines
In 2023, we became signatories to the United Nations
our commitment to the prevention of Human
Global Compact (UNGC) and will publish our first
Rights abuses within our operations including the
Communication on Progress (COP) statement in our
prevention of human trafficking and modern slavery.
ESG Library later in 2024.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 35
Regulatory Affairs
SPOTLIGHT STORY
Why It Matters How We Are Driving Progress
As a leading non-clinical drug development Regulatory Engagement
organization, it is vital that we engage with regulators Our employees realize the importance of
transparently and ethically to share our expertise maintaining strong scientific and compliance
and insights in a way that contributes to improved alliances with government and regulatory agencies.
healthcare outcomes. We maintain a strong presence in many professional
societies and trade organizations and have provided
With our wide contingent of scientific experts around
input to policymakers, across various global
the world, we are proud of our strong presence across
monitoring authorities.
international expert committees and monitoring
authorities. Our contribution to regulatory discussions
allows us to provide exceptional guidance and
Our regulatory principles include:
oversight for our clients’ work, as well as to shape
products and services that enable them to meet or • Supporting the quality and integrity of
exceed their strategic objectives. research, products, and services
• Assuring the protection of human subjects
Engaging with Through public lobbying, regular
Management Approach
and the welfare of research animals
communications via our Eureka Blog,
Regulators to Improve
The Charles River Corporate Regulatory Affairs
• Partnering with operations management and
and offerings such as the Charles
team oversees our approach to regulatory matters. Animal Welfare
staff to maintain a culture of quality that meets
River Scientific Advisor Service, we
Their activities regarding regulatory compliance and
or exceeds regulatory requirements
regularly engage with regulatory
With the advent of the Inflation
engagement are directed by the CVP Manufacturing
• Promoting timely and effective
bodies and clients to promote the use
Reduction Act and FDA Modernization
QA. Teams are notified of any regulatory inspections
communications between our business units,
of alternatives in non-clinical research.
Act, we have taken a strong position
that are required to take place during the year, with
our clients, and regulatory authorities
Examples of key guidance to which
to work with scientists and clients to
oversight provided at a local, state, and federal level.
• Providing regulatory training and resources to we contributed in 2023 include:
reduce the number of animals in study
Outputs from interactions are reported to our COO
support an integrated quality system
and CEO who are notified or consulted on specific designs and look at new alternative + FDA Discussion Paper on Artificial
topics when warranted (including inspections relating A list of our organizational associations can be model (NAM) development with a Intelligence in Drug Manufacturing
responsible focus on maintaining both
to quality assurance – see p.31). We adopt a localized found on page 89. + EMA guide on computerized systems
scientific and compliance data integrity.
approach to regulatory oversight that is location- and electronic data in clinical trials
specific, ensuring adequate resourcing and
+ ICH Good Clinical Practice (GCP),
consistent engagement with relevant regulatory
E6(R3)
and accrediting bodies.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 36
Risk Management
Why It Matters
to financial compliance are monitored by our Audit • Risk factor updates – we added “Velocity” of risks
Managing our key risks is fundamental to creating a Committee (see p.29), and further detail can be found to our process to better assess the evolution of risks
resilient business model and to acting as a responsible in our 2023 Proxy statement and 10-K. over time
and trusted partner to our clients. Through our robust • Working group additions – we are establishing
How We Are Driving Progress
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework, we are cross-functional and/or a cross business unit
mitigating risk and maximizing opportunities to help Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) working group to focus on each Enterprise Risk
our clients to grow and succeed. Our ERM function is overseen by the Senior Director
• Steering Committee changes – we changed the
of Risk Management and CVP Corporate Tax in
focus of quarterly meetings to emphasize Working
Management Approach
collaboration with nine Steering Committee members.
Group actions
The Charles River Board oversees our Company-wide The CFO and COO serve as the ERM Executive
For more information regarding our business and
risk management process. Key decision-making is sponsors. The ERM Executive sponsors, Steering
operational risks, please refer to SEC filings. For more
informed by a comprehensive review of operational Committee members, and Executive Director of
information about our approach to managing corporate
and business information, external data, and reports Internal Audit meet regularly throughout the year to
risk, please refer to Proxy Statements.
from our Board Committees, Senior Leadership, and review ongoing ERM activities and progress, and
Risk Management Teams – which feed into our updates are formally presented to the Board annually.
ERM framework.
In 2023, we identified several opportunities to further
Areas of significant risk overseen by the Board enhance Charles River’s ERM process. Following
and Board Committees include but are not limited detailed interviews with our ERM Steering Committee
to: cybersecurity and data privacy, supply chain members in Q1 and Q2 of 2023, we implemented the
management, talent attraction and retention, following updates to our process:
regulatory risk around the humane care of animals,
• Risk Register consolidation – we streamlined
quality control, and major business changes.
the number of risks monitored in our Risk
The Board delegates responsibility for managing
Register to enhance our focus on enterprise-
these risk impacts across both functional and site
oriented risks. We also combined risks to create
operational leaders.
broader risk categories
Risks related to corporate citizenship and sustainability • Risk level changes – we increased financial rating
topics also fall under the responsibility of the Board. metrics to align with our comprehensive financial
Here, identified risks may include those relating to statement materiality assessment
environmental health and safety and disruptions to our
supply chain from natural disasters or extreme weather
conditions or other events. Additional risks relating
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 37
Business Resilience
Why It Matters
The site-level BCP includes a list of documented COVID-19 Response critical vaccine research and development without
As a key supplier to our clients with a wide geographic procedures and guidelines, including a Disaster We are proud to have played a significant role in the compromising employee safety.
scope, it is vitally important that we avoid disruption Recovery Plan, which details the recommended development of all available FDA-approved COVID
A shift that has occurred through our COVID-19
to our business activities to ensure we continue to mitigation process and procedures in the event of vaccines and treatments since 2020.
response has been our increased focus on
provide urgent medical interventions around the various crisis scenarios. Each site-level BCP is
Operationally, the criticality of our business in the drug extending our duty of care beyond the physical
clock. There are any number of events that could shaped by functional leaders, including Environment,
discovery and development process means that a work environment. For those that can work remotely,
cause significant disruptions – from natural disasters Health and Safety, Global Facilities Management
majority of our employee base was required to work we have broadened our approach to ensure that
to external global emergencies such as the COVID-19 Services, Operations, Human Resources, Veterinary
on-site throughout the ongoing pandemic. To ensure safety and security extends to their homes through
pandemic. Such events may also lead to supply Services, Communications, Information Technology,
successful continued operations, our global crisis regular communications and recommendations
chain interruption and/or loss or damage to critical Animal Welfare, Quality Assurance, and Global
management team continued to oversee our dynamic on safe behaviors.
infrastructure. Our dedicated Business Continuity Security, all under the guidance of Charles River’s
business continuity plans. This allowed us to support
Plan (BCP), Disaster Recovery Plan, and Continuity Executive Committee.
of Operations (COOP) processes are critical tools for
As part of our annual review process, all locations
protecting our people, ensuring business continuity,
can request an on-site or remote BCP tabletop
and building trust with our clients.
exercise to assess plan readiness and to receive
recommendations from the Corporate Security
Management Approach
Team. In 2022–23, over 24 tabletop exercises were
Our BCP is the cornerstone of our business resilience
conducted. Additionally, all BCP team members
strategy. Owned and managed by our Corporate
participated in mandatory BCP response training to
Security Team, the BCP sets out how to respond
ensure the safety, security, and continuity of business
and act in the event of an emergency, including our
operations in times of emergency.
continuity plans.
Over the last two years, we have increased BCP
At the site level, it is the responsibility of each Site
accessibility to ensure that no matter who or where
Director to maintain and execute the plan in their
our employees are, they are treated equally in an
location. Site Directors are also responsible for
emergency. This includes implementing site-level
reviewing and updating their BCP plan annually
support to oversee the broader needs of more
and sharing progress with our Corporate Security
vulnerable populations. Our BCP team also traveled
Team. In 2022–23, our BCP was implemented across
to sites throughout the year to provide refresher
all businesses, to include any new mergers and
training and to assess physical security requirements
acquisitions completed.
for employees with disabilities.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 38
Progress is... taking an ethical
approach to new alternative methods
The Atlantic horseshoe crab plays an addition to our bacterial endotoxin detection
essential role in supporting global public portfolio with Endosafe® Trillium®, an animal-
health. These blue-blooded marine free, robust recombinant cascade reagent
invertebrates are used to ensure that (rCR) assay. Built on the sound science and
the vaccines, injectable medicines, and quality standards that Charles River is known
medical devices utilized in human and for, Endosafe® Trillium® detects and quantifies
veterinary medicine are safe from endotoxin natural environmental endotoxins using a
contamination. Over the years, Charles River’s three-factor process. This addition to our
purposefully built Endosafe® portfolio has portfolio is just one example of Charles River’s
transformed the way we approach endotoxin broader Alternative Methods Advancement
detection, evolving alongside our clients’ Project (AMAP), our focused efforts to
needs for fast, simple, robust, and sustainable purposefully target initiatives that lead to the
methods. Our Endosafe® FDA-Licensed reduction, and replacement of animals in
limulus amoebocyte lysate (LAL) testing medical research (see p.24 for more).
cartridges streamline and optimize testing by
consolidating all the essential components
into a single disposable cartridge, to provide
real-time, quantitative endotoxin analysis.
This technology utilizes 95% less LAL than
traditional techniques, supporting client
needs for fast, simple, robust, and sustainable
methods. Across our portfolio of endotoxin
testing, we are dedicated to balancing the
industry’s need for safe endotoxin testing with
preserving a sustainable horseshoe It is exciting to see Charles River not only meaningfully
crab population. invest in innovative developments in science, digital, and
other new technologies, but also purposefully use our
Keeping pace in an industry focused on
voice in support of seeking new ideas and methods.”
revolutionizing science and innovation,
Charles River has evolved and refined the next
Bruce Haynes, Senior Vice President, Corporate and External Affairs, Charles River
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 39
Inspire Our People
$4M
DONATED ACROSS
OUR THREE
COMMUNITY PILLARS
IN 2022–23
Our Focus Our ESG material topics in this
area include:
We inspire our people through a
distinctive culture focused on an
MAINTAINED HIGHLY
exceptional experience where employees Our People Strategy (p.40)
EQUITABLE PAY WITH
are connected to our purpose, provided Talent Acquisition (p.43)
<1% GAP
with a breadth of career opportunities, Total Rewards and Well-being (p.44)
and can bring their full selves to work. Employee Engagement and Development (p.46) FOR RACE AND
GENDER
In doing so, our thousands of difference- Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (p.49)
makers across the globe deliver the highest
Health and Safety (p.52)
quality outcomes for each other, our
Community Engagement and Support (p.55)
communities, our clients, and the patients
we serve every day.
~4,000
Our Aim
EMPLOYEES
We are committed to the quality of our
PARTICIPATING
people’s work experience, skills, and ACROSS 11 GLOBAL
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE
scientific innovation. We strive to create
GROUPS BY YEAR-END
a culture that focuses on well-being,
2023
appreciation, and leaders who are known
for their ability to elevate talent, foster
creativity, and accelerate growth.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 40
Our People Strategy
Why It Matters
Connect to Our Purpose • Our pulse surveys collect valuable feedback to drive
How We Are Driving Progress
Our business is constantly evolving and expanding – We build and support teams that deliver exceptional engagement with our people (p.48)
and our speed, scale, integrated portfolio, and work and the highest quality outcomes for our • We have set dedicated goals for DE&I to enhance
Our People Strategy
performance require skilled individuals who are colleagues, communities, clients, and the patients our culture of belonging and expand diverse
W e are committed to delivering an exceptional
supported and enabled by a great employee we work to help. Rooted in science and driven by our representation (p.49).
employee experience through a distinctive culture.
experience, intuitive HR service delivery, and the latest CRL DNA values of Care, Lead, Own, and Collaborate, • We utilize diverse candidate slates in the U.S. and
To achieve this, we refreshed our People Strategy
digital tools. Our three People Strategy pillars and we want our people to feel inspired by and engaged diverse interview panels globally to support an
and targets in 2022–23 to rearticulate our focus:
subsequent priorities are designed to build a diverse with the important work we do. This means prioritizing equitable recruitment process (p.50)
and inclusive environment, where our people have their development while truly connecting to our purpose.
Connect to our purpose Make a Difference
what they need to thrive.
Inspiring others through • We have evolved our onboarding program to further We recognize the demanding role our leaders have
understanding the why, engage and request feedback from new hires and in balancing deliverables, while driving people
Management Approach
what, and how connect them to our values (p.43) development and engagement. We are committed to
Our Chief People Officer (CPO) is responsible
• 98% of our employees received training on our providing people leaders with the tools and resources
for oversight of our People Strategy, informed by
Energize, grow, and develop Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (p.49) they need to be the best they can be and inspire
members of the People and Culture leadership team
Continuously learning in others through our values. Making a difference also
• ERGs ensure each employee finds a community
which includes HR business leaders. Through a
a respectful, supported means contributing to the communities where we live
where they feel supported (p.51)
robust process of alignment and refinement, the CPO
environment and operate.
partners with key members of the management team,
Energize, Grow, and Develop
along with business and functional leaders, under • Employee recognition through effective
We want to provide individuals with the resources
the leadership of the CEO to ensure that our People Make a difference compensation and Total Rewards enables us to
and support they need to bring their full self to work
Strategy and goals are prioritized and drive value By focusing on impactful attract and retain top talent (p.44)
every day and access personalized development
across the organization. and quality outcomes • Inclusive leadership training drives our leaders to
opportunities. This means engaging and connecting
take ownership of their roles to inspire their teams to
with our colleagues to develop their skills and facilitate
grow and develop (see p.47)
their growth. It also means creating an inclusive culture,
• We prioritize the health, safety, and well-being of our
where we embrace diverse perspectives to fuel
people in all that they do (p.52)
innovation and progress.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 41
CRL DNA Characteristics and Behaviors
Our values – Care, Lead, Own, and Collaborate – are demonstrated in every aspect of our business. Our CRL DNA comprise these values and associated behaviors that guide how we make decisions, grow our
future leaders, and pave the way for successful careers. By inspiring our people through a diverse and inclusive working environment, by protecting their health and well-being, and by recognizing their contribution
to our collective success, we champion and support them to deliver quality outcomes for each other, our communities, clients, and the patients we serve.
CARE LEAD OWN COLLABORATE
DO THE RIGHT THING SHAPE OUR FUTURE ACT LIKE AN OWNER WORK INCLUSIVELY
• Show care and respect • Bring the outside in • Own the plan • Engage inclusively
• Create a culture of sustainability • Communicate context • Follow through • Build partnerships
• Demonstrate personal integrity • Leverage data and analytics • Own the outcome • Advance integration
DEVELOP PEOPLE AND TEAMS INNOVATE AND DRIVE CHANGE DEVELOP SELF
• Know the skills and experience • Make the case • Own your growth
we need • Test and learn • Be humble
• Help others grow • Build support • Be resilient
• Fully leverage talent
SET THE PACE SHOW COURAGE
• Hold the bar high • Break from the past
• Balance speed and quality • Take a stand
• Foster agility • Be decisive
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 42
Our People Strategy
SPOTLIGHT STORY
CONTINUED
This is your moment
Awards and Recognition
To codify our efforts to create an inclusive
We are proud that Charles River continued
work environment where our people can
to be recognized in 2022–23 for our strong
be their authentic selves, we introduced our
people-related achievements. This included
new employer brand in 2022 titled This is
the following highlights:
your moment.
+ Newsweek: 2023 America’s Greatest
First introduced through our talent
Workplaces for Diversity
acquisition strategy (see p.43), This is your
+ The Boston Globe Top Places to Work
moment features prominently in employee
2022–2023
communications to motivate and engage
+ Fortune: World’s Most Admired
our people.
Companies 2022
+ Montreal’s Top Employer 2022–2023
+ Best Workplaces Pharma and Healthcare
Ireland 2022
At Charles River we emphasize
+ UK Top Employer 2023
the moments that matter; how
we can Own them and take the
Lead in being the difference, both
personally and professionally.”
Vicky Creamer, Executive Vice President,
Chief People Officer, Charles River
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 43
Talent Acquisition
SPOTLIGHT STORY
Why It Matters How We Are Driving Progress
Onboarding
We want to attract and retain industry-leading talent Talent Acquisition We know that our new employees are interested in
to fuel our ambitions and deliver better global Our Talent Acquisition function has been on a journey more than just acclimatizing to work when they start
healthcare outcomes. To achieve this, our team to become a best-in-class organization. With the a new role – they want to thrive. We adopt a hybrid
consists of expert recruiters with extensive life transition from a Recruitment Process Outsourcing onboarding model that consists of both virtual and in-
sciences expertise who focus on delivering an (RPO) to an in-house employee model now complete, person experiences to connect new hires to their new
excellent candidate experience at both professional we are focused on scaling for rapid growth in a highly colleagues and existing leaders, so that they feel at
level and high-volume, entry-level recruiting. competitive market and driving excellence in employer home right away.
branding, and the digital candidate experience. Connect and Thrive Events
We strive to help highly skilled and motivated Through onboarding initiatives such as our Connect
candidates identify the right position, while Between 2022–23, we sharpened our sourcing skills by and Thrive events, we are increasing retention and
In March 2023 we launched new bi-monthly
demonstrating care and inclusivity through every step building out our Blue Wave Talent Search – an internal creating great experiences for new recruits. We also
events with connection in mind. Piloted with
of the recruitment process. Not only is it important to proprietary staffing agency and search firm. This full- conduct New Talent Surveys to identify the
remote employees, Connect and Thrive
select the people with the right skills, it is also vital to time team of experts keeps our entry-level pipeline full effectiveness of our onboarding process. In 2022,
sessions are a chance for new talent to step
find candidates who identify with our purpose and and conducts niche market research to identify top we integrated these surveys into a virtual platform
out of their busy day and into interesting
embody our CRL DNA values. talent. In 2023, we have saved $1.7M in recruitment to receive up-to-date information to help us further
virtual conversations with their colleagues.
fees while filling important positions faster than the strengthen our approach. From July 2022 through end
The events provide a topic, time, and space
Management Approach
current life science benchmark. of 2023, approximately 5,500 new hires experienced
for new talent to get to know each other and
Our attraction and retention programs are driven our onboarding program, with an average satisfaction
make connections. Each session is facilitated
Attraction and Engagement
by our CPO, CVP of Global Talent Acquisition, CVP of rate of 86%. Through our employee-focused programs,
by leaders from the business who share their
In 2022–23, we evolved our employer brand to truly
Total Rewards, CVP of DE&I and Corporate Citizenship, we have achieved a retention rate of 77% for new talent
vast experience and tips for new recruits to
position Charles River as an employer of choice.
and CVP of Global Talent Management. They are in both 2022 and 2023.
acclimatize to Charles River’s culture and
Our This is your moment global employer brand has
supported by HR leaders who are accountable for
to connect further.
contributed to thousands of passive talent applications Diverse Interview Panels
collaborating on and implementing our approach
covering many roles (see p.42). Additionally, our Our dedication to creating a culture of belonging
across the organization.
targeted recruitment campaigns continue to identify begins with our hiring and interviewing processes.
Quarterly updates on attraction and retention metrics industry-leading scientists and researchers. Our In 2021, we introduced diverse interview panels that Furthermore, we adapted our interview templates to
are reported to the management team, and regular sites also work with universities to onboard talented enable candidates to see a wide representation of create a set of interview guides based on the CRL
updates are provided to the Board. We continuously students to kick-start their careers (see p.56). who we are, while creating an equitable and inclusive DNA. This was supplemented by behavioral interview
identify opportunities for improvement by engaging welcome. In 2022–23, we held 91% diverse interview training for our people leaders to reduce bias and
and listening to our people and closely tracking panels in the U.S. and 73% diverse interview embed DE&I principles into the interview process.
metrics such as length of time to fill roles and attrition. panels globally.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 44
Total Rewards and Well-being
Why It Matters How We Are Driving Progress
Attracting and retaining top talent is essential to Charles River offers a range of benefits, programs,
accomplishing our mission of bringing industry-leading and services.
products and services to our clients and transforming
• Core Benefits: include health benefits (e.g., medical
conventional pre-clinical drug development timelines.
care; pharmacy and medicine support; dental and
To build and attract new talent, while also supporting,
vision care; virtual healthcare); retirement benefits;
energizing, and retaining existing employees, we foster
parental leave; disability benefits; stock awards at
a culture of well-being and have an extensive range of
eligible levels; stock purchase capability in certain
benefits and offerings that meet their evolving needs.
countries; vacation and leave
• Value Added: include additional offerings such
Management Approach
as premium membership to Care.com; tuition
Rewards and well-being at Charles River are managed
reimbursement; employee discounts; and
by our global CVP of Total Rewards and Chief Well-
employee recognition
being Officer, respectively, who report into our CPO.
All employees receive guidance on eligible rewards
Compensation and Pay Equity
as part of the onboarding process, and relevant
We leverage internal data, peer benchmarking,
information can be accessed throughout the year
market trends, and employee feedback to improve
through iConnect (company intranet) which contains
our compensation strategy. In 2023, we provided
mobility information, access to well-being resources
additional compensation information to our people
such as our International Employee Assistance
leaders, to assist them in promoting pay transparency
Program (EAP), and compensation materials.
and holding more effective compensation
For our U.S operations, employees can access the conversations with employees.
Benefits Portal, where they can view the extensive
To help evaluate pay equity, we conducted a
range of available core, value-added, and work-
biennial pay equity analysis in 2022 to ensure that
life benefits. Additionally, talentHUB (our employee
our compensation practices continue to be market
portal) contains further information on employee
competitive and equitable across race and gender,
compensation. All regional operations have
commensurate with experience and expertise. This is
similar portals, with benefits varying on a country-
in addition to the legally required, country-specific pay
by-country basis.
assessment which showed that Charles River operates
on highly equitable pay with a <1% pay gap in race
(U.S.) and gender (global) (see p.51).
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 45
Total Rewards and Well-being
CONTINUED
Well-being Financial: We offer competitive pay, time off, stock
Benefits and compensation are two aspects of awards, employee discounts, tuition reimbursement,
supporting our people. As part of our holistic well-being retirement options, and assistance with legal and
strategy, we are committed to supporting our people financial guidance. In the U.S., employees receive
across their well-being journey by providing resources six weeks’ paid parental leave on birth or adoption in
and tools that align with the following core pillars: addition to paid medical leave. U.S. employees also
can apply for reimbursement for qualified adoption
Career: Our aim is to inspire employees to seek
expenses. Furthermore, we offer a global Charles River
new challenges by providing them opportunities
Employee Relief Fund, which supports employees
to reach their potential and thrive in their role. We
facing financial difficulties after a natural disaster or
offer programs that help employees align to their
unforeseen personal hardship. Since 2021, the Fund
personal and professional goals via regular learning
has provided more than $150,000 in approved grants.
and development, ongoing training, and clear career
progression opportunities (see p.48). Social and Community: Our Social and Community
programs are designed to help nurture personal
Physical and Emotional: Our Health and Wellness
growth and connection through participation in our
programs support employees and their families in
ERGs and providing opportunities for community
achieving optimal health and well-being. For example,
outreach through paid volunteer time off (VTO),
our employees have access to Wellable and to a
sabbatical programs, and financial support for
dedicated EAP, which consolidates our broad range of
communities (see p.55). For example, our Emotional
work, life, and online services to support our colleagues
Health and Wellness ERG provides dedicated sessions
and their families under one roof. Since 2022, we have
and check-ins designed to be a non-judgmental,
expanded our Mental Health First Aid program by
confidential, and safe space and community at work.
adding 130 new Mental Health First Aiders across the
business. Additionally, we launched an optional mental
health course on World Mental Health Day in October
2022 that over 12,640 employees have completed.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 46
Employee Engagement and Development
GPS Approach
Why It Matters
are covered in depth through our annual People
Grow. Perform. Succeed.
At Charles River, employee engagement and Strategy review and in general updates throughout
development start from day one and are cultivated the year.
throughout the employee journey to create an
How We Are Driving Progress
exceptional employee experience through a distinctive
and inspiring culture. Our goal is to provide endless Talent Management and Development
and equitable opportunities for all employees and With our ambitious purpose and passion for what we
leaders to grow their skills, have fulfilling careers, do, there are endless opportunities for our people to
elevate performance, and achieve success. Grow, Perform, and Succeed (GPS) at Charles River.
Our GPS approach serves to harness this energy and
Central to our ethos is the necessity to ensure our
momentum and activate the principles of our employer
people are engaged and motivated, and that they can
brand, This is Your Moment, into all our engagement
bring their best self to work every day throughout their
and development efforts (see p.42).
career with us. By regularly listening to their needs,
by empowering and equipping our leaders, and by We believe each day presents new opportunities to
adopting an agile approach, we can respond quickly work together, deliver change, create impact, and
and effectively. We drive meaningful change when we make a difference. Our leaders are instrumental to the
empower everyone to grow, perform, and succeed. success of our GPS and Performance Management
approach, thus by emphasizing leadership
Management Approach
development and effective succession management,
Our CPO and CVP of Global Talent Management and we also ensure quality performance management.
Development (GTM&D) own employee engagement
Top Talent Identification
and development at Charles River. The People and
We conduct organization-wide talent reviews annually
Culture Leadership team collectively establishes key
to ensure that we identify and develop top talent
priorities based on business and employee needs,
for roles that will lead us into the future. In 2023,
ensuring execution within each business and function.
this review focused on identifying talent deeper in
Our Senior Leadership team reviews human capital, the organization, including a spotlight on diverse
talent, learning, and engagement metrics monthly leadership pipelines, and accelerating the development
to monitor progress and identify continuous of key roles including our General Manager talent pool.
improvement opportunities. To ensure oversight at a
Board level, employee engagement and development
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 47
Our People Leader Strategy Employee Engagement and Development
CONTINUED
LEARNING AND ROLES AND GOALS
Growing Leaders to Grow Our People In 2023, we established a multi-year people leader
DEVELOPMENT
Our people leaders bring our culture to life every day strategy to build capability, evolve our culture, and
through their actions, experience, and leadership. improve their impact on our employees and business.
Programs/initiatives Programs/initiatives
We want to create leaders at every level of Charles Our aim is to inspire, enable, and retain the best
• GM Accelerator – Cohort of • People Leader Goal – River and provide them with the tools, resources, and people leaders in the industry, and the four guideposts
identified leaders from across Goal-setting on role as a leader inspiration they need to elevate talent, foster creativity, to the left serve as our roadmap to help us get there.
the business that receive monthly and with the opportunity to and make a difference in the lives of our employees.
training and development on receive ongoing feedback
general manager leadership topics throughout the year
SPOTLIGHT STORY
• Leading the Frontline – • Success Profiles – Overviews
Leadership curriculum launched of the knowledge, experiences,
Leading The Frontline
in 2022 that will impact 2,000+ competencies, and attributes
leaders by the end of 2024 that frontline leaders and GMs
In 2022, we launched a groundbreaking,
generally need to be successful
enterprise-wide development program,“Leading the
in their roles
Frontline: Cultivate Your Leadership,” for frontline
leaders. The six-month, predominately in-person
program consisted of monthly learning sessions,
TOOLS AND COMMUNICATIONS
coaching pods, and online microcourses to build
INSPIRATION
had completed or were actively completing
foundational people leadership skills linked to our
the program. By the end of 2024 we aim to
CRL DNA.
Programs/initiatives Programs/initiatives
reach 90% of our frontline leaders.
• People Leader Power Hours – • People Leader Guide – Over 50 certified Charles River facilitators lead
Monthly learning forum in which Monthly information and these sessions, helping participants immediately
1,000+ people leaders share inspiration from our CPO for apply these important concepts in practice. This is
best practices people leaders to share with an important way not only to develop leadership, This entire course has been helpful
their teams but to embed our employee brand and CRL DNA for me as a people leader. I’ve been
• Self-Awareness and Reflection –
behaviors across the Company. challenged to review how I approach
360-leadership assessment tool • CRL DNA Guides – One-page
my interactions with my team, and I look
first piloted in 2023, with access guides to equip people leaders As of year-end 2023, over 1,000 leaders,
forward to applying what I’ve learned!”
expanded to all people leaders to embed CRL DNA, as part of representing 51% of our frontline leaders,
in 2024 our culture Leading the Frontline participant
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 48
Employee Engagement
Employee Engagement
curiosity, and realize their potential. This includes
and Feedback
and Development our focus on LinkedIn Learning, where employees SPOTLIGHT STORY
engaged in more than 16,000 hours of dedicated Our Engagement Pulse Survey is part of our listening
CONTINUED
training through the platform. We increased the strategy designed to help us learn more about what
number of LinkedIn Learning users from 6,500 to is working at Charles River, what we can improve, and
10,500 in 2023. how we can facilitate more meaningful conversations
• Self-Awareness and Team Effectiveness: between our employees and our people leaders.
Growing Our People:
We offer numerous ways for employees and teams
Learning, Career Development,
In 2023, we reduced the frequency of the survey from
to learn about themselves and ways to improve
and Upskilling Opportunities
three times a year to twice yearly to allow more time for
their interactions, collaboration, and performance.
leaders to drive ACT (Acknowledge, Collaborate, Take
We want to ensure that every individual at Charles
Through tools such as CliftonStrengths, DiSC,
Action) conversations with employees. In 2023, we
River has equal access to individualized growth
and Team Resilience and Alignment, teams and
also made a change which made it easier for frontline
opportunities that empower them to achieve
individuals can partner with professionals to improve
employees to access the survey. This resulted in a
remarkable things. To achieve this, we provide several
their self-awareness and team effectiveness.
record high of 27,576 comments – which will help us
career and development opportunities to help our
Performance Management to further strengthen our culture. We had a response
people thrive.
We provide a structured approach to facilitate rate of 65% in 2022, 68% in 2023, and maintained an
In 2023, our employees completed an average of
continuous and meaningful conversations between average engagement score of 70 year-over-year.
11 hours of annual learning. We expect this number
people leaders and employees. In addition to
to increase over the coming years as we continue Recognition
measuring what work gets done, our process
to integrate the tracking of our training and course Recognizing and rewarding our employees is part
measures how work gets done through our CRL DNA
participation into our LMS platform. The growth of our culture. We hold annual Presidential Awards –
behaviors, which provide a healthy balance for a
opportunities we provide include: Charles River’s highest honor for employee excellence
Career Month
distinctive growth and performance culture.
– in addition to the Values award for those who deliver
• Technical Training: Each business conducts
We offer leadership and employee guides, tools, and an outstanding outcome while exemplifying our values. In June 2023, we hosted multiple career
regular on-the-job learning and technical training
training resources, as well as on-the-job learning and Various local awards programs and virtual “Be the offerings and resources designed to support
to help our employees stay current, gain necessary
coaching to assist with performance management. Difference” cards are also utilized to show appreciation both personal and professional growth,
certifications, and deliver the highest quality service
Our approach encourages employees to collaborate to our people. In 2024, we will be launching an including 12 “Own Your Career” webinars
to clients. For example, in one of our businesses,
with management to seek new opportunities and enterprise-wide recognition platform that will offer more attended by over 1,400 employees. Employees
we utilized virtual reality training tool Virtuosi for
take ownership of their goals. This occurs through robust recognition opportunities across all our sites also had the opportunity to share career
our new hires to immerse themselves within the lab
structured goal setting and development-planning, and geographies. stories, participate in a career health check
environment while maintaining the microbiological
regular 1:1 meetings, and formal mid-year and year- assessment, and learn that the top two skills
integrity of our classified spaces.
end reviews. In 2022, 88% of our employees received where employees need help are networking and
• Professional Development: Employees have
a year-end performance review which increased by spotting career opportunities. This feedback will
access to thousands of courses to stay current,
1% to 89% in 2023. drive our programming focus for 2024.
learn new skills, advance their career, fulfill their
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 49
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DE&I) Our Public Goals
45% 30% 71
Why It Matters
to share their DE&I metrics with the CEO through
WOMEN IN VP+ ROLES MANAGERS FROM EMPLOYEE
We are committed to building a safe, inclusive, equitable, quarterly business reviews to ensure leadership
BY 2025 AND MAINTAIN UNDERREPRESENTED ENGAGEMENT SCORE
and welcoming workplace that brings out the best in accountability. These metrics include gender and
50% OF WOMEN IN RACIAL AND ETHNIC FOR BELONGING
our 21,800 global employees. Driven from the top, our generational representation globally, as well as race
MANAGER ROLES GROUPS IN THE U.S. BY 2025
DE&I Strategy seeks to create a culture of belonging and ethnicity in our U.S. operations. BY 2025
and inclusion where diverse perspectives are valued to
We also recognize that diversity and inclusion PROGRESS THROUGH 2023:
strengthen our business, increase our ability to innovate,
42% WOMEN IN VP+ PROGRESS THROUGH 2023:
initiatives must be tailored to the unique needs of
and deepen our impact on science and healthcare. ROLES/ 53% WOMEN IN 21% MANAGERS FROM PROGRESS THROUGH 2023:
locations, roles, and geographies. To meet these
MANAGER ROLES UREGS 67 SCORE
We remain focused on attracting, energizing, and needs, most of our sites and functions have developed
elevating the best people by creating an exceptional localized DE&I Plans mapped to our five strategic
employee experience that encompasses diversity DE&I pillars. Our HR Compliance Manager also
Diversity, Equity, Inclusion,
of thought, work styles, and beliefs as well as race, monitors alignment to the U.S. Affirmative Action
color, religion, gender, national or ethnic origin or Program, and we are an equal employment and Belonging
DIVERSITY
ancestry, age, sexual orientation, gender identity and opportunity (EEO) company.
Representation of multiple
At Charles River we are committed to
expression, military or veteran status, disability, and backgrounds, experiences,
We continuously revise our internal policies to better increasing diversity, building inclusive and identities
all other categories outlined in our Code of Business
promote diversity and equity, and we participate in behaviors, and fostering an equitable
Conduct and Ethics (see p.32).
external benchmarks such as the Disability Equality workplace where every employee has
Index, Corporate Equality Index, and the Bloomberg a sense of belonging.
Management Approach
Gender-Equality Index to enhance transparency and
Our focus on DE&I and belonging spans all
improve industry-wide comparability of disclosure. BELONGING
employment-related decisions – from hiring and
Employees feel that
they are part of a
promotions, to succession planning, compensation,
How We Are Driving Progress
shared purpose and are
performance reviews, training, and career development. comfortable being their
Our Strategy
authentic selves
Our Global DE&I team is led by our CVP of DE&I and INCLUSION EQUITY
We are dedicated to creating a workplace where all
Corporate Citizenship who reports into our CPO. Intentional actions to Fair outcomes and
our people can thrive and succeed. Our focus on engage employees and access to opportunities
embrace their unique through the removal
To drive leadership from the top, our DE&I Council DE&I is anchored in five strategic pillars that inform
ideas and perspectives of barriers from systems
and processes
guides global action across the organization. Led by our approach: Build Awareness and Understanding,
our CEO, the executive-level Council meets quarterly to Strengthen Belonging and Inclusion, Increase Diverse
discuss progress against our multi-year DE&I strategy Representation, Focus on Equity, and Partner with
and goals. Additionally, each business is required our Communities.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 50
Diversity, Equity,
Strengthen Belonging and Inclusion Increase Diverse Representation of women at our Executive Leadership level increased
and Inclusion (DE&I) We know that an inclusive culture where everyone We remain committed to increasing diverse to 42% in 2023, up from 38% in 2022 (see p.84).
can be their authentic selves, be appreciated for their representation by forging key partnerships, The percentage of employees from underrepresented
CONTINUED
differences, and share their unique perspectives is key strengthening our sourcing channels, creating pipelines racial and ethnic groups (UREGs) increased to 31% in
to employee engagement. To achieve this, we focus for early talent, encouraging diverse interview panels the U.S. in 2022, and 32% in 2023, with representation
on educating people leaders, empowering employees and diverse candidate slates, as well as mitigating of 21% within leadership in 2022, and 21% in 2023. For
to create an inclusive environment, and expanding our unconscious bias at every step in the employee journey. our full DE&I data information, please refer to p.84.
To monitor our progress, we launched three public ERGs (see spotlight on p.51). Diverse representation is reviewed regularly in our CEO
To further advance our DE&I goals, our CEO
DE&I goals in 2023. Also beginning in 2023, our CEO, business reviews and is covered by two of our three
Another way that we strengthen belonging is through is a signatory and advocate of CEO Action for Diversity
with concurrence of the Compensation Committee, is DE&I goals.
I Belong at Charles River conversations. Led by the and Inclusion – a global CEO-driven commitment
eligible to make adjustments of up to 5% to the Bonus
Global DE&I team, these monthly discussions typically Women represented 53% of our total leadership to increasing diverse representation within their
pool funding for senior leaders, based on progress
feature a panel of employees, or an external speaker in 2023 (and 52% in 2022), and the composition organization, industries, and beyond.
toward those goals.
that offer storytelling on topics relating to inclusion. In
Build Awareness and Understanding 2022–23 we held 25 I Belong sessions which had more
We empower curiosity to drive deeper understanding than 5,000 attendees.
and build greater respect and support throughout
To measure our progress in creating a culture of
Charles River. We do this through continuous learning
belonging, our twice-yearly Pulse surveys (see p.48)
opportunities, foundational DE&I courses, celebrating
provide valuable employee insights. In 2023, we
our cultural differences, promoting allyship, and by
achieved a belonging score of 67 which represents a
actively supporting each other through listening,
decrease of 1 point from 2022. We continue to review
empathy, respect, and compassion (see p.32).
feedback and develop relevant resources to support our
We continued to deliver mandatory unconscious bias, goal to achieve a belonging score of 71 by 2025. For
anti-harassment, and anti-discrimination training to example, in 2024, we will be offering two new learning
all employees through our Dignity and Respect in the modules called Creating a Culture of Belonging and
Workplace training module. In 2022–23, we achieved Allyship: Becoming a Champion for Belonging.
a 97% completion rate for all employees.
Furthermore, by the end of 2023, 1,450 people leaders
participated in our Tackling Bias and Creating Inclusion
training. To further embed these learnings, we offer
cohort connection sessions where leaders can discuss
applying what they have learned. We have also built
a Creating an Inclusive Environment session into our
Leading the Frontline program (see p.47).
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 51
Diversity, Equity,
Partner with Our Communities
and Inclusion (DE&I) We partner with organizations globally to ensure SPOTLIGHT STORY
thriving communities, increase awareness of disease
CONTINUED Employee Resource and ally education. Since 2021,
and health outcomes, and create better access to
ERG membership has expanded to
Groups (ERGs)
Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics
nearly 4,000 employees worldwide.
(STEM) Education for today’s youth, inspiring the next
Our Company-supported ERGs are open This includes the addition of four
Focus on Equity generation of diverse scientists and technicians.
to all employees and are an integral new ERGs over the last two years:
Our focus on equity ensures all employees have the
In 2023, we focused on building out a strategic part of our vision to foster an equitable, Disability and Neurodiversity, Juntos,
ability to progress at every level of our organization.
DE&I partnership framework to oversee our strategic inclusive, and diverse workplace. Indigenous Peoples, and Multi-Faith.
We regularly review our practices and metrics to
collaborations which support diverse talent attraction Consisting of 11 distinct groups, We also rebranded our Young
ensure equitable outcomes in areas such as pay,
and workplace inclusion. Here are a selection of our our ERGs help to cultivate a keen sense Professionals ERG to Emerging
total rewards, engagement, performance, promotion,
key partnerships in 2022–23: of belonging through community Professionals to attract a wider pool
development, and talent reviews.
involvement, professional development, of employees.
• Black Professionals Scotland
Charles River continued to demonstrate equitable
• CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion
pay practices, with a less-than-1% gap in pay by
• Disability:IN
gender (globally) as well as race and ethnicity (U.S.).
• Mindfulness Business Charter
We also continued to make strides to improve equity
through our supplier diversity program to ensure • myGwork
enhanced economic development opportunities for • Tanenbaum
diverse business enterprises. In 2023, 22% of our total
addressable spend within the U.S. was with small
and/or diverse suppliers. This percentage includes
spend with small, minority-owned, women-owned,
small-disadvantaged, HUB Zone, veteran-owned, and
service-disabled businesses (see p.64).
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 52
Health and Safety
Why It Matters
opportunities for improvement. Training sessions are
As good corporate citizens, we are committed to provided on how to implement the GOF, and additional
safeguarding the health, safety, and well-being of our materials are readily available for site use through our
people, visitors, customers, and the communities EHS&S GOF Library. This includes training modules,
in which we operate. Guided by our strong sense model programs, and self-assessment tools that
of purpose and our robust Environmental, Health, promote site-level program improvements.
Safety, and Sustainability (EHS&S) Global Operating
To ensure direct engagement, as well as ongoing
Framework (GOF), we implement safe and sustainable
feedback and support of our BUs, we launched the
business practices that comply with applicable safety
EH&S Advisory Council in 2022. This Council includes
laws, regulations, and international standards.
key members of the Corporate EHS&S Group as well
as a designated business leader from each of our BUs.
Management Approach
The Council meets quarterly to review progress on
The Charles River Global EHS&S team developed
performance objectives, program implementation, and
its EHS&S Strategic Plan in 2019, which focuses on
to discuss and review new initiatives. Other aspects of
continuous improvement and the promotion of a
our EHS&S governance framework include monthly
safety-first culture. The Strategic Plan and supporting
EHS&S Operations meetings and EHS&S Council
initiatives are aligned to our Global Policy on Safety
meetings which bring together leaders and staff to
and Sustainability. The Global EHS&S team works
discuss our ongoing strategy and goals as well as to
collaboratively with business unit (BU) leaders,
share best practices and lessons learned.
site EHS&S leaders, and site leadership to drive its
implementation and the achievement of our 2030 In 2021, we rolled out the global EHS&S Management
EHS&S goals (see p.53). Information System (MIS) – Enablon. The MIS
promotes consistency in the way we manage, track,
To ensure a consistent management approach,
and record incidents and leading indicators, including
Charles River launched the EHS&S GOF in 2021
near misses, safety concerns, and good saves. It also
which details our internal EHS&S requirements and
allows sites to conduct proactive safety inspections
management system. The GOF sets the minimum
and track assessment results to mitigate potential
expectations for program requirements and promotes
items of concern and assign corrective actions quickly
best practices across our sites. Sites are required
and effectively.
to conduct initial and periodic programmatic risk
assessments to determine program applicability,
followed by self-assessments to determine
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 53
Health and Safety
These include the following metrics: These occupational program elements are outlined in
our GOF and are developed by our global occupational SPOTLIGHT STORY
CONTINUED
• Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)
health nurse and consulting medical physician.
• Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR)
The mission of our occupational health team is to
• Proactive reporting
Strengthening Safety Performance provide effective and consistent guidance using best-
• Training hours: Charles River employees are
The health, safety, and well-being of our people is in-class industry standards. This includes conducting
provided with regular training to conduct their jobs
our highest priority – and our focus on continuously regular employee health assessments, educating our
safely. Training is delivered by site teams as well
identifying new ways to improve our safety people, and compliance with occupational health
as globally through the Charles River LMS and
performance is central to our approach. regulations which align with our strategy.
dedicated HSI Safety Training in North America
To reduce injuries in the workplace, we are committed To assure effective, fair, and equitable access
Charles River also offers a range of benefits, programs,
to halving our Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) to occupational health services, we incorporate a
and services to promote our employees’ health and
by 2030. Consistent with our DE&I commitments hybrid network of on-site teams and off-site clinics.
well-being (see p.44).
(see p.49), progress against this goal is now tied This program approach provides employees with
into executive compensation. As of year-end 2023, Occupational Health access to industry health professionals and is
we achieved a 1% reduction in our TRIR. Our occupational health program adopts a preventative designed to focus on improving our workplace
approach to promote and maintain the health and environment, conducting regular risk assessments,
In addition to our TRIR reduction goal, we track
safety of our people in the workplace. This includes and implementing preventive measures. Our approach
several other safety performance KPIs including both
measures to prevent work-related injuries and illnesses ensures compliance with relevant health and safety
leading and lagging indicators to promote continuous
through proactive health screenings prior to onboarding regulations, job specific training on safety protocols,
improvement across all areas of our H&S strategy.
of new hires, as well as ongoing assessments and prompt response to any employee health-
which are commensurate with job role hazards. related concerns. Celebrating Safety
at Our Sites
Creating a Safety-First Culture
We launched a Safety-First Culture initiative in 2022
Our Leiden site in the Netherlands was
Our Public Goals to ensure that every person working for and on behalf
the inaugural winner of the Charles River
of Charles River recognizes the importance of putting
President’s Award for Excellence in Safety
safe working practices first. As part of this campaign,
50% Culture and Performance in 2022. The site
all sites were requested to form Safety Committees
displayed excellent leadership in engaging their
comprised of both management and employees.
REDUCTION OF TRIR
employees in the site’s safety programs and
FROM A BASELINE In 2023, Committees were encouraged to meet no
culture, embraced proactive reporting of safety
YEAR OF 2018 less than quarterly to drive site-level progress and make
concerns, demonstrated a no-blame safety
site-specific improvements to safety performance.
PROGRESS THROUGH 2023: culture, and is a leader in aligning their
1% REDUCTION IN TRIR
business and EHS objectives.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 54
Health and Safety
In 2023, we launched a formal EHS&S Assessment
program that is supported by a third-party consultant SPOTLIGHT STORY
CONTINUED
and evaluates our site programs and performance
against both internal and regulatory requirements.
In 2023, 12 sites were assessed by EHS&S auditors,
In 2022–23, Charles River conducted several additional
and we expect to assess approximately 20 sites per
activities to raise the visibility of our safety programs
year from 2024 and beyond.
through a global series of training, communications,
and leadership courses: Strengthening Incident Reporting
As part of our EHS&S MIS rollout in 2021, we set out
• Establishing the EHS&S Advisory Council in 2022
to strengthen our internal health and safety reporting
with representation from all BUs (see Management
processes by implementing proactive reporting
Approach)
related to incident reporting. By measuring important
• Rolling out a Global Health and Safety Awareness
precursors to potential accidents such as near
campaign as part of Employee Safety Month in 2023
misses, safety concerns raised and good saves, we
• Launching a Safety Champion Awards program
can identify potential incidents, implement corrective
across all sites and an Annual President’s Award for
actions, and prevent them from happening ahead
Safety Excellence to recognize excellence in safety
of time.
culture and performance
We continue to improve our processes to identify and
• Delivering interactive Site GM Safety Culture Training
correct potential incidents before they happen, and
via two virtual sessions for all global GMs in 2022
we are pleased to report that in 2023 over 20% of
and 2023
events reported within the EHS&S MIS were proactive
• Launching the first module of our People Leader
indicators, well exceeding our target of 10%. We will
Safety First Culture Training (e-Learning) to all
expand on this culture of proactive reporting in 2024
people leaders globally in 2023
Embedding a Culture launched on World Day for Safety and
and beyond.
• Delivering two interactive virtual Safety Culture
Health at Work. Throughout the month,
of Safety
workshops for executive leaders in 2023
we asked employees: “Who do you work
We believe in the importance of creating safely for?” to encourage them to take a
To further gauge employee perspectives, we added a
a Culture of Safety, where all our people personalized approach on the importance
safety question to our biannual employee engagement
are aware of the steps that they must take of adopting safe working practices. The
survey (see p.48). Looking ahead, we will continue
to protect their own health, safety, and campaign included awareness posters,
surveying our employees no less than annually for
well-being, and that of their colleagues. intranet posts, and emails, as well as
their perspectives and feedback on our safety
To reinforce this ethos, we designated engaging videos and training modules
culture journey.
May of 2023 as Safety Month, which we focused on workplace safety.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 55
Community Engagement and Support
SPOTLIGHT STORY
Why It Matters
In 2023, we published an internal Global Giving
As a global organization, we are committed to Policy, which details our CRL Cares Programs and
supporting and investing in the communities where continued areas of focus. We also updated our VTO
we live and work. We believe that a healthier future and Sabbatical Leave Policies to align with our three
belongs to us all, and through our CRL Cares community pillars.
Programs, we invest and serve our local communities
How We Are Driving Progress
with our time, expertise, and giving. We are proud to
make a difference across three strategic community Our Strategy
pillars: Thriving Communities; Science, Technology, Our strategic approach to community engagement
Engineering, and Math (STEM) Education; and and support seeks to contribute to initiatives that are
Health Outcomes. strongly linked to our purpose: Together, we create
healthier lives. We empower our people to make a
Management Approach Community One of our volunteers, Kacie C., spent
difference by providing paid volunteer time off (VTO),
her sabbatical as a “Zero Hunger
The Charles River Global Corporate Citizenship employee charitable match, Days of Service grants, Service Sabbatical –
Advocate” at RAH’s Good Food Farm in
Team consists of the Associate Director of Corporate Purpose Months, and paid sabbaticals linked to our
Philippines
the Philippines – an urban community
Citizenship and Strategic Philanthropy and the community pillars.
farm. During her time there, Kacie helped
Manager of Community Engagement. They report In 2023, we partnered with global
VTO
grow and deliver organic produce to local
into our CVP of DE&I and Corporate Citizenship who hunger relief organization, Rise Against
Employees receive 12.5 hours of VTO each year to
food pantries, supported educational
oversees our community strategy and engagement Hunger (RAH), to provide Charles River
volunteer in their local communities. To encourage
projects, and assisted in the daily upkeep
program, with consultation and input from our CPO employees with life-changing, community
participation, each site has an annual VTO goal based
of the farm.
and CEO. service sabbatical opportunities. During
on the number of employees in each location. In 2022,
the year, six employees took a four-
To drive action, our community activities are supported our employees volunteered 22,025 hours of their time.
week paid sabbatical to volunteer for
by a network of more than 155 Global Community This increased to over 29,000 hours in 2023 –
RAH. Three employees traveled to the
Ambassadors, who volunteer their time to bring events which sees employee volunteering surpass pre-
Philippines and South Africa to support
and programs to local sites. Our Global Community pandemic levels.
This was an eye-opening
local projects; one built video assets for
Team hosts monthly calls with Ambassadors to experience and I encourage all
RAH’s marketing team; another advised
establish best practices, provide program updates, eligible Charles River employees
RAH on how to make their packaging
and deliver material support. In 2023, the team hosted to pursue this opportunity!”
more sustainable; and one provided
an inaugural Community Ambassador Summit to
learning and development expertise Kacie C., Charles River Community
deliver training, host talks from guest speakers,
to RAH’s leadership team. Service Sabbatical participant
and deliver interactive sessions to drive engagement
and collaboration.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 56
Community Engagement
As COVID-19 cases began to slow, in-person
SPOTLIGHT STORY
and Support volunteering returned in mid-2022. As a result,
we sunsetted our Acts of Kindness program and
Cell and Gene Therapy
CONTINUED
introduced an expanded version of our previous Global
Internship Program –
Day of Service, now referred to as “Days of Service” in
Days of Service Grants 2022 and 2023 (see Days of Service Grants). In 2023, Memphis, U.S.
First piloted in 2022, once a Charles River site reaches we also bolstered our disaster relief volunteer programs
In 2021, Charles River Memphis launched a
its annual VTO goal, a monetary grant is released to a by establishing a partnership with Team Rubicon –
biomanufacturing and how this industry is positively
successful cell and gene therapy (C&GT) internship
charity nominated by employees. This is a great way a veteran-led humanitarian organization.
impacting healthcare outcomes in the development
training program to engage a new wave of talent in
to incentivize our people to use their time to support
STEM Education of new cell and gene therapies.
this emerging scientific area. Initially partnering with
local causes. Since 2022, we have distributed within
Our focus on STEM education seeks to introduce
the biotech and forensic science department of a
nine countries across Europe and North America more
today’s youth to the possibilities of a career in STEM
local community college, the program has since
than $500,000 in Days of Service grants to local food
and inspire the next generation of scientists and
grown significantly.
banks, social services agencies, hospices, and other
We’ve been able to advise on useful skills
difference-makers. We invest in STEM education
qualifying charities. and techniques that will better prepare
From 2022–23, the program hosted 37 student
through grants and partnerships with charitable
students. Everyone benefits, the students
interns, many of whom applied for roles and joined
Employee Charitable Match organizations and schools. This includes engaging
are more prepared, and the applicant
Charles River full-time after graduation. During the
We launched our pilot Employee Match Program and inspiring students and children through the Eureka
pool expands.”
internship, students are given projects and hands-
through the CRL Cares Portal in 2022, to provide Science Fair, global STEM Day, and Take Your Child
on experience that teaches them about
support for Ukrainian refugees. Charles River matched to Science Days. Molly Field, Charles River University
all employee donations made on a 1:1 basis to five and Community Relations Manager
In 2022–23, Charles River donated $1.5M to charity
global relief charities. Employees from 71 locations
partners in STEM educational outreach projects.
and 16 countries participated in the match campaign.
This included our sponsorship of a scholarship
In 2023, we expanded our approved charity list to over volunteering their time through in-school virtual drop- some cases, stories where colleagues facing a
program through Foster Love that provides foster
1,000 charities eligible for matching. From 2022–23, ins or in-person events. disease diagnosis received this very treatment
youth with access to education, training, and support
our employee giving programs generated more than (see p.10). As part of Oncology Awareness Month,
in the field of Veterinary Technology. Health Outcomes
$350,000 in company donations to qualifying charities. employees volunteered nearly 3,000 hours in support
Our Health Outcomes initiatives target key therapeutic
We also launched two new key partnerships, including of oncology-related charities in 2022–23. We also
Our Community Pillars areas of research where Charles River has some of its
joining Discovery Education’s STEM Careers Coalition, helped to assemble more than 2,000 care packs for
Thriving Communities greatest impact and breadth of work – including areas
to support STEM-based learning opportunities for cancer patients.
We contribute to thriving communities by meaningfully such as oncology and the treatment of rare diseases.
girls and students of color. These partnerships
partnering with local organizations that provide In 2023, for Rare Disease Month, our employees
create opportunities to connect with local schools We honor Rare Disease Month and Oncology
essential services for children and individuals in need. assembled nearly 1,000 children’s hospital activity kits,
and provide curated content to translate classroom Awareness Month every year. Throughout these
This involves supporting local food banks, emergency painted four murals for local hospitals and rare disease
learning into real-life careers. In 2023, our STEM months, we share stories where Charles River’s scientific
shelters, disaster relief organizations, and youth and centers, and volunteered more than 400 hours to
Education outreach resulted in nearly 700 employees research has contributed to drug approvals, and in
family service agencies. support rare disease charities.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 57
Community Engagement
and Support SPOTLIGHT STORY
CONTINUED Days of Service Grants
Program – Portishead and
Bristol Children’s Hospital, U.K.
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
IN NUMBERS Through Charles River’s Days of Service program,
our sites can increase their community impact
by reaching their annual site VTO goal, to trigger
> 50,000
the release of a monetary grant to a local charity.
Colleagues in Portishead, U.K. reached their 2023
HOURS VOLUNTEERED
IN 2022–23 VTO site goal by volunteering over 200 hours of time,
resulting in a contribution to Portishead’s charity of
choice: The Grand Appeal, the Bristol Children’s
Hospital Charity. The grant was awarded to provide
music therapy sessions for young patients receiving
treatment and care in Bristol Children’s Hospital.
>$4M
The sessions, delivered by the charity’s qualified
DONATED
music therapists, are designed to support the well-
ACROSS THRIVING
being of children during their time in the hospital.
COMMUNITIES, STEM
EDUCATION, AND
HEALTH OUTCOMES Bristol Children’s Hospital cares for more than
(2022–23) 100,000 patients annually across South West
and South Wales, covering the single largest
geographic area of any children’s hospital in
England. Their official charity, The Grand Appeal,
2,700
provides family accommodation; medical research;
life-saving equipment; arts, music, and play therapy;
STEM KITS CREATED
FOR KIDS FOR GLOBAL and much more.
STEM DAY IN 2022 It is a wonderful local charity that is close to
AND 2023
the hearts of many Charles River colleagues.”
Becky Longley, Site Community Ambassador
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 58
Progress is... driving inclusion
and belonging
Our ERGs offer a sense of belonging • Offered speed mentoring to provide an
for our people by celebrating heritage opportunity to hear from a cross-section
events, supporting career development, of leaders across the Company about their
and giving back through community career journeys and tips for advancement
work. The African Ancestry ERG is a
• Volunteered with multiple charities
prime example of how our ERGs support
including Blessings in a Backpack, which
our people and culture.
is a non-profit organization that feeds
school children in the U.S.
In 2023, the African Ancestry ERG
undertook several impactful initiatives
to drive Company-wide engagement
and action: I am so proud of the work that our
ERGs like African Ancestry are doing
• Organized celebrations for Martin
to foster a culture of belonging at
Luther King Day, Black History Month,
Charles River. It is a testament to the
and Juneteenth. Additionally, the ERG
strong leadership and advocacy within
influenced adding Juneteenth to the
the group that propels this ERG to
holiday calendar for all U.S. sites,
drive progress across every pillar
beginning in 2022
of our DE&I strategy.”
• Participated in listening sessions with our
Global DE&I team to share experiences
Livia Konkel, Vice President,
and perspective on how to make Charles
DE&I and Corporate Citizenship, Charles River
River an even more inclusive place to work
• Hosted intersectional events through
collaborations with other ERGs on topics
of disability, LGBTQ+, and emotional
health. These included film discussions,
book clubs, and panel events
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 59
Protect Our Planet
Our Focus
We are committed to safeguarding our 37% 92%
planet by collaborating to drive positive
ABSOLUTE SCOPE 1 GLOBAL RENEWABLE
change within the pharmaceutical industry
AND 2 GHG EMISSIONS ELECTRICITY USAGE
and beyond.
REDUCTION FROM 2018 ACHIEVED LARGELY
TO 2023 THROUGH VIRTUAL
POWER PURCHASE
By setting science-based targets that
AGREEMENTS (VPPAs)
support meaningful GHG reductions,
our 2030 climate commitments focus on
reducing our direct and indirect value chain
emissions to advance sustainability, reduce
climate risk, and make a lasting positive $13.5M
impact on the communities in which
IN APPROVED
we operate.
SUSTAINABILITY
CAPITAL PROJECTS
Our Aim SINCE 2020
Our aim is to reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG
emissions by 50%, and our Scope 3 GHG
emissions by 15%, by 2030. We will also
continue to champion efforts to promote
a more sustainable and diverse supply chain.
Our ESG material topics in this
area include:
Climate and GHG Emissions (p.60)
R esponsible Supply Chain Management (p.63)
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 60
Climate and GHG Emissions
Our Public Goals
Why It Matters
framework for managing EHS&S Strategy and GHG In 2022, our Scope 1 and 2 emissions decreased
With over 75 years of scientific expertise, we want to reduction projects identified supports our safety and on an absolute basis by 18% from our baseline
leverage our trusted leadership position to address sustainability vision as outlined in the Global Policy year of 2018. This further decreased in 2023 to a 50%
environmental sustainability and do our part to tackle on Safety and Sustainability. 37% reduction. This progress was achieved by the
REDUCTION OF SCOPE
climate change. By setting long-term commitments successful implementation of vPPAs across our North
Site-based energy conservation and GHG reduction 1 AND 2 GREENHOUSE
to significantly reduce our direct Scope 1 and 2 GHG American and European operations, as well as the
GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS
activities are conducted in accordance with our
emissions by 2030, and by collaborating with others implementation of efficiency projects funded through
BY 2030 FROM
EHS&S GOF, which outlines a high-level, consistent,
in the pharmaceutical industry to promote a more the Charles River Sustainability Capital Fund. A BASELINE YEAR
and cohesive framework for global EHS&S activities,
OF 2018
sustainable supply chain, we can influence change
including energy conservation and GHG reductions. Our total energy use was 770,449 MWh with 92%
both within our industry and beyond.
PROGRESS THROUGH 2023:
In 2023, we launched an Energy Assessment Program of our electricity coming from renewable sources
37% REDUCTION
to help further identify site-level energy conservation by the end of 2023 (see p.61). In 2024, we will be
Management Approach
opportunities. In the first year of the program, energy pursuing options to source renewable electricity for
At Charles River, our EHS&S team is responsible for
assessments were conducted across several of our our Asia-Pacific operations, with the view to achieving
the development and implementation of our climate
largest energy-consuming sites, and numerous energy 100% renewable electricity globally by 2025, a full five 1 5%
strategy in collaboration with business leaders. The
conservation and GHG reduction projects identified. years ahead of our 2030 target.
Team has oversight of our 2030 Scope 1, 2, and 3
REDUCTION OF SCOPE
GHG emissions goals and our renewable energy
3 GHG EMISSIONS
How We Are Driving Progress
target. Our climate and GHG emissions strategy is BY 2030 FROM
Climate Change and GHG Emissions
A BASELINE YEAR
approved by the CEO and Charles River ESG Council,
As a global business operating across 155 locations OF 2019
which is chaired by our COO. Supporting internal
in 24 countries, we are committed to taking action
targets are socialized to all site and business unit
PROGRESS THROUGH 2023:
to address climate change and reduce our carbon
(BU) leaders who present ongoing progress through 30% INCREASE
footprint. To formalize this commitment, we developed
quarterly business reviews run by the executive team.
2030 GHG emissions reduction targets which were
EHS&S forms part of the Global Engineering, Facilities,
approved by the Science Based Targets initiative
and Real Estate function within Charles River.
1 00%
(SBTi) in 2021.
Implementation of the GHG reduction strategy is
We are members of Business Ambition for 1.5°C, ACHIEVEMENT
supported by various functions including EHS&S,
RE100, and we report on our GHG reduction activities OF RENEWABLE
Global Engineering, Facilities Support, Master
ELECTRICITY BY 2030
through leading external frameworks such as the
Planning, and Global Procurement, as well as BU
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). In both 2022
PROGRESS THROUGH 2023:
leaders and Site General Managers. The Company’s
and 2023, we received a CDP Climate Score of A-. 92% ACHIEVED
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 61
Climate and GHG Emissions
Through the dedication of these groups,
we implemented numerous sustainability and energy-
CONTINUED
efficiency projects across our facilities through
2022–23 including LED light retrofitting, the introduction
Sustainable Design
of more efficient cooling units, and the use of solar
Our efforts to reduce GHG emissions through
thermal heating to produce hot water. We are pleased
sustainable design initiatives are supported by the
that our Leiden, Netherlands facility obtained green
Charles River Sustainability Capital Fund: a $5M
certification through My Green Labs, and several
annual commitment to fund sustainability projects
of our other facilities are also pursuing relevant
that reduce our environmental footprint across our
environmental certification.
global sites. Since its inception in 2020, $13.5M has
been approved for sustainability capital projects. Renewable Electricity
These projects represent emissions reductions Our renewable electricity procurement strategy is a
and avoidances of over 12,800 metric tons. key driver in our overall GHG reduction ambitions. Our
This equates to over 7% of our baseline year journey began in 2020 when we became one of the first
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. 300 members of RE100 – a global corporate renewable
Deriva Energy Solar Farm in Pisgah Ridge, Texas
energy initiative that commits Charles River to operating
To identify and implement improvements on the
on 100% renewable electricity globally by 2030.
ground, we have developed a network of site-based United States. In 2023, we became members of the with around 70% coming from purchased goods
and global team members that meet monthly to share The first step in implementing our strategy was to Renewable Thermal Collaborative – joining other and services, and 5% from capital goods.
best practices, review new technologies, and discuss execute a 15-year contract for a 102-megawatt solar leading companies looking to scale renewable energy
Beginning in 2021, we identified our Top 200 suppliers
opportunities for further reducing our environmental vPPA located in Texas in 2020, which, as of January for heating and cooling. We also became a sponsor
by GHG emissions (representing over 70% of our total
footprint. These teams include our Global Sustainability 2023, provides 100% of our North American electric of Energize through 2023, to increase access to
supply chain GHG emissions) and invited them to
Champions, Global Energy Efficiency Champions, and power requirements with clean, renewable energy. renewable electricity in the pharmaceutical industry
share their emissions data. Total supplier participation
our Green Labs Team. We also signed a 12-year 30-megawatt wind power supply chain (see p.64).
has also increased year-over-year, and by the end of
vPPA located in Spain in 2021. This went live in August
Scope 3 Emissions 2023 over 40% of the targeted suppliers were providing
2023, and covers our entire European electricity load
Our Scope 3 emissions reduction goal of 15% by their emissions data.
(including the U.K.). By the end of 2023, 92% of the
2030 will be achieved through ongoing engagement
electricity used within our global facilities came from In 2023, our total Scope 3 emissions increased by
and collaboration with key suppliers. Understanding
renewable sources (see p.81 for more). 30% from a baseline year of 2019. This continues to
value chain emissions is a vital step to more
be driven by increased spending with our suppliers
In addition to vPPAs, we partner with leading accurately determining our carbon footprint – and
to support business growth. To achieve our 2030
organizations to drive the adoption of green energy our quantification of supplier sustainability practices
commitment, we will need to further engage with
solutions. In 2022, we were recognized by the U.S. provides us with more detailed and actionable data
suppliers and encourage them to commit to science-
Environmental Protection Agency’s Green Power each year. As of 2023, approximately 75% of our total
based targets and implement renewable electricity
Partnership as a leader in green electricity use in the Scope 3 emissions sit within our supply chain –
within their operations.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 62
Climate and GHG Emissions
SPOTLIGHT STORY
CONTINUED
Award-winning Ways
Climate Risk
to Reduce Emissions
The Task Force on Climate-related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD) is a framework which enables
Charles River’s “Customized High Efficiency
companies to provide better information to investors
Automated Energy Recovery System” utilized
across the four key areas of: Climate Change;
at two of the Company’s facilities in China, was
Governance; Risk Management; Strategy; and
selected as an Energy Star Top Project of the
Metrics and Targets. In 2023, we partnered with
Year in 2023 by the United States Environmental
Schneider Electric to conduct our first climate scenario
Protection Agency (US EPA) and was recognized
analysis and aligned our approach with the TCFD
at the ENERGY STAR Industrial Meeting in
recommendations, which we expect to complete
Orlando, Florida.
during 2024. We are committed to evolving our internal
program to continue to meet these requirements The two installations at our Chengdu and
moving forward – and our formal response can be Shunde facilities collectively avoided over 5,300
found in our inaugural TCFD Report, which will be metric tons of GHG emissions, as well as around
available on our website later in 2024. 11,000 MWh of electricity use. A second project,
“Solar Thermal System to Support Process
Waste and Water
Hot Water Loads” was also given an honorable
Our EHS&S GOF and sustainable design programs
mention. This U.K. solar thermal project pilot
seek to minimize waste through a focus on reduction,
avoided 4,000 gallons of fuel oil to save 40 metric
reuse, and recycling to divert waste away from landfill.
tons of annual GHG emissions during the year.
We also promote the responsible use of water by
focusing on conservation and reuse across our
operations where possible.
In 2023, we commenced a pilot project with a strategic
waste management partner at our Wilmington
We have a responsibility to reduce our
headquarters to promote waste minimization. We will
climate impact. I am proud of our efforts
do the same in 2024 at a select number of our U.K.
to reduce energy use and minimize our
sites and we will replicate any successes and learnings
greenhouse gas emissions.”
from these pilots across additional sites in the future.
John Wilkinson, Vice President Global Engineering,
Facilities, Real Estate, Charles River
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 63
Responsible Supply Chain Management
Why It Matters
In 2023, Charles River created a Senior Director
We recognize that the total impact of our operations of Supplier Diversity and Sustainability role to
doesn’t stop with us – it extends across our global increase the operational focus on positive supplier
supply chain. We are dedicated to ensuring that ESG impact. The role reports directly to the
our robust sustainability and social responsibility CVP of Global Procurement.
practices are commonplace across our entire supply
How We Are Driving Progress
base to create a responsible and ethically driven
pharmaceutical industry. PSCI Membership
In June 2021, we became a member of the
We evaluate our suppliers regularly to ensure that they
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI),
align to our standards of quality, accountability, and
an association of pharmaceutical and healthcare
sustainability, and we directly engage with those who
companies dedicated to promoting responsible
have the highest potential impact on environmental
supply chain practices. The principles set out the
and social outcomes. Through our membership of the
relevant practices any business operating within the
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) and
pharmaceutical supply chain is expected to uphold.
Energize, we adopt best practices while encouraging
All members are required to support and incorporate
our suppliers to participate in sustainable initiatives
these principles into key supplier documents
that drive our industry forward.
and agreements.
Management Approach
As a member of the PSCI, Charles River adheres
Our CVP of Global Procurement is responsible for to their principles for Responsible Supply Chain
our supply chain management program. The CVP Management, and we expect our supply chain
reports into our CFO, who has oversight of our global partners to do the same. The Charles River Supplier
supply-chain standards and processes. Our Executive Code of Conduct is aligned with the PSCI principles,
Director of EHS&S works with our procurement team and in 2023, we enhanced our responsible supply
to promote responsible supply chain practices. chain management program by participating in
various PSCI working groups and implementing
This approach details the expectations we have
PSCI best practices. Our Senior Director for Supplier
of our suppliers to align with Charles River standards
Diversity and Sustainability is the co-lead of the PSCI
and PSCI principles covering human rights,
Management Systems Topic Team.
ethics, labor, health and safety, and environment,
including decarbonization.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 64
Responsible Supply
Supplier Diversity
Chain Management We are passionate about partnering with diverse and SPOTLIGHT STORY
small suppliers to create economic opportunities and
CONTINUED Driving Sustainable renewable electricity purchasing, and to
strong relationships with local businesses. As a U.S.
help them purchase renewable electricity
Supply-Chain Practices
government contractor, a percentage of our annual
via pathways that may not have been
spend is targeted for small businesses which grows Through Energize
previously available.
We leverage many of the tools and resources of the year-over-year commensurate with business growth.
PSCI to increase alignment with core PSCI principles In 2023, we became a sponsor of Energize In collaboration with Energize, Charles
In 2023, 22% of our total U.S. addressable spend was
across our supply chain. This includes our sponsorship – a first-of-its-kind program administered River aims to reduce Scope 3 GHG
with small and/or diverse suppliers. This percentage
of initiatives such as Energize to drive industry-wide by Schneider Electric in partnership with emissions by engaging with suppliers
includes spend with U.S.-based small, minority-owned,
action on renewable energy. the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative to promote the adoption of more
women-owned, small-disadvantaged, HUB Zone,
(PSCI). The program has two main sustainable supply chain practices.
Risk Management and Screening veteran-owned, and service-disabled businesses.
objectives: to help suppliers learn about
To assess supply chain risks, we use tools and As well as increasing supplier diversity during the
technology that improve the completeness and year, we continued to engage with suppliers on a
accuracy of our supplier data, while also allowing us regular basis.
to gather information to better identify and mitigate
any potential risks. For new and existing suppliers,
we leverage these tools to build new processes
and procedures that continuously monitor key risk
indicators, collect data and certifications to better
understand performance, and leverage ESG criteria
to inform purchasing decisions. In 2023, we focused
on driving improvements across three key technologies
of risk assessment workflow, data sourcing, and
repository information.
We are committed to reporting to shareholders
on measures the Company is taking to reinforce
confidence that the non-human primates we import
are purpose-bred in accordance with applicable laws
and our risk management standards. More detail is
available on our website.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 65
Progress is... achieving 92%
renewable electricity use globally
Charles River has set ambitious science-
based targets to reduce our Scope 1
Our vPPA strategy is helping us
and 2 emissions by 50% for 2030
transition to the use of renewable
(see p.60). To help deliver this, we are
electricity to power our global
also committed to using 100% renewable
operations, while delivering our
electricity across our global facilities by
climate commitments ahead of time.”
2030, in line with our pledge to RE100 –
a corporate renewable energy initiative
Gregg Belardo, Executive Director,
that brings together businesses committed
Global EHS and Sustainability, Charles River
to 100% renewable electricity.
As of 2023, we have already achieved
92% renewable electricity implementation
globally, and are now targeting 100% by
2025 – five years earlier than planned.
Our rapid progress is the result of our
vPPAs in North America (utilizing solar)
and Europe (utilizing wind-power) that will
supply all facilities in these regions with
100% renewable electricity for the next
12–15 years.
See p.60 to read more about our
vPPAs, as well as our climate strategy
and commitments.
Repsol Wind Farm in Zaragoza, Spain
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 66
GRI Content Index
GRI Standard Location/response Omission
General Disclosures
GRI 102: General Disclosures 2021
2–1 Organizational details About This Report (p.3), Our Company (p.6) Proxy statement
2–2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting About This Report (p.3), Proxy statement
2–3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point About This Report (p.3)
2–4 Restatements of information About This Report (p.3), ESG Data table (p.80)
2–5 External assurance ESG Library
2–6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships Our Company (p.6)
2–7 Employees ESG Data table (p.80)
2–8 Workers who are not employees Our Company (p.6)
2–9 Governance structure and composition Governance (p.29), Proxy statement
2–10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body Governance (p.29), Proxy statement
2–11 Chair of the highest governance body Governance (p.29), Proxy statement
2–12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of impacts Governance (p.29), Proxy statement
2–13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Governance (p.29), Proxy statement
2–14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting Governance (p.29), Proxy statement
2–15 Conflicts of interest Governance (p.29), Proxy statement
2–16 Communication of critical concerns Governance (p.29), Proxy statement
2–17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body Governance (p.29), Proxy statement
2–18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body Governance (p.29), Proxy statement
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 67
GRI Standard Location/response Omission
2–19 Remuneration policies Governance (p.29), Proxy statement
2–20 Process to determine remuneration Governance (p.29), Proxy statement
2–21 Annual total compensation ratio Proxy statement
2–22 Statement on sustainable development strategy Our Corporate Citizenship Strategy (p.8)
2–23 Policy commitments Compliance and Ethics (p.32), Human Rights (p.34). We maintain a global policy management
process that governs the management of the Company’s corporate policies, including their
creation, revision, retirement, review, approval, implementation, communication, and maintenance.
The most senior representative of the applicable corporate function must approve all new policies,
revisions to existing policies, and retirement of existing policies. This process applies to all
employees of the Company worldwide.
2–24 Embedding policy commitments Compliance and Ethics (p.32)
2–25 Processes to remediate negative impacts Compliance and Ethics (p.32), Risk Management (p.36)
2–26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns Compliance and Ethics (p.32)
2–27 Compliance with laws and regulations Confidentiality –
We report in accordance
with SEC requirements and
do not publicly disclose
fines imposed for non-
material instances of non-
compliance.
2–28 Membership associations DE&I (p.49), Memberships and Organizations (p.89). More information on the animal welfare
organizations we partner with can be found on our website: www.criver.com
2–29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Regulatory Affairs (p.35), Stakeholder Engagement (p.3)
2–30 Collective bargaining agreements Our employees are not unionized in the U.S. employees at some of our European facilities are Information unavailable –
represented by works councils, employee representative groups and/or unions, which is consistent We do not track the
with local customs for our industry. We collaborate with the works councils and believe we have percentage of total
good relationships with our employees. Proxy statement employees covered by
collective bargaining
agreements.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 68
GRI Standard Location/response Omission
Material topics
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–1 Process to determine material topics Our Corporate Citizenship Strategy (p.8)
3–2 List of material topics Our Corporate Citizenship Strategy (p.8)
Economic Performance
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Our Company (p.6)
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
201–1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Our Company (p.6)
201–2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Climate and GHG Emissions (p.60), ESG Library Partial omission [Data
incomplete]. Refer to TCFD
Report, to publish on ESG
Library later in 2024.
201–3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Several of our U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries sponsor either defined benefit pension and other
post-retirement benefit plans. Furthermore, the Charles River Laboratories Employee Savings Plan
is a defined contribution plan in the form of a qualified 401(k) plan in which substantially all U.S.
employees are eligible to participate upon employment. The plan contains a provision whereby the
Company matches a percentage of employee contributions. 10-K
Market Presence
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Total Rewards and Well-being (p.44), Community Engagement and Support (p.55)
Change to GRI 202: Market Presence 2016
202–1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage We always meet minimum wage, and we pay fairly across gender.
202–2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community We attract and hire the best talent for the role. In some cases this hiring occurs within the local
geography, and in other cases this may require relocation. In the advent of increased virtual work
as a result of the pandemic, we see the significance of geographic boundaries with respect to
senior management lessening.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 69
GRI Standard Location/response Omission
Procurement Practices
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Responsible Supply Chain Management (p.63)
GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016
204–1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers We are focused on increasing our small business spend as a part of our commitment as a U.S.
Government contractor. We measure spend with small business and engage in programs, led
by our Site Supplier Diversity and Inclusivity Champions, to identify potential small business
engagement through participation in local Chambers of Commerce and other small business
forums. We continue to expand both our analytical capabilities to connect site spend with local
suppliers and our work with qualified small business suppliers wherever possible.
ESG Data table (p.80)
Anti-corruption
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Compliance and Ethics (p.32)
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016
205–1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Compliance and Ethics (p.32)
205–2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Compliance and Ethics (p.32)
205–3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Charles River does not have any confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken.
Anti-competitive Behavior
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Compliance and Ethics (p.32)
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016
206–1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices ESG Data table (p.80)
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 70
GRI Standard Location/response Omission
Energy
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Climate and GHG Emissions (p.60)
GRI 302: Energy 2016
302–1 Energy consumption within the organization ESG Data table (p.80)
302–2 Energy consumption outside of the organization ESG Data table (p.80)
302–3 Energy intensity ESG Data table (p.80)
302–4 Reduction of energy consumption ESG Data table (p.80)
302–5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services ESG Data table (p.80)
Water and Effluents
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Climate and GHG Emissions (p.60)
GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018
303–11 Interactions with water as a shared resource
303–21 Management of water discharge-related impacts
303–31 Water withdrawal
303–41 Water discharge
303–51 Water consumption
Biodiversity
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Climate and GHG Emissions (p.60)
1 P artial omission [Data incomplete]. We are building tracking mechanisms for these data, for a future ESG Report.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 71
GRI Standard Location/response Omission
GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
304–2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity Charles River negotiated and collectively agreed to limit the habitats and timeframe for horseshoe
crab harvesting in South Carolina to support both the horseshoe crab and migrating red knot
populations. Subsequently, Charles River introduced a synthetic alternative, Endosafe® Trillium®,
that has the capacity to significantly reduce the need for horseshoe crab material in biomedical
testing. Joint press release
304–4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas We are committed to reporting to shareholders on measures the Company is taking to reinforce
affected by operations confidence that the non-human primates, such as Long-tailed Macaques, that we import are
purpose-bred in accordance with applicable laws and our risk management standards. More detail
is available on our website.
Emissions
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Climate and GHG Emissions (p.60)
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
305–1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions ESG Data table (p.80)
305–2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions ESG Data table (p.80)
305–3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions ESG Data table (p.80)
305–4 GHG emissions intensity ESG Data table (p.80)
305–5 Reduction of GHG emissions ESG Data table (p.80)
Waste
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Climate and GHG Emissions (p.60)
GRI 306: Waste 2020
306–11 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts
1 P artial omission [Data incomplete]. We are building tracking mechanisms for these data, for a future ESG Report.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 72
GRI Standard Location/response Omission
306–21 Management of significant waste-related impacts
306–31 Waste generated
306–41 Waste diverted from disposal
306–51 Waste directed to disposal
Supplier Environmental Assessment
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Climate and GHG Emissions (p.60)
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016
308–1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Since 2019, all new North American-based suppliers are asked a series of environmental
questions, and this process was extended to our European suppliers in 2023. The environmental
screening questions cover such topics as policy coverage, regulatory fines, and the measurement
of the reduction of GHGs, water use, and waste generation.
308–21 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken
Employment
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Total Rewards and Well-being (p.44)
GRI 401: Employment 2016
401–1 New employee hires and employee turnover ESG Data table (p.80)
1 P artial omission [Data incomplete]. We are building tracking mechanisms for these data, for a future ESG Report.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 73
GRI Standard Location/response Omission
401–2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part- As a global organization, our growth and development depends on hiring and retaining a skilled
time employees and diverse workforce in a highly competitive marketplace. We continue to invest in our total
compensation package, engagement approach, career development, and employee well-
being. Our goal is to be best in class and we do so by maintaining an effective and equitable
attraction and retention strategy and informing practices through collaboration, data analysis, and
regular feedback. We offer competitive pay, time off, stock awards, employee discounts, tuition
reimbursement, and competitive retirement options to employees who are generally designated as
full-time and part-time employees in selected countries. Our Pay Policies and Benefit Offerings are
available for all our employees and detail our process for fair compensation. Proxy statement
401–3 Parental leave Total Rewards and Well-being (p.44). We offer all U.S employees six weeks’ paid parental leave on
birth or adoption. For birth mothers, this is in addition to the 6–8 weeks they would receive in short-
term disability (depending on the type of birth).
Labor/Management Relations
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Human Rights (p.34), People Strategy (p.40)
GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016
402–1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes We comply with federal and local state requirements regarding announcements of significant
operational changes. Furthermore, we work with our local works councils with our jurisdictions and
in compliance with local laws and collective bargaining agreements.
Occupational Health and Safety
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Health and Safety (p.52)
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
403–1 Occupational health and safety management system Health and Safety (p.52)
403–2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Health and Safety (p.52)
403–3 Occupational health services Health and Safety (p.52)
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 74
GRI Standard Location/response Omission
403–4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health Health and Safety (p.52)
and safety
403–5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Health and Safety (p.52)
403–6 Promotion of worker health Benefits page
403–7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked Health and Safety (p.52)
by business relationships
403–8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system We utilize a EHS&S global operating framework (GOF) which includes topics related to
occupational health and safety (p.52)
403–9 Work-related injuries Health and Safety (p.52). In September 2022, one of our facilities experienced a fatality as a result
of a Utility Terrain Vehicle (UTV) incident. As an organization, we redoubled our efforts to maintain
a safe workplace.
403–10 Work-related ill health These data are included as part of our TRIR (p.53)
Training and education
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Employee Engagement and Development (p.46)
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
404–1 Average hours of training per year per employee ESG Data table (p.80)
404–2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Employee Engagement and Development (p.46)
404–3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development ESG Data table (p.80)
reviews
Diversity and equal opportunity
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic DE&I (p.49)
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
405–1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees DE&I (p.49)
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 75
GRI Standard Location/response Omission
405–2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Charles River continues to demonstrate equitable pay practices with a <1% gap by gender
globally. We perform pay equity audits in countries where they are legally required, and we
also perform a larger pay equity analysis on a global scale and take corrective action where
appropriate. Furthermore, our global job architecture generally allows for aligning pay by job
role with market rates and serves as a career path tool to encourage a culture of advancement.
Gender pay gap reports for various operations in the U.K., France, and Europe can be found on
the ESG Library page of our Company website.
Non-discrimination
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Compliance and Ethics (p.32). We are an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) employer and
comply with regulations. Code of Business Conduct
GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016
406–1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Confidentiality – We report
in accordance with SEC
requirements and do not
publicly disclose incidents
or individual cases of
discrimination.
Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Human Rights (p.34). With respect to these issues, we operate in compliance with all applicable
laws and regulations.
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016
407–1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective Human Rights (p.34). With respect to these issues, we operate in compliance with all applicable
bargaining may be at risk laws and regulations.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 76
GRI Standard Location/response Omission
Child Labor
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Human Rights (p.34). We have policies and statements in place, as well as mitigation and due
diligence processes to help prevent instances of child labor and to operate in compliance with all
applicable laws and regulations.
GRI 408: Child Labor 2016
408–1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor Charles River is not aware of any operations or suppliers at significant risk.
Forced or Compulsory Labor
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Human Rights (p.34). With respect to these issues, we have policies and statements in place
as well as mitigation and due diligence processes to help prevent instances of forced or
compulsory labor.
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016
409–1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory We have mitigation and due diligence processes to help prevent instances of forced or
labor compulsory labor.
Local Communities
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Community Engagement and Support (p.55)
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
413–1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and Community Engagement and Support (p.55)
development programs
Supplier social assessment
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Responsible Supply Chain Management (p.63)
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 77
GRI Standard Location/response Omission
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016
414–1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Since 2019, all new North American-based suppliers are asked a series of questions to
understand their Labor and Ethics Practices. In 2023 these were extended to European suppliers.
The screening questions cover such topics as freely-chosen labor; non-hazardous work; legal age
for employment; business ethics and compliance; and truthful and accurate advertising.
414–21 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken
Public Policy
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Regulatory Affairs (p.35)
GRI 415: Public Policy 2016
415–1 Political contributions Charles River does not make direct political contributions to individual candidates, parties,
committees, or IRS Section 527 entities, or to influence the outcome of campaigns or ballot
measures. In addition, Charles River does not contribute directly to any independent expenditure
or electioneering communication (as those are defined by law). Charles River also does not
generally make payments to 501(c)(4) tax-exempt organization that the recipient may use for
political purposes, and we do not presently have a Political Action Committee (PAC).
Political Contributions Policy
Customer Privacy
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3–3 Management of material topic Data Security and Privacy (p.27)
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016
418–1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses Data Security and Privacy (p.27). In 2022–23, we did not have any substantiated customer
of customer data complaints from outside parties or regulatory bodies.
Topics not included in this index are deemed to be non-material by Charles River.
1 P artial omission [Data incomplete]. We are building tracking mechanisms for these data, for a future ESG Report.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 78
SASB Biotechnology and Pharmaceuticals Index
Topic Code Accounting Metric Location or Direct Answer
Safety of Clinical Trial HC-BP-210a.1 Discussion, by world region, of management process for ensuring quality and patient safety during clinical trials Omission: Metric is not applicable.
Participants Charles River does not conduct
clinical trials.
Safety of Clinical Trial HC-BP-210a.2 Number of FDA Sponsor Inspections related to clinical trial management and pharmacovigilance that resulted in: (1) Voluntary Action
Participants Indicated (VAI) and (2) Official Action Indicated (OAI)
Safety of Clinical Trial HC-BP-210a.3 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with clinical trials in developing countries
Participants
Access to Medicines HC-BP-240a.1 Description of actions and initiatives to promote access to health care products for priority diseases and in priority countries as defined by Omission: Metric is not applicable.
the Access to Medicine Index Charles River does not engage
directly with patients or doctors,
Access to Medicines HC-BP-240a.2 List of products on the WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal Products as part of its Prequalification of Medicines Programme (PQP)
and does not promote, market,
sell, or prescribe medications.
Affordability and Pricing HC-BP-240b.1 Number of settlements of Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) litigation that involved payments and/or provisions to delay bringing
an authorized generic product to market for a defined time period
Affordability and Pricing HC-BP-240b.2 Percentage change in: (1) average list price and (2) average net price across U.S. product portfolio compared to previous year
Affordability and Pricing HC-BP-240b.3 Percentage change in: (1) list price and (2) net price of product with largest increase compared to previous year
Drug Safety HC-BP-250a.1 List of products listed in the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products database
Drug Safety HC-BP-250a.2 Number of fatalities associated with products as reported in the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System
Drug Safety HC-BP-250a.3 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled
Drug Safety HC-BP-250a.4 Total amount of product accepted for takeback, reuse, or disposal
Drug Safety HC-BP-250a.5 Total amount of product accepted for takeback, reuse, or disposal
Counterfeit Drugs HC-BP-260a.1 Description of methods and technologies used to maintain traceability of products throughout the supply chain and prevent counterfeiting
Counterfeit Drugs HC-BP-260a.2 Discussion of process for alerting customers and business partners of potential or known risks associated with counterfeit products
Counterfeit Drugs HC-BP-260a.3 Number of actions that led to raids, seizure, arrests, and/or filing of criminal charges related to counterfeit products
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 79
Topic Code Accounting Metric Location or Direct Answer
Ethical Marketing HC-BP-270a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with false marketing claims. ESG Data table (p.88)
Ethical Marketing HC-BP-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use of products. Omission: Metric is not applicable.
Charles River does not engage
directly with patients or doctors,
and does not promote, market,
sell, or prescribe medications.
Employee Recruitment, HC-BP-330a.1 Discussion of talent recruitment and retention efforts for scientists and research and development personnel. Talent Acquisition (p.43)
Development, and Retention
HC-BP-330a.2 – (1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover rate for: (a) executives/senior managers, (b) midlevel managers, (c) professionals, and (d) all ESG Data table (p.86)
others.
Supply Chain Management HC-BP-430a.1 Percentage of (1) entity’s facilities and (2) Tier I suppliers’ facilities participating in the Rx-360 International Pharmaceutical Supply Chain • Code of Business Conduct
Consortium audit program or equivalent third-party audit programs for integrity of supply chain and ingredients and Ethics
• Supplier Code of Conduct
• Responsible Supply Chain
Management (p.63)
Business Ethics HC-BP-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with corruption and bribery. ESG Data table (p.88)
HC-BP-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing interactions with health care professionals Omission: Metric is not applicable.
Charles River does not engage
Activity Metric HC-BP-000.A Number of patients treated
directly with patients or doctors,
and does not promote, market,
sell, or prescribe medications.
HC-BP-000.B Number of drugs (1) in portfolio and (2) in research and development (Phases 1–3) Omission: Metric is not applicable.
Charles River does not conduct
clinical trials.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 80
Charles River ESG Performance Data
Metric Unit Baseline 2021 2022 2023 Notes
Company information
Employees
Total employees # – 20,000 21,400 21,800 Headcount as of fiscal year-end.
Science professionals with advanced degrees, including # – 2,000 2,600 2,600 –
Ph.D.s, D.V.M.s, and M.D.s
Annual revenue $ billions – $3.54 $3.98 $4.13 –
Number of regulatory approvals for new products # – Worked on Worked on Worked on –
86% of FDA 76% of FDA 85% of FDA
approved approved approved
drugs drugs drugs
Environmental
GHG Emissions
Scope 1 (Direct) Emissions1 MT CO e 86,284 89,005 90,002 85,723 Baseline is 2018.
2
Carbon Dioxide (CO ) emissions1 MT CO e 85,758 88,437 89,407 85,122
2 2
Methane (CH ) emissions1 MT CO e 49 50 51 48
4 2
Nitrous Oxide (N O) emissions1 MT CO e 53 55 56 53
2 2
HFCs1 # 424 463 489 500
Scope 2 (Energy Indirect) Emissions1 MT CO e 79,271 42,266 45,976 18,031 Baseline is 2018.
2
Scope 1 and 2 GHGs1 MT CO e 165,555 131,271 135,978 102,610 Baseline is 2018.
2
Scope 1 and 2 GHG Reduction based on 2018 baseline1 % – -20.7% -17.9% -37.3%
Scope 3 (Other Indirect) Emissions1 MT CO e 334,829 395,537 423,884 435,589 Baseline is 2019. Data is result of both actual and economic model calculations.
2
1 A nnual data reflects data through December 31 of the respective year. Historical data for 2021–23 updated to reflect both divested sites and sites acquired through acquisition. Noveprim acquisition not included in data.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 81
Metric Unit Baseline 2021 2022 2023 Notes
Scope 3 GHG Changed based on 2019 baseline % – ^18.1% ^26.6% ^30.1% –
CDP Climate Score – C A- A- A- From CDP Climate Survey.
CDP Supplier Engagement rating – C A A- B From CDP Climate Survey.
Energy
Steam Consumption¹ MWh 186,720 205,509 204,325 194,083
Heating Consumption1 MWh 281,249 290,921 294,269 279,858
Total Electricity Consumption1 MWh 253,711 269,706 292,780 301,897
Electricity consumption from renewable sources1 MWh 1,257 96,904 104,254 276,565
Electricity consumption from non-renewable sources1 MWh 252,454 172,801 188,525 25,331
Solar Thermal Heating – On Site MWh 0 0 0 12
Fuel used – Natural Gas1 MWh 442,275 458,976 460,608 437,273
Fuel Used – Kerosene1 MWh 1,045 6,270 6,530 6,551
Fuel used – Gasoline1 MWh 1,617 566 886 213
Fuel used – Diesel1 MWh 16,394 12,191 13,371 13,492
Fuel used – Propane1 MWh 4,200 2,500 3,586 3,844
Fuel Used – Biomass1 MWh 30 840 884 1,184
Environmental Management
EHS&S-related notices of non-compliance # – 6 1 6 –
Environmental Fines # – 0 1 2 –
Environmental Fines (amount) $ – $0 $3,175 $13,561 U.S. Dept. of Labor OSHA – July 10, 2023= $3,386.00
U.S. Dept. of Labor OSHA – February 7, 2023= $10,175.00
1 A nnual data reflects data through December 31 of the respective year. Historical data for 2021–23 updated to reflect both divested sites and sites acquired through acquisition. Noveprim acquisition not included in data.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 82
Metric Unit Baseline 2021 2022 2023 Notes
Spills
Total spills resulting in release # – 0 0 0
Amount of spills resulting in release BOE – 0 0 0
Social
Community Impact
Total Investments $ – $2,809,091 $2,809,792 – Data based on IRS Federal Returns – what is claimed as a charitable contribution on line 19.
The 2023 final donation amount will be based on IRS Federal Returns filed late 2024.
Total Volunteer Time Off (VTO) hours # – 13,126 22,025 29,014 In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, in 2021 and 2022, the scope of VTO expanded to
include “Acts of Care”. Employees, through “Acts of Caregiving”, could utilize VTO in support
of the caregiving of another. Acts of Caregiving sunsetted on December 31, 2022.
Employee Participation in VTO # – 1,829 3,444 5,252 Based on employee headcounts as of December 31. Headcount does not include Insourcing
Solutions employees.
Employee Participation in VTO % – 10% 16% 26% Based on employee headcounts as of December 31. Headcount does not include Insourcing
Solutions employees.
Employees2
Permanent Employees # 20,000 21,400 21,800 Headcount as of fiscal year-end
Men # 8,100 8,600 8,600 Excludes Noveprim
Women # 11,900 12,800 12,800 Excludes Noveprim
United States # 10,000 10,800 10,700 –
Asia # 1,100 900 1,300 –
Europe # 6,300 6,600 6,700 –
Other # 2,600 3,100 3,200 –
Temporary Employees # – 3,300 3,400 2,900 Headcount with a designation of “Temp” in the “Reg/Temp” field
Men # – – – Our HR systems do not collect this data
2 N umbers rounded to nearest hundred or tens, as applicable.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 83
Metric Unit Baseline 2021 2022 2023 Notes
Women # – – – Our HR systems do not collect this data
United States # 1,000 1,100 1,000 –
Asia # 400 400 100 –
Europe # 1,700 1,800 1,700 –
Other # 200 100 100 –
Non-guaranteed hours employees # 250 270 220 Headcount with a designation of “On Call” in the Full-/Part-Time field
Men # 100 100 80 –
Women # 100 200 140 –
United States # 20 20 10 –
Asia # – – – –
Europe # 50 70 60 –
Other # 180 180 150 –
Full-time Employees # 18,700 20,000 20,400 Headcount with a designation of “FT” in the “Full-/Part-Time” field
Men # 7,800 8,300 8,300 Excludes Noveprim acquisition.
Women # 10,900 11,700 11,600 Excludes Noveprim acquisition.
United States # 9,800 10,600 10,500 –
Asia # 1,100 900 900 –
Europe # 5,300 5,500 5,500 –
Other # 2,500 3,000 3,500 –
Part-time Employees # – 1,400 1,500 1,400 Headcount with a designation of “PT” in the “Full-/Part-Time” field
Men # 300 300 300 –
Women # 1,100 1,200 1,100 –
United States # 200 200 160 –
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 84
Metric Unit Baseline 2021 2022 2023 Notes
Asia # 7 6 2 –
Europe # 1,100 1,200 1,160 –
Other # 100 100 100 –
Workers who are not employees and whose work is # 1,400 1,400 1,000 Contingent Contract Workers
controlled by the organization
Type of worker – example one # 500 400 300 IT Functional Area
Type of worker – example two # 600 700 400 Safety and RMS Operational Functional Area
Employee Diversity
Men in Workforce % – 40.5% 40.0% 40.2% All roles globally.
Women in Workforce % – 59.5% 60.0% 59.8% All roles globally.
Employees from underrepresented racial and % – 29.1% 31.2% 31.8% U.S. only: Underrepresented racial and ethnic group definition: where ethnic group is not
ethnic groups white.
Asian % – 7.2% 7.2% 7.7% U.S. only.
Black/African American % – 8.3% 9.0% 9.3% U.S. only.
Hispanic/Latino % – 11.1% 12.0% 11.8% U.S. only.
Two or more races % – 2.1% 2.5% 2.5% U.S. only.
White % – 70.6% 68.6% 68.2% U.S. only.
American Indian/Alaskan Native % – 0.2% 0.03% 0.30% U.S. only.
Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander % – 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% U.S. only.
Do not wish to disclose % – 0.3% 0.2% 0.0% U.S. only.
Executive Leadership
Women % – 34.8% 38.0% 42.1% Defined as VP+.
Underrepresented racial and ethnic groups % – 11.1% 7.4% 10.3% Defined as VP+ (U.S. only). Underrepresented racial and ethnic group definition: where
ethnic group is not white.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 85
Metric Unit Baseline 2021 2022 2023 Notes
Managers
Women % – 51.3% 52.1% 52.9% Defined as manager, excludes executive leadership (VP+).
Underrepresented racial and ethnic groups % – 18.9% 21.0% 21.2% Defined as manager, excludes executive leadership (VP+). U.S. only. Underrepresented
racial and ethnic group definition: where ethnic group is not white.
Employee Attraction3
Hires By Region
United States # – 2,929 3,263 2,000 –
Asia # – 289 427 300 –
Europe # – 1,514 1,427 1,000 –
Other # – 581 593 400 –
Total Employee Hires # – 5,313 5,710 3,700 –
Hires by Gender
Female # – 3,210 2,406 2,100 –
Male # – 2,101 3,304 1,600 –
Hires by Age Group
Under 30 # – 2,904 3,232 2,100 –
30–50 # – 2,009 2,119 1,400 –
50+ # – 390 359 200 –
Employee Development
Employee recognition e-cards sent # – 18,118 20,021 20,662 –
Total completed courses # – 291,959 337,239 410,042 Does not include onboarding data for Insourcing Solutions hires.
3 2 023 numbers rounded to nearest hundred or tens, as applicable.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 86
Metric Unit Baseline 2021 2022 2023 Notes
Average number of completed courses per employee # – 15 15 19 The implementation of talentHUB Learning starting in 2021 is part of a multi-year strategy to
centralize, capture, and further integrate learning for our employees in the coming years.
This average does not include a majority of the skill-based and scientific regulated training
captured in local systems.
Average number of training hours per employee – – 11 Based on total hours of training (233,589) divided by employee count.
Percentage of employees receiving regular % – 93% 88% 89% Baseline from 2019.
performance reviews
Employee Engagement Survey – employee participation % – 62% 65% 68% Per employee feedback, listening strategy in 2023 shifted from three to two Employee Pulse
Surveys throughout the year.
Employee Retention
Voluntary turnover rate # – (a) 3.10% (a) 10.6% (a) 6.9% –
(a) executives/senior managers, (b) midlevel managers, (b) 7.6% (b) 7.3% (b) 5.4%
(c) professionals, and (d) all others (c) 11.6% (c) 11.8% (c) 7.4%
(d) 19.6% (d) 18.0% (d) 14.1%
Involuntary turnover rate # – (a) 6.1% (a) 4.1% (a) 4.3% –
(a) executives/senior managers, (b) midlevel managers, (b) 3.5% (b) 2.4% (b) 3.4%
(c) professionals, and (d) all others (c) 7.4% (c) 1.5% (c) 3.4%
(d) 5.5% (d) 3.8% (d) 6.0%
Total Turnover (Rate) % – 21.1% 20.0% 18.0% –
Turnover by gender
Female (Rate) % – 20.7% 19.5% 17.3% –
Male (Rate) % – 22.0% 20.5% 19.0% –
Turnover by age group
Under 30 (Rate) % – 31.4% 29.2% 20.0% –
30–50 (Rate) % – 17.0% 15.2% 10.5% –
50+ (Rate) % – 16.3% 14.4% 8.4% –
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 87
Metric Unit Baseline 2021 2022 2023 Notes
Worker Safety4
Main types of work-related injury Type Injury by animal; injury by sharp object; injury through manual handling and lifting
Fatalities from work-related injury – Employees # – 0 1 0
Fatalities from work-related injury – Contractors # – 0 0 0
Lost Time Incident Rate – Employees rate 1.96 2.29 2.04 2.51 Baseline is 2018.
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) – Employees rate 4.97 4.01 4.44 4.91 Baseline is 2018.
TRIR Reduction based on 2018 baseline % – -19.3% -10.7% -1.2%
U.S. Suppliers: Diverse (including Small Business)5
Small Business $ – $136,678,390 $159,894,131 $171,664,365
Veteran $ – $1,707,279 $9,555,010 $12,951,837
Women Owned Business $ – $10,240,400 $12,916,220 $15,867,726
Minority $ – $1,133,657 $3,753,370 $5,466,665
Small Disadvantaged Business $ – $6,205,800 $18,711,250 $25,599,868
Disadvantaged Business $ – $538,674 $1,141,406 $645,969 Reduction in spend impacted by a migration of 12 suppliers away from the DBE qualification.
HUB Zone $ – $193,210 $237,215 $404,555
Veteran Disabled Business $ – $160,362 $1,078,688 $1,494,530
Animal Welfare
Facilities subject to national and international certification % – ~95% ~95% ~95% CRL sites accredited according to national and/or international guidelines or accreditation
standards. Figures represent estimates. Plan is to achieve 100% accreditation.
Governance
Board
Number of Board members # – 10 11 11 2021 data updated to reflect year-end.
4 Excludes Noveprim acquisition.
5 U.S. only. Some suppliers may be classified in one or more area(s). Our changes in reported spend across diverse categories in 2023 reflect the addition of spend source data available through our corporate card partner.
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 88
Metric Unit Baseline 2021 2022 2023 Notes
Board members – Independent % – 90.0% 82.0% 82.0% 2021 data updated to reflect year-end.
Board members – Female % – 30.0% 27.0% 27.0% 2021 data updated to reflect year-end.
Board members – Underrepresented racial % – 10.0% 9.0% 9.0% 2021 data updated to reflect year-end.
and ethnic groups
Board members – Under 30 % – 0% 0% 0% –
Board members – 30–50 % – 0% 0% 0% –
Board members – 50+ % – 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% –
Directors Attending 75% or More of Board Meetings and % – 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Each director attended 75% or more of the aggregate number of Board meetings and the
Committee Meetings committee meetings of the Board on which he or she served.
Ethics and Responsible Business
Inquiries received through ethics reporting channels # – 36 48 81 Based on reports submitted through the Charles River Helpline.
Monetary loss from legal proceedings associated with $ – $0 $0 $0 Charles River is unaware of any current legal proceedings associated with bribery
corruption and bribery and corruption.
Monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings $ – $0 $0 $0 –
associated with false marketing claims
Total base salaries for named executive officers $ – $3,495,854 $3,955,133 $3,895,736 2021 amount corrected to reflect total base salaries as published in 2021 Proxy.
as set forth in 2023 Summary Compensation Table in
Proxy Statement
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 89
Memberships and Organizations
Memberships and Organizations
Charles River actively engages in and partners with organizations and peer networks to advance our corporate,
industry, and ESG efforts. Our key partnerships and memberships include:
• AAALAC International • European Animal Research Organization (EARA)
myGwork
• American Association for Animal Laboratory Science
(AALAS) • National Centre for the Replacement, Reduction,
and Refinement of Animals in Research (NC3Rs)
• American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA)
• 3Rs Collaborative (3RsC)
• BioPharma EHS Forum
• Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI)
• Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship
(BCCCC) • RE100 Climate Group
• Business Ambition for 1.5C • Renewable Thermal Collaborative
• Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) • Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi)
• Centre for Alternatives to Animal Testing (CAAT) • STEM Connector
• Chief Executives for Corporate Purpose (CECP) • Tanenbaum
• Disability:IN • United Global Compact
• Diversity Alliance For Science (DA4S) • Universities Federation for Animal Welfare (UFAW)
• Energize • US EPA Energy Star Partner
More information on the animal welfare organizations we partner with can be found on our website (see also p.51).
Overview Accelerate Lead Inspire Protect Data CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES | CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2023 90
© 2023 Charles River Laboratories. All rights reserved.
