Energy
for a
growing
world
2023 corporate sustainability report
Photo: Chevron’s Rockies business unit is the largest oil and natural
gas producer in Colorado. We’re working to deliver energy responsibly with
next-gen tankless facilities that, compared with older designs, reduce
more than 90% of greenhouse gas emissions from our Colorado operations.
higher returns,
lower carbon
We believe the world’s continued demand for oil, natural gas and other energy products should be supplied by
the most responsible producers. We work to achieve progress and deliver value, consistent with our vision to be the
global energy company most admired for its people, partnership and performance.
CChheevvrroonn 22002233 CCoorrppoorraattee SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt
11
in this report
introduction protecting the environment
At Chevron, our purpose is to provide the affordable, environment ..........................................................................23
reliable, ever-cleaner energy that enables human
air ......................................................................................24
progress. Our sustainability reporting focuses on
environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues water ...............................................................................25
that matter to our business and our stakeholders.
waste ...............................................................................27
biodiversity ....................................................................29
2023 sustainability highlights ............................................3
message from our chairman and CEO .............................4
empowering people
board of directors ..................................................................6
safety and health .................................................................32
director Q&A ...........................................................................7
people and culture...............................................................36
our business ............................................................................8
human rights .........................................................................39
sustainability .........................................................................10
our reporting ...........................................................................11
social investment ..................................................................13 getting results the right way
governance ............................................................................43
advancing energy progress lobbying ..................................................................................47
technology ............................................................................50
climate ......................................................................................15
lower carbon ..................................................................16
methane ..........................................................................18 performance
lifecycle analysis ............................................................19
performance data ................................................................53
new energies ................................................................20
glossary ..................................................................................55
about this report ..................................................................57
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
2
introduction climate environment social governance performance
2023 sustainability highlights
protecting the empowering getting results
environment people the right way
USD 1.2 billion+ 140+
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
recognized Chevron with
a Conservation Award
for outstanding stewardship of social investment in
natural resources and long- communities where we
novel technology
term dedication to endangered operate since 2016
companies invested in
thistle recovery
by Chevron Technology
Ventures since 1999
6th Somos employee
network recognized board diversity
as Hispanic Employee
Resource Group
58%
publication of our of the Year diversity
Climate Change Resilience 50%
Report detailing the actions by Society of Hispanic women
we take to advance Professional Engineers 25%
our lower carbon ambitions racially/
ethnically
read more diverse
at end of 2023
Upgraded the
95,829
diesel hydrotreater
at the El Segundo
Refinery, California Published our Approach to
Tax and Transparency report
to process either U.S. employee illustrating how we embed
100% renewable or and retiree volunteer principled tax practices
traditional feedstocks hours during 2023 in our business
read more
Completed acquisition of a Chevron has fully
majority stake in ACES Delta, funded 151 employees
LLC which is developing 36th
a green hydrogen storage to participate in our
project in Utah Digital Scholar master’s
degree program since 2019
read more
consecutive year with
read more
an increase in annual
dividend payout per share
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
3
introduction climate environment social governance performance
message from our
chairman and CEO
In 2023, Chevron continued producing the energy that meet their own lower carbon ambitions. Last year,
enables human progress. Amid global volatility, our we expanded acreage at our Bayou Bend Carbon
strategy remained consistent: leverage our strengths to Capture and Storage Hub project, positioning it to be
safely deliver lower carbon energy to a growing world. one of the largest carbon capture projects in the
United States. We acquired a majority stake in ACES
Delta, a hydrogen hub in Utah, designed to store
“Affordable, reliable
hydrogen made from renewable energy and dispatch
and ever-cleaner it to generate reliable power. We successfully
upgraded the diesel hydrotreater at our El Segundo
energy is required
Refinery to process either 100% renewable or
to achieve economic petroleum feedstocks.
prosperity, energy We are also focused on identifying opportunities to
conserve and enhance biodiversity where we operate.
security and
Last year, we expanded our global biodiversity
environmental database, creating more insights and new opportunities
for action.
protection.”
engaging our people
Our approach to sustainability is integrated through- We believe human ingenuity has the power to solve
out our business. For over two decades, we’ve any challenge and overcome any obstacle.
communicated sustainability-related performance
to our stakeholders. This report reflects our We seek to engage the full potential of our employees
annual performance. by bringing together diverse viewpoints, ideas and
experiences in an inclusive environment. Chevron invests
advancing environmental protection to build leadership capabilities across our workforce
and create programs and experiences that give
Many energy solutions will be required to achieve
employees the skills to thrive. We also empower our
the world’s energy and environmental goals.
people to make a difference in communities where we
Chevron works to develop better processes, deploy
operate – which is reflected in the nearly 100,000 hours
new technologies and invest in innovations to
of volunteerism by our United States employees and
advance environmental protection.
retirees in 2023. And we continue to focus on the safety
We have allocated $10 billion from 2021 through 2028 of our operations and the health and well-being of
our workforce and communities.
in lower carbon investments to reduce the carbon
intensity of our operations and to help our customers
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
4
introduction climate environment social governance performance
Photos: Mike Wirth engages with the Chevron workforce during a global employee town hall. Right top Our El Segundo Refinery upgraded its diesel
hydrotreater to process either 100% renewable or petroleum feedstocks. Right center Throughout the year, Chevron employees volunteer in their communities.
Right bottom Expansion of our global biodiversity database further helps us to conserve and enhance biodiversity where we operate.
continuing strong governance leading the right way
In 2023, we published our Approach to Tax and At Chevron, we believe leadership carries great
Transparency report that shows continued focus responsibility. We have a proud history of focusing on
on our key tax principles, robust governance what matters most – safely providing the affordable,
framework and stakeholder engagement. reliable and ever-cleaner energy that enables human
We also published our sixth Climate Change progress. This report details our actions to that purpose
Resilience Report. and to getting results the right way.
Our highly experienced Board of Directors oversees Thank you for your engagement, trust and partnership.
sustainability-related matters and provides strong
Sincerely,
governance and strategic direction.
Michael K. Wirth
Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
5
introduction climate environment social governance performance
board of directors
Photo: Board visit to operations in Colorado. L–R: John B. Frank (1), Marillyn A. Hewson (1), Dambisa F. Moyo (1), Wanda M. Austin (2, 3),
Michael K. (Mike) Wirth Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Charles W. Moorman (2, 3), Jon M. Huntsman Jr. (3, 4),
Debra Reed-Klages (1), Enrique Hernandez, Jr. (3, 4), Cynthia J. Warner (4). Not pictured: Alice P. Gast (2, 4) and D. James Umpleby III (2, 4).
Our Board is committed to strong corporate governance Directors periodically visit Chevron operations through-
structures and practices that help Chevron achieve out the world. They are provided opportunities to
business results the right way. Elements of strategy are listen to and interact directly with employees. In 2023,
discussed at every regular Board meeting, as well the Board visited our operations in Colorado. In addition
as at meetings of the Board’s Committees. At least one to meeting with Colorado employees, the Board
Board meeting each year is dedicated primarily to toured the Operations and Safety Training Center, a
stra tegy. To assess performance against the plan, the well completion site and a tankless production facility.
Board receives regular updates on progress and
For more information about our Board, visit
execution and provides oversight and direction through-
chevron.co/corporate_governance.
out the year. Meetings also include updates from
external subject matter experts on a range of issues
Committees of the Board
pertinent to Chevron’s strategy.
1 Audit: Debra Reed-Klages, Chair
2 Board Nominating and Governance: Wanda M. Austin, Chair
3 Management Compensation: Charles W. Moorman, Chair
4 Public Policy and Sustainability: Enrique Hernandez, Jr., Chair
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
6
introduction climate environment social governance performance
director Q&A
enrique hernandez, jr. molly laegeler
Director and Chair PPSC VP Strategy & Sustainability,
and Secretary PPSC
A Chevron Director since 2008,
Hernandez chairs the Public Policy Joining Chevron in 2005,
and Sustainability Committee Laegeler guides the company’s
(PPSC). Hernandez received his key strategies, including capital
law degree from Harvard Law allocation and sustainability efforts.
School and began his career as an Laegeler earned her bachelor’s
attorney before leading Inter-Con degree in petroleum engineering
Security Systems’ growth into from Missouri University of
one of the largest security system Science and Technology and her
providers worldwide. MBA from Tulane University.
sustainability efforts Chevron believes innovative solutions to our most
complex challenges emerge when diverse people, ideas
Laegeler What role does the Board play in Chevron’s
and experiences come together in an inclusive environment.
efforts to protect the environment, empower people and
This holds true for our Board members. As our business
get results the right way?
environment has evolved, the Board has broadened its
skill sets, including appointing directors with experiences
Hernandez The Board oversees Chevron’s performance
and perspectives consistent with Chevron’s key objectives.
and management of various sustainability-related matters,
With such broad perspectives, boardroom discussions
including climate change, lobbying practices, human capital
are consistently rich with views and considerations.
management, cybersecurity and human rights. The Board
also offers guidance on Chevron’s reporting, such as the
2023 Climate Change Resilience Report. stakeholder engagement
Each year, the Board reviews the long-term strategic plan Laegeler Fostering long-term relationships with stock -
and the principal issues that the company expects to face in holders and other stakeholders is a core Chevron
the future. For example, in 2023, Independent Director objective. What are your takeaways from Chevron’s
and Audit Committee Chair Debra Reed-Klages observed 2023 stakeholder engagements?
parts of the corporate cybersecurity exercise and provided
feedback on the exercise to management and the Board. Hernandez We appreciate external voices because they
provide thoughtful perspective on company direction,
The PPSC reviews Chevron’s political activities, including how
whether that’s through stockholder engagement or Board
direct and indirect lobbying align with Chevron’s strategy.
strategy sessions that include external experts. We value
listening to employees, especially those new to Chevron
getting results with fresh perspectives. For example, during the Board and
management visit to our Colorado operations, we met with
Laegeler How does the Board think about the skills and
employees, including those who joined Chevron through
experiences that contribute to company success?
our acquisition of Noble Energy. We also met leaders from
Hernandez Delivering results the right way begins with government, academia, business and the community.
people. The Board understands the importance of our
workforce to the successful execution of our strategy and
holds management accountable for investing in people
and Chevron’s culture. Our Board is actively involved in
succession planning and periodically receives updates on
diversity, culture and employee engagement.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
7
introduction climate environment social governance performance
our business
our purpose We work to provide the our vision To be the global energy company
affordable, reliable, ever-cleaner energy most admired for its people, partnership
that enables human progress. and performance.
our strategy We leverage our strengths to safely deliver lower carbon energy to a growing world. We aim
to grow our oil and gas business, lower the carbon intensity of our operations and pursue new lower carbon
businesses in renewable fuels, carbon capture and offsets, hydrogen, and other emerging technologies.
CChheevvrroonn 22002233 CCoorrppoorraattee SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt
88
introduction climate environment social governance performance
Upstream Downstream New energies
Utilizes innovative technology to Manufactures fuels, petrochemicals, Focused on developing new lower
maximize production from mature fields, additives and other products through carbon businesses that have the
discover new oil and gas resources our global refining system, to be potential to scale, including hydrogen,
and meet the world’s growing demand sold by our marketing, lubricants, and carbon capture and storage, carbon
for energy while at the same time supply and trading organizations. offsets, and emerging technologies,
reducing carbon intensity. such as geothermal.
CChheevvrroonn 22002233 CCoorrppoorraattee SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt
99
introduction climate environment social governance performance
sustainability
our approach Risk management
Chevron employs risk management processes for
Chevron’s approach to sustainability is integrated
identifying, assessing and managing the risks
throughout our business. We strive to protect
to our business, including potential risks related
the environment, empower people and get results
to sustainability matters. For example, our
the right way. The Chevron Way guides how we
Operational Excellence Management System
work and establishes a common understanding of
(OEMS) helps us systematically realize our values
our culture, vision and values. To learn more, visit
and achieve our vision. A number of risks,
chevron.co/chevron_way.
including those related to sustainability matters,
are addressed through six OEMS focus areas.
Oversight
To learn more, visit chevron.co/OEMS_overview.
The Board oversees Chevron’s performance and
management of various sustainability-related issues,
including climate change, reporting, lobbying
practices, human capital management, cybersecurity
OEMS focus areas
and human rights. The Board’s four standing
Committees provide oversight and guidance over
different aspects of sustain ability. For example, the
Public Policy and Sustainability Committee assesses
and advises on risks that may arise in connection
with social, political, environmental and public policy
aspects of Chevron’s business and helps management
evaluate trends and potential impli cations. To learn
more, visit chevron.co/governance.
Workforce Environment Process safety,
safety reliability
and health and integrity
Efficiency Security Stakeholders
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
10
introduction climate environment social governance performance
our reporting
our approach Investors
In 2023, we interacted with the investment community
We identified the content for our 2023 Corporate
through Quarterly Earnings calls, Chevron Investor
Sustainability Report by monitoring issues and trends
Day, management roundtable and the Annual Meeting
and engaging throughout the year with stakeholders.
of Stockholders. In addition to these events, Chevron
Thoughtful engagement on priority issues (sometimes
conducts extensive engagements with investors as part
called “material issues”* in the context of ESG reporting
of gaining insights on sustainability-related issues. These
frameworks) helps Chevron assess and, where
engage ments routinely cover issues including strategy,
appropriate, refresh our ESG reporting.
climate change, energy transition, workplace culture,
Members of the Enterprise Leadership Team, the human rights, human capital management, lobbying
Global Issues Committee, and the Board’s Public Policy and governance.
and Sustainability Committee have opportunities to
Our Board also directly engages with investors. Lead
provide input for our sustainability reporting.
Independent Director Dr. Wanda Austin met with
11 investors in the off-season. Stockholder engagement
insights
following the 2023 Annual Meeting of Stockholders
To gain insight into ESG issues and reporting trends, was robust, and our response to stockholder feedback
we work with third-party groups, including the is summarized in the 2024 Proxy Statement.
World Business Council for Sustainable Develop ment,
BSR and Ipieca. We engage external consultants to
Employees
benchmark our reporting with peers’ sustainability We actively seek insights from employees. Our engage-
reports. Our ESG rater performance is used to identify ments provide an indicator of employee well-being
opportunities for potential disclosure enhance ments. and commitment to the company’s values, purpose and
We also work with Datamaran, an ESG risk identification strategies. We track performance by regularly conducting
and monitoring software company that uses artificial surveys to assess the health of the company’s culture.
intelligence to identify, prioritize and monitor Throughout the year, the survey results allow us
ESG issues. to better understand employee sentiment about the
company, including sustainability-related matters.
stakeholders
In 2023, in addition to employee surveys, we interacted
We meet with stakeholders to foster trust, build
with employees through our Shared Energy Town
relationships and engage in two-way dialogue
Halls, a Board visit to Colorado operations and our
to understand their insights. These interactions, in
employee networks. Our Chairman’s Inclusion Council
addition to survey results, help us learn what matters
provides employee network presidents with a direct
to our stakeholders and refine which topics to
line of communication to executives, including the
include in each year’s report.
Chairman, to engage on diversity and inclusion matters.
* For purposes of this report, the concept of “material issues” generally refers to ESG reporting guidance such as that provided by Ipieca and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board and does
not correspond to the concept of materiality used in the securities laws and disclosures required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). With respect to the term “material,” individual
companies are best suited to determine which information is material under the long-standing U.S. Supreme Court definition of that term and whether to disclose this information in SEC filings.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
11
introduction climate environment social governance performance
Communities For example, business units may engage local staff
We work with local stakeholders, governments and dedicated to community engagement or sponsor
nongovernmental organizations in communities community advisory panels to serve as liaisons.
near our operations who share insights on matters Our social investment strategy seeks to respond to
important to them. Our engagement with communities needs in the communities where we operate around
is guided by a process to identify and manage the world. We seek to work with communities and
potential impacts. partners to promote self-sufficiency, job growth and
economic development.
ESG reporting insights
Oversight Engage stakeholders
Board of Directors and Engage with investors
its committees provide and other stakeholders
oversight and guidance environment social on ESG-related matters.
over different aspects
of sustainability matters.
the
chevron
way
Monitor and assess Benchmark
Identify, assess and Benchmark prior
manage the risks to year’s reporting with
governance
our business, including external consultants.
potential risks related to
sustainability matters.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
12
introduction climate environment social governance performance
social investment
our approach We believe our business succeeds when our people and communities succeed. At Chevron, we
strive to empower people around the world to improve their lives, achieve their ambitions and meet their full
potential. Our social investment supports key themes relevant to the communities where we operate. A selection
of social investments around the world is summarized below. See the linked chapters for the full stories.
2023 selected chevron social investments
1 Colorado, U.S. 4 Angola 7 India
Providing mental wellness resources Mentoring students to develop business Supporting entrepreneurship in
that help children develop resilience. solutions for a circular economy. vulnerable communities.
see safety and health see waste see technology
2 New Mexico and Texas, U.S. 5 Cyprus 8 Australia
Partnering to restore and sustain the Sponsoring a mobile education Supporting teachers to embed
Pecos River and its tributaries. center to demonstrate used cooking Indigenous scientific knowledge in
oil recycling. the classroom.
see water
see climate see people and culture
3 Colombia
Participating in conservation and 6 Kazakhstan
restoration of coral reefs within the Tengizchevroil, a nonoperated joint
Colombian Caribbean. venture, sponsoring training programs
in the community.
see biodiversity
see human rights
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
13
introduction climate environment social governance performance
advancing energy
progress
Photo: Around the world, our teams advance projects focused on climate ...........................................................................................15
energy efficiency, flaring reduction and methane management.
lower carbon .........................................................................16
methane ..................................................................................18
lifecycle analysis ...................................................................19
new energies .......................................................................20
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
14
introduction climate environment social governance performance
climate
affordable, reliable and ever-cleaner energy
enables human progress
our outlook The world’s energy demand is greater now than at any time in human history. The world’s
energy needs continue to grow as populations and incomes rise, urban areas expand, and billions of
people in less-developed countries seek a higher standard of living. Many energy solutions will be required
to meet this demand growth as the world works toward also achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement.
Under a wide range of scenarios, we believe the journey to a lower carbon future will require oil and natural
gas, particularly where there are currently no effective substitutes. As we have done for more than
140 years, we will continue to evolve and help meet the energy demand of a growing world.
planned targets to lower the
carbon intensity of our operations
capital
allocation
$8.0
billion 71 g CO₂e/MJ 24 kg CO₂e/boe
in lower carbon energy portfolio carbon intensity gas carbon intensity
investments from (Scope 1, 2 and 3) by 2028 (Scope 1 and 2) by 2028
2021 through 2028
$2.0
billion 24 kg CO₂e/boe 36 kg CO₂e/boe
in carbon reduction projects oil carbon intensity refining carbon intensity
from 2021 through 2028 (Scope 1 and 2) by 2028 (Scope 1 and 2) by 2028
Chevron’s ability to achieve any goal, target or aspiration, including with respect to climate-related initiatives, our lower carbon strategy and any lower carbon new energy businesses, is subject
to numerous risks, many of which are outside of our control. Chevron regularly evaluates its goals, targets and aspirations and may eliminate, increase or decrease them for various reasons,
including market conditions; changes in its portfolio; and financial, operational, regulatory, reputational, legal and other factors. For more information, see About This Report on pages 57–58 and
Forward-Looking Statements Warning and Other Disclaimers on page 59.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
15
introduction climate environment social governance performance
lower carbon
identifying emissions intensity reduction opportunities
our approach We aim to lead in lower carbon intensity oil, products and natural gas, which are expected
to be part of the global energy mix for many years to come. We’re advancing new products and solutions
to help reduce the carbon emissions of major industries and hard-to-abate sectors.
Our business We’re taking action to lower the carbon New energies We’re investing to grow our production
intensity of our operations, including management and supply capabilities in renewable fuels, carbon capture
of methane, flaring and energy. and offsets, hydrogen, and other emerging technologies.
upstream net zero 2050 aspiration well as the granting of necessary permits; successful
negotiations for carbon capture and storage and nature-
We aspire to achieve net zero upstream production based solutions; and availability and acceptability of
Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) on an cost-effective, verifiable carbon credits. Active portfolio
equity basis by 2050. The company believes accomplishing management is part of achieving our objectives. Growth or
this aspiration depends on, among other things, sufficient decline in production from different assets, acquisitions
and substantial advances in technology, including the or divestitures, or from changes in operations and accounting
continuing progress of commercially viable technologies guidelines, may result in emissions performance changes.
and low- or non-carbon-based energy sources; enabling Divestments have historically represented a small portion of
policies and other actions by governing authorities, including achieved intensity reductions, particularly because we intend
those regarding subsidies, tax and other incentives as to grow overall production.
Upstream net zero 2050 aspiration
Scope 1 and 2 emissions (kilograms CO₂e/boe) Potential Scope 1 and 2 reduction opportunities
2016 2016
Emissions Emissions Source type Reduction strategies Supporting policy
40 intensity Achieved intensity
Direct Energy management, e.g., Carbon pricing, carbon-
energy use: efficiency improvements, related reporting, support
combustion lower carbon fuels, for innovation like CCUS
electrification with lower and offsets, support for
30 carbon power, CCUS carbon markets
GHG Future Flaring Gas market development, Infrastructure support for
Portfolio reductions GHG operational best practices, gas market development
reductions e.g., flow assurance for
20 (Divestments) Innovation g ima ps, r f oa vc eil mity e nre tsliability
and
o sets
Fugitives Methane management, e.g., Flexibility to use advanced
and operational best practices technologies for methane
venting and facility design detection
10
Indirect energy Energy management, e.g., Carbon pricing, carbon-
use: imported efficiency improvements, related reporting, support for
electricity and sourcing lower carbon innovation like CCUS, support
Net zero steam power for grid infrastructure
0
2016 2016–2023 2024–2028 2029–2050 2050
Projected
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
16
introduction climate environment social governance performance
nearly 30 projects. We expect to spend approximately
$2 billion on these and similar projects from 2021 through
2028. When these carbon reduction opportunities are
completed, they are expected to deliver approximately
4 million tonnes of emissions reductions per year.
GHG mitigation projects
social investment Permian Basin, U.S.: We lowered the carbon intensity of our
Permian Basin drilling and completion activities by replacing
Cyprus: Through contributions to the nonprofit, diesel as the primary fuel in drilling operations. Since the
nongovernmental organization AKTI Project and initiative began in 2020, we’ve saved $87 million and reduced
Research Centre, Chevron is sponsoring environmental approximately 270,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent
education programs in Cyprus communities.
(COe) emissions. Our Permian team shared knowledge across
2
The organization operates the “Tiganokinisi Caravan,” a the company to help identify opportunities to adopt fuel-
mobile information and education center that visits schools switching solutions, such as electric drilling rigs and dynamic
and rural communities to promote circular bioeconomics. gas blending in other operations.
Scientists demonstrate how used cooking oil can be
transformed into biodiesel. Interested schools can collect
France: The Oronite plant in Gonfreville entered into a
and recycle their community’s used oil. Funds from the sale
supply agreement with BioSynergy to provide approximately
of the oil are returned to support school programs.
40% of the plant’s steam needs for the next 10 years.
In 2023, our contributions helped cover supplies, BioSynergy will supply steam from an 80% biomass and
operating expenses and a vehicle to pull the caravan. 20% solid recovered fuel to production units and is expected
We also received an award from the Pan Cyprian
to reduce approximately 25,000 tonnes per year of
Volunteerism Coordinative Council for our sponsorship.
associated CO emissions.
2
GHG management
“Advancing
We are taking actions to reduce carbon intensity by high- solutions takes
grading our portfolio, improving operations and using our partnership.”
marginal abatement cost curve (MACC) process to drive
— Laura Kurt
emissions reductions on existing facilities. Our MACC process
Senior GHG Specialist
is a disciplined approach to get the most impact for each
dollar spent. To cost-effectively reduce the carbon intensity
of our operations and assets, we seek to optimize carbon
reduction opportunities and integrate GHG mitigation
technologies across the enterprise. As part of my role at Chevron, I research solutions to complex GHG
reporting challenges with both internal and external stakeholders.
We assess reduction opportunities in the key areas of In 2021, I worked on a team with members from both QatarEnergy
and Pavilion Energy. Using a lifecycle approach for accounting,
energy management; methane management, consisting of
we developed one of the first methodologies to calculate total LNG
venting, fugitives and flaring reductions; carbon capture,
emissions from production to delivery.
utilization and storage (CCUS); and offsets. These GHG
reduction approaches can be supported by policy on carbon To provide a way to compare and make informed decisions regarding
pricing, well-designed carbon-related reporting, support the carbon footprint of products, we are working to deliver the
for technologies like CCUS, and offsets. equivalent of “nutrition facts.” We hope this methodology is scalable
for industrywide implementation.
Optimizing carbon reduction opportunities Quality data is required to make informed decisions about climate
Our MACC process has identified more than 150 GHG abate- solutions, and I’m excited to be playing a role.
ment projects for development. To advance these projects,
we have a planned spend of over $600 million in 2024. In 2023,
to learn more, visit chevron.co/climate
we made progress on nearly 100 projects and completed
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
17
introduction climate environment social governance performance
methane
our goal is simple – keep methane in the pipe
our approach Chevron’s ambition is to be a global leader in methane emissions performance.
We believe addressing methane emissions has become a key part of being a responsible producer
of oil, products and natural gas.
2.0 64%
kg CO₂e/boe decrease
upstream methane intensity target by 2028 in upstream methane intensity since 2016
reducing methane intensity others to develop and implement protocols that incorporate
direct measurement into emissions inventories, informed by
In 2022, Chevron committed to designing, where
detection technology, operational parameters and engineer-
possible, new upstream facilities without routine methane
ing capabilities. To advance this effort, we joined Veritas, the
emissions. To evolve facility designs, process controls
GTI Energy Methane Emissions Measurement and Verification
and systems are being reengineered to help remove,
Initiative, and the Oil and Gas Methane Partnership 2.0.
reduce or prevent methane vent ing as part of our normal
operations. We anticipate that our monitoring and detection
Chevron’s methane intensity target is calculated based on
program will provide additional insights to improve how
Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies for
our facilities are operated and maintained. To learn more,
the Oil and Natural Gas Industry (2021), which requires use of
read our report chevron.co/methane_report.
local regulatory reporting methodologies where applicable.
The U.S. EPA has adopted notable changes to reporting
improving methane detection methodologies in its Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program
(40 C.F.R. Part 98.230), which will be applicable to Chevron's
Since 2016, we have trialed 14 advanced methane detection U.S. operations. We expect these adopted changes will
technologies. These technologies include aircraft-based increase our reported emissions in future years and therefore
gas-mapping light detection and radar, continuous monitoring increase our reported methane intensity.
with ground-based sensors, and satellite-based imaging
inter ferometry. “Find and fix” campaigns in Angola, Argentina,
collaborating to improve performance
Australia, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, the Denver-Julesburg
Basin, the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and the Permian Basin have
Chevron collaborates with third parties to help improve
provided opportunities to test methane emissions detection
our collective understanding of methane emissions detection
and measure ment options. Detection results were used
and measurement. We advocate for well-designed methane
to validate performance and inform repairs. In 2023, Chevron
regulation and share what has been effective within our
contracted GHGSat to monitor 18 onshore assets worldwide.
own operations. To advance global methane emissions
perform ance, we partner with international organizations
verifying methane performance that share best practices, including The Environmental
Partnership, Aiming for Zero Methane Emissions Initiative
While methane detection technology is maturing, challenges launched by the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, and the
remain in quantification accuracy. Chevron is working with Methane Guiding Principles Initiative.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
18
introduction climate environment social governance performance
lifecycle analysis
supporting a lifecycle approach to carbon accounting
our approach Chevron is working to help develop global standards and guidance to advance carbon
accounting as we seek to lead in carbon transparency. Four principles that guide our lifecycle approach
to carbon accounting are to provide relevant, consistent, accurate and complete data.
A lifecycle approach to carbon accounting, also known as
“carbon footprinting,” facilitates informed decision making principles
throughout the value chain of any particular product.
Carbon data that are consistent, reliable and transparent
across sectors, products and firms of all sizes can be used Relevant
to understand the carbon performance associated with
Actual data compared on a common basis enables
a good or service at each stage of the lifecycle, from
day-to-day decision making.
production to manufacturing to transport. Aggregating
the data associated with a specific product enables a full
lifecycle assessment that can improve decision quality
Consistent
at each point at which policy, manufacturing or purchasing
Data enable performance comparisons across
decisions are made.
suppliers and over time.
advancing lifecycle carbon accounting
Accurate
A more effective and reliable lifecycle approach to carbon
accounting and associated digital tools is helpful to advance Common set of assurance standards promotes
a lower carbon future. Chevron continues to work toward the reliability of information.
advancing lifecycle carbon accounting and developing
critical digital products to create data that better informs
Complete
policies, capital markets and customers. To learn more
about Chevron’s support of a lifecycle approach to carbon Lifecycle summation, inclusive of all relevant
accounting, visit chevron.co/carbon_accounting. emissions, and annual global reconciliation of
emissions are achieved.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
19
introduction climate environment social governance performance
new energies
building businesses to help reduce the carbon emissions
of major industries and hard-to-abate sectors
our approach We aim to help customers meet their lower carbon ambitions and reduce the carbon
intensity of our own operations while pursuing opportunities that generate competitive returns. We believe
innovation, technology and policy will be key drivers of change. Chevron regularly evaluates its goals,
targets and aspirations and may eliminate, increase or decrease them for various reasons.
2030 targets* renewable fuels
We believe renewable fuels can help reduce the lifecycle
carbon intensity of transportation fuels today. Leveraging our
existing refining system, we are aiming to produce capacity of
roughly 100 mbd of renewable fuels, which includes renewable
diesel, sustainable aviation fuel, biodiesel and other biofuels,
by 2030. Through the capabilities and assets of Chevron
Renewable Energy Group, we are approximately halfway to
achieving our 2030 capacity target.
100 mbd
Louisiana, U.S.: With a renewable diesel project in Geismar
renewable fuels production capacity
expected to come online in 2024, our renewable fuels
nameplate capacity will increase by approximately 30%.
Argentina: Chevron Renewable Energy Group and Bunge
acquired Chacraservicios S.r.l., which cultivates novel oil
seeds. This investment supports both Chevron and Bunge’s
work to meet the growing demand for lower carbon
renewable feedstocks.
25 mmtpa
California, U.S.: Our El Segundo Refinery completed the
offsets business and CCUS upgrade of its diesel hydrotreater to enable it to process
either 100% renewable or petroleum feedstocks. We
distributed our renewable diesel from El Segundo to limited
suppliers and retailers in California.
Renewable natural gas
We are developing renewable natural gas (RNG) projects that
capture dairy methane that would otherwise be emitted to
the atmosphere. This produces a valuable fuel with negative
150 mtpa†
* Accomplishing these ambitious targets depends on sufficient and substantial advances
hydrogen equity production capacity in technology, including the continuing progress of commercially viable technologies
and low- or non-carbon-based energy sources; enabling policies and other actions by
governing authorities, including those regarding subsidies, tax and other incentives as well
as the granting of necessary permits; successful negotiations for carbon capture and storage
† Chevron’s target for hydrogen production capacity includes and nature-based solutions; and availability and acceptability of cost-effective, verifiable
hydrogen created from a variety of feedstocks, including carbon credits; and other uncertainties, as identified in the Forward-Looking Statements
renewable power or fossil fuels with carbon capture and storage. Warning and Other Disclaimers on page 59. For more information, see About This Report on
pages 57–58 and Forward-Looking Statements Warning and Other Disclaimers on page 59.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
20
introduction climate environment social governance performance
carbon intensity on a lifecycle basis under the California Low Chevron Australia New Energies Pty Ltd has invested with
Carbon Fuel Standard. We are evaluating opportunities to Carbon Sync to provide critical learning and insight related to
diversify our feedstock mix over time, which may include the commercial and technical aspects of soil carbon projects.
wastewater and landfill gas. Through holistic management and regenerative farming
practices, Carbon Sync aims to improve the soil’s ability to
California, U.S.: Chevron and Brightmark LLC have formed capture and sequester carbon.
Brightmark RNG Holdings LLC. The joint venture funds the
construction of infrastructure and the commercial operation
hydrogen
of dairy biomethane projects in multiple states. We purchase
RNG from these projects and market the RNG volumes for
Chevron has decades of knowledge and experience with
use in vehicles operating on compressed natural gas (CNG).
hydrogen. We are developing a lower carbon hydrogen and
ammonia business where Chevron can build competitive
U.S.: Chevron has acquired full ownership of Beyond6, LLC advantages over time. To develop a profitable, at-scale
and its network of 56 CNG stations across the United States.
hydrogen business, we are pursuing commercial opportunities
With this acquisition, we can market the RNG we either
through collaborations that connect supply chains and
produce or procure through a nationwide network of
advance technologies. Currently, Chevron has filed patent
CNG locations.
applications or holds granted patents on approximately
20 inventions applicable to hydrogen development plans.
carbon capture, utilization and storage
and offsets Utah, U.S.: Chevron has a majority interest in ACES Delta,
LLC, a joint venture developing the Advanced Clean Energy
Chevron is working to develop and deploy carbon capture, Storage Project (ACES I) in Delta, Utah. Currently under
utilization, and storage (CCUS) technologies. We see CCUS construction, ACES I is designed to produce hydrogen,
opportunities in two areas: lowering the carbon intensity of converted primarily from renewable energy, and store it in
our existing assets and growing a CCUS business that helps two salt caverns. The hydrogen will be dispatched to the
reduce emissions of other industries. anchor customer for use in specialized turbines to generate
power when needed. ACES I is expected to start up in 2025.
We are growing a carbon offsets business to meet a range
of internal and external needs. This includes investing in Gulf Coast, U.S.: Chevron is a founding member of the
compliance markets where we are regulated. HyVelocity Hub, comprised of leading energy companies
and organizations working to accelerate the development of
Chevron established its offsets business and CCUS target hydrogen hubs in Texas, Southwest Louisiana and the U.S.
based on a number of assumptions about future market, Gulf Coast. HyVelocity Hub is one of seven hubs selected as
technology, and policy conditions, some of which are a candidate for U.S. Department of Energy funding.
developing more slowly than expected. We will continue
to evaluate this target while monitoring market conditions,
emerging technologies
customer demand, regulatory and policy frameworks, and the
competitive landscape.
Chevron has a long history of identifying and driving
innovation through investments in emerging technologies,
Texas, U.S.: Chevron is the operator of and has a 50% research and development, and university partnerships.
ownership interest in the Bayou Bend joint venture with
We are currently exploring opportunities to commercialize
TotalEnergies and Equinor. Bayou Bend is a carbon capture
the next generation of emerging technologies to grow our
and storage (CCS) project along the Texas Gulf Coast. In early
offering of lower carbon solutions.
2023, the project was expanded to cover nearly 140,000 acres
of geological formation both onshore and offshore.
Nevada, U.S.: Chevron is invested in Baseload Capital,
a private investment company focused on the development
Australia: Chevron Australia Pty Ltd operates Gorgon, and operation of low- and medium-temperature geothermal
which includes one of the world’s largest integrated CCS
and heat power assets. We also have a joint venture with
projects. Since the system started up in mid-2019 and
Baseload’s U.S. subsidiary to develop geothermal projects in
through 2023, more than 9 million tonnes of CO 2 emissions the United States, the first of these starting in Nevada.
have been injected.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
21
introduction climate environment social governance performance
protecting the
environment
Photo: Chevron operates using environmental principles that define environment ...............................................................................23
how we develop energy in an environmentally responsible manner.
air .............................................................................................24
water .......................................................................................25
waste ......................................................................................27
biodiversity ...........................................................................29
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
22
introduction climate environment social governance performance
environment
protecting the environment takes dedicated people,
effective processes and leading technologies
our approach At Chevron, one of our priorities is to help protect the environment through responsible
design, development, operations and retirement of assets. By considering potential environmental
risks during planning, we aim to enhance our environmental performance around the world. We identify
and manage safeguards designed to prevent or mitigate potential environmental impacts. The Operational
Excellence Management System (OEMS) environment focus area promotes systematic consideration
of business risks and environmental performance alongside stakeholder expectations.
Strategy The environment strategy endeavors to Risk management The Environment Risk Management
further our ability to help protect and enhance biodiversity, Process is our framework to identify, assess,
manage waste generation and circularity, reduce air mitigate and manage environmental risks through -
emissions, manage water resources and manage asset out an asset’s lifecycle.
retirement requirements.
stewarding environmental performance
Explains our beliefs, vision, purpose and values.
the chevron way It guides how we work and establishes a common
understanding of our culture and aspirations.
operational excellence
Manages operational priorities, such as the environ-
management system ment focus area.
Drives results in environmental performance across
environment strategy
the enterprise.
environment risk
Helps identify, assess and manage environmental
management risks and safeguards across an asset lifecycle.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
23
introduction climate environment social governance performance
air
managing emissions from our operations
our approach Chevron seeks to identify and implement technologies and management practices related
to the reduction of sulfur oxides (SOx), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs).
managing air emissions measuring air emissions
Chevron aims to: Advancements in detection and measurement continue
to shape our approach as we aim to improve performance.
• Standardize reporting to further improve accuracy of our
Achieving effective measurement starts with designing
enterprise air emissions inventories.
and operating facilities to mitigate emissions and includes
• Conduct comprehensive fenceline monitoring and air deploying technologies to validate performance, inform
dispersion modeling to help understand air emissions repairs and improve inventories.
sources, concentrations and types.
Fenceline monitoring
• Undertake both internal and external benchmarking of
air emissions to better understand relative performance California, U.S.: Consistent with local regulatory
and identify key improvement opportunities. requirements, air quality data are collected and reported
from stations along the Richmond and El Segundo refineries’
• Share technologies and operation and maintenance
fencelines, providing near real-time data 24 hours a day.
practices across our operations that mitigate air emissions.
Fenceline monitoring is one of the tools used to understand
local air quality. Since 2013, our refinery in Richmond has
improving air emissions inventories had an air monitoring program. Since 2020, our El Segundo
Refinery has had a fenceline moni toring program.
In 2023, we updated our air emissions reporting protocol To learn more, visit richmondairmonitoring.org and
to further improve the transparency and consistency elsegundo1180.com.
of reporting across the enterprise. Chevron uses data to
inform environmental performance ambitions, opportunities
and risks at the enterprise and business unit levels. Data
are used to balance management of operational needs and
regulatory, community or other key stakeholder issues.
21% 44%
decrease decrease
in nitrogen oxides emissions in volatile organic compounds
since 2019* emissions since 2019*
* Variations year-on-year or across multiple years of performance data may result from a variety of causes such as methodology updates, portfolio changes, economic conditions, and business
performance and initiatives. Performance data are not a guarantee of future performance nor intended to be a demonstration of linear progress against aspirations, targets or objectives.
See Environmental Performance, Air Quality, page 10 of 2023 Performance Data.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
24
introduction climate environment social governance performance
water
stewarding water management
our approach Water is vital to our operations as we develop and supply energy around the world. We aim
to drive efficient and responsible water use, reuse, recycling and conservation. Chevron recognizes that
collaboration with the communities where we operate is important to strengthening water stewardship.
strengthening water stewardship managing water
To advance our water stewardship, Chevron aims to: Chevron continues to identify solutions to reduce fresh
water withdrawals from our operations, especially in high
• Evaluate, implement and maintain safeguards designed to
water stress areas. A project to detect and repair steam and
prevent or mitigate potential impacts to the environment
condensate leaks increased energy and water use efficiency at
and surrounding communities, including potential impacts
our Richmond Refinery in California. At our Salt Lake Refinery
to water resources, throughout the lifecycle of our assets.
in Utah, we replaced irrigated turfgrass with drought-tolerant
• Identify solutions to reduce water withdrawals for our landscaping to achieve a significant reduction in annual
operations, especially in high water stress areas. potable water use. At our northeast Colorado upstream
operations, we continued capturing a portion of the produced
• Assess water treatment technology solutions to mitigate
water generated to recycle in ongoing well completion
potential wastewater-related impacts to the environment.
activities. Workshops and team sessions were also conducted
• Measure the effectiveness of our management practices, within the California, Colorado, Kazakhstan and Utah
drive accountability within our operations and communicate operations to identify potential water reduction opportunities.
performance to stakeholders.
• Build partnerships with stakeholders and participate in
industry water resources initiatives to share best practices 33%
in water management and support the development of water-
industry standards and related policy. stressed
areas
67%
mapping our operations
We use the World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct tool
to map operated assets in water-stressed areas. In 2023, water non-
nine upstream facilities, three biorefineries, two oil refineries stressed areas
and one additives facility were located in areas of high or
extremely high water stress, according to the WRI tool.
To learn more, visit chevron.co/watermap.
percentage of total fresh water
withdrawn in stressed
vs. non-stressed areas in 2023*
* Freshwater use in water-stressed areas increased in 2023 compared with 2022 due to a WRI Aqueduct tool update and operational changes. Does not include PDC Energy operations.
See Environmental Performance, Water Management, page 10 of 2023 Performance Data.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
25
introduction climate environment social governance performance
Permian Basin, U.S.: We continue to contribute to the
development of technologies that treat produced water for
“I’m proud to
potential reuse outside of the oil field. Through the Aris Water
deliver projects Solutions agreement, we are piloting an integrated produced
with positive water treatment to test a thermal desalination system. This will
impacts for our help us understand technologies to treat produced water for
business and the potential future beneficial reuse.
environment.”
We are working to expand deployment of distributed fiber
— Jacob Aronson
optic sensing (DFOS) leak detection technology on lay-flat
Strategic Planning Analyst
pipelines in the Permian Basin. DFOS allows us to detect and
pinpoint the location of leaks and threats to lay-flat integrity
in real time, enabling the water team to identify and mitigate
Most evenings you’ll find me exploring the stunning outdoors of
spills. Together with other spill prevention and mitigation
the San Francisco Bay Area, home to the Richmond Refinery.
measures, DFOS helped us achieve a 75% reduction in water
At the refinery, I help lead our energy efficiency and water steward-
ship initiatives. By bringing together operational and technical spillage in 2023, compared with 2022.
and specialist resources to explore complex opportunities, my
team has improved efficiency and reduced water consumption.
The Richmond Refinery uses approximately 5 million gallons
of recycled water each day and has a long-standing focus on water
stewardship. Working together, we have achieved energy and
water use efficiency by optimizing refinery steam and condensate
water systems.
Chevron has consistently supported my professional develop-
ment. Over my 12-year career with Chevron, my work has spanned
the United States, Nigeria and Kazakhstan. These experiences
have shaped me as a person and have also equipped me with a wide
social investment
range of capabilities. It is rewarding to use my cross-functional
background to lead optimization and water conservation efforts
at the refinery. New Mexico and Texas, U.S.: Chevron contributes funding
and support to the Pecos Watershed Conservation
Initiative, a public-private partnership that aims to restore
to learn more, visit chevron.co/water and sustain the health of the Pecos River and its tributaries
in the Permian Basin. The initiative is focused on habitat
restoration and improving the management of grasslands,
agricultural lands and riparian areas in the region.
evaluating technology solutions
Chevron assesses and evaluates water treatment solutions
to help mitigate potential wastewater-related impacts to
the environment and enhance produced water quality for
beneficial reuse, when appropriate and permitted.
Eastern Mediterranean: The Leviathan natural gas
platform installed an offshore membrane bioreactor to
treat sanitary wastewater. This compact technology
designed from a standard-size shipping container will
help manage wastewater more efficiently.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
26
introduction climate environment social governance performance
waste
conducting waste management
our approach Chevron strives to implement business practices that improve waste management activities
and reduce associated potential environmental, health and safety impacts.
managing waste
To advance our waste stewardship, Chevron aims to: “You can always
accomplish
• Identify and manage safeguards designed to
more together
protect the environment.
than you can
• Use third-party waste management facilities that as an individual.”
meet our waste treatment and disposal criteria.
— Jelle Maes
• Participate in trade groups and industry task forces Maintenance and
focused on waste management. Reliability Supervisor
• Advance circular economy and innovative waste
management technologies through partnerships.
I tend to seek collaboration in all facets of my life. Whether I’m
• Engage stakeholders and peers to share waste supporting the Ghent facility’s strategic initiatives or taking
management best practices. the field as a member of my local ultimate Frisbee®* club, my
emphasis is always on the team. I believe effective teaming
between operations and supply chain plays a role in delivering
reducing plastic waste results the right way.
Chevron U.S.A. Inc. is a co-owner of Chevron Phillips Our plant’s adoption of a plastic waste reduction initiative is one
team effort that I am proud to highlight. In 2023, the project
Chemical Company LLC (CPChem), a 50-50 joint venture.
resulted in a reduction of plastic film associated with packaging
In 2023, CPChem published its 12th sustainability report,
operations at the lubricants facility in Ghent.
which includes outlining how the company is working to
drive plastics circularity. To learn more, visit cpchem.com/ I look forward to supporting my teammates by applying my
sustainability/sustainability-reporting. recent resource efficiency certification. Together, we aim
to identify additional waste reduction opportunities at our facility.
Belgium: In 2023, the Chevron Belgium BV lubricants * Frisbee is a federally registered trademark of Wham-O Holding, Ltd.
facility in Ghent began using a different type of “stretch
foil,” a plastic film that stretches tight to wrap packaging.
to learn more, visit chevron.co/plastics
The facility used approximately 1.1 tonnes less plastic in
2023. This resulted in an estimated 7% reduction over the
year as compared with the previous plastic film usage.
Europe: In Europe, the carton liner bags used in the Texaco®
Havoline PitPack® system contain 85% less plastic compared
with the previous conventional plastic pails. The reduction
also lessens energy consumption during manufacturing.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
27
introduction climate environment social governance performance
upcycling waste remediating soil and groundwater
Chevron seeks to explore alternatives to improve circularity We seek to promote long-term solutions and advance
in its waste management by reusing, recycling or recovering innovative technologies. Two such examples include
materials previously destined for disposal. enhancing natural processes to address soil and groundwater
impacts and reducing the volume of materials that would
Nigeria: Since 2021, one of the Chevron Nigeria Limited require offsite disposal.
operations has been diverting incinerator ash destined for
landfill disposal to a third-party waste management facility. To address petroleum hydrocarbon impacts to groundwater,
The facility is processing the ash into base material for cement Chevron has developed and deployed bioremediation
production. In 2023, the operation was able to begin diverting technologies. One such technology delivers sulfate to the
additional batches of ash, which had been stored onsite in remediation site to break down benzene in groundwater
anticipation of such waste upcycling opportunities. up to 10 times faster than natural means. In 2023, our insights
on the sulfate delivery technology were published in
L.U.S.T. Line, an underground storage tank publication that
serves regulators and other external stakeholders.
California, U.S.: At the Guadalupe Restoration Project site,
construction of an onsite nonhazardous petroleum
hydrocarbon-impacted soil management area (SMA) is
underway. Nutrients will be used to enhance biodegradation
of the petroleum hydrocarbon-impacted soil. Disposal of
impacted soil to the SMA will eliminate haul truck trips
social investment to an offsite landfill. This will reduce emissions, offsite traffic
congestion and potential safety concerns resulting from
Angola: Students from across Africa participated in hauling the soil.
the Chevron Engineering Leadership Program.
The program ran for two weeks at the African Leader -
ship Academy in South Africa. Participants were
tasked with a “Waste to Wealth” design challenge to
convert waste material into a useful product for a
potential circular economy business.
The STEM-centric program delved into the engineering
design process and focused on asking critical questions,
solving problems and refining creative ideas. Prototypes
were brought to life through 3D printing and laser-
cutting technology. At the end, student teams presented
their concepts for a circular economy business.
In addition to our financial support, Chevron waste
engineering and management specialists shared
experiences and helped guide students through project
planning. A graduate of the academy, now employed
at Chevron Angola, credits this program for inspiring their
pursuit of a facilities engineering career.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
28
introduction climate environment social governance performance
biodiversity
working to protect biodiversity through
our operating practices and innovative solutions
our approach Chevron works with communities, regulatory agencies, industry groups and conservation
organizations to take action to help protect and enhance biodiversity.
stewarding biodiversity Australia: Our geospatial database helps us understand
potential biodiversity impacts and benefits at the site level.
We aim to help protect biodiversity by: Consistent with the 2022 results, screening of our major
operating sites in 2023 identified one upstream onshore
• Identifying opportunities to manage potential risks
operating site, in Barrow Island, Australia, that is located
in protected or sensitive areas through our screening
within an IUCN I–IV* protected area. No upstream offshore
for biodiversity.
or downstream major operating sites were identified in
• Using the mitigation hierarchy to avoid, reduce, restore IUCN I–IV areas.
or offset potential impacts to biodiversity across the
lifecycle of our assets.
following mitigation processes
• Identifying potential opportunities to conserve and
enhance biodiversity where we operate. Our Environment Risk Management Process integrates the
environmental mitigation hierarchy concept. The mitigation
hierarchy is a sequence of considerations starting with
screening for biodiversity
the most effective mitigation measures. These considerations
include avoidance, reduction, restoration and offsetting.
At Chevron, we use tools and technologies to help us under-
stand potential impacts to biodiversity. The output from these
Preventive and remediative measures
tools and technologies helps provide insights and identify
To protect biodiversity during planning stages, Chevron
potential opportunities for improvement. During project
prioritizes preventive measures to avoid or reduce potential
planning stages, Chevron identifies measures designed to
impacts. Avoidance measures may include site selection,
avoid or reduce potential impacts to biodiversity.
design and scheduling. Reduction measures may include
physical, operational and abatement controls.
Our global geospatial database, which previously included
only upstream onshore operations, has been expanded to
Chevron may also implement remediative measures,
include upstream offshore operations, downstream operations
such as restoration and offsets, that may help achieve a net
and major capital projects. The expanded database was used
positive impact on local biodiversity. Restoration may include
to screen our 2023 major operating sites and major capital
reestablishment of habitat types, biodiversity or ecosystem
projects against protected area and biodiversity datasets
services. Offsets may include restoration offsets or averted
from the IBAT Alliance’s integrated biodiversity assessment
loss offsets to compensate for biodiversity impacts.
tool. This tool is available to us through the Proteus Partner-
ship and includes the World Database on Protected Areas, the
International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red
List of Threatened Species and the World Database of Key
Biodiversity Areas.
* IUCN I–IV protected areas per IUCN definition, 2008 and 2013.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
29
introduction climate environment social governance performance
endangered plant recovery
California, U.S.: La Graciosa thistle, a spiny wetland
“I started
plant with white, lavender-tinged flowers, occurs only
photographing
in coastal southern California. Listed as threatened at the
insects, and
state level, the thistle is a U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
I discovered a
(USFWS) endangered species. There are eight known
new world.”
locations where the thistle still occurs, and four of those
locations are within our former Guadalupe oil field.
— Diego Alfonso Rosa
HSE Regulatory Coordinator
As part of our Guadalupe Restoration Project, we have
reestablished nearly 24 acres of the thistle’s natural habitat
and successfully transplanted approximately 1,135 thistles
Since childhood, I have been passionate about environmental
onsite. Over 2,800 thistles were grown at an onsite native
science and photography. The wonders of biology ignited a lifelong
seed nursery for local planting. In 2023, Chevron received a
fascination, leading me to pursue a degree in biological science at
USFWS conservation award for outstanding stewardship
the University of Buenos Aires.
of natural resources and our long-term dedication to thistle
recovery efforts. In 2022, my interests converged when I was entrusted with leading
the implementation of Chevron’s environmental risk assessment
and management procedure in Argentina. This opportunity allowed
me to impart expertise and creativity in developing the plant guide
for Chevron’s El Trapial field in Argentina. The plant guide serves
as an important tool when establishing environmental baselines for
El Trapial. By the end of 2023, we had identified approximately
230 species, including over 60 plants, 60 vertebrates and
100 invertebrates.
I am proud to share that one of my photographs from El Trapial
was selected as the cover photo for the 2024 Wildlife Habitat
Council Calendar. This recognition not only validates our team’s
social investment dedication to capturing the beauty of our natural world but
also highlights the importance of helping to preserve and protect
Colombia: At Chevron, we work with communities, wildlife habitats.
regulatory agencies and conservation organizations to
take measures designed to protect and enhance biodiversity
to learn more, visit chevron.co/biodiversity
in parts of the world where we operate. In 2023, the
Chevron Petroleum Company provided funding to help
Corales de Paz develop Energy Reefs, a project
supporting the Reef Check citizen science program.
Reef Check educates communities on coral health and
reef conservation and conducts monitoring and data
collection expeditions. Approximately 5,600 square meters
of coral reef were monitored in 2023, and two coral
bleaching discoveries were shared with authorities to
support conservation efforts.
Reef Check expeditions include local community members
and environmental authorities, plus a Chevron volunteer.
Chevron Colombia’s work on the Energy Reefs project was
recognized with an Hechos de Sostenibilidad Award
in the category of Alliances for Sustainable Development.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
30
introduction climate environment social governance performance
empowering
people
Photo: Our success is driven by a dedicated, diverse and highly skilled safety and health ......................................................................32
global workforce united by The Chevron Way.
people and culture....................................................................36
human rights ..............................................................................39
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
31
introduction climate environment social governance performance
safety and health
improving safety in our operations and
the health of our workforce and communities
our approach Chevron aims to prevent fatalities, serious injuries and illnesses across our operations,
eliminate high-consequence process safety incidents, and operate reliably. Through the Operational
Excellence Management System, our leaders engage employees and contractors to build and sustain our
safety culture, deliver performance and focus on preventing high-consequence incidents.
Focus areas The workforce safety and health focus area Risk management We apply consistent methodologies to
assesses and manages risks and sets the foundation of identify, assess, prioritize and manage risks associated
a safe and healthy workplace for our workforce. The process with work activities and process safety. Reliability programs
safety, reliability and integrity focus area aims to manage are executed so that equipment, components and systems
the integrity of operating systems. It addresses design perform their required functions across the full asset lifecycle.
principles and engineering and operating practices to help
prevent and mitigate process safety incidents.
workforce safety Chevron safety performance
(Workforce)
Our recent safety performance has been unsatisfactory.
In 2023, we experienced two fatalities and 20 serious injuries. 25
21
To improve, we have endorsed priority actions focused 20 20
20
on a consistent and disciplined approach to executing work
safely. Actions include refreshing our leaders’ fluency and
15
roles in leading a strong safety culture, implementation 13 13
of field-level assurances, and reinforcement of contractor
10
competency expectations.
5
Leadership refresh 5
We conducted a safety culture survey of frontline workers 2 1 2 2
to establish a baseline. The survey provided insights 0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
into current strengths as well as opportunities to improve
safety systems, behaviors and performance. Number of Number of work-
serious injuries related fatalities
Leadership-led sessions were held to reaffirm expected
behaviors, reinvigorate our desired culture and
influence performance outcomes. The enterprisewide
sessions were designed for executives, managers
and frontline supervisors.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
32
introduction climate environment social governance performance
Field assurances Emergency management
We believe identifying risk and keeping workers focused In times of emergency, the ability to communicate quickly
on safeguards can reduce the potential for serious injuries with the workforce is critical. Chevron’s emergency notification
and fatalities. Our control of work process establishes a system is used to send information to Chevron personnel
consis tent approach to maintaining safe guards and who may be affected by an event or involved in the response.
completing work safely. The system is tested to verify our ability to contact affected
employees during emergency events.
In 2023, we implemented a program to improve control
of work fluency across our workforce. The program includes
guidance on work planning and field engagements, along
with protocols to assure effective control of work implemen- “I am proud
tation. We are also adopting the International Oil & Gas
to represent an
Producers (IOGP) Start-Work Checks as an industry-generated
organization
guide to verify safeguards before starting high-consequence
that prioritizes
work. The Start-Work Checks can be accessed in multiple
everyone going
languages by workers in the field using a digital app.
home safely.”
Competency expectations — Luis Nieto
Chevron has a Contractor Operational Excellence Manage- HSE Projects Advisor
ment (COEM) process to establish clear responsibility and
accountability for safety, promote active partnership,
and provide a consistent approach to high-consequence work. I joined Chevron near my hometown of Odessa in West Texas.
Chevron supported the Instrumentation and Automation Program
To reinforce expectations with our contractors, we have that I studied at Odessa College.
integrated a competency program into the COEM process
As part of the Health Safety and Environment Special Projects team
requirements, including contractor screening and assessment
in the Permian Basin, I support early field adoption efforts of an
tools. The program requires that contract workers are trained, industry-standardized Start-Work Check tool. The tool’s adoption
qualified and verified as competent to perform the work, at our site aims to help frontline workers identify whether relevant
with a focus on contractors who perform high-consequence safeguards are in place and functioning prior to performing a task.
work. The program evaluates the effectiveness of contractors’ To promote consistent use and understanding among our employees
and contractors in the Permian Basin, we translated the tool into a
programs and training before they are hired and continues
regional dialect used by the local Spanish-speaking population.
throughout their work.
We collaborated with Somos, Chevron’s Latin American and Hispanic
employee network, to complete the translation.
Technology
In 2023, Chevron evaluated technologies to improve Since joining Chevron eight years ago, the learning and development
opportunities provided have been fundamental to my career
worker safety. For example, mobiWAN is an ears-free bone
progression. I take considerable pride in being the first male in my
conduction audio device. Several Chevron field sites have
family to earn a bachelor’s degree.
deployed this technology to enhance two-way communication
in high-noise environments without having to remove
hearing protection. to learn more, visit chevron.co/safety
Chevron Environmental Site Assessment Robot (CESAR) is
a semiautonomous robot being developed to help workers
assess a variety of environmental conditions from afar,
avoiding contact with potential hazards. CESAR can be
equipped with an array of sensors to evaluate different types
of contaminants in air or soil. In 2023, CESAR visited several
sites around the world to field-test its sensors and mobility
against varying conditions and terrains.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
33
introduction climate environment social governance performance
process safety Safety fundamentals
Chevron is a member of IOGP and participates in several
Chevron remains focused on consistent and disciplined
of its committees. The safety committee includes an
execution and maintenance of safeguards to help prevent
expert group that helped develop IOGP’s process safety
process safety incidents. We reinforce a healthy sense
fundamentals, basic principles that reinforce good operating
of vulnerability throughout the workforce.
practices and aim to prevent serious injuries and fatalities
and losses of containment.
Tier 1 Loss of Containment (LOC) events are one of our key
performance indicators to assess process safety performance.
Informed by an IOGP review of incident data over a 10-year
In 2023, we experienced 17 Tier 1 LOC events, which repre-
period, the fundamentals are designed to support those
sents an improvement over the previous two years.
working in frontline operations, in maintenance and on
wells teams. Our business units are adopting and deploying
the fundamentals as industry-standard tools to improve
Chevron safety performance
safety performance.
(Process)
Integrity and reliability
40
We manage the integrity of operating systems through
design principles and engineering and operating practices
30 to help prevent and mitigate process safety incidents. We
execute reliability programs so that equipment, components
and systems perform their required functions across the
20
full asset lifecycle.
Asset lifecycle
10
Our Facilities Integrity and Reliability Management pro gram
outlines the expectations to manage lifecycle asset integrity
0 and reliability. This system of standards, instructions and
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
guide lines helps to safeguard assets by the completion of
Number of Tier 1 events inspections, tests and preventative maintenance tasks.
The scalable program, which also covers supplier-owned
and -operated equipment, aims to identify and mitigate
equipment conditions that could lead to loss of containment
Safeguard assurance
and high-consequence process safety events.
At Chevron, we verify and validate that safeguards designed
to prevent high-consequence incidents have been put in place
and assure that the safeguards remain effective over time.
In 2023, a team was formed to accelerate the rigor and
consistency of safeguard assurance across our operations.
The team gathered and evaluated assurance data and
worked with internal experts to develop rigorous safeguard
assurance protocols for pressure relief devices, alarms and
instrumented protective systems. This effort helps to enhance
assurance consistency, quality and workforce competency.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
34
introduction climate environment social governance performance
workforce health community health
We care about our employees’ health and well-being in Private sector partnerships can help address factors that
all its forms – physical, mental, social – so they can lead full affect health, such as income barriers, social determinants,
lives on and off the job. We seek to secure long-term benefits education, housing and access to health care. Through
for our workforce through our culture of health. Our Health our partnerships, we bring global experience, leadership and
& Medical team considers health equity when assessing financial resources to assist in addressing the health risks
workforce health strategies and in supporting prevention, having the greatest potential impact in the communities
education and treatment. where we operate.
Enterprise health index Chevron partners with Friends of the Global Fight
We engage our employees to help us assess how well Against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, whose goals are to
we are supporting workforce health and encouraging end related epidemics and build stronger health systems.
healthy behaviors. We are a member of and co-chair its Private Sector Advisory
Council (PSAC). In 2023, the PSAC convened on several
Our Enterprise Health Index collects organizational health occasions, including a session on how innovation can help
measurements annually over eight different dimensions accelerate health access and equity in Africa. Chevron
to help us identify opportunities to adapt and improve participated in discussions with local innovators and with
our culture of health. Overall, trends have improved from representatives from government, civil society and academia.
pandemic lows, including scores in our organizational Conclusions influenced a report on how digitizing health
commitment to health and individual well-being. care demand and supply in Africa may help free resources to
accelerate wider and more equitable access to care.
Global wellness programs
Mental health and emotional well-being programs
are offered around the world, with resources available to
employees and their families.
Chevron’s global wellness program, Healthy You, empowers
employees to take control of their health and well-being
by learning how personal choices regarding diet, exercise,
tobacco use and work-life balance influence health. In the
United States and Canada, employees and adult dependents
have access to a coaching resource that promotes proactive social investment
mental health, inclusion and belonging.
Colorado, U.S.: Mental health is essential for overall
Workplace wellness. We invest in local community programs that
provide resources and expertise to individuals and
Australia: After moving into a new headquarters, Chevron families seeking help. Started in May 2023 during National
Australia’s entire Perth-based workforce is together in a single Mental Health Awareness Month, the Youth Resilience
location for the first time in a decade. Designed with inclusivity Program provides mental wellness resources to Colorado
and technology at the forefront, the flexible workplace also communities. Through support of behavioral and
takes a biophilic–focused approach to health and well-being. mental health foundations and public broadcasting,
parents and caregivers can access videos, a social
Thousands of plants are installed throughout the building,
media toolkit and other online resources to help children
and floor-to-ceiling windows provide natural light and views
develop skills and resiliency to deal with challenges.
of the nearby river and parklands. Artwork publicly displayed
celebrates the Whadjuk people’s culture, traditions and
connection to the waterfront.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
35
introduction climate environment social governance performance
people and culture
investing in people and fostering a culture of inclusion
our approach At Chevron, we believe human ingenuity has the power to solve any challenge
and overcome any obstacle. Together, the people of Chevron work in pursuit of a common purpose:
to provide the affordable, reliable, ever-cleaner energy that enables human progress.
Strategy Our people strategy seeks to engage the full Culture We promote a culture that values a diversity
potential of our employees to deliver the future of energy. of perspectives, productive dialogue and teaming.
A compelling employee experience supports the pursuit We also promote resources for good health, well-being
of meaningful careers. We aspire to achieve this by attracting and work-life balance. We develop leaders to sustain
and retaining talent, strengthening core and emerging and strengthen our culture for the future.
skills, and advancing our culture through the three pillars of
worker, workforce and workplace.
worker
At Chevron, we seek to attract and retain talent to build
high-performing teams in critical areas of our business.
By engaging their full potential, we aim to develop
employees and inspiring leaders who are held to a common
standard of behavior and integrity.
annual surveys
Talent pipeline
indicate employees are increasingly positive
In 2023, United States university student acceptance rates
about their career development opportunities
remained in line with our historical percentages. Of those
offered full-time employment, 76% accepted, and of
those offered an internship, 70% accepted.
workforce
Employee engagement We support every employee’s pursuit of a career that’s right
Chevron regularly conducts employee surveys to assess for them. Various career paths, learning opportunities and
the health of the company culture. Our surveys indicate mentoring programs are offered to promote skill development
high levels of employee engagement, an indicator of and high performance.
willingness to invest energy toward positive organizational
out comes. Our survey frequency helps us understand Energy transition fluency
employee sentiment throughout the year and gain insights Chevron provides lower carbon and energy transition fluency
into employee well-being. and skill-building resources for our workforce. Developed
internally using in-house expertise, learning sessions
are available to employees via our online learning platform.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
36
introduction climate environment social governance performance
Somos, Chevron’s Latin American and Hispanic
employee network, held their first Latina Summit, with
over 930 employees attending. The summit focused
on inspiring and empowering Latina employees to reach
“Shared
their full potential.
experience helps
build trust.”
We offer one-on-one and small-group coaching sessions
— Zach Yearous designed to improve the effectiveness of our leaders.
Operations Advisor Since its launch in 2020, this coaching initiative has
reached nearly 4,500 frontline supervisors, managers and
individual contributors in 57 countries and 22 languages.
workplace
Over the past 18 years, I have worked across the oil and gas
industry on assets throughout their lifecycle, from design to
We advance our safety and inclusion culture by continuing
decommissioning. I like to say that I have “well to sell” experience.
to shape a workplace environment where a commitment
Most recently, I worked as a foreman at our Central Gathering
to integrity and ingenuity endures. Chevron aims to provide
Facility in Colorado. As a hands-on learner, I discovered my career
path during the summer of 2006. After high school, I worked on employees a safe, inclusive community, no matter who
an oil rig in the Denver-Julesburg Basin – a region I knew well they are, what they do or where they work.
from growing up in Colorado. I found myself drawn to the oil and
gas industry’s dynamic environment. It continuously presents Chevron develops workplaces, tools and technologies that
opportunities to learn, grow and adapt.
are designed for productivity and problem-solving.
My career, much like our industry, has continued to evolve. We invest in digital technologies that support flexibility,
In 2023, I led efforts to provide business units with practical ideas collaboration and learning. Offices are designed to foster
to reduce methane intensity. My real-world experience helps human connection and spark ingenuity – places that
me relate to fellow operations and maintenance folks as we work make the employee feel they want to come to work and
to implement our enterprise methane reduction strategy.
help them get the job done.
to learn more, visit chevron.co/learning_development Inclusion
In 2023, Chevron’s ENABLED (ENhancing ABilities and
LEveraging Disabilities) employee network chapters around
the world collaborated to host their inaugural summit.
Supervisor training
Employees from more than 30 countries participated in this
In 2023, we focused on supervisor development. The training
first-ever, two-day event designed to amplify the contri-
is based on business needs and aligned with industry trends,
butions, knowledge and experiences of people affected or
new technologies and new ways of learning. We aim to help
otherwise touched by disabilities.
supervisors develop skills for meeting their responsibilities,
enriching performance and career development conversations,
and enhancing mindsets and behaviors.
Leadership programs
Chevron offers leadership programs to encourage professional
development. In recognition of the diverse backgrounds of
our global employee base, we believe inclusive leadership
development enhances performance and innovation. In 2023,
nearly 90 Chevron employees participated in the Global employee resource group
Women’s Leadership Development Program and Transforma- of the year ENABLED
tional Leadership® for Multicultural Women. These programs
provide forums to discuss headwinds, advance professional was recognized by Disability:IN for our
growth and foster a more inclusive work environment. programming and practices that
promote disability awareness and education
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
37
introduction climate environment social governance performance
Community partnership
In 2023, Chevron and Fab Foundation partnered with two
historically Black universities, Fort Valley State University
and Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University. The part-
nership delivered digital fabrication programs and equipment
to communities in middle Georgia and Tallahassee, Florida.
This included Fab Labs, small-scale workshops equipped with
a suite of digital fabrication and rapid prototyping machines
such as 3D printers.
social investment
Leadership development
Australia: Chevron recognizes that STEM education Through our four-year agreement with The Executive
plays an important role in advancing innovation, research Leadership Council, Chevron has sponsored leadership
and technology. We support teacher training programs
development training for over 135 employees, with nearly
to inspire the next generation of scientists, engineers and
40 attending in 2023.
problem-solvers.
Chevron Australia is funding a three-year program to help
primary and secondary school teachers embed Aboriginal advancing our supplier diversity
and Torres Strait Islander scientific knowledge into their
STEM curriculum. Implemented by the Commonwealth Chevron aims to support a diverse and inclusive supply
Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the program chain – one that is reflective of the communities where we live
provides training and resources for teachers and schools and work. We believe a diverse supply chain contributes to
in the Pilbara region.
our success and growth.
The program is being developed in collaboration with
regional schools and communities. Indigenous-led In 2023, Chevron maintained its long-standing partnerships
knowledge sharing includes traditional water filtration
with nonprofit organizations that have helped thousands
techniques, exploring the cultural and ecological value of
of diverse businesses grow. Among others, these include the
mangrove systems, and uses for native plants.
National Minority Supplier Development Council, the
Women’s Business Enterprise National Council and the
National LGBT Chamber of Commerce.
We successfully deployed a new registration portal for
our racial equity strategy prospective small and diverse companies. We also collabo-
rated with existing suppliers to better understand their
Chevron continues its efforts to support the Black community utilization of small and diverse companies to support our
in the United States. We address barriers to equity through supply chain.
community partnerships, talent and leadership development,
education and job creation.
Hiring
Chevron actively recruits interns and employees from
historically Black colleges and universities. Since 2022,
50 students have accepted internships and 17 have
accepted full-time positions.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
38
introduction climate environment social governance performance
human rights
enabling human progress begins with respecting human rights
our approach Chevron’s commitment to respecting human rights is embodied in our Human
Rights Policy, The Chevron Way, our Operational Excellence Management System and our Business
Conduct and Ethics Code.
Policy Chevron’s Human Rights Policy provides a framework Risk management Management of human rights issues at
for identifying and managing potential human rights impacts Chevron is based on the totality of our efforts. Our corporate
across the enterprise and throughout the lifecycle of our policies, management processes, community investment
projects. The policy is shaped around groups of stakeholders programs, participation in voluntary initiatives and efforts
most relevant to our business and operations: employees, to gain cross-functional input on human rights matters
communities, security, suppliers and contractors, and other are intended to complement each other and reinforce our
business partners. commitment to respecting human rights.
chevron human rights policy
The implementation of our policy fosters greater awareness
of human rights issues throughout the company.
employees security communities suppliers and other business
We treat all employees We protect personnel We commit to regularly contractors partners
with respect and dignity and assets and provide a engage communities
We expect our suppliers We encourage our
and promote diversity secure environment for near our operational
and contractors to customers and business
in the workplace. business operations. and project areas in
respect human rights partners to respect
meaningful conversations.
and adhere to applicable human rights and to
international principles. adhere to applicable
international principles.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
39
introduction climate environment social governance performance
employees
As reflected in The Chevron Way and our policies, we treat
all of our employees with respect and dignity and promote
“Advocating for
diversity and inclusion in the workplace. Our company
positive change
policies and procedures adhere to all applicable domestic
is in my DNA.”
laws, and we commit to respecting human rights as set
out in the International Labour Organization Declaration — Hakim Johnson
on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. These rights Public Affairs Representative
include freedom of association and collective bargaining,
nondiscrimination, and the elimination of forced labor
and underage workers in the workplace.
I have always been fascinated by the long and rich history
For example, our enterprise labor relations policy is focused
of partnership between Chevron and the Richmond, California,
on constructive partnership with our employees and, where
community. For more than a hundred years, this partnership
present, the unions that represent them. It also accounts
has evolved through our efforts to build trust and collaboration.
for workers’ rights to freedom of association and collective In my role at the Richmond Refinery, I work with community
bargaining. Our labor relations guidance provides a fit- stakeholders to understand their needs and priorities and to
for-purpose approach for addressing and managing labor identify opportunities for partnership and education that
concerns consistent with The Chevron Way, the business unit’s contribute to environmental, economic and social well-being.
strategies and plans, and applicable laws and regulations.
I grew up in a city similar to Richmond, with cultural diversity and
large industrial plants. I saw firsthand the value that comes with
Workplace diversity building trust within the community. That experience taught
At Chevron, we promote workplace diversity and treat our me the importance of giving a voice to those who feel unheard
employees with respect and dignity. As part of efforts to and working together for positive change. After I finished my
undergraduate studies, I was motivated to pursue a career in
increase hiring diversity, Chevron is expanding the number
advocacy. I wanted to use my skills and experience to help create
of countries from which we historically recruit. In addition
win-win solutions for industry and the community.
to participation in career and recruitment events, we also
support career development groups such as the non- One of the most rewarding events that our team helped organize
profit Women Offshore Foundation. The foundation helps in 2023 was the “Community Tour Day.” We hosted several
com panies and their employees with mentorship and hundred people from the surrounding area to take educational
bus tours of the Richmond Refinery. It was a great way to
career development opportunities.
show members of the community our operations and the safety
measures we have in place across the refinery. We had the
According to the International Maritime Organization,
opportunity to listen to the community’s perspectives and
women make up only 1.2% of the global mariner workforce. concerns and to answer their questions. I believe events like this
The percentage of women in the Chevron mariner work- strengthen our relationship with the community.
force is double that amount, and we are working to further
increase this number. We are proud that nearly 20% of
to learn more, visit chevron.co/community_engagement
our newly recruited cadets are women, an increase
from 12 women recruits in 2021 to 23 in 2023. Additionally,
Chevron Transport Corporation Limited has recruited
experienced women mariners from outside the oil and
gas industry.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
40
introduction climate environment social governance performance
security Public agencies leading remediation projects on such
historical sites are generally required to offer consultation to
We conduct our operations and execute projects consistent tribes that are traditionally and culturally affiliated with the
with the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. area. While the city of Carpinteria’s environmental reporting
These principles guide companies in their engagements and decommissioning permitting is underway, Chevron
with security providers on respecting human rights in the has opted to voluntarily engage with additional bands of the
protection of company facilities and premises. tribe that are not directly consulting with the city.
Voluntary Principles Engagement began in 2022 and continued in 2023, with
Chevron supports the implementation of responsible security assistance from Strategic Earth Consulting, specialists
practices throughout the industry and across other related in Tribal community relationship building. Early and ongoing
human rights forums, such as Voluntary Principles Initiative dialogue includes roundtables and listening sessions, one-
In-Country Working Groups and the Ipieca Responsible on-one conversations, site visits, and knowledge sharing with
Security Task Force. To commemorate International Human Tribal leaders. We believe early engagement helps us better
Rights Day and reiterate Chevron’s expectations, including understand Chumash heritage and the bands’ priorities and
alignment with the Voluntary Principles, Chevron’s Chief potential impacts to sensitive locations and artifacts.
Procurement Officer and Vice President of Corporate Affairs
sent a letter to several hundred key suppliers and contractors,
including security providers.
communities
The OEMS puts into action our Chevron Way value of
protecting people and the environment. We operationalize
our commitment to respecting human rights in communities
through the stakeholders focus area.
social investment
Since 2021, stakeholder and human rights-related safeguards
and practices have been formally audited across 24 business Kazakhstan: Chevron engages governments and the
units. Specific actions have been identified to continue communities where we operate to understand community
needs. As part of planned project work Tengizchevroil
improving the design, effectiveness and execution of these
LLP (TCO), a nonoperated joint venture, is implementing
safeguards and practices.
a phased demobilization of thousands of workers
and contractors.
Engaging during decommissioning
Chevron works to interact with Indigenous communities Continuing its efforts to support the community, including
during the demobilization, TCO is sponsoring training
in a way that respects their history, culture and customs.
programs on entrepreneurial skills. Some training program
We engage communities and other stakeholders in
participants have started their own businesses. TCO is
meaningful discussions and planning where there may be
also sharing information through local media to educate
asset retirement. the public on labor rights and how to start a new business.
California, U.S.: Chevron established the West Coast
Decommissioning Program in 2017 to retire five oil platforms
and related onshore processing facilities and pipelines.
One facility, the Carpinteria Gas Plant, resides on land formerly
known as the Chumash village of Mishopshno.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
41
introduction climate environment social governance performance
getting results
the right way
Photo: Independent Director Dambisa Moyo engages with governance .................................................................................43
Chevron Technical Center Vice President Balaji Krishnamurthy
lobbying .......................................................................................47
during a Board site visit.
technology .................................................................................50
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
42
introduction climate environment social governance performance
governance
creating value for our stockholders
our approach Our Board of Directors oversees and guides Chevron’s business and affairs. As part of its
role, the Board oversees strategy and risk management policies, processes and practices that are applied
throughout the company.
Strategy Chevron’s Board of Directors is committed to strong Risk management Board members regularly consider
corporate governance structures and practices that help critical risk topics as part of their oversight responsibility.
Chevron achieve business results the right way. Elements of Annually, through Chevron’s Enterprise Risk Management
strategy are discussed at every regular Board meeting, as well process, they review market, operational, political,
as at meetings of the Board’s Committees. At least one Board financial, cybersecurity and other types of risks inherent
meeting each year is primarily dedicated to strategy. To assess in our business and oversee the safeguards and mitigations
performance against the plan, the Board receives regular that are put in place. An executive from the Enterprise
updates on progress and execution and provides oversight Leadership Team owns each risk category identified by our
and direction throughout the year. Meetings also include Enterprise Risk Management process. Potential sustainability-
updates from external subject matter experts on a range of related risks are integrated into multiple Enterprise Risk
issues pertinent to Chevron’s strategy. Management categories.
board-level committees
The Board has four standing Committees, all composed
entirely of independent Directors: Audit, Board Nominating
and Governance, Management Compensation, and Public
Policy and Sustainability. Each Committee fulfills important
responsibilities to assist the Board’s oversight of risks with
the goal of building long-term stockholder value. The Board
also oversees Chevron’s strategic and business planning
process and related climate and sustainability matters.
executive committee
“First and foremost, the Board is
The Executive Committee comprises corporate officers and dedicated to affirming that Chevron
is chartered by the Board of Directors to carry out policies in
maintains a high level of integrity,
managing the company’s business. The Executive Committee
transparency and accountability.”
has two subcommittees, the Enterprise Leadership Team
and the Global Issues Committee. Each specializes in various
matters important to the company, including strategy and — Dr. Wanda Austin
climate and sustainability matters. To learn more, visit Lead Independent Director
chevron.co/governance.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
43
introduction climate environment social governance performance
Chevron’s governance structure relevant
to sustainability-related matters
investors
board of directors*
Board-level committees composed
of non-employee directors
board nominating and management compensation public policy and sustainability
audit committee (AC)
governance committee (BNGC) committee (MCC) committee (PPSC)
Assists the Board in Assists the Board in Assists the Board in Assists the Board in
overseeing accounting overseeing governance overseeing compensation overseeing policy issues
and financial reporting practices and processes, programs and practices, and potential risks in areas
processes, including: including: including: such as:
• Internal controls over • Board succession planning • Executive retention and • Environmental matters,
financial reporting • Board skills, experiences diversity strategies including those related
• Relationship with and qualifications and supporting processes to sustainability and
independent auditor • Stockholder engagement • Compensation program climate change
• Implementation and program (in conjunction design and goals • Legislative and regulatory
effectiveness of with PPSC) • Alignment of compensation initiatives
compliance programs • Board, Committee and with stockholders’ interests, • Community relations
• F inancial risk management Director evaluation process including those related • Political contributions and
• C ybersecurity risks • Governance policies to sustainability and lobbying
as they relate to financial and practices climate change risks and • Chevron’s global reputation
risk exposures opportunities • Stockholder engagement
• Sustainability and climate program (in conjunction
change risks as they relate with BNGC)
to financial risk exposures
• Operational Excellence
audit and assurance
Committees of executive officers
operating under direction of the Board executive committee† (EC)
enterprise leadership global issues committee
team† (ELT) (GIC)
Manages the composition, resource Oversees management of sustainability
allocation and strategic direction of issues and practices, including:
Chevron’s portfolio in the following areas: • Energy transition
• Operational Excellence • Lobbying and trade association activity
• Performance improvement • ESG reporting
• Energy transition • Revenue and tax transparency
• Enterprise Risk Management process • Human capital management
• Market and price forecasts • Human rights
Receives briefings on these topics from Receives regular updates on these issues
internal subject matter experts and consults from internal subject matter experts in
with outside experts to discuss energy advance of quarterly meetings.
transition and climate change issues.
* Chaired by Chairman of the Board. Additionally, events may be handled via ad hoc, cross-functional Crisis Management and Issue Management
† Chaired by Chief Executive Officer. teams, which report regularly to members of the ELT and, if appropriate, provide updates to the Board.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
44
introduction climate environment social governance performance
board composition
Coming from various industries and backgrounds, our Board members bring diverse skills, experience and expertise.
Their range of knowledge and experience spans operational, environmental, policy, regulatory and geographical arenas.
New members are added, as appropriate, to refresh the Board.
ssssssskkkkkkkiiiiiiillllllllllllllsssssss,,,,,,, eeeeeeexxxxxxxpppppppeeeeeeerrrrrrriiiiiiieeeeeeennnnnnnccccccceeeeeeesssssss bbbbboooooaaaaarrrrrddddd ttttteeeeennnnnuuuuurrrrreeeee,,,,, dddddiiiiivvvvveeeeerrrrrsssssiiiiitttttyyyyy
aaaaaaannnnnnnddddddd eeeeeeexxxxxxxpppppppeeeeeeerrrrrrrtttttttiiiiiiissssssseeeeeee aaaaannnnnddddd iiiiinnnnndddddeeeeepppppeeeeennnnndddddeeeeennnnnccccceeeee
CEO/senior science/ finance/
executive/ technology/ government/ financial global leading
leader of engineering/ regulatory/ disclosure/ business/ business race/
significant research/ legal/ financial international environ- transfor- gender ethnicity
director operations academia public policy accounting affairs mental mation tenure* age † diversity diversity independent
Black/
Wanda M.
• • • • • • 7.5 69 F African •
Austin
American
John B. Frank • • • • • 6.6 67 M White •
Alice P. Gast • • • • • 11.5 65 F White •
Enrique Hispanic/
• • • • • 15.5 68 M •
Hernandez, Jr. Latino
Marillyn A. • • • • • • • 3.4 70 F White •
Hewson
Jon M. • • • • • 3.7 64 M White •
Huntsman Jr.
Charles W.
• • • • • • 12.0 72 M White •
Moorman
Dambisa F. • • • • • 7.6 55 F Black/ •
Moyo African
Debra Reed-
• • • • • • • 5.5 67 F White •
Klages
D. James
• • • • • • 6.2 66 M White •
Umpleby III
Cynthia J.
• • • • • • 2.0 65 F White •
Warner
Michael K.
• • • • • • • 7.3 63 M White
Wirth
total/avg. 83% 75% 83% 100% 92% 75% 75% 7.4 66 50% 25% 92%
* Tenure as of May 29, 2024. Mr. Huntsman previously served on Chevron’s Board from January 2014 to September 2017 but resigned to
serve as U.S. Ambassador to Russia. For purposes of calculating tenure going forward, we include only his current term.
† Age as of April 10, 2024.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
45
introduction climate environment social governance performance
compliance and training
Developed from The Chevron Way principles, our Business
Conduct and Ethics Code communicates expectations for
ethical business conduct. The Code reinforces our compliance
commitment and the responsibility of each employee to
help Chevron’s activities adhere to legal and policy require-
ments everywhere we operate. To access the Code, visit 24/7 chevron hotline
chevron.co/code.
is available for reporting
existing and potential violations
Chevron maintains internal accounting, administrative and
of law or company policy
operational controls to manage these standards of conduct
and compliance. Chevron employees and contractors
receive training on Chevron’s Business Conduct and Ethics tax and transparency
Code every three years. This training was last assigned
enterprisewide in 2022, with a completion rate of 97%. Our approach to tax matches our efforts globally to
conduct our business legally, responsibly and with integrity.
Compliance program Our business operations, including the location of natural
Our compliance program addresses detailed compliance resources, drive where we generate earnings and pay
requirements on many important subjects, including taxes. In applying tax rules and regulations, we employ high
anticorruption, internal controls, international trade, ethical standards and comply with tax requirements in every
antiboycott, operational excellence, data privacy and jurisdiction where we operate.
competition law. For each subject, senior-level Chevron
leaders provide risk-based guidance on the company’s As part of contributing to the communities where we work
compliance requirements and training. and live, we create jobs, develop and source from local
suppliers, give back through social investment, and pay taxes
We take pride that our employees are constantly mindful in full and on time. Over the past decade, we have reported
of the company’s stringent compliance requirements. in our financial statements over $53 billion in current income
In that spirit, Corporate Compliance issues a quarterly tax expense and over $42 billion in nonincome tax expense
award celebrating meaningful efforts to do business the (e.g., property taxes, severance taxes and payroll taxes).
right way. In 2023 alone, we had total income tax expense of $8.2 billion.
Our Approach to Tax and Transparency report illustrates
Chevron Hotline how we embed principled tax practices in our business.
The Chevron Hotline is for use when someone suspects To read the report, visit chevron.co/taxes.
that anyone in Chevron, or at our affiliates, has violated any
company policy or local laws or has information on any activity
that could damage the company’s reputation. The hotline
is available in multiple languages for anonymous reporting,
where permitted by law. Chevron does not tolerate any form
of retaliation for reports made in good faith. Retaliation
includes blatant actions, such as firing, transferring, demoting
or publicly undermining someone, as well as more subtle
actions, such as avoiding someone or excluding them from
professional or social activities. It includes actions taken
by managers and employees alike. To access the hotline,
visit chevronhotline.com.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
46
introduction climate environment social governance performance
lobbying
participating in the political process
our approach Lobbying is an important way for Chevron to participate in the political process.
In the United States, Chevron engages with executive and legislative branches of federal, state and
local governments to provide perspective on energy issues affecting the nation and the world.
Chevron strives to maintain positive, constructive relationships with policymakers and their staffs.
In our engagements, we talk about the economy, regulations, energy security, foreign policy, research
and energy development. Chevron also works with trade associations to advocate for effective,
responsible and nonpartisan standards, regulations and energy policies.
oversight for oversight of lobbying activities and allow for public
scrutiny. The transparency register is an online database
Chevron has both executive management and Board over - listing associations, groups, self-employed individuals and
sight of lobbying and trade association activities. The Public organizations, including Chevron, who conduct lobbying
Policy and Sustainability Committee (PPSC) has primary activities toward the EU. Registration with the transparency
responsibility for assisting Chevron’s Board of Directors register was originally voluntary and became mandatory
in overseeing lobbying policy and reporting, as well as in 2021.
Chevron’s response to stockholder concerns regarding such
activities. The PPSC annually reviews the policies, procedures Registrants disclose what interests are being represented at
and expenditures related to the company’s lobbying to the EU level, by whom and on whose behalf. The register also
assess the value of these activities and alignment with discloses the resources supporting lobbying activities, which
Chevron’s positions and interests, including those related may include financial support, donations and sponsorships.
to sustainability.
trade associations
lobbying activities
Chevron holds memberships in industry and other associa-
Lobbying activities, in the United States and elsewhere, are tions that provide expert perspectives on a broad range of
highly regulated. Each jurisdiction sets forth regulations issues including safety, business, technical and industry best
and establishes the policies and guidelines associated with practices. Chevron does not control, and may not always
reporting and disclosure. Chevron has an effective program agree with, positions taken by trade associations of which
to comply with all laws and regulations, including complete we are members. Trade associations provide a unique venue
and timely lobbying registration and reporting. Prior to to engage with other companies and industry experts.
engaging in lobbying activities, employees must obtain
guidance from Chevron’s Vice President and General Executive management and the PPSC have oversight of our
Manager of Government Affairs, Chevron’s political law trade association activities and evaluate the business case and
counsel and Chevron’s political compliance team. alignment with Chevron’s positions and interests, including
those related to climate. To learn more, visit chevron.co/trade.
European Union: The European Union (EU) recognizes
the importance of lobbying activities as a legitimate
and necessary part of the decision-making process.
The EU established the transparency register to provide
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
47
introduction climate environment social governance performance
select climate-related
engagement with trade associations
We rarely agree 100% with any trade association, but we believe our
participation is important for the informed exchange of views.
Below is a selection of trade associations of which we are members.
Clean Hydrogen Future CHFC was launched in 2021, with Chevron and a group of energy companies, labor unions,
Coalition (CHFC) utilities, nongovernmental organizations, equipment suppliers and project developers.
CHFC is a diverse group of The CHFC is identifying actions that the United States can undertake to scale the full
stakeholders to promote supply chain for clean hydrogen production, transport, storage and use, as well as the
clean hydrogen as a critical technology development and infrastructure needs across multiple sectors. It aims to
pathway to achieve global support policies that will catalyze investments in the full value chain of a clean hydrogen
decarbonization objectives economy. Generally, clean hydrogen can be produced from a diverse range of lower-
while also increasing U.S. carbon feedstocks, including renewable electricity, biomass, nuclear, and fossil fuels
competitiveness. combined with carbon capture, use and storage (CCUS).
American Petroleum Chevron engages with API to support the development of policies that advance market-
Institute (API) based approaches and innovation to support the goals of the Paris Agreement. API
API represents all segments supports economywide carbon pricing, World Trade Organization-compliant mechanisms
of the oil and gas industry to mitigate carbon leakage, and well-designed performance-based methane regulations
in the United States. on new and existing sources. API also supports policies and laws advancing research,
development and deployment of critical early-stage technologies, such as the 2021
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and specific provisions in the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act
related to clean hydrogen and carbon capture.
Oil and Gas Climate Chevron joined OGCI in 2018 and pledged $100 million to the $1 billion+ OGCI Climate
Initiative (OGCI) Investments fund, which invests in technologies to reduce GHG emissions within
OGCI is a CEO-led initiative the oil and gas value chain and hard-to-abate sectors. OGCI member companies support
that is aiming to accelerate the aims of the Paris Agreement. Since 2017, OGCI members reduced the group’s
the oil and gas industry’s aggregate upstream methane intensity by 50% and aggregate upstream carbon intensity
response to climate change. by 21%. OGCI focuses on partnering, capacity building and innovations to target key
technologies and areas that can have impact on emissions reductions. OGCI’s current
focus areas include CCUS, methane emissions reduction and transport emissions.
U.S. Chamber of Chevron works with the U.S. Chamber to encourage support for market-based approaches
Commerce (U.S. Chamber) to climate policy, innovative breakthrough technologies and streamlined, efficient
The U.S. Chamber develops regulations. For example, the U.S. Chamber has long advocated for policies and laws
and implements policy providing for greater federal support of technology and innovation, such as the 2021 U.S.
on major issues affecting Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and specific provisions in the 2022 U.S. Inflation Reduction
U.S. businesses of all sizes Act. Similarly, the U.S. Chamber’s long-standing support for phasing down the use
across many sectors of of hydrofluorocarbons, an especially potent GHG, helped secure bipartisan U.S. Senate
the economy. ratification of the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol in 2022.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
48
introduction climate environment social governance performance
disclosures by Chevron’s Executive Committee, the Board’s Public
Policy and Sustainability Committee and the CEPAC Board;
Chevron’s Lobbying and Trade Associations report is and disclosure details. The report includes links to all Chevron
designed to be responsive to stakeholders’ increasing interest external reports representing the jurisdictions where we
in how we engage with policymakers. The report outlines lobby and comprehensive trade association membership lists
our political engagement strategies; our governance, policies, and disclosure of information, including semiannual updates
processes and training; our five-year history of corporate of membership in U.S.-based organizations and lobbying
political and Chevron Employees Political Action Committee expenditure ranges for each organization. To access the
(CEPAC) contributions, including oversight of these activities report, visit chevron.co/lobbying_trade.
climate policy framework
Chevron believes policy should be designed in a manner that enables the
realization of a lower carbon future at the least cost to society. Broad, market-
based mechanisms are the most efficient approach to addressing
GHG emissions and meeting these goals. We encourage policymakers to:
Ensure global Encourage investment Take a balanced Promote transparency
engagement and action. in technology, and measured approach. and equity.
research and innovation.
elements of well-designed policy
• Include all sectors of the economy • Enable linking with other markets
• Complement and reinforce rather than • Recognize and account for negative emissions
hinder market efficiency technologies and offsets
• Utilize a price on carbon as the primary • Support early-stage pre-commercial activity
policy tool and research and development for break-
through technologies
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
49
introduction climate environment social governance performance
technology
evolving world energy systems
our approach Chevron focuses on technology that delivers energy solutions at scale and cost-effectively.
In a growing world faced with complex energy challenges, we are innovating for today and tomorrow.
Fueling today’s businesses Adopting affordable technology Building tomorrow’s businesses We’ve been solving
at scale has the potential to deliver more energy to those who difficult energy challenges for decades. Through innovative
need it. Potential benefits may include lowering worker risks, technology, we aim to drive continuous change for the supply
reducing cycle time and unlocking resources. of affordable, reliable, ever-cleaner energy.
cybersecurity
140+
An escalating cyber threat environment evolving for the
past several years persisted in 2023. We continue to advance
cybersecurity safeguards to maintain a safe and resilient novel technology companies invested in by
technology environment. We invest in people, processes Chevron Technology Ventures since 1999
and technologies to reduce risk and enable Chevron’s digital
future. To test our cybersecurity model, we leverage external
resources to ensure we are appropriately mitigating risk. technology investment
Since 1999, Chevron Technology Ventures has been investing
In 2023, an external party used the National Institute of
in startups across a wide cross-section of energy innovation.
Standards and Technology framework to independently
Recent investment examples include:
assess the cybersecurity maturity and resilience of our infor-
mation technology and operational technology networks.
Industrial decarbonization
The assessment confirmed significant progress against
our plan to strengthen defense operations, resilience and United Kingdom: Immaterial, a developer of proprietary,
risk management. bespoke monolith-structured metal-organic framework
adsorbents. Tailored for carbon capture and hydrogen
Also in 2023, Chevron conducted a multiday corporate storage, this technology aims to support lowering carbon
exercise simulating a cyberattack. The scenario required intensity of hard-to-abate sectors.
participants to identify mitigations in preparation for
potential global business continuity disruptions. The exercise Delaware, U.S.: Ardent Process Technologies (formerly
demonstrated a coordinated and unified response to a Compact Membrane Systems), a developer of a carbon
potential enterprisewide business disruption. capture solution that utilizes novel, modular membrane
systems for gas separations. The design has the potential to
lower the carbon intensity of industrial processes.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
50
introduction climate environment social governance performance
Emerging mobility We intend to apply AI efficiently and responsibly, leveraging
the technology across our value chain. A cross-functional
Washington, U.S.: Electric Era, a company commercializing a
team composed of Chevron Digital Scholars and a network
fast-charging solution for electric vehicles that leverages a
of experts is evolving the adoption and development of
proprietary software platform to enable real-time optimization
AI governance and capabilities. This includes working with
and increased reliability.
technology partners and providers on human-centric AI tools
that augment our creativity and intelligence and enhance
Operational enhancement
the way we work across the enterprise.
Switzerland: Flyability, a developer of aerial confined-space
inspection drones for industrial environments that are We believe we have an opportunity to be a leader in driving
hard to reach or without access to global positioning system the future of energy with AI. By building on our strengths in
signals. The technology has the potential to reduce worker digital transformation, cloud computing and analytics, we see
risk in confined space inspections. potential to deliver business value and advance the future of
energy. AI and machine learning are being used to create more
Digitalization representative subsurface models for well placement, improve
United Kingdom: Oxford Quantum Circuits, the developer well production and optimize operations. Deep learning is
of a novel, commercially available quantum computer. helping to advance carbon capture and storage techniques in
Their product offers the potential to help customers enable support of lower carbon ambitions.
new forms of information processing.
Massachusetts, U.S.: Aperio, a developer of a scalable data
quality platform for industrial data that uses machine learning.
The platform has the potential to solve a range of operational
data quality matters.
digital scholars
We believe in the power of human ingenuity to advance
social investment
and scale energy solutions that will drive the world
forward. To prepare for the future of digital innovation,
India: Chevron contributed to Miller Center for Social
Chevron’s Digital Scholar Program supports employees
Entrepreneurship to support Asia-Pacific enterprises that
who wish to pursue a one-year Master of Science degree
have the potential to grow and scale their social and
with Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s System
economic impact. With our three-year gift of $1 million,
Design and Management. The program seeks to integrate Miller Center aims to provide focused support for entre-
a scholar’s domain knowledge and industry experience preneurs and share insights with other accelerator programs
with emerging digital skill sets. and the larger social entrepreneurship ecosystem.
The entrepreneurship program provides a suite of support
Scholars are selected from among early- to mid-career
services, including capacity and leadership development,
full-time employees who have a STEM background. Fully training and mentoring, and investment readiness and
funded by Chevron, scholars devote one year to this learning facilitation. Through this effort, Miller Center aims to
experience, in residence at the academic institution, while support a cohort of social enterprises to accelerate inno-
continuing to receive regular employee pay and benefits. vative, bottom-up solutions for vulnerable communities
in the region.
Since program inception in 2019, 151 employees have taken
part, with 31 enrolled for the 2023–2024 academic year.
artificial intelligence
Artificial intelligence (AI) carries enormous potential as well
as complex risks. We have joined the Responsible AI Institute,
a community of business leaders focused on successful,
responsible AI integration. Chevron aims to deploy AI
technologies in a way that aligns with our core values and
The Chevron Way.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
51
introduction climate environment social governance performance
performance
Photo: We’re working to achieve progress and deliver value, performance data .....................................................................53
consistent with our vision to be the global energy company most
glossary .......................................................................................55
admired for its people, partnership and performance.
about this report .......................................................................57
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
52
introduction climate environment social governance performance
performance data
reporting metrics and performance data*
our approach We consider various reporting frameworks to determine which data to include in our tables.
These frameworks include the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), Task Force for
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), the Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil & Gas
Industry by Ipieca, the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) and the American
Petroleum Institute (API), as well as other reporting frameworks.
For our latest performance data tables, visit chevron.co/performance_data.
data tables assurance
Our data tables present our greenhouse gas (GHG) The accuracy of the information we report is important
emissions and other operated-basis metrics for to us. We conduct independent third-party assurance for
environmental perf ormance, employee and supplier the process used to create the 2023 Corporate Sustainability
diversity, and workforce health and safety. To promote Report. For our most recent ESG assurance statement,
comparability, we map our reporting data to the visit chevron.co/ESG_assurance.
relevant SASB and Ipieca frameworks to help provide
information for investors and other stakeholders. We obtained reasonable assurance of GHG emissions
from both operated and nonoperated assets. The scope
The references in index columns are based solely on of the GHG emissions assurance for 2023 is on both an
Chevron’s interpretation and judgment and do not equity share and operational control basis, and excludes
indicate application of definitions, metrics, measurements, Chevron Phillips Chemical Company, LLC and PDC Energy,
standards or approaches set forth by third-party groups, Inc. For our most recent GHG assurance statements,
including the SASB and Ipieca frameworks. Qualitative visit chevron.co/GHG_assurance.
metrics and links to other Chevron resources are included
in this section. We have also obtained verification that our environ-
mental and safety management system (i.e., our
Operational Excellence Management System, or OEMS)
meets interna tional standards and specifications and
has obtained a Certificate of Approval for alignment with
ISO 14001:2015 and 45001:2018. For our most recent
certificate, visit chevron.co/OEMS_ISO_certification.
* Unless otherwise noted, this section reflects 2023 data collected as of April 11, 2024. All data are reported on an operated basis unless otherwise noted. Data from Renewable Energy Group, Inc.
and PDC Energy, Inc. are included in this section unless otherwise noted. Operated GHG emissions, environmental performance, and workforce health and safety tables include data from
Tengizchevroil LLP and the Partitioned Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait (SAPZ). Although Chevron has traditionally included Tengizchevroil LLP data as if operated in this report, Chevron
does not own a controlling interest in, does not operate and does not have the authority to force implementation of Chevron management systems within Tengizchevroil LLP. Tengizchevroil LLP
is a separate legal entity operated under the direction of a partnership council that Chevron does not control. Inclusion of SAPZ data within the operational data is a reflection of alignment to
Operational Excellence reporting and not reflective of the underlying legal structure or governance practices. All restatements are restated against the May 2023 release of the 2022 Corporate
Sustainability Report. Variations year-on-year or across multiple years of performance data may result from a variety of causes such as methodology updates, portfolio changes, economic
conditions, and business performance and initiatives. Performance data are not a guarantee of future performance nor intended to be a demonstration of linear progress against aspirations,
targets or objectives. See Forward-Looking Statements Warning and Other Disclaimers on page 59 of this report. Numbers in table may not sum due to rounding.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
53
introduction climate environment social governance performance
PCI calculator climate disclosures
Our portfolio carbon intensity (PCI) methodology facilitates In 2023, we published our sixth Climate Change Resilience
calculation transparency and replicability by using infor- Report. This report builds on our previous editions and
mation from financial statements and emissions disclosures. has updates throughout as we outline our governance
This approach enables validation of reporting and the framework, risk management, strategy, portfolio,
comparison of carbon intensities of companies that may performance and policy, and metrics. To learn more,
participate in different parts of the value chain. Additional visit chevron.co/CCRR.
information on our PCI methodology and related equations
follows our performance data tables. A PCI calculator is
lower carbon intensity targets
available on our website for anyone to use and compare energy
companies’ carbon intensities. To access the PCI calculator,
The table below tracks annual progress toward our 2028
visit chevron.co/PCI.
GHG emissions intensity targets.*
GHG reporting equity metrics and targets
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2028 target
Portfolio carbon intensity (grams CO₂e/megajoule) 1 72.7 71.4 71.3 71.0 71.1 71.0
Upstream carbon intensity 2
Oil intensity (kilograms CO₂e/boe) 33.3 28.2 28.6 25.2 22.4 24.0
Gas intensity (kilograms CO₂e/boe) 30.4 26.8 28.6 27.5 26.1 24.0
Methane intensity (kilograms CO₂e/boe) 2.4 2.0 2.1 1.9 1.6 2.0
Flaring intensity (kilograms CO₂e/boe) 4.7 3.8 4.3 3.5 2.8 3.0
Refining carbon intensity (kilograms CO₂e/boe) 3 35.9 38.6 37.9 37.0 36.0 36.0
1 See Equations, Portfolio Carbon Intensity, pages 21–22 of 2023 Performance Data.
2 See Equations, Upstream Carbon Intensity, page 23 of 2023 Performance Data.
3 See Equations, Refining Carbon Intensity, page 24 of 2023 Performance Data.
* Chevron’s ability to achieve any goal, target or aspiration, including with respect to climate-related initiatives, our lower carbon strategy and any lower carbon new energy businesses, is subject
to numerous risks, many of which are outside of our control. Chevron regularly evaluates its goals, targets and aspirations and may eliminate, increase or decrease them for various reasons,
including market conditions; changes in its portfolio; and financial, operational, regulatory, reputational, legal and other factors. For more information, see About This Report on pages 57–58 and
Forward-Looking Statements Warning and Other Disclaimers on page 59.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
54
introduction climate environment social governance performance
glossary
definitions of selected industry terms efficiency of a well-designed and -operated flare is generally
assumed to be greater than 98%, meaning that less than
Barrels of oil-equivalent (boe) A unit of measure to quantify 2% of the gas passes through the flare stack unburnt. At the
crude oil, natural gas liquids and natural gas amounts using the individual flare level, local parameters, such as gas content and
same basis. Natural gas volumes are converted to barrels on quality, flare design, flow rates, exit velocities and steam use,
the basis of energy content. contribute to overall combustion efficiency. There are currently
no straightforward methods to continuously measure or monitor
Carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) T he process of
the actual combus tion efficiency or destruction and removal
capturing carbon dioxide emissions and either using them as a
efficiency of a flare.
feedstock (utilization) or permanently storing them in geological
formations deep underground (storage). Hydrogen, lower carbon intensity (LCI) L CI hydrogen includes
specified hydrogen production pathways like steam methane
Carbon footprint (of product) S um of greenhouse gas emissions
reforming with carbon capture and storage and electrolysis with
and greenhouse gas removals in a product system expressed
lower carbon power.
as CO₂e based on a lifecycle assessment using the simple impact
category of climate change. A carbon footprint can represent Lifecycle analysis/assessment (LCA) A tool that can be used
the complete lifecycle of a product or a partial lifecycle based to evaluate the potential environmental impacts of a product,
on selected lifecycle stages (sometimes referred to as a “partial material, process or activity. An LCA is a comprehensive method
carbon footprint”). for assessing a range of environmental impacts across the full
lifecycle of a product system, from materials acquisition to
Carbon intensity T he amount of carbon dioxide or carbon
manufacturing, use and final disposition.
dioxide-equivalent (CO₂e) per unit of measure.
Liquefied natural gas (LNG) N atural gas that is liquefied
Combustion The combustion of gas in fuel-burning equipment
under extremely cold temperatures to facilitate storage or
is not 100% efficient, and some methane emissions occur as
transportation in specially designed vessels.
a result of uncombusted gas being released via the equipment
exhaust stream. The uncombusted proportion of gas varies Lower carbon A term describing environments, technologies,
between internal and external combustion sources (engines, business sectors, markets, energy sources and mixes of energy
tur bines, heaters and boilers); therefore, equipment-specific data sources, including traditional energy sources, among other things,
or emission factors are typically used for emissions quantification. characterized by or enabling the reduction of carbon emissions
or carbon intensities.
Decarbonization Generally refers to the process of stopping or
reducing release of greenhouse gases, especially carbon dioxide, Lower carbon energy E nergy sources and mixes of energy
into the atmosphere as the result of a process. For Chevron, sources, including traditional energy sources, that, in their
decarbonization can refer to reducing absolute emissions or production and use, emit less carbon emissions or have lower
reducing the carbon intensity of a process or asset. carbon intensity than other forms.
Emission factor A numerical factor relating activity data (e.g., Lower carbon intensity oil, products and natural gas O il, natural
tonnes of fuel consumed, tonnes of product produced or number gas and hydrocarbon-based products that are produced and
of pneumatic controllers) to emissions. Emission factors generally sold to customers with a carbon intensity below that of traditional
represent the amount of emissions per activity unit, for example oil, natural gas and hydrocarbon-based products.
standard cubic feet of gas per hour per pneumatic controller.
Methane intensity T he amount of methane per unit of measure.
Emission factors are typically developed based on a population
Methane intensity can be determined for a facility (e.g., com-
of direct measurements of emission sources or activities.
pressor station), an area (e.g., production basin) or even an entire
Flaring The controlled burning of gas, including associated value chain (e.g., from natural gas production to distribution).
gas, in the course of oil and gas operations. In many types of
Methane management A holistic approach to addressing
opera tions, including those where gas is sold, reinjected or
methane emissions performance across multiple dimensions,
otherwise utilized, safety flaring can be an important and
including actions to reduce methane emissions intensity through
necessary activity to enable safe operations. The combustion
facility design and operational best practices; deployment of
advanced technology to detect, measure and quantify site- and
source-level emissions; and development and assurance of
methane emissions inventories for reporting and disclosures.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
55
introduction climate environment social governance performance
Methane measurement T he process of taking a reading of Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) A Chevron
the methane concentration or methane emissions rate within risk-based and systematic approach to identify, assess, prioritize
an air sample at a specific point in time. Typical measurement and manage risks related to workforce safety and health; process
units are parts per million, parts per billion and kilograms per safety, reliability and integrity; environment; efficiency; security;
hour. Understanding global and local background methane and stakeholders.
concentrations is necessary to contextualize the data. Emissions
Pneumatic controller A n automated instrument used for
measurements may be performed as one-time activities, at
maintaining a process condition such as liquid level, pressure,
regular intervals or on a continuous basis, but whatever the
delta pressure and temperature.
frequency, obtaining representative measurements is important.
Portfolio carbon intensity (PCI) R epresentation of the estimated
Methane quantification Methods for determining the size of a
energy-weighted average greenhouse gas emissions intensity
methane emission source in customary units of emissions rate,
from a simplified value chain from the production, refinement,
such as mass per time (e.g., kilograms per hour) or volume per
distribution and end use of marketed energy products per unit of
time (e.g., standard cubic meters per hour). Methane can be
energy delivered.
quantified through engineering estimations, direct measurement
of a methane source (e.g., by utilizing bagging procedures) and
modeling that uses ambient measurements and meteorological
definitions of selected units
data to infer an emissions rate.
Natural climate solutions Actions that reduce or avoid emissions mbd t housands of barrels per day
and/or enhance the capture and storage of carbon in nature,
MJ m egajoule
including conservation, restoration and improved land manage-
ment interventions on natural and agricultural lands. mmtpa m illions of tonnes per annum
Nature-based solutions P er the International Energy Agency, mtpa t housands of tonnes per annum
these include the repurposing of land use by growing forests
where there were none before (afforestation) or reestablishing
a forest where there was one in the past (reforestation). Other
nature-based solutions include restoration of coastal and marine
habitats so that they continue to draw CO from the air.
2
Net positive impact Per the Ipieca Guide to developing
biodiversity action plans, a target for project outcomes in which
the impacts on biodiversity (i.e., the variety of ecosystems and
living things) caused by the project are outweighed by the actions
taken to avoid and reduce such impacts, rehabilitate affected
species and landscapes, and offset any residual impacts.
Net zero upstream aspiration (Scope 1 and 2) C hevron aspires
to reach net zero upstream emissions (Scope 1 and 2) by
2050. Accomplishing this aspiration depends on sufficient and
substantial advances in technology, including the continuing
progress of commercially viable technologies and low- or non-
carbon-based energy sources; enabling policies and other actions
by governing authorities, including those regarding subsidies,
tax and other incentives as well as the granting of necessary
permits; successful negotiations for carbon capture and storage
and nature-based solutions; and availability and acceptability
of cost-effective, verifiable carbon credits.
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
56
introduction climate environment social governance performance
about this report
This report covers our owned and operated businesses and marketing and advertising related to ESG matters,
and does not address the performance or operations of including emissions, emissions reductions, offsets
our suppliers, contractors and partners unless otherwise and related issues, are relatively new, have not been
noted. In the case of certain joint ventures for which harmonized and continue to evolve. Our selection of
Chevron is the operator, we exercise influence but not disclosure frameworks that seek to align with various
control. Thus, the governance, processes, management voluntary reporting standards may change from time
and strategy for those joint ventures are known to differ to time and may result in a lack of comparative data
from those detailed in this report. At the time of writing, for different periods. Our processes and controls may
Chevron has completed acquisitions of Beyond6, LLC, not always align with evolving voluntary standards
Chacraservicios S.r.l. (with Bunge) and PDC Energy, Inc. for identifying, measuring and reporting metrics, our
This report does not speak to these companies’ historic interpretation of reporting standards may differ from
governance, risk management, strategy approaches those of others, and such standards may change over
or emissions performance unless specifically referenced. time, including through nonpublic processes, any of
All financial information is presented in U.S. dollars which could result in significant revisions to our goals,
unless otherwise noted. targets and aspirations or reported progress in achieving
them. The statements of intention in this report speak
This report contains forward-looking statements only as of the date of this report. Chevron undertakes
relating to the manner in which Chevron intends to no obligation to publicly update any statements in
conduct certain of its activities, based on management’s this report.
current expectations, estimates and projections.
These statements are not guarantees of future conduct, This report contains information from third parties,
performance or policy and are subject to numerous such as the International Energy Agency. Chevron
risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are makes no representation or warranty as to the
beyond our control and are difficult to predict, including third-party information. Where necessary, Chevron
government regulation and oil and gas prices. See received permission to cite third-party sources, but
the Forward-Looking Statements Warning and Other the information and data remain under the control
Disclaimers on page 59 of this report. and direction of the third parties. Where Chevron has
used information, such as displaying data from third
The actual conduct of our activities, including the parties in graphical form, it has noted the source.
development, implementation or continuation of any Chevron has also provided links in this report to third-
program, policy or initiative discussed or forecasted party websites for ease of reference. Chevron’s use
in this report, may differ materially in the future. As with of the third-party information in this report and the
any projections, estimates or plans, actual results or inclusion of links to third-party content is not an
numbers may vary. The regulations, methodologies and endorsement or adoption of such information. This
standards (“methodologies”) for tracking, reporting, report contains terms used by the Task Force for
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), as well
as information about how the disclosures in this report
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
57
introduction climate environment social governance performance
may align with the recommendations of the TCFD, as it this report, Chevron’s 2023 Climate Change Resilience
has described the categories. In doing so, Chevron does Report and Chevron’s Methane Report, which contain
not intend to endorse or adopt and is not endorsing or necessary context and disclaimers regarding Chevron’s
adopting these phrases or recommendations. In using aspirations and goals and how Chevron measures its
these terms and referencing the recommendations, progress toward reaching them.
Chevron is not obligating itself to use the terms in the
way defined by the TCFD, nor is it obligating itself As used in this report, the term “Chevron” and such
to comply with any specific recommendations or terms as “the company,” “the corporation,” “our,” “its,”
to provide any specific disclosure. Chevron makes no “we” and “us” may refer to one or more of Chevron’s
representation or warranty as to the TCFD’s use or consolidated subsidiaries or affiliates or to all of them
definition of specific terms or recommendations. For taken as a whole. All of these terms are used for
example, with respect to the use of the term “material,” convenience only and are not intended as a precise
individual companies are best suited to determine what description of any of the separate entities, each of
information is material, under the long-standing U.S. which manages its own affairs.
Supreme Court definition of that term, and whether to
If you have questions about this report, contact:
disclose this information in U.S. Securities and Exchange
financial filings. Strategy and Sustainability
Chevron Corporation
Chevron participates, along with other companies, 5001 Executive Parkway, Suite 200
institutes, universities, trades and other organizations, San Ramon, CA 94583 USA
in various initiatives, campaigns and other projects
that express various ambitions, aspirations and goals
Produced by Corporate Strategy and Sustainability,
related to climate change, emissions and energy
Chevron Corporation
transition. Chevron’s individual ambitions, future
Design Sequel Studio, New York, sequelstudio.com
performance or policies may differ from the ambitions
Photo credits Cover and first spread, back cover: Steve Babuljak
of such organizations or the individual ambitions of and George Rosales; 5: Richard Morgenstein (left), Marc Marriott (top
other participants in these various initiatives, campaigns, right), Jeanett Mulder (center right), Jim Erickson (bottom right);
6, 31, 42: George Rosales; 14: Juan Cruz Raña; 22: Diego Alfonso Rosa;
and other projects.
52: Jim Erickson
Chevron regularly evaluates its goals, targets and
aspirations and may eliminate, increase or decrease
them for various reasons, including market conditions;
changes in its portfolio; and financial, operational,
regulatory, reputational, legal and other factors.
Chevron’s individual ambitions and goals, and its
progress toward reaching those ambitions and goals,
are stated in its own corporate reports, including
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
58
introduction climate environment social governance performance
forward-looking statements warning and other disclaimers
CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS RELEVANT TO FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION FOR THE PURPOSE OF “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF
THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 AND OTHER IMPORTANT LEGAL DISCLAIMERS
This report contains forward-looking images and statements relating to Chevron’s and equity affiliates; the inability or failure of the company’s joint venture partners
lower carbon strategy and operations that are based on management’s current to fund their share of operations and development activities; the potential failure
expectations, estimates, and projections about the petroleum, chemicals, and to achieve expected net production from existing and future crude oil and natural
other energy-related industries. Words or phrases such as “anticipates,” “expects,” gas development projects; potential delays in the development, construction
“intends,” “plans,” “targets,” “advances,” “commits,” “drives,” “aims,” “forecasts,” or startup of planned projects; the potential disruption or interruption of the
“projects,” “believes,” “approaches,” “seeks,” “schedules,” “estimates,” “positions,” company’s operations due to war, accidents, political events, civil unrest, severe
“pursues,” “progress,” “may,” “can,” “could,” “should,” “will,” “budgets,” “outlook,” weather, cyber threats, terrorist acts, or other natural or human causes beyond the
“trends,” “guidance,” “focus,” “on track,” “goals,” “objectives,” “strategies,” company’s control; the potential liability for remedial actions or assessments under
“opportunities,” “poised,” “potential,” “ambitions,” “aspires” and similar expressions, existing or future environmental regulations and litigation; significant operational,
and variations or negatives of these words, are intended to identify such forward- investment, or product changes undertaken or required by existing or future
looking statements, but not all forward-looking statements include such words. environmental statutes and regulations, including international agreements and
national or regional legislation and regulatory measures related to greenhouse
These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to gas emissions and climate change; the potential liability resulting from pending or
numerous risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond future litigation; the ability to successfully integrate the operations of the company
the company’s control and are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and and PDC Energy, Inc. and achieve the anticipated benefits from the transaction,
results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward- including the expected incremental annual free cash flow; the risk that Hess
looking statements. Our ability to achieve any aspiration, target or objective Corporation (Hess) stockholders do not approve the potential transaction, and the
outlined in this report is subject to numerous risks, many of which are outside of our risk that regulatory approvals are not obtained or are obtained subject to conditions
control. Examples of such risks include: (1) sufficient and substantial advances in that are not anticipated by the company and Hess; potential delays in consummating
technology, including the continuing progress of commercially viable technologies the Hess transaction, including as a result of regulatory proceedings or the ongoing
and low- or non-carbon-based energy sources; (2) laws, governmental regulation, arbitration proceedings regarding preemptive rights in the Stabroek Block joint
policies, and other enabling actions, including those regarding subsidies, tax operating agreement; risks that such ongoing arbitration is not satisfactorily
and other incentives as well as the granting of necessary permits by governing resolved and the potential transaction fails to be consummated; uncertainties as
authorities; (3) the availability and acceptability of cost-effective, verifiable carbon to whether the potential transaction, if consummated, will achieve its anticipated
credits; (4) the availability of suppliers that can meet our sustainability-related economic benefits, including as a result of regulatory proceedings and risks
standards; (5) evolving regulatory requirements, including changes to IPCC’s associated with third-party contracts containing material consent, anti-assignment,
Global Warming Potentials and U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program, transfer or other provisions that may be related to the potential transaction that
affecting ESG standards or disclosures; (6) evolving standards for tracking and are not waived or otherwise satisfactorily resolved; the company’s ability to
reporting on emissions and emissions reductions and removals; (7) customers’ and integrate Hess’ operations in a successful manner and in the expected time period;
consumers’ preferences and use of the company’s products or substitute products; the possibility that any of the anticipated benefits and projected synergies of the
(8) actions taken by the company’s competitors in response to legislation and potential transaction will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected
regulations; and (9) successful negotiations for carbon capture and storage and time period; the company’s future acquisitions or dispositions of assets or shares
nature-based solutions. Further, standards of measurement and performance set or the delay or failure of such transactions to close based on required closing
forth in this report made in reference to our environmental, social, governance, and conditions; the potential for gains and losses from asset dispositions or impairments;
other sustainability plans, goals and targets may be based on protocols, processes government-mandated sales, divestitures, recapitalizations, taxes and tax audits,
and assumptions that continue to evolve and are subject to change in the future, tariffs, sanctions, changes in fiscal terms, or restrictions on scope of company
including due to the impact of future regulation. The reader should not place undue operations; foreign currency movements compared with the U.S. dollar; higher
reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date inflation and related impacts; material reductions in corporate liquidity and
of this report. Unless legally required, Chevron undertakes no obligation to update access to debt markets; changes to the company’s capital allocation strategies;
publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, the effects of changed accounting rules under generally accepted accounting
future events or otherwise. principles promulgated by rule-setting bodies; the company’s ability to identify and
mitigate the risks and hazards inherent in operating in the global energy industry;
Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially and the factors set forth under the heading “Risk Factors” on pages 20 through
from those in the forward-looking statements are: changing crude oil and natural 26 of the company’s 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in subsequent filings
gas prices and demand for the company’s products, and production curtailments with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Other unpredictable or unknown
due to market conditions; crude oil production quotas or other actions that might be factors not discussed in this report could also have material adverse effects on
imposed by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other producing forward-looking statements.
countries; technological advancements; changes to government policies in the
countries in which the company operates; public health crises, such as pandemics
and epidemics, and any related government policies and actions; disruptions in the
company’s global supply chain, including supply chain constraints and escalation
of the cost of goods and services; changing economic, regulatory and political
environments in the various countries in which the company operates; general
domestic and international economic, market and political conditions, including the
military conflict between Russia and Ukraine, the conflict in Israel and the global
response to these hostilities; changing refining, marketing and chemicals margins;
actions of competitors or regulators; timing of exploration expenses; timing of
crude oil liftings; the competitiveness of alternate-energy sources or product
substitutes; development of large carbon capture and offset markets; the results
of operations and financial condition of the company’s suppliers, vendors, partners
Chevron 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report
59
The world demands energy to
advance human progress, and we
are proud to focus on providing
it – affordably, reliably and in
ever-cleaner ways. We believe in
the power of human ingenuity
to produce and deliver energy
more efficiently and to help build
a resilient, lower carbon energy
system that can continue to meet
growing energy demand and
advance human progress.
learn more
chevron.com/sustainability
chevron.com/investors/ESG
Chevron Corporation
5001 Executive Parkway, Suite 200,
San Ramon, CA 94583 USA
www.chevron.com
© 2024 Chevron Corporation.
All Rights Reserved.
