C U LT I VAT E A B E T T E R WO R L D
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
CONTENTS
CHAPTER 1 CHAPTER 2 CHAPTER 3
A Letter From Our Highlights 15 Highlights 30 Highlights 45
Chairman and CEO 3
Supply Chain Priorities 16 Benefits Overview 31 Environmental Goals 46
About This Report 4
Supply Chain Oversight 17 Employee Promotions Climate 47
Who We Are 5 and Turnover 32
Food with Integrity 19 Emissions 48
Our Values 6 Developing and
Food Safety Overview Training Talent 33 Sustainable Design
Materiality 7 and Oversight 20 and Development 49
Inclusive Culture 34
Impact Overview 8 Meat & Dairy Supply Chain 21 Scope 3 Emissions 50
Employee Resource Groups 38
Highlights 9 Meat & Dairy Standards 22 Regenerative Agriculture 51
Giving 39
Awards 12 Produce Supply Chain 25 Real Foodprint 52
Fundraisers and Donations
Brand Purpose Goals 13 Our Real Suppliers 26 Overview 40 Water 53
Our Real Ingredients 27 Cultivate Foundation 41 Waste 54
The Future of Farming 28 Governance 42 Materials 55
Stakeholder Engagement 43
Forward Looking
Statements 56
Appendix 57
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 2
A L E T T E R F R O M O U R
C H A I R M A N A N D C E O
This year marks my five-year anniversary since joining this company, and It is an honor to share Chipotle’s 2023 Sustainability Report with you,
I continue to be more inspired every single day by the innovative thinking which showcases our progress across people, food and animals and the
and passion for purpose that exists within our culture. In this short time, environment against the goals outlined in our 2022 Sustainability Report. We
we increased our restaurant footprint, expanded our average unit volumes, continue to hold ourselves to the highest standards in the industry when it
increased our stock price and hired more individuals than ever that live comes to investing in our people, supporting our communities and reducing
our core values. Our recipe for success has been driven by our relentless our environmental impact. It is a job that will never be complete, but we
focus on delivering great guest experiences with exceptional people and believe the more people we inspire to join us on this journey, the greater our
exceptional food. overall impact will be.
Chipotle’s Food with Integrity principles guided our responsible sourcing I am optimistic about our future and look forward to achieving our aggressive
and further enhanced our menu of real ingredients. We impacted thousands goals and delivering on our promise to Cultivate a Better World.
of communities and purchased millions of pounds of local and organic
ingredients from small and often family-owned farms. I strongly believe I welcome you to reach out to us at Sustainability@chipotle.com and share
that how we grow our food is how we grow our future and for that reason, your thoughts and questions about sustainability at Chipotle.
sustainability is and will always be a strategic priority for Chipotle.
Thank you,
Brian Niccol
Chairman and CEO, Chipotle
PAGE 3
A B O U T T H I S
3,371
66 INTERNATIONAL
R E P O R T
RESTAURANTS
owned and operated Chipotle
(Canada, France, Germany, United Kingdom)
restaurants in the United States1
The data in this report cover activities and initiatives that occurred during
fiscal year 2023 spanning January 1, 2023 through December 31, 2023.
The report covers our owned and managed operations, including leased
real estate. We produce a full report every two years, and 2023 is an interim
update. The interim report provides updates to our current goals, and
highlights on new initiatives from the year. Our next full report for fiscal
year 2024 will be in full alignment with GRI reporting standards, and will
contain in-depth details on programs.
Thank you for taking the time to read our Sustainability Report.
GENERAL
Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc., a Delaware corporation, together with its
subsidiaries (“Chipotle,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) owns and operates Chipotle
Mexican Grill restaurants, which feature a relevant menu of burritos, burrito
bowls (a burrito without the tortilla), tacos, quesadillas, and salads. We strive
to Cultivate a Better World by serving responsibly sourced, classically cooked,
real food with wholesome ingredients and without artificial colors, flavors, or
preservatives. We are passionate about providing a great guest experience
and making our food more accessible to everyone while continuing to be a
brand with a demonstrated purpose. Steve Ells, founder and former executive
chairman, first started Chipotle with a single restaurant in Denver, Colorado
in 1993. Over 30 years later, our devotion to seeking out the very best
ingredients, raised with respect for animals, farmers, and the environment,
remains at the core of our commitment to Food with Integrity.
Headquartered in Newport Beach, California, we manage our United States
operations based on eight regions and have aggregated our operations to one
reportable segment. Our revenue is derived from sales by company-owned
restaurants. In 2023, we reported $9.9 billion in revenue.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1 As of December 31, 2023, these totals do not include the non-Chipotle restaurants that were closed in 2023. PAGE 4
NOITCUDORTNI
W H O
W E A R E
Since our beginning in 1993, Chipotle has been committed to serving
Food with Integrity and revolutionizing the fast-food Industry. Our real
ingredients are responsibly sourced and classically cooked with people,
animals, and the environment in mind. Everything is connected.Though
our heritage is one of transformation and innovation, one thing will never
change: Chipotle’s commitment to doing what’s right. Our relentless
pursuit of ethical choices at all times is what has built trust in Chipotle —
from our customers, business partners, colleagues, and investors. Every
person within the organization is responsible for maintaining trust, both
internally and externally.
Cultivating a Better World is not easy, but when we all do our part, we
can make a difference.
As of December 31, 2023, Chipotle employed more than 116,000 people
worldwide. In the United States, we employed over 112,000 people in
our restaurants and approximately 1,470 in our Restaurant Support
Centers (RSCs) and field support organizations. We operate over 3,400
restaurants in the United States, Canada, France, Germany, and the
United Kingdom.
As a people-first company rooted in values, our purpose of Cultivating
a Better World extends beyond serving nutritious food using real
ingredients. It means hiring world-class individuals dedicated to
investing in their future and partnering together to positively impact the
communities they serve.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 5
NOITCUDORTNI
THE LINE IS THE MOMENT OF TRUTH TEACH AND TASTE CHIPOTLE
OUR VALUES
When our guests win, so do we. Take pride in making the Chipotle
experience exceptional.
Everything we do starts with our
restaurants. Serving great food, with great Take the time to learn it well, teach it right,
KEEP US REAL
service in a safe, quick, clean, and happy and hold others to the same standard.
environment is always priority one.
Foster a culture that values and champions our diversity
while leveraging the individual talents of all team members
to grow our business and Cultivate a Better World.
AUTHENTICITY LIVES HERE THE MOVEMENT IS REAL
Our food is real and so are we. Stand up for what’s important,
even when it’s hard.
Be your full self and make
a difference. We source better ingredients, hire better
people, and work hard to change the world.
Talk about what makes you proud, so we
can do more of it.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 6
NOITCUDORTNI
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
M AT E R I A L I T Y
Chipotle informs our purpose
and Sustainability strategy and
disclosure through a materiality
assessment. We identified
key issues based on external
trends, peer benchmarking, and
stakeholder input as well as
internal insights and business
information.
Our process included engagement
with NGO partners, investors,
suppliers, academia, internal
employees, and our executive
leadership team. We prioritize
issues for strategic planning that
hold significant importance to our
stakeholders while also having
the greatest potential to impact
our business and evaluated our
degree of control.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 7
NOITCUDORTNI
I M PAC T In 2023, we sought to continue
making a real impact for our
OV E R V I E W
communities, people, and planet.
NOITCUDORTNI
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 8
HIGHLIGHTS
F O O D &
A N I M A L S
40 MILLION
More than pounds
of local produce purchased
262 MILLION
Purchased pounds
of certified pork, chicken, and beef
94%
Achieved of our goal to
transition 400 acres of farmland to
organic growing practices by 2025
NOITCUDORTNI
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 9
HIGHLIGHTS
P E O P L E
$6.9 MILLION
donated to local
community organizations through
33,000
more than in-restaurant
fundraisers
5th YEAR
listed on Fortune’s
World’s Most Admired Companies
Launced charitable match employee
“Dish Out” “Chip In”
programs and
PAGE 10
NOITCUDORTNI
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS
E N V I R O N M E N T
1 00%
of our new restaurant
openings participated in our food
donation “Harvest Program”
51%
of our electricity was purchased
from renewable sources2
1 3%
reduction in our direct
greenhouse gas emissions
2 Includes on-site solar generation and a mix of renewable energy certificates.
NOITCUDORTNI
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 11
AWA R D S
AMERICAN OPPORTUNITY INDEX
BLOOMBERG
Gender Equality Index
FAST CASUAL
Excellence in Food Safety
FORBES
Best Brands for Social Impact
FORTUNE
America’s Most Innovative Companies
FORTUNE
World’s Most Admired Companies
HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN
Corporate Equality Index, Equality 100
INVESTOR’S BUSINESS DAILY
100 Best ESG Companies
LATINO LEADERS
Best Company for Latinos to Work For
NEWSWEEK
Excellence 1000 Index
TIME
100 Most Influential Companies
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 12
NOITCUDORTNI
B R A N D
P U R P O S E G OA L S
2023 BRAND PURPOSE GOALS ACHIEVED
PEOPLE
This is the third year that we have tied a portion of executive compensation to drive our
Improve the retention rate of our
Brand Purpose goals.
diverse employee workforce relative
The objectives, which are categorized by Food & Animals, People, and the Environment,
to those who are non-diverse3
hold our executive leadership team responsible to make business decisions that Cultivate
a Better World. Achieved 1.3% greater retention
rate of diverse employees over
Our executive officers’ overall annual bonus payouts can be increased or decreased by 15%
non-diverse employees
(i.e., 5% for each goal) based on achievement of the three Brand Purpose goals.
FOOD
2024 BRAND PURPOSE GOALS
Purchase 37.5 million pounds of
locally grown ingredients4
PEOPLE
Improve the retention rate of our diverse employee workforce Purchased 40 million pounds
relative to those who are non-diverse3 of locally grown ingredients
FOOD
Purchase 42 million pounds of locally grown ingredients4
ENVIRONMENT
ENVIRONMENT Establish composting resources at
Reduce Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by at least 235 restaurants
15% compared to 2019 baseline year
Established composting services
at 265 restaurant locations
3 Includes United States based Restaurant Service Center (RSC) and Field Operations (Field leaders and above) employees.
4 Food sourced from within 350 miles of a distribution center is defined as local.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 13
NOITCUDORTNI
F O O D &
A N I M A L S
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PPAAGGEE 1144
HIGHLIGHTS
F O O D &
A N I M A L S
304 ACRES 40 MILLION 100%
Partnered with our Continued to support 100% of our beef and
growers to convert over local farmers with chicken suppliers met our No
304 acres of conventional purchases of over Antibiotics Ever standard and
farmland to organic 40 million pounds 100% of our pork suppliers
farmland via transitional of produce5 met our no Sub-Therapeautic
growing methods Antibiotics Ever standard
5 Food sourced from within 350 miles of a distribution center is defined as local.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 15
FOOD & ANIMALS
S U P P LY
C H A I N
P R I O R I T I E S
FOOD WITH INTEGRITY
Since the first Chipotle opened in 1993, we’ve served
fresh, wholesome ingredients prepared using classic RAISING THE
cooking techniques. It has always been a top priority
to ensure our food is safe, delicious, and made from
responsibly sourced ingredients.
STANDARDS FOR
FOOD SAFETY
We work to ensure all the food Chipotle serves is safe,
wholesome, and delicious.
OURSELVES
QUALITY
We assure the quality of our food across a significant
number of metrics including animal welfare, environmental
considerations, and taste. We also measure the quality
against the standards we set for our dairy, and meats from
animals raised responsibly (our Food with Integrity guidelines).
EFFICIENCY
Our approach to efficiency is founded on establishing
long-term relationships with our suppliers. We work to
help them meet our exact sustainability and quality
standards while setting equitable prices.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PPAAGGEE 1166
FOOD & ANIMALS
S U P P LY C H A I N
OV E R S I G H T
Chipotle is committed to sourcing ingredients that are grown, In addition to compliance with the Supplier Code of
raised, and harvested with respect for people, animals, and Conduct, suppliers must meet and certify specific
the land. We work to create and celebrate integrity in all standards we set for the products we buy.6 Suppliers are
aspects of our business, including how workers are valued, subject to inspections—announced and unannounced, by
the approach farmers use to grow crops, how animals us and third parties—to verify compliance with our supplier
are treated, and the impact our operations have on the standards. Our Supply Chain team has oversight of our
environment. sourcing standards under the direction of our executive
officers.
Chipotle strives to grow and earn profits ethically by
balancing social, environmental, and financial commitments to Maintaining high levels of quality and safety in our
shareholders, customers, employees, and the public. We seek restaurants partly depends on acquiring high quality,
out suppliers who share and champion our core values, and fresh ingredients and other necessary supplies that meet
act with honesty and integrity. our specifications from reliable suppliers. The 23 regional
distribution centers we work with in the United Sates
We require our food, beverage, paper, and packaging and Canada purchase from various suppliers we carefully
suppliers to comply with the Supplier Code of Conduct, select based on quality, price, availability, and the suppliers’
which requires compliance with applicable laws and prohibits adherence to our mission. We’ve also sought to increase,
forced labor, child labor, violation of applicable standards for where practical, the number of suppliers for our ingredients
working hours and conditions. Our Supplier Code of Conduct to help mitigate pricing volatility and reduce our reliance on
also covers other subjects related to human trafficking and one or several suppliers. This ensures supply continuity.
slavery. These suppliers must certify compliance with our
Supplier Code of Conduct each year.
6 All food suppliers must certify compliance with the terms of the applicable
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PPAAGGEE 1177
supplier standards annually.
FOOD & ANIMALS
S U P P LY C H A I N
OV E R S I G H T
compulsory education. In addition, persons younger than 18 lit work stations must be provided. Work and living facilities
years of age shall not perform work that is likely to jeopardize must be constructed and maintained in accordance with
We are committed to complying with the
their health or safety, including night shifts and overtime. the standards set by applicable codes and ordinances and
law and maintaining the highest standards of
must include appropriate fire detection equipment, clear and
honesty, integrity, and conduct.7 We proudly WAGES AND WORKING HOURS unobstructed egress and adequate exit facilities. Suppliers
Employees and workers of suppliers and any subcontractors of shall not endanger any employee’s or worker’s safety. Living
do business with suppliers who uphold the
suppliers must be fairly compensated and provided with wages accommodations must be clean, safe, and meet the reasonable,
same principles. Suppliers must comply with
and benefits that comply with applicable laws, including required basic needs of residents.
all applicable laws, regulations, customs, and compensation for overtime work and other premium pay dictated
IMMIGRATION COMPLIANCE
by law. Suppliers and their subcontractors shall comply with all
industry standards relating to employment and
laws and with industry standards pertaining to the number of Suppliers shall comply with applicable immigration laws,
human rights, including but not limited to:
hours worked per day or week and consecutive days worked. including in the United States the Immigration Reform and
Employees and workers shall be provided with reasonable daily Control Act and related regulations that require employers to
and weekly work schedules and adequate allowance shall be determine the identity and work eligibility of employees and
made for time off. take appropriate action if becoming aware that an employee
PROHIBITION AGAINST FORCED LABOR
does not have appropriate authorization or status to work in
AND VIOLENCE AGAINST WORKERS
NON-DISCRIMINATION
the United States.
Suppliers shall not use forced labor in any form, including
Suppliers and their subcontractors shall comply with laws
but not limited to bonded (including debt bondage) or ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES
prohibiting discrimination in hiring and employment practices
indentured labor, involuntary or exploitative prison labor,
on the grounds of race, color, religion, sex, age, physical ability, Suppliers are forbidden to offer or accept bribes or kickbacks,
slavery or trafficking of persons which are prohibited under
national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, and any or to participate in or condone falsifying documents, collusive
any circumstances. Physical punishment, confinement, use
other applicable legally protected class. Suppliers and their bidding and price fixing, and unfair trade practices and must
of weapons, threats of violence, or other forms of physical,
subcontractors shall also comply with laws prohibiting unlawful fully comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices
sexual, psychological, or verbal harassment or abuse is strictly
harassment and retaliation. Act, United Kingdom Bribery Act, the European Union Anti-
prohibited.
Corruption Framework and related regulations.
WORKPLACE ENVIRONMENT AND ACCOMMODATIONS
PROHIBITION AGAINST CHILD LABOR
ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY
All employees must be safe in their workplace. Suppliers shall
Suppliers must not use workers who are under the applicable
provide their employees and workers with safe and healthy We believe that protecting the environment is all of
legal minimum age of employment of the jurisdiction in which
working and, where provided, living conditions. At a minimum, our responsibility. Chipotle complies with all applicable
they are working and must follow all applicable child labor laws.
potable drinking water, clean restrooms, adequate ventilation, environmental laws, regulations and permit requirements
If the jurisdiction in which the Supplier is doing business does
fire exits, essential safety and protective equipment, and related and expects all companies and contractors with which we
not have a minimum age of employment, the minimum age
training in a language the worker can understand, an emergency partner to do the same. Suppliers shall comply with applicable
shall be 15 years of age or, if greater, the age for completing
aid kit and access to emergency medical care, and appropriately environmental laws and regulations.
7 FWI is applicable to food and beverage suppliers. Refer to our
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PPAAGGEE 1188
website for the full Supplier Code of Conduct.
FOOD & ANIMALS
F O O D W I T H
I N T E G R I T Y ( F W I )
Our suppliers met our 2023 FWI7
standards as listed here.
RESPONSIBLY RAISED MEATS All ingredients must be traceable with transparency covering LOCAL8
point of origin, growing, handling, and
All animals have been responsibly raised, which means that When possible food should be locally sourced from within
harvesting practices.
they’re treated humanely from birth to slaughter, 350 miles of a distribution center. Most of our restaurants are
fed a vegetarian diet, and never given added hormones or located within 80 miles of a distribution center.
We also strongly prefer (but do not require) that our
sub-therapeutic antibiotics.
suppliers comply with the following aspirational attributes, NOTICE, MONITOR, COMPLAINTS
BGH FREE when possible.
r Suppliers are responsible for any noncompliance with the
100% of the milk in our sour cream, cheese, and queso Supplier Code of Conduct by any employees, subcontractors,
FARMERS
comes from cows that have never been treated with rBGH agents, and others who are providing services to Chipotle on
Farmers should raise their animals and crops with respect for
(Recombinant Bovine Growth Hormone). behalf of the supplier.
the long-term health of the land and community.
OUTDOOR-RAISED DAIRY VALIDATION BY CHIPOTLE
All suppliers and their affiliates, subcontractors, employees,
Weather permitting, active milk cows have access to the Chipotle may conduct inspections, audits, and evaluations
workers, and agents are required to comply with the Supplier
outdoors, are fed an all-vegetarian diet and are never given of suppliers and their business practices, records, facilities,
Code of Conduct and must promptly notify Chipotle of any
sub-therapeutic antibiotics or added hormones for growth and, where provided, housing accommodations. Chipotle may
violation. Failure to comply may be cause for Chipotle to
promotion. also conduct inspections, audits, and evaluations of suppliers’
revoke a supplier’s approved status and may be considered a
subcontractors, affiliates, and agents. Suppliers are required
GMO FREE breach or violation of any agreements Chipotle has with such
to preserve all information necessary to demonstrate and
supplier. The Supplier Code of Conduct is in addition to any
All ingredients sold to us are non-GMO (however some document compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct.
other Chipotle policies, codes, and agreements which might
beverages may contain GMO ingredients, much of Chipotle follows a continuous improvement philosophy and
apply to a supplier, and Chipotle may add to or modify the
the meat and dairy comes from animals fed at least works with its suppliers on corrective action plans to address
Supplier Code of Conduct, and request suppliers to accept
some GMO grain). any negative audit findings.
and agree to the terms, from time to time.
All ingredients and processes must comply with our
ORGANIC8
Food Safety and Quality Assurance requirements.
Produce should be grown organically as per USDA
Organic Certification.
7 FWI is applicable to food and beverage suppliers. Refer to our website for the full
Supplier Code of Conduct.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 8 Strongly prefer suppliers but do not require suppliers to meet these requirements. PPAAGGEE 1199
FOOD & ANIMALS
F O O D S A F E T Y
OV E R V I E W A N D
OV E R S I G H T
Food safety and the health and safety of our which we identify food safety risks, monitor
guests and team members will always be our the critical limits put in place to mitigate those
number-one priority. Our Food Safety team is risks, and implement corrective actions
responsible for managing food safety in our when needed.
restaurants. In addition to our internal Food
Safety team, we have a Food Safety Advisory Mitigating contamination of food through
Council that is comprised of some of the employee illness is one of our most critical
nation’s foremost food safety authorities. The control points. Our sick leave policy, in which
Food Safety Advisory Council and our Board restaurant employees are automatically given
of Directors (Board) oversee our food safety three days of sick leave from their first day of
policies and practices to help ensure they’re employment, is designed to reduce this risk.
appropriately designed and implemented. Crew members and all visitors entering areas
where food is being prepared also receive
We take the safety of our food throughout a wellness check at the beginning of each
our supply chain and restaurants extremely shift to ensure employees don’t work while
seriously. We make it a top priority to adhere sick. We also incentivize food safety as a
to safety and quality standards to prevent risks performance measure in our restaurants for
that can arise from the handling, preparation, managers and crew members to achieve a
and storage of food. From our supply chain to quarterly bonus.
our restaurants, ensuring the safety of our food
is paramount to our business. Visual reminders also make a difference when
it comes to food safety in our restaurants.
It’s important to distinguish between different Every Chipotle restaurant has a 3’x2’ poster
types of food safety risks so we can manage posted in the “back of house” that lists the
and mitigate their impact. All of our restaurants “Top 7 Food Safety Things To Remember.”
operate under a United States Food and Drug These include: work healthy, work clean,
Administration’s (FDA) Hazard Analysis and keep produce safe, cook food to correct
Critical Control Points (HACCP) system, by temperatures, hold hot and cold foods at
specified temperatures, maintain sanitary
conditions, and call for help when needed.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PPAAGGEE 2200
FOOD & ANIMALS
M E AT A N D DA I R Y
S U P P LY C H A I N
(for grain-finished beef)
Feed Lot
Cow/Calf
Central Kitchen
BEEF Operator Processing Plant
or Ranch (where the cuts are cooked*)
Finishing Farm
(for grass-fed beef)
CHICKEN Hatchery
Grow-Out Houses Processing Plant
Distribution Centers
Chipotle
Central Kitchen
PORK Sow Farm Finishing Farm Processing Plant
(where the cuts are cooked*)
* There are three domestic central kitchens where our beef and pork are cooked. Our tofu (Sofritas®) and beans are also cooked in these central kitchens.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PPAAGGEE 2211
FOOD & ANIMALS
M E AT A N D DA I R Y
S TA N DA R D S
RESPONSIBLY RAISED. RESPONSIBLY SOURCED.
Chipotle works to avoid confinement of animals throughout
Our commitment to animal welfare informs all of our our supply chain. We set minimum space requirements
100% 100%
meat and dairy purchasing. Animal welfare is of the for the animals used for our meat and dairy products.
utmost importance to us. It’s our promise that the food For example, we require suppliers to provide chickens with
we buy and serve is raised with respect for animals, more space by limiting the maximum stocking density to
farmers, and the environment. We’re committed to seven pounds per square foot. We do not allow tethering
sourcing high quality ingredients through safe and or overstocking of dairy cows. We do not permit farrowing
of our chicken and beef of our pork met the
sustainable methods. Our rigorous animal welfare or gestation crates for pigs.
met the No Antibiotics No Sub-Therapeutic
standards are informed by best practices, and we
Ever standard Antibiotics standard
surpass them wherever possible. Chipotle works to avoid the practice of “routine alterations”
throughout our supply chain. We do not permit alterations
Our Animal Welfare Guidelines—for chicken, beef, such as routine tail docking for pigs or dairy cows or
pork, and dairy—are how we strive to ensure that teeth clipping of pigs, and we have specific veterinary
our suppliers treat animals as humanely as possible. requirements relating to animal age, methodology, and
We require that our suppliers provide us meat from pain management for castration and disbudding. While
animals raised without the use of sub-therapeutic we require pain relief for dehorning on dairy farms, we
100% 70%
antibiotics and no added growth hormones. Our prefer that dairies eliminate the need for horn removal by
standards apply from the birth of the animal to its introducing polled genetics into the milking herd.
slaughter, ensuring humane treatment and handling
throughout the animal’s lifetime. We work to shorten the time our animals are in transport.
of the dairy cows in the of our pork met the more
ABOUT OUR STANDARDS
We require that the animals in our supply chain have been
active milk herd met the stringent No Antibiotics
Chipotle is dedicated to the avoidance of antibiotics pre-slaughter stunned. All slaughter facilities for beef, pork,
for prophylactic or preventative use. We do not and chicken must follow North American Meat Institute No Sub-Therapeutic Ever standard
allow sub-therapeutic antibiotic used on many of (NAMI) Animal Handling Guidelines or guidelines from an
Antibiotics Standard
the animals used to supply our meat. In 2023, 100% equivalent program to ensure fully effective pre-slaughter
of our chicken and beef met the No Antibiotics stunning.
Ever standard. 100% of our pork met the No Sub-
Therapeutic Antibiotics standard and 70% of our pork Our suppliers’ animal welfare programs must include a zero-
met the more stringent No Antibiotics Ever standard. tolerance policy toward the cruelty to animals and ensure
that sick animals receive appropriate medical treatment.
Chipotle opposes the use of product from cloned animals.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PPAAGGEE 2222
FOOD & ANIMALS
M E AT A N D DA I R Y
S U P P LY C H A I N
OUR BEEF Our suppliers are required to demonstrate Third-party audits: During 2023, 100% Breeds: Our suppliers are currently utilizing
animal welfare standards through third-party of our suppliers obtained third-party commercially available breeds. We will
Our beef comes from the United States, Canada,
certifications.10 audits of their animal welfare conditions. continue to work with our suppliers on breed
Australia, and Uruguay. We manage our beef
Suppliers demonstrate achievement of availability and to gain a better understanding
purchases with a focus on efficient transport,
In 2017, we made a public commitment to welfare conditions through American of the impacts on resource management
factoring in our commitments to ensuring cost
improve welfare practices around raising Humane, Certified Humane or Global Animal to support slower growing breeds. As we
efficiency, environmental responsibility, humane
broiler chickens through the Better Chicken Partnership (GAP) certifications.12 continue to work with suppliers, we will
handling and reducing food waste.
Commitment (BCC). We have achieved some provide updates on an annual basis on our
of the BCC tenants but not all of them. We Slaughter: Our goal is to achieve 100% progress.
In 2023, none of the beef we sourced was
will continue to work diligently with suppliers controlled atmospheric stun (CAS) in 2026.
conventionally raised, and 100% met our animal
OUR PORK
towards creating a supply chain to meet the In 2023, we increased the percent of
welfare standards. All our beef comes from
tenants of the BCC. We will continue to work our United States chicken suppliers that Our pork comes from the United States,
animals that are traceable back to ranch of origin,
diligently with suppliers towards creating a utilize CAS from 14% to 28%. We are Canada, Denmark, and the United Kingdom.
vegetarian-fed, and raised without added
supply chain to meet the tenants of the BCC. encouraging our suppliers to adopt CAS, but We do not allow our pork suppliers to use
hormones or antibiotics.
We will continue to educate and influence to achieve the goal would require significant gestation or farrowing crates. All of our pork
OUR DAIRY this pathway and believe that over time we investments by our suppliers to change their comes from pigs raised outdoors or in bedded
will make additional gains to support broiler processes. We are working with suppliers barns. In 2023, 100% of our pork met our
The dairy for our sour cream, shredded cheese, and
chicken welfare. Our progress thus far: 11 to assess the fiscal and resource impacts of animal welfare standards, meaning it was free
Queso Blanco comes from suppliers who raise dairy
changing their process and overhauling the from crates during gestation and farrowing,
cows throughout the United States. Our supply
Living Conditions: We achieved 100% systems. and free from routine tail docking and teeth
standards in 2023 required our producers to ensure
enrichments in 2022 with all our suppliers clipping. Therapeutic antibiotic treatment for
that all cows that produce the milk to make our
providing friable litter covering the whole floor Spacing: Our stocking density is lighter than a diagnosed illness is permitted. Animals that
shredded cheese, Queso Blanco, and sour cream
of the house and providing at least one type of industry standards at no more than 7 pounds are treated with antibiotics are excluded from
have access to the pasture. Our dairy farmers receive
functional enrichment per 1,000 sq ft of indoor per square foot. The BCC requires a stocking slaughter until after a withdrawal period to
a Food with Integrity premium for raising cows on
space. These include perches, platforms, huts, density of 6 pounds per square foot. In 2023, ensure that no trace of antibiotics remains
pasture, rather than through conventional methods.
and tunnels. In addition, all our suppliers meet 14% of our suppliers achieved the 6 pounds in their system. We encourage industry
100% of the dairy for our sour cream was F.A.R.M.
the requirement of allowing at least six hours per square foot stocking density. By 2024, stakeholders to further develop more
Animal Care Program (Farmers Assuring Responsible
of continuous darkness, and eight hours per we aim to have 25% of our suppliers raising humane stunning systems and are prepared
Management) Certified.
day of continuous light. chickens at the BCC stocking density. to investigate new options as they are
OUR CHICKEN We will continue discussions on spacing commercially available.
solutions, and assess the capacity to
We purchase boneless, skinless thigh and whole leg
decrease stocking density, and evaluate
chicken processed in the United States and Canada.9
impact on energy resources.
9 European markets purchase from European suppliers.
10 S upply of our chicken are American Humane, Certified Humane
or Global Animal Partnership (GAP) certified.
12 14% of suppliers in 2023 obtained Global Animal Partnership
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11 All progress reported as of December 31, 2023. (GAP) certifications. PPAAGGEE 2233
FOOD & ANIMALS
M E AT A N D DA I R Y
S TA N DA R D S
THIRD-PARTY VERIFICATION ANIMAL WELFARE OVERSIGHT AND COMPLIANCE
For beef, we require that all the cattlemen and livestock Strategic and operational responsibility for Chipotle’s Animal
haulers we work with adhere to Beef Quality Assurance (BQA) Welfare Programs lies within multiple positions on our Supply
guidelines or an equivalent standard. We also require that all Chain team. Our Animal Welfare team directly oversees the
of our partner processing plants adhere to North American day-to-day implementation of our Animal Welfare Program
Meat Institute (NAMI) Animal Handling Guidelines or an and reports to the Procurement directors on the Supply Chain
equivalent standard. In addition to these requirements, in 2023, team. The Animal Welfare team executes the program’s
at least 32% of the beef we purchased was either Certified operational strategy, and the corporate Procurement team
Humane or Global Animal Partnership (GAP) Certified. incorporates it into each purchasing decision.
In addition to meeting Chipotle’s responsibly raised The implementation of Chipotle’s Animal Welfare Guidelines
requirements, every chicken producer we work with is required requires close collaboration with the Sustainability,
to follow either National Chicken Council (NCC) Standards or Culinary, Food Safety Quality Assurance, and Marketing
American Humane (AHA), Global Animal Partnership (GAP), or and Communications teams. Animal Welfare Guidelines are
Humane Farm Animal Care (HFAC) Animal Welfare Standards. redistributed internally annually to ensure company-wide
compliance with their policies. The Animal Welfare team is
Our pork processing suppliers in the United States and Canada committed to continuous education and improvement and has
are required to follow North American Meat Institute (NAMI) completed a variety of multidisciplinary animal welfare trainings.
standards. In the United Kingdom, providers must follow Our Animal Welfare team sets exacting standards to which
Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals’ (RSPCA) our meat and dairy suppliers must adhere. We embed these
Freedom Foods standards for pigs. In 2023, 100% of our pork standards into our purchasing specifications and contracts.
carried an additional welfare certification to meet or exceed Every year, we require signed production affidavits affirming
our requirements. Furthermore, 70% of our pork was either every supplier’s compliance. In addition to our documentation
Certified Humane or Global Animal Partnership (GAP) requirements, our Animal Welfare team conducts audits on
Certified. Additionally, 41% of our pork was Red Tractor 100% of our meat and dairy suppliers annually to ensure
and RSPCA Assured. compliance with our standards through a combination of
on-site and remote assessments.13
13 O ur Animal Welfare team conducts remote audits and onsite audits across farms, plants,
hatcheries, and feed mills to ensure compliance with our policy to audit 100% of domestic
suppliers. To further ensure compliance with our requirements prohibiting hormone and
sub-therapeutic antibiotic use, our team conducts randomized antibiotic and hormone
residue tests on all beef suppliers in the United States and Australia.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PPAAGGEE 2244
FOOD & ANIMALS
P R O D U C E S U P P LY C H A I N
In 2023, we purchased nearly 366 million pounds of produce.
AVOCADOS Packing House Ripening Center
FFAARRMM
TOMATOES
FFAARRMM Processing Plant
for washing and dicing
ONIONS &
ROMAINE
LETTUCE FFAARRMM
Distribution Centers
LIMES, LEMONS,
JALAPEÑOS
FFAARRMM
Consolidation Dock
& BELL PEPPERS
Processing Plant
CILANTRO
FFAARRMM
for washing and bundling
SUPERGREENS
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PPAAGGEE 2255
FOOD & ANIMALS
O U R R E A L
S U P P L I E R S
Our suppliers are integral to our business, and we’re
proud of the partnerships we’ve established with
them through the years. The impact goes both
ways. Our suppliers help us achieve our mission
to Cultivate a Better World, and we support our
suppliers in developing environmental standards and
sustainability goals.
We have conversations with all potential suppliers
to better understand their company’s approach
and policies relating to sustainability. We tour our
supplier’s facilities to evaluate operations and discuss
opportunities for improvements. In 2023, we did not
identify any unacceptably negative environmental
CONNECTING WITH
impacts through our regular supplier auditing process.
LOCAL FARMERS
Local Line is a leading local food
sourcing platform for regional
food systems, serving farms,
producers, food hubs, and food
buyers by helping them digitize
their operations and sell products.
Chipotle is supporting our farmers
by onboarding them to Local Line to
help support their market reach.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PPAAGGEE 2266
FOOD & ANIMALS
O U R R E A L
I N G R E D I E N T S
KEEPING IT REAL WITH OUR CUSTOMERS Our Real Ingredients page offers information about all
our ingredients, nutrition information, and an online tool
We’ve always worked to be transparent with our customers
to help customers with special dietary requirements
about why we choose our ingredients and where they come
create a meal that’s right for them. We track trends in
from. That commitment to transparency is one of the reasons
nutrition and wellness and modify our offerings when
we compiled this report, and also why we chose to publish
we see new opportunities.
every ingredient in our meals online.
Chipotle has options for all dietary needs. We’re sensitive
We created a service model that allows each customer to pick
to concerns about the amount of sodium used in our food
exactly which ingredients and how much of them go into each
and have offered guidance, available on our website, to
order. Our online tool provides complete nutrition information,
people with various dietary preferences or restrictions,
helps customers build meals that meet their needs, and
including those related to sodium. All of our suggested
discloses allergens and dietary restrictions.
lower-sodium meals (such as our burritos or salads)
contain less than 900 milligrams of sodium, leaving
We also keep a limited supply of nutritional and allergen
plenty of room for customization.
cards in the back of house of our restaurants to provide to
customers who ask for them. We want our customers to be
Every choice we make—who we work with, what we
part of the conversation about our ingredients. We’ll continue
serve, and what we stand for—affects the health of the
to work to educate consumers and industry partners about
planet. Nutrient-rich soil reduces the need for pesticides
new ways we can improve our supply of ingredients and,
and synthetic fertilizers, buying locally reduces vehicle
hopefully, make the industry more sustainable. We believe the
emissions from transportation, and humane animal
integrity of our supply chain leads to better tasting and more
husbandry means diminished reliance on antibiotics. As
nutritious food—and we will fight for this on behalf of our
we strive to be better each day, we work to measure and
customers, the environment, and the communities we serve.
manage the interconnected environmental and social
HEALTH AND WELLNESS impacts throughout our supply chain. We work hard to
create and follow ethical business practices. We build
We only use ingredients with no artificial flavors, colors,
relationships with like-minded businesses and operations
or preservatives—except for lemon and lime juice are used
that do business differently. We are strongest when
only for flavor, which can sometimes be used as natural
we work together, so we’re always paying attention to
preservatives. We cook with simple, whole ingredients that
other restaurants, producers of goods and services and
are not processed.
government regulations.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PPAAGGEE 2277
FOOD & ANIMALS
T H E F U T U R E
O F FA R M I N G
FARMERS INSPIRE US
How we grow our food is how we grow our future.
That’s why we have made a commitment to give
$5 million by 2025 to support the future of farming.
Progress towards our goal to give $5 million
by 2025 to help the future of farming.
$1M $5M
Helping farms and farmers create a brighter food future is how we YOUNG FARMER GRANT PROGRAM TRACTOR BEVERAGE CO.
continue our commitment of Cultivating a Better World.
Seed Grants help remove barriers to make it possible 5% of Chipotle’s profits from Tractor Beverages
for the next generation of farmers and ranchers to sales are donated to causes that benefit farmers.
Since 2019, Chipotle has pledged to help reinvigorate the fading
succeed. We provide annual grants of $5,000 each to Funds expand Chipotle’s existing farmer programs
farming industry for future generations. Some of our programs include:
young farmers in need through our partnership with including scholarships and grants to start, run, or
National Young Farmer’s Coalition. grow farming operations.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PPAAGGEE 2288
P E O P L E
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 29
HIGHLIGHTS
P E O P L E
$17.3 MILLION
We provide high-quality growth and development
opportunities to retain top talent and support internal
Raised almost $17.3 million through Round Up
promotions. In 2023, we had more than 24,000
for Real Change since its inception
internal promotions, including 100% of United States
based Regional Vice Presidents, 87% of
Team Directors, and 87% of Field Leaders.
$6.9 MILLION
We hosted Teach & Taste Live seminars to provide
on-going professional development for employees
at our Restaurant Support Centers. Each course
Donated over $6.9 million to local community
introduces a new leadership skill and offers best
practices and actionable tools to continue developing organizations through 33,000 restaurant fundraisers
the top talent that supports our field operations.
CHIP IN, DISH OUT
Launched “Chip In” and “Dish Out” volunteer and
donation match for employees to participate in
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 30
PEOPLE
B E N E F I TS
OV E RV I E W
We want to be a place where people want
to work and succeed. That’s why we’re
pleased to offer competitive wages and
benefits for every employee as well as
excellent opportunities for career
advancement. We pay all entry-level hourly
restaurant employees above the federal
minimum wage, and at or above state or
local minimum wages where applicable.
We also believe that a sustainable economy
must ensure a minimum standard of living
necessary for the health and general well-
being of workers and their families. We want
to be a place where people want to work,
even in times of change that are inevitable in
our industry. We will always seek to attract
and retain the best employees and help them
grow within our company.
TAKING CARE OF OUR PEOPLE
We want to make sure our employees
are well taken care of. Our “Cultivate Me”
benefits program plays a vital role in an
employee’s tenure at Chipotle. We know
that competitive benefits play a big part in
retaining our employees and we’re proud
to offer the best in class.
Benefits are summarized on this page and
may differ based on eligibility.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT *Hourly manager includes Kitchen Leaders, Service Leaders, and Apprentices. PAGE 31
PEOPLE
TOTAL EXTERNAL
HIRES PROMOTIONS HIRE RATE PROMOTION
POPULATION AND INTERNAL
E M P LOY E E 2023 2023 2023 RATE 2023
HIRES 2023
CANADA 1,569 264 1,833 86% 14%
P R O M OT I O N S
EUROPE 181 37 218 83% 17%
A N D T U R N OV E R UNITED KINGDOM 408 108 516 79% 21%
UNITED STATES 196,425 24,127 220,552 89% 11%
TOTAL 198,583 24,536 223,119 89% 11%
In 2023, our rate of internal promotion was 87%, carrying
over similar rates from previous years. This rate measures
the percentage of individuals that we promoted into an
TOTAL EXTERNAL
Apprentice position versus all Apprentice and General POPULATION HIRES PROMOTIONS HIRE RATE PROMOTION
AND INTERNAL
(UNITED STATES) 2023 2023 2023 RATE 2023
Manager hires at Chipotle. HIRES 2023
By continuing to build a positive and inclusive culture, and TO APPRENTICE 334 2,271 2,605 13% 87%
investing in our employees’ development, our goal is to
TO GENERAL
367 1,426 1,793 20% 80%
MANAGER
decrease turnover among our restaurant salaried employees,
hourly crew, and restaurant managers.
We conducted Restaurant Leader and Field Leader Pulse
TOTAL EXTERNAL
POPULATION HIRES PROMOTIONS HIRE RATE PROMOTION
Surveys in 2022. 90% of our employees surveyed said they
AND INTERNAL
(CANADA) 2023 2023 2023 RATE 2023
like the work they do and have confidence in Chipotle’s future. HIRES 2023
We are continually engaging our staff to understand their
TO APPRENTICE 7 23 30 23% 77%
needs and address challenges to our workforce.
TO GENERAL
5 18 23 22% 78%
MANAGER
TURNOVER TURNOVER
POPULATION
RATE 2023 RATE 2022
RESTAURANT HOURLY
183% 193%
(CREW, KITCHEN LEADER, SERVICE LEADER)
RESTAURANT SALARY
33% 44%
(APPRENTICE, GENERAL MANAGER, RESTAURANTEUR, CERTIFIED TRAINING MANAGERS)
RESTAURANT FIELD MANAGERS
18% 19%
(FIELD LEADERS, TEAM DIRECTORS, REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENTS)
STAFF EMPLOYEES
22% 23%
(SUPPORT CENTER EMPLOYEES AND FIELD SUPPORT EMPLOYEES)
SENIOR MANAGEMENT 0% 14%
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 32
PEOPLE
DEVELOPMENT & TRAINING
D E V E LO P I N G
SCHEDULES
A N D T R A I N I N G
Crew Orientation 2 hours
TA L E N T
Crew Line Training 1 week
Our talent strategy recognizes the need to have
Crew Cash Training 1 week
a comprehensive plan focused on internal talent
development. Ensuring our employees have proper
Crew Digital Training 1 week
training and development is at the center of that
strategy.
Crew Prep Training 1 week
Our employees never stop learning! We have developed
programs to ensure our employees are supported at
Crew Grill Training 1 week
every stage of their career.
Our online training platform is known as the Spice Crew Certified Trainer Training 1 week
Hub and offers a variety of training and development
opportunities to develop better leaders and increase
Kitchen Leader Training 3 weeks
awareness around the most important responsibilities
of working at Chipotle.
Service Leader Training 4 weeks
Every restaurant employee receives in-restaurant
shoulder-to-shoulder training, coaching and validation Apprentice Training 4 weeks
every shift. New Kitchen Leaders go through three weeks
of training, while new Service Leaders and Apprentices
Internal GM Training 3 weeks
go through four weeks of training. Training materials are
built to support any operational change at the restaurant
level and shared in a central location for ease of access. External GM Training 12 weeks
SPICE HUB TRAINING
Materials for all 2023 initiatives, including new technology and limited time offers,
were created to train restaurant employees at all levels. The initiatives were cascaded
down from the Restaurant Support Center to every level from Regional Vice President
to crew. All levels reviewed and completed their training in the Spice Hub.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 33
I N C L U S I V E
C U LT U R E
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 34
STRATEGY
I N C L U S I V E C U LT U R E
BUILDING AN INCLUSIVE CULTURE BRINGS OUR EMPLOYEES TOGETHER,
STRENGTHENS OUR WORKFORCE, AND FOSTERS CREATIVITY
LEARN
to create awareness.
DEVELOP
to activate our talent.
CREATE ACCESS AND EQUITY
by eliminating barriers for
diverse candidates and
employees.
SUPPORT OUR COMMUNITIES
by creating pathways to
healthier food, education,
and jobs.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 35
JOURNEY
I N C L U S I V E
C U LT U R E
We are committed to maintaining both racial We encourage employees to get involved
and gender pay equity. Pay equity analysis is with our Employee Resource Groups to spark
a continual process at Chipotle. We work to conversations, learn from each other, and grow
identify potential risks and pay gaps in our their careers.
organization by gender and race/ethnicity to
We recognize our journey is not complete and we support our commitment to pay our employees NON-DISCRIMINATION
equitably across these groups.
are committed to providing equitable opportunities Chipotle prohibits workplace discrimination
for all employees to succeed. and all forms of harassment, including sexual
We conduct coordianted talent calibrations
harassment. We have a strict rule against
and succession planning exercises across the
workplace conduct that violates any law, makes
We believe in fostering a culture that values and
organization to identify a diverse pipeline of
someone feel unwelcome, or is otherwise a
champions our diversity, while leveraging the
emerging leaders, matching these leaders with
distraction from doing a job to the best of their
individual talents of all employees to grow our
the appropriate development programs to
ability. Employees who violate our Respectful
business and Cultivate a Better World.
ensure we have a slate of ‘ready now’ internal
Workplace Policy; our Anti-Discrimination,
talent for critical roles within the organization.
Harassment and Sexual Harassment Policy; or
Our purpose of Cultivating a Better World starts
the law are subject to discipline, which could
with our workforce and extends to the communities Chipotle has been participating in
include termination. We do not discriminate
Management Leadership for Tomorrow’s
we serve. We strive to create an organization against any protected status. This policy
(MLT) Black Equity at Work Certification
where diverse ideas, backgrounds, cultures, and applies to all our employment practices,
Program. This establishes a comprehensive
experiences are championed. We take seriously including recruiting, hiring, pay, performance
aggregate measurement system and provides
reviews, training and development, promotions,
our values of “Authenticity Lives Here” and “The
a rigorous approach that promotes Black
and other terms and conditions of employment.
Movement is Real” because they are not just
equity internally and externally by supporting
representative of our food, but our people as well.
Black equity within our business partners,
We seek to cultivate an inclusive environment where
as well as in the communities in which we
all our employees can be heard and understood; operate.
and commit to intentional actions that will drive the
impact we desire. As of December 31, 2023, 49.3% of our
United States based employee population was
female and approximately 71% of our United
States restaurant and field based employee
population was comprised of racial and ethnic
minorities.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 36
I N C L U S I V E
C U LT U R E
DURING 2023 CHIPOTLE:
Signed a pay transparency pledge to demonstrate
our commitment to pay our employees equally across
gender and race/ ethnicity.
Expanded our Inclusive Culture program through
strategic recruiting and development practices. We’re
focusing on creating an inclusive atmosphere and
work closely with the Trevor Project to ensure support
for all members of our community.
Engaged an independent third-party consultant
to conduct a Talent Management Equity Audit to
identify opportunities in our talent management
cycle. The review found that Chipotle has a robust
set of processes and practices, including a structured
candidate selection process for both internal and
external candidates, interview guides and detailed job
descriptions. We have made additional changes to
ensure interview questions are equitable and provided
unconscious bias training for the recruiting team.14
14 See the Investors page of our website at www.ir.chipotle.com under Corporate Governance –
Human Capital Information for additional details.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 37
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
I N C L U S I V E
C U LT U R E
UNIFIED THE HUSTLE
As a leading inclusive workplace, Chipotle introduced the Humans Uniting to Support the Ladies’ Experience (HUSTLE)
ERG –United Network of Influencers Furthering Inclusion was formed to build a workplace where women can thrive.
and Ethnic Diversity (UNIFIED). Its vision is to Cultivate a Better World by building an inclusive
environment that attracts, elevates, and evolves women in the
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS (ERGS) OVERVIEW
UNIFIED advances an equal opportunity environment that supports workplace. The HUSTLE supports a mentor program, and hosts
Our voluntary employee-led ERGs help cultivate an a future free from discrimination and inequality for career growth various events through the year including a quarterly virtual
opportunities. To achieve this goal and support Chipotle’s mission to book club for all members.
inclusive culture. They provide many opportunities for
Cultivate a Better World, UNIFIED brings awareness, knowledge, and
employees to network, learn new skills, and participate in
understanding of workplace ethnic challenges and community issues.
activities of their interest. ERGs provide community, culture
support, and development opportunities to advance Key program components include:
• A minority mentorship program
careers for many of our employees.
• Virtual round table discussions with prominent speakers and panels
• Quarterly trainings that promote diversity and inclusion in the
workplace
CHIPOTLE WELLNESS
Chipotle Wellness fosters an environment that supports Chipotle
employees’ mental, physical, and financial wellbeing. This group
has increased visibility into Chipotle’s best-in-class mental health
and fitness benefits and includes access to Health Advocate and
a library of digital workout videos, as well as live or on-demand
PRIDE
online workout sessions.
PRIDE fosters a work environment that is inclusive of the LGBTQ+
community and attracts, retains, develops, and celebrates its
authenticity. PRIDE is open to all employees regardless of sexual
orientation. Chipotle recently received a 100% score on the Human
Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index, highlighting
best workplaces for the LGBTQ+ community.
CULTURE COMMITTEE
Culture Committee’s purpose is to create spaces where all are
encouraged to express their passions and curate new connections.
Our employees have created a space to support a wide variety
of groups for everyone to get involved, from peloton riders and
intramural sports teams to pet and food clubs.
SERVES
SERVES provides employees resources and opportunities to volunteer and
deliver on Cultivating a Better World. Employees are able to participate in
activities like beach clean ups, to serving at soup kitchens and food banks.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 38
G I V I N G
We’re nothing without the communities
we serve. That’s why we’ve set up
several programs and partnerships to
give back to all the communities we’re
proud to call home.
22002233 SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT PAGE 39
GIVING
F U N D R A I S E R S
A N D D O N AT I O N S
OV E RV I E W
99M 3.3M 60,000
$ + $ $
FUNDRAISERS & DONATIONS ROUND UP FOR REAL CHANGE CULTIVATE FOUNDATION
Lifetime donations to local schools Raised for 9 non-profits, including Issued grants to organizations cultivating a
and community organizations providing humanitarian aid through better world in the communities that we serve
through community fundraisers. the Red Cross for those affected by like Niman Ranch, Next Generation Scholarship
the earthquake in Turkey. Foundation, The Culinary Institute of America,
Soul Fire Farm, and City Harvest.
323,000 250,000
$
+
FOOD DONATIONS SEED GRANTS TO YOUNG FARMERS
Over 323,000 pounds of Donated through
food were donated to local 50 Seed Grants to help
community partners. Cultivate a Better World.
22002233 SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT PAGE 40
CULTIVATE FOUNDATION
G I V I N G
CULTIVATE FOUNDATION SUPPORTS
MATCHING DONATIONS
The Chipotle Cultivate Foundation matches the
generosity and support that eligible Chipotle
employees give to charitable organizations with
the Chip In and Dish Out program.
Chip In is a volunteer-based employee
match program that provides a meaningful
opportunity for engagement. The Foundation
matches eligible employees volunteer hours
with a monetary donation to a nonprofit
organization.
Dish Out is a financial match program for
the Foundation to increase an eligible
employee’s overall gift by matching their
contribution to a nonprofit.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 41
GOVERNANCE
P E O P L E
Our Board believes that diverse membership with The Audit and Risk Committee oversees our
MANAGEMENT
varying perspectives and breadth of experience financial statements and reporting disclosure
Our CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors is an important attribute of a well-functioning controls and procedures, enterprise risk
(Board), Brian Niccol, has been a visionary for our Board and is committed to cultivating a culture assessment, and risk management processes;
sustainability pursuits since he joined the company free from discrimination on the basis of a person’s compliance with and training on the Code
in early 2018. race, ethnicity, national origin, religion, gender, of Ethics; cybersecurity, privacy and
sexual orientation, gender identity or expression data security programs, policies and risk
Brian shifted our mission to “Cultivating a Better or other prohibited category. Accordingly, assessment and mitigation; the whistleblower
World.” He believes in implementing and managing diversity (whether based on factors such as hotline and procedures for the receipt,
sustainability across all aspects of our business. race, gender, national origin, religion, or sexual retention and treatment of complaints;
Sustainability is a part of everyone’s job at Chipotle, orientation or identity, as well as on broader and compliance with legal and regulatory
and we have clear sustainability governance principles such as diversity of perspective and requirements and our response to actual
structures that we revise periodically as the experience) is one of many elements that are and alleged violations, including claims
company continues to grow. considered in evaluating a particular director of harassment, discrimination or alleged
candidate. The Nominating and Corporate violations of applicable employment laws.
Our Board regularly evaluates the performance Governance Committee of the Board actively
of our executive leadership team. In addition, the seeks to include qualified women and individuals The Compensation Committee oversees
Compensation, People & Culture Committee of from minority groups in the pool from which new our human capital management, including
the Board of Directors (Compensation Committee) director candidates are selected and requests compensation, retirement and benefits
annually evaluates the performance of our CEO, each recruiting firm retained by the Board to programs offered to employees across the
which is led by the Chair of the Compensation include candidates who, in addition to having company, executive officer evaluations and
Committee and our Lead Independent Director. particular skills and experience, also would add to succession planning, diversity, equity and
the diversity of the Board. inclusion programs and initiatives, recruitment
We have actively recruited people for our Board and retention of employees, and gender, racial
and our executive leadership team who have high The Board and execuitve leadership team are and ethnic pay equity.
integrity, a strong record of accomplishment, and involved with the development, approval, updates
display the independence of mind and strength and oversight of the Company’s purpose, value or The Nominating and Corporate Governance
of character necessary to make an effective mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals Committee oversees policies and programs
contribution to the company and represent the related to financial, environmental, governance, relating to environmental, sustainability and
interests of all stakeholders. and corporate responsibility topics. corporate responsibility policies, goals and
programs, Government Affairs initiatives and
policies, and programs relating to corporate
responsibility, corporate citizenship, and public
The Board and executive leadership team are involved
policy issues significant to the company. This
with the development, approval, updates and oversight
includes reviewing the effectiveness of the
organization’s policies and programs relating
of the organization’s purpose, value or mission
to environmental, sustainability and corporate
statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to
responsibility at least twice a year. We have
financial, environmental, and social topics. a process for communicating critical concerns
to the full Board.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 42
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
P E O P L E
SOME OF OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS INCLUDE: SHAREHOLDERS HAVE ASKED ABOUT:
We value and respect the insight, expertise, and
experience of all our stakeholders. Employees, from whom we solicit feedback in multiple • Our sustainability program and progress towards our
ways such as at town halls. Before town halls, staff 2023 sustainability goals, our water management,
We engage regularly with investors, suppliers, non- employees can submit questions for senior leaders. and reduction initiatives and our Food with Integrity
governmental organizations (NGOs), and other Employees can also give feedback to their team leaders standards.
stakeholders in our areas of operation. We frequently via our confidential whistleblower hotline, Chipotle
solicit feedback from industry groups, food sourcing, Confidential, to submit complaints or concerns about our • Talent management and development programs,
social issues, safety professionals, and sustainability business and operations. We also conduct a Culture general manager turnover, benefits plans and trainings
practitioners. We engage with our largest Survey to solicit employees’ feedback. we offer our employees and employee diversity.
shareholders throughout the year to discuss topics
that are of interest to them, which often includes Customers, from whom we solicit feedback in a number of • Board and management oversight of our enterprise risk
corporate governance and sustainability issues. We ways. We provide an online customer service tool through management program, including cybersecurity, privacy
reach out to our 25-30 largest shareholders each fall, which anyone can contact us regarding any concern or and food safety.
and then again after we file the proxy statement for compliment. We also conduct customer satisfaction research
our annual meeting of shareholders. via online surveys and direct customer research surrounding Information about our human capital management,
specific launches or ingredients. including our most recent EEO-1 report, is available on
our Investor Relations website at ir.chipotle.com.
Shareholders, who elect the members of our Board of
Directors and vote on other important corporate matters.
Other key stakeholders include suppliers, regulatory groups,
and NGOs.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 43
E N V I R O N M E N T
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 44
HIGHLIGHTS
E N V I R O N M E N T
13% REDUCTION
Reduced scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 13%
100% PARTICIPATION
100% of our new restaurant openings participated in our food donation “Harvest Program”
32% COMPOSTING
Set up and maintained composting programs at 32% of all restaurants
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 45
ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS
E N V I R O N M E N T
We evaluate how we can Cultivate a Better World in everything we do.
Our commitment to make a positive impact on the planet extends beyond
our direct operations to include strategies to engage with the community
and our supply chain.
CLIMATE
50% reduction in Scope 1, 2, and 3 greenhouse
gas emissions by 203015
BIODIVERSITY
Identify key biodiversity hotspots throughout
our operations by 2025
WASTE
5% reduction in waste to landfill by 202516
15 Emission reductions are compared to a 2019 baseline.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 16 2020 waste baseline. PAGE 46
C L I M AT E
We acknowledge climate change as one of the
most pressing issues of our time and recognize
our organization’s impact on this issue. It is
this acknowledgment that drives us to make a
change for the better and further develop our
climate strategies.
We invite you to learn more about our plans,
strategies, and big picture thinking around
climate in the following sections.
22002233 SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT PAGE 47
CLIMATE
E M I S S I O N S
2023 PROGRESS
13% 13%
- +
CLIMATE
Environmental sustainability is a key driving force in our mission to Cultivate
a Better World and we acknowledge the need for all businesses, including
Scope 1 and 2 Scope 3
our own, to take actions to address climate change. 17
emissions reduction18 emissions increase
GOAL
Reduce Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions 50% by 2030 from a 2019
base year. We are also committed to reducing our absolute Scope 3 greenhouse
gas emissions by 50% within the same timeframe.
Our climate goal was approved by Science Based Targets initiative (“SBTi’’) and is
in alignment with the Paris Agreement and scientific recommendations of emissions
reductions required to keep global warming from exceeding 1.5°C.
2023 EMISSIONS (MT CO e)18
2
Our strategy starts with seeking energy efficiency opportunities to reduce our overall
demand on energy resources, utilization and development of alternative low carbon
145,478 60,417
resources, and use of renewable energy. We continue to identify design strategies to
reduce our reliance on fossil fuels, like natural gas, in our restaurants
to support greater use of renewable resources.
Scope 1 Scope 2 (market based)19
We are committed to the responsible development of renewable energy resources to
support a clean energy future. Adoption of renewable energy use mitigates climate
change, increases resilience, and supports job creation in the industry. We aim to
205,895
achieve 100% renewable energy use at restaurant locations.
This past year we focused on strategies to improve upon our efficiencies, manage
our overall demand on fossil fuels, and explored how to integrate renewable energy
Total direct emissions
into our operations.
We have also continued to assess how to increase our climate resilience and
reduce our demand on fossil fuels. For example, our Development team was
challenged to design all-electric restaurants. The team successfully designed and
opened 21 all-electric and hybrid electric restaurants. Moving forward we will monitor
the impact on operations from these new restaurants while continuing to build more
all-electric restaurants.
17 O ur focus is on greenhouse gas emissions as our operational contribution to air pollution is minimal,
thus not regulated nationally or locally.
18 Metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents.
19 Market based emissions includes the purchase
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT of certified renewable energy certificates. PAGE 48
CLIMATE KEY FEATURES OF
CHIPOTLE’S RESPONSIBLE
S U STA I N A B L E
RESTAURANT DESIGN
CONCEPT INCLUDE:
D E S I G N A N D
Rooftop solar panels
D E V E LO P M E N T
All-electric equipment
and systems
In the past we have consulted Leadership in Energy and
Heat pump water heaters
Environmental Design (LEED®) green building standards
and HVAC
in our restaurants. Over the years we have certified four
restaurants in our portfolio to LEED standards. Although
Smaller electric cookline and
we have not pursued further certifications, we are guided
improved exhaust hoods
by LEED building principles in our restaurant designs.
We continue to seek partnerships with others who share
our pursuit of greater energy efficiency, innovation, and Energy management systems
emissions reduction.
Cactus leather chairs
The Development team is constantly seeking out innovative
design solutions to increase energy efficiency while creating
Artwork made from
a unique experience for our guests. Implementing new
recycled rice husks
designs in our cookline and using alternative renewable
materials in our furnishings contributed to energy
efficiencies and $1 million in capital savings and rebates. Electric vehicle
charging stations
RESPONSIBLE DESIGN
We opened a Responsible Restaurant in Jacksonville,
Florida, designed to maximize energy efficiency and
incorporate renewable resources throughout the
restaurant. The restaurant operates on 100% renewable
energy resulting in zero on-site greenhouse gas
emissions from stationary operations.20
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 R enewable energy provided through a combination of on-site PAGE 49
generation and renewable energy certificates.
SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS
C L I M AT E
Addressing Scope 3 emissions requires dedicated engagement with our
supply chain partners to influence process changes and innovation to
2023 SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS21
achieve our climate goals. We are committed to identifying strategies
for GHG emission reductions in our value chain.
85% - Purchased Goods and Services
We have created working groups to support development of
4% - Capital Goods
strategic emission reduction activities with key suppliers. These pillar
4% - Waste to Landfill
groups focus on approaches for: Restaurants, Transportation and
Warehousing, Food Supply Chain, and Waste & Packaging. Engaging
85% 2% - Employee Commuting
with our suppliers is an ongoing endeavor and it will take time to
2% - Upstream Logistics
execute new practices to result in reduced emissions.
1% - Fuel and Energy Services
With new restaurant openings our Scope 3 emissions have increased
1% - Delivery Services
as we purchase more from our supply chain. We have started to lay the
1% - End of Life Treatment of Sold Products
groundwork on efforts to reduce Scope 3 emissions as outlined below,
however we are at the beginning of the journey and have not scaled our 0% - Business Travel
efforts to realize the reductions in 2023.
Most of our Scope 3 emissions are from the ingredients we purchase.
Key levers for emission reduction include:
KEY LEVERS
• Supplier Engagement
• Regenerative Agriculture
• Beef and Dairy Production
COLLABORATION
• Invest in projects to drive emission reductions in
beef and dairy production. Including but not limited
to feed lot operations, manure management, reduction
in enteric emissions, and elimination of deforestation.
• Collaborate to support adoption of regenerative
agriculture practices.
• Support greater use of low carbon fuels and
adoption of renewable resources in logistics.
• Support development of low-carbon materials.
21 Percent of Scope 3 emissions are rounded.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 50
REGENERATIVE AGRICULTURE
C L I M AT E
Chipotle is passionate about our ability to Cultivate a Better
World. We do this by encouraging the development of
sustainable on-farm agricultural practices to support people and
better food systems. Whether that means supporting healthier
farms to make real food more accessible for future generations
or reinvigorating communities through the land that binds
generations together, regenerative agriculture will help support
the future of farming. We understand that there is immense
value in the journey of regenerative agriculture, not simply the
destination. We’re striving to enable an industry-wide shift to
unify food standards with sustainability.
In our supplier survey we found that improving soil health is our
most widely adopted philosophy and that most of our suppliers
have adopted one or more regenerative agriculture management
principles or philosophies. We also found that when sharing
details about regenerative management approaches, suppliers
emphasize partnerships and work with local communities.
We will collaborate with these partners to move towards a more
regenerative philosophy, focusing on improving the health and
wellbeing of water, soil, and biodiversity while increasing farmer
profitability and livelihood.
Ingredient by ingredient, we intend to build upon and evolve our
current Food with Integrity standards, using innovation to bring
emerging ideas to the mainstream where they can make the most
impact. Chipotle’s dedication to these aspects of impact will help
influence other players in the food industry to do the same.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 51
REAL FOODPRINT
C L I M AT E
Real Foodprint is the first sustainability tool of its kind, showing
the estimated sustainability impact an order like yours can make
on the planet by choosing Chipotle’s responsibly-sourced ingredients
versus conventional ones.
Real Foodprint 22 gives our guests a look into our sourcing efforts and allows
them to track how they can help Chipotle Cultivate a Better World. Our
guests can track and view the cumulative impact of their orders each year.
Real Foodprint compares illustrated estimates for each of Chipotle’s
53 real ingredients to their conventional counterparts against the
following five key metrics:
LESS CARBON IN
5
THE ATMOSPHERE
GALLONS OF
WATER SAVED
ORGANIC LAND
SUPPORTED
IMPROVED SOIL HEALTH
ANTIBIOTICS
AVOIDED
22 M etrics for Real Foodprint are provided by HowGood, a mission-driven, independent research company with
the world’s largest sustainability database for products and ingredients. HowGood aggregates information from
Chipotle’s suppliers and over 450 unique data sources, including peer-reviewed scientific literature, industry
findings, and research from government and non-governmental organizations. The positive change in impact
across the five key metrics is the difference between average data for each ingredient based on Chipotle’s
sourcing standards and conventional, industry-average standards. HowGood also aggregated data on the
percentage of each ingredient used in each Chipotle menu item to help tailor each guest’s Real Foodprint tracker.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 52
ENVIRONMENT
PRIORITY REGIONS
WAT E R
Fresh water is vital to our operations for cooking and
cleaning and for growing and processing the ingredients
in the meals we serve our guests. We continue to optimize
water use in our restaurants through recovery, reuse,
recycling, and proper wastewater disposal. Our next step
is to reduce water risks upstream of our operations and
advance water stewardship within our value chain.
After review of water used upstream, we identified that
over 92% of the beverages we purchase are from partners
that have established water goals and climate goals.23
The remaining significant water demand is agricultural
water use. We intend to support efficient agricultural
water use in high-risk water stressed regions and also
support restoration efforts to increase replenishment
of groundwater resources and alleviate flood and
erosion risks. Leveraging World Resources Institute’s
Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, we identified priority regions
to collaborate with suppliers and local organizations
to restore, conserve, and improve efficiencies in these
localities.
OUR APPROACH
• Collaboration is essential • We will fund local • Advance adoption of • We will support suppliers
WATER GOAL
to drive change in a multi- stewardship projects to regenerative agriculture to adopt and pilot water
stakeholder area like a support efficiency projects, practices with our direct efficiency technologies with
Support water stewardship efforts
watershed. We will partner restoration efforts to improve suppliers, or within the the potential to result in
to conserve and restore watersheds
with organizations to groundwater replenishment, supply shed to result scalable solutions such as
mitigate and reduce water and/or other nature-based in positive benefits for implementation of smart
in priority regions.24
risks in priority regions. projects to reduce erosion stakeholders within the irrigation systems. Our
This includes public-private and improve water quality. watershed. Regenerative supplier survey identified
partnerships, collaboration agriculture practices yield that some of our suppliers
with NGOs, and direct benefits to soil health rely on rainfall while others
engagement with suppliers and water. irrigate. We will continue
23 Includes FY2023 purchases of packaged beverages and syrups. This does not
include purchases of milk as a beverage. to support restoration and to discuss how we can
24 Priority regions identified using World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct tool.
conservation efforts. support suppliers to identify
efficiency projects.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 53
ENVIRONMENT
WASTE GOAL PROGRESS IN 2023 WE DIVERTED
WA S T E
5% 30% 399 MILLION
+ +
POUNDS
The EPA estimates that food waste constitutes
more than 24% of trash sent to landfills.25 We set
Reduction in waste Increase in waste sent to of waste from landfill
a milestone goal of establishing composting at 235
to landfill by 202526 landfill compared to 2019
locations to support diversion efforts and successfully
enrolled in composting programs at 265 locations.
Over a third of our restaurants are now composting,
helping us keep nearly 117 million pounds of food
waste from decomposing and generating greenhouse RECYCLING AND DIVERSION IN 2023
gases in landfills.
48% 90% 36%
Although each restaurant we open is set up with
recycling and food waste diversion, our 2023 diversion
rate was 49%.
Waste diverted Of our Of our restaurants
HARVEST PROGRAM
from landfill restaurants recycle compost food waste
Small batch cooking allows us to minimize the
amount of food waste from our line each day. For
prepared food that is servable at the end of the
night, each restaurant has access to a food donation
partner through The Harvest Program that connects
restaurants with local charities. During new restaurant
openings a donation partner is identified for
WASTE TO LANDFILL WASTE DIVERTED
restaurants to donate to. In 2023, we donated over
327,000 pounds of food valued at $3 million to those
in need through local community partners.
2023
2020
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900
MILLIONS OF POUNDS
25 h ttps://www.fda.gov/food/consumers/food-loss-and waste#:~:text=EPA%20
estimates%20that%20more%20food,percent%20of%20municipal%20solid%20waste
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 54
26 2020 waste baseline.
M AT E R I A L S
PACKAGING
Packaging is essential to provide the best experience for our
guests and support food safety.
We follow these guidelines when sourcing and designing
packaging to reduce our environmental impact.
• Minimize the amount of virgin materials used.
• Credible third-party certifications for virgin
fiber-based materials.
• Utilize recycled materials when feasible.
• Use materials that can be reused, recycled, or composted.
78% of our guest-facing
packaging is designed to
be recyclable, reusable,
or compostable
To support renewable resources, 74% of the packaging we use is
fiber-based. This includes recycled paper for our carry-out bags and
bamboo and bagasse for our bowls and kid’s trays.
We are also working with suppliers on other packaging solutions,
including ways to reduce and reuse packaging where possible in our
supply chain.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 55
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
F O R WA R D - LO O K I N G
S TAT E M E N T S
Certain statements in this report, which relate to our Food & Animals,
People, and Environment goals, and statements regarding our goals and
plans with respect to staffing, employee benefits, our supply chain standards
and auditing, and environmental goals, as well as other statements of our
expectations and plans, are forward-looking statements as defined in the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We use words such as
“anticipate”, “believe”, “could”, “continue”, “should”, “estimate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “may”, “predict”, “target”, “will”, and similar terms and phrases,
including references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements in this report are based on information
available to us as of the date such statements are made and we assume no
obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those described in the statements.
These risks and uncertainties include the risk factors described from time
to time in our SEC reports, including our most recent annual report on
Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, all of which are
available on the investor relations page of our website at ir.chipotle.com.
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PAGE 56
S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y
R E P O R T
A P P E N D I X
22002223 SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT PAGE 57
APPENDIX
Sustainability
1,3,4
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2023 2022 2021
1,2
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions ( mtCO e)
2
Location-based 300,035 272,611 257,805
Market-based5 205,895 206,737 263,933
Change in scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from 2019 baseline (market-based)5 -13% -13% 11%
Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions (mtCO e) 145,478 131,178 1 26,374
2
Scope 1 biogenic CO2 emissions (mtCO e) 0 0 0
2
Indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions (mtCO e)
2
Scope 2 Total (location-based) 154,557 141,433 1 31,431
Scope 2 Total (market-based)5 60,417 69,248 137,559
Total Energy Consumed (GJ) 111,183 103,205 99,423
Percentage of electricity consumption that is renewable6 50% 41% N/A
Percentage of energy consumed that is grid electricity7 100% 100% 100%
Change in scope 3 GHG emissions from 2019 baseline8,9,10 13% 26% 11%
Scope 3 Total GHG emissions ( mtCO e)8,9,10 4,099,748 4,591,429 4,046,188
2
1 – Purchased Goods and Services11 3,485,653 3 ,937,199 3 ,474,511
2 – Capital Goods 149,746 1 56,156 1 30,097
3 – Fuel- and Energy-Related Activities 31,990 3 0,986 2 9,038
4 – Upstream Transportation and Distribution12 97,129 1 07,494 1 00,434
5 – Waste Generated in operations13 146,962 1 29,131 9 7,239
6 – Business Travel 7,092 8 ,445 4 ,221
7 – Employee Commuting 82,443 1 43,132 1 33,886
9 – Downstream Transportation and Distribution 50,894 3 8,723 4 1,517
12 – End-of-life Treatment of Sold Products 47,839 4 0,163 3 5,245
Total Scope 1,2,3 ( mtCO e)5 4,305,643 4,791,855 4,310,121
2
Waste12,13 2023 2022 2021
Total Percentage of Operational Waste Diverted from Landfill 48% 49.0% 50.0%
Total Operational Waste Generated from (tons) 4 17,319 393,082 305,552
Total Waste to Lanfill (tons) 2 17,742 203,262 151,258
Total Waste Diverted (tons) 1 99,577 191,441 154,294
% Reduction compared to 2020 30% 27% -6%
22002233 SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT PAGE 58
APPENDIX
Sustainability
Materials14 2023 2022 2021
% of packaging that is reusable, recyclable or compostable 78% -- --
Weight of virgin plastic packaging materials 7,813 -- --
Water 2023 2022 2021
Total water withdrawal (cubic meters)15 6 ,749,149 6 ,637,369 6 ,007,403
Total water consumed in our restaurants (cubic meters) 7 7,508 7 6,523 6 7,466
Percent consumed from high-risk basins16 31% 30% 33%
Total water withdrawn from regions with high-risk baseline water stress (cubic
2 ,013,852 1 ,977,937 1 ,789,843
16
meters)
Percentage of water withdrawn from regions with high-risk baseline water stress16 30% 30% 30%
Sustainability Goals 2023 2022 2021
Convert over 400 acres of conventional farmland to organic farmland via transitional
372 214 110
growing methods by 2025 (acres)
Provide $5 million by the end of 2025 in support of farmers $ 1 ,000,000
Local produce purchases (million lbs) 40.0 38 35.7
22002233 SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT PAGE 59
APPENDIX
Inclusion Stats17,18
Restaurant Hourly: Crew and Managers 2023 2022 2021
American Indian/Alaskan Native 1% 1% 1%
Asian 5% 5% 5%
Black of African American 20% 21% 21%
Hispanic or Latino 40% 38% 38%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0% 0% 0%
Not Specified 1% 1% 1%
Two or More Races 3% 3% 4%
White 28% 29% 29%
Restaurant Salary: Salary Managers 2023 2022 2021
American Indian/Alaskan Native 1% 1% 1%
Asian 3% 3% 3%
Black of African American 14% 14% 13%
Hispanic or Latino 46% 45% 45%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0% 1% 0%
Not Specified 1% 1% 1%
Two or More Races 3% 3% 3%
White 32% 34% 33%
Field Staff 2023 2022 2021
American Indian/Alaskan Native 1% 0% 0%
Asian 3% 3% 3%
Black of African American 6% 6% 6%
Hispanic or Latino 40% 36% 34%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 1% 0% 0%
Not Specified 2% 2% 1%
Two or More Races 3% 4% 5%
White 45% 48% 50%
Senior Management Team 2023 2022 2021
American Indian/Alaskan Native 0% 0% 0%
Asian 0% 13% 22%
Black of African American 0% 0% 0%
Hispanic or Latino 10% 0% 0%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0% 0% 0%
Not Specified 10% 13% 11%
Two or More Races 0% 0% 0%
White 80% 75% 67%
22002233 SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT PAGE 60
APPENDIX
Inclusion Stats17,18
Board Members 2023 2022 2021
American Indian/Alaskan Native 0% 0% 0%
Asian 0% 0% 22%
Black of African American 10% 11% 0%
Hispanic or Latino 20% 0% 0%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0% 11% 0%
Not Specified 0% 0% 11%
Two or More Races 0% 0% 0%
White 70% 78% 67%
Corporate and Field Support 2023 2022 2021
American Indian/Alaskan Native 0% 0% 0%
Asian 9% 9% 9%
Black of African American 8% 8% 7%
Hispanic or Latino 21% 19% 18%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0% 0% 0%
Not Specified 2% 2% 2%
Two or More Races 3% 3% 3%
White 56% 59% 59%
New Hire 2023 2022 2021
American Indian/Alaskan Native 1% 1% 1%
Asian 5% 5% 5%
Black or African American 20% 26% 25%
Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0% 0% 0%
Hispanic or Latino 40% 28% 27%
Not Specified 1% 1% 1%
Two or More Races 3% 4% 4%
White 29% 29% 29%
Not Indicated 1% 6% 7%
Employment Stats
19,20
Employee statistics reflect our employement as of December 31, 2023. Data on employment, gender representation, and diversity represents United States only.
Employment Type 2023 2022 2021
Contingent 1,087 1,628 1,610
Employee 114,042 1 02,772 9 6,445
US Total 115,129 1 04,400 9 8,055
22002233 SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT PAGE 61
APPENDIX
Inclusion Stats17,18
2023 2022 2021
Gender
Contingent Employee Contingent Employee Contingent Employee
Representation
Female 56 56,235 129 51,890 367 50,825
Gender Representation: Male 108 56,191 143 50,260 247 45,103
Non-binary 2 745 0 81 996 517
Contingent and Employees
Not Indicated 921 904 1,356 541
Total 1,087 114,075 1,628 102,772 1,610 96,445
Gender
Full-Time Part-Time Full-Time Part-Time Full-Time Part-Time
Representation
Employees: Part-Time
Female 8,051 48,151 7,845 44,045 7,915 43,277
and Full-Time
Male 7,468 48,736 7,198 43,062 7,320 38,030
Non-binary 37 707 5 76
Not Indicated 15 910 4 537 992 521
Total 15,571 98,504 15,052 87,720 16,227 81,828
Gender
2023 2022 2021
Representation
New Hire
Female 49% 46% 48%
Male 49% 48% 45%
Not Indicated 1% 6% 7%
Gender
2023 2022 2021
Representation
Board of Directors
Female 33% 22% 27%
Male 67% 78% 72%
Not Indicated 0% 0% 0%
LGBTQ+ 0% 0% --
22002233 SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT PAGE 62
APPENDIX
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Index
GRI: Foundation 2021
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
2-1 Organizational details About Chipotle
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting About this Report
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point About this Report
2-4 Restatements of information Materiality, Environmental Goal/Emissions
Chipotle Mexican Grill (CMG) follows an internal assurance and disclosure approval process to ensure the
reported content is relevant, accurate, and complete. We currently do not seek external assurance or third-
2-5 External assurance
party verification for our sustainability report, but will continue to explore external assurance options for
the report as our program evolves.
About Chipotle; Supply Chain Priorities, Supply Chain Oversight; Food with Integrity, Meat & Dairy;
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships
Produce; 2022 Sustainability Report (Employee Overview)
2-7 Employees People; Appendix
2-8 Workers who are not employees People; Appendix
2-9 Governance structure and composition Governance
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body Governance, 2023 Proxy Statement
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body Governance, 2023 Proxy Statement
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of impacts Governance; Stakeholder Engagement
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Governance
GRI 2: General Disclosures
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting About this Report
2021
2-15 Conflicts of interest Governance, 2023 Proxy Statement
2-16 Communication of critical concerns Stakeholder Engagement
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body Governance, 2023 Proxy Statement
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body Governance, 2023 Proxy Statement
2-19 Remuneration policies Governance, 2023 Proxy Statement
2-20 Process to determine remuneration Governance, 2023 Proxy Statement
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio 2023 Proxy Statement, https://ir.chipotle.com/sec-filings
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy A Letter from our CEO, Brian Niccol
About Chipotle; Our Values; Supply Chain Priorities, Supply Chain Oversight; Meat & Dairy; Food Safety;
2-23 Policy commitments
People; Purpose Goals
2-24 Embedding policy commitments Corporate Governance https://ir.chipotle.com/corporate-governance
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts Corporate Governance https://ir.chipotle.com/corporate-governance
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns Corporate Governance https://ir.chipotle.com/corporate-governance
Supply Chain Prioritie, Supply Chain Oversight;Food with Integrity, Animal Welfare Oversight &
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations
Compliance; Food Safety; People; Materials
2-28 Membership associations Meat and Dairy Supply Chain
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements 2022 Sustainabilty Report (Employee Overview)
22002233 SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT PAGE 63
APPENDIX
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Index
GRI: Foundation 2021
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
3-1 Process to determine material topics About this Report; Materiality
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-2 List of material topics Materialit
3-3 Management of material topics Materiality
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2023 Chipotle 10-K,https://ir.chipotle.com/
GRI 201: Economic
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Climate, CDP Climate Change 2023
Performance 2016
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Benefits
201-4 Financial assistance received from government 2022 Sustainabilty Report (Employment,Ethics)
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Waste; Materials; Appendix
GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-2 Recycled input materials used Waste; Materials; Appendix
301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Materials
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Climate, Appendix
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Climate, Appendix
GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-3 Energy intensity Appendix
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Climate, Appendix
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Environmental Goals; Climate, Sustainable Design and Development; Renewable Energy Strategy
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Water
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts CMG is committed to maintaining compliance with federal, state, and local water regulations.
GRI 303: Water and Effluents
303-3 Water withdrawal Water, Appendix
2018
303-4 Water discharge Water, Appendix
303-5 Water consumption Water, Appendix
304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas CMG has a goal to identify key biodiversity hotspots throughout operations by 2025. Progress is ongoing
and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas and will be reported in future reporting.
CMG has a goal to identify key biodiversity hotspots throughout operations by 2025. Progress is ongoing
304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity
and will be reported in future reporting.
GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
CMG has a goal to identify key biodiversity hotspots throughout operations by 2025. Progress is ongoing
304-3 Habitats protected or restored
and will be reported in future reporting.
304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in CMG has a goal to identify key biodiversity hotspots throughout operations by 2025. Progress is ongoing
areas affected by operations and will be reported in future reporting.
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environment; Environmental Goals; Climate, Appendix
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environment; Environmental Goals; Climate, Appendix
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environment; Environmental Goals; Climate, Appendix
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environment; Environmental Goals; Climate, Appendix
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environment; Environmental Goals; Climate, Appendix
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) CMG will continue to consider other significant air emissions as it develops its climate strategy. Emissions
CMG currently reports on GHGs relevant to its Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions, which includes CO , CH , and
2 4
N O.CMG will continue to consider other significant air emissions as it develops its climate strategy and is
2
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions
committed to maintain compliance with air quality regulations. Chipotle criteria pollutants are de-minimus
and not regulated for air pollution (e.g. federal, and local).
22002233 SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT PAGE 64
APPENDIX
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Index
GRI: Foundation 2021
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts Waste; Appendix
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts Waste; Appendix
GRI 306: Waste 2020 306-3 Waste generated Waste; Appendix
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Waste; Appendix
306-5 Waste directed to disposal Waste; Appendix
GRI 308: Supplier
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 2022 Sustainability Report (Our Real Suppliers)
Environmental Assessment
2016 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 2022 Sustainability Report (Our Real Suppliers)
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Employee Promotions and Turnover; Appendix
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or
GRI 401: Employment 2016 Benefits Overview
part-time employees
401-3 Parental leave Benefits Overview
GRI 402: Labor/Management
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Developing and Training Talent; Employee Promotions and Turnover; Engage and Retain Talent;
Relations 2016
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Food Safety; Employee Safety
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Employee Safety; Enhanced Restaurant Procedure
403-3 Occupational health services Food Safety; 2022 Sustainability Report (Employee Safety)
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health
Food Safety; 2022 Sustainability Report (Employee Safety)
and safety
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Food Safety; 2022 Sustainability Report (Employee Safety)
403-6 Promotion of worker health Food Safety; Benefits Overview; Employee Engagement; Employee Safety
GRI 403: Occupational Health
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly
Food Safety; 2022 Sustainability Report (Food Safety,Employee Safety)
and Safety 2018 linked by business relationships
CMG has an occupational health & safety management system for all employees, including contractors,
that adheres to FDA & CDC guidelines. The occupational health & safety management system is internally
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system audited monthly.
2022 Sustainability Report (Food Safety,Employee Safety)
403-9 Work-related injuries 2022 Sustainability Report (Employee Safety)
403-10 Work-related ill health Food Safety; Benefits Overview
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Developing and Training Talent;
GRI 404: Training and
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Developing and Training Talent;
Education 2016
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career
2022 Sustainabilty Report (Benefits Overview; Employee Evaluations and Compensation)
development reviews
22002233 SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT PAGE 65
APPENDIX
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Index
GRI: Foundation 2021
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Governance; Inclusive Culture;Appendix
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal
Opportunity 2016
GRI 407: Freedom of
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and
Association and Collective Supply Chain Priorities & Oversight
collective bargaining may be at risk
Bargaining 2016
GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor Supply Chain Priorities & Oversight
GRI 409: Forced or
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or
Supply Chain Priorities & Oversight
Compulsory Labor 2016 compulsory labor
GRI 410: Security Practices
Corporate Governance
410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures
2016 https://ir.chipotle.com/corporate-governance
GRI 413: Local Communities
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 100% of our operations have access to community engagement through food donation, community
2016 development programs fundraisers, Community Outreach Grants, and volunteer initiatives.
GRI 414: Supplier Social 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Supply Chain Oversight
Assessment 2016
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Supply Chain Oversight
Corporate Governance
GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions
https://ir.chipotle.com/corporate-governance
GRI 416: Customer Health 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories Our Real Ingredients; Meat & Dairy Supply Chain; Food Safety Certification
and Safety 2016 Contingent workers are defined as independent contractors who work through a
2022 Sustainability Report (Supplier Intervention)
1099. Full-Time/Part-Time breakdown does not include contingent workers.
GRI 417: Marketing and
417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling Our Real Ingredients; Food Safety Certification; 2022 Sustainability Report (Ingredient Traceability)
Labeling 2016
GRI 418: Customer Privacy
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses
Chipotle governs customer privacy and data based on our Code of Ethics and Privacy Policy.
2016 of customer data
Statement of Use: Chipotle Mexican Grill has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the calendar year period from January 1, 2023 to December 31, 2023 with reference to the GRI Standards.
22002233 SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT PAGE 66
APPENDIX
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards
SASB Indicators Location in Report-Response
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
(1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity, (3) percentage
FB-RN- 130a.1 Emissions, Appendix
renewable
WATER MANAGEMENT
(1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed, percentage
FB-RN- 140a.1 Appendix
of each in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
FOOD & PACKAGING WASTE MANAGEMENT
(1) Total amount of waste, (2) percentage food waste, and (3) percentage
FB-RN- 150a.1 Appendix, Waste
diverted
(1) Total weight of packaging, (2) percentage made from recycled and/or
Appendix, Waste
renewable materials, and FB-RN- 150a.2
(3) percentage that is recyclable, reusable, and/or compostable
FOOD SAFETY
(1) Percentage of restaurants inspected by a food safety oversight body, (2)
FB-RN- 250a.1 Food & Animals, Food Safety
percentage receiving critical violations
(1) Number of recalls issued and 1) Zero recalls issued
FB-RN- 250a.2
(2) total amount of food product recalled 2) No food product recalls.
Number of confirmed foodborne illness outbreaks, percentage resulting in
FB-RN- 250a.3 Chipotle was not linked to any multistate foodborne illness outbreaks in 2023.
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) investigation
NUTRITIONAL CONTENT
(1) Percentage of meal options consistent with national dietary guidelines and
FB-RN- 260a.1 All nutritional information is available on our website www.chipotle.com/nutrition-calculator
(2) revenue from these options
(1) Percentage of children’s meal options consistent with national dietary
guidelines for children and FB-RN- 260a.2 All nutritional information is available on our website www.chipotle.com/nutrition-calculator
(2) revenue from these options
Number of advertising impressions made on children, percentage promoting
FB-RN- 260a.3 2022 Sustainability Report (marketing)
products that meet national dietary guidelines for children
LABOR PRACTICES
(1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover rate for restaurant employees FB-RN- 310a.1 Employee Promotions & Turnover
(1) Average hourly wage, by region and (2) percentage of restaurant
FB-RN- 310a.2 People, Appendix
employees earning minimum wage, by region
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated
FB-RN- 310a.3 2022 10-K (pg 53). For more information, please visit https://ir.chipotle.com/investor-overview
with (1) labor law violations and (2) employment discrimination
22002233 SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT PAGE 67
APPENDIX
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT & FOOD SOURCING
Percentage of food purchased that (1) meets environmental and social
sourcing standards and (2) is certified to third-party environmental and/or FB-RN- 430a.1 Meat & Dairy Supply Chain, Meat & Dairy Standrads
social standards
Percentage of (1) eggs that originated from a cage-free environment and (2) Meat & Dairy Supply Chain, Meat & Dairy Standrads.
FB-RN- 430a.2
pork that was produced without the use of gestation crates We do not purchase eggs.
Discussion of strategy to manage environmental and social risks within the
FB-RN- 430a.3 Our Meat & Dairy; Animal Welfare
supply chain, including animal welfare
ACTIVITY METRICS
Number of (1) company-owned and 2023 10-k (page 3). For more information, please visit https://ir.chipotle.com/investor-overview. Chipotle does not operate
FB-RN- 000.A
(2) franchise restaurants franchises.
Number of employees at (1) company-owned and (2) franchise locations FB-RN- 000.B 2023 10-k (page 3). For more information, please visit https://ir.chipotle.com/investor-overview.
22002233 SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT PAGE 68
APPENDIX
TCFD Topic TCFD Recommended Disclosure Disclosure
The primary function of the Board is to promote the best interests of the Company and its shareholders by establishing with
management the Company’s mission and long-term strategy and overseeing the management of the Company’s business and
affairs. Consistent with that function, the primary responsibilities of the Board are: Management oversight, overseeing the
performance of the Company and its senior management, risk oversight, and the development and execution of the Company’s
long-term strategic business objectives, including (i) periodically evaluating the Company’s progress towards achievement of
its objectives, (ii) reviewing the Company’s strategic initiatives, capital projects and financial management, and (iii) overseeing
the Company’s management of and response to environmental and sustainability matters, employee and customer health and
a) Describe the board's oversight of climate-
safety, human capital management and other social matters that are important to the Company.
related risks and opportunities. The Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee oversees policies and programs relating to environmental, sustainability
and social responsibility policies, goals and programs, Government Affairs initiatives and policies and policies and programs
relating to social responsibility, corporate citizenship and public policy issues significant to the company. This includes
Governance
reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s policies and programs relating to environmental, sustainability and social
responsibility at least twice a year and, when necessary, on request. We have a process for communicating critical concerns to
the full Board of Directors.
Additional information about Chipotle's investor relations can be found on our website. Further information about Chipotle's
Board and its risk oversight can be found in our proxy statement.
The CEO oversees the strategic direction of the company, including oversight and addressing climate-related issues impacting
business operations. Chipotle's Executive Leadership Team meets regularly to evaluate environmental risk, opportunities, and
b) Describe management's role in assessing and
ensure strategies to address these issues are implemented across the operations. The Chief Corporate Affairs and Food Safety
managing climate-related risks and Officer oversees all internal and external communications, stakeholder engagement, sustainability, philanthropy, customer
service, social listening, food safety and quality assurance. Sustainability is core to the business and embedded across the
opportunities.
company, from the design teams responsible for creating the restaurants, to the sourcing and procurement teams assessing
material choices, and engaging with suppliers on best practices.
The following identified climate-related risks and opportunities are categorized based on time horizons defined as short (0-3 years),
medium (3-10 years), and long (10-30 years).
Risks
Chronic Physical (long-term)
USDA has reported that seasonal shifts are already observed across the country and vary regionally. Temperatures have risen
across the season and changing precipitation patterns that have increased in frequency and severity. These have a direct
Strategy
impact on agriculture production that can result in reductions in crop size and yield. The markets for some of our ingredients,
such as beef, avocado, and other produce, are particularly volatile due to limited resources and these seasonal shifts. Resulting
shortages would impact our ability to obtain the ingredients we need, and/or carry a higher sale cost to Chipotle.
To manage the physical risks that may occur within our supply chain, Chipotle actively engages with our major suppliers to
build resilience to these changing conditions. We encourage our suppliers to practice sustainable farming techniques and
bring forward regenerative agriculture concepts to our suppliers. We’ve also sought to increase, where practical, the number of
suppliers for our ingredients to help mitigate pricing volatility and reduce our reliance on one or several suppliers. We also
cultivate relationships with suppliers in different geographies (such as purchasing avocados in Mexico and Peru) to mitigate
weather-related changes.
Acute Physical (medium-term)
22002233 SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT PAGE 69
a) Describe the climate related risks and
opportunities the organization has identified
over the short, medium, and long term.
APPENDIX
TCFD Topic TCFD Recommended Disclosure Disclosure
There is growing concern that climate change and global warming has caused and may continue to cause more severe, volatile
weather or extended droughts, which could increase the frequency and duration of weather impacts on our operations.
Adverse weather conditions have in the past and may again in the future impact guest traffic at our restaurants, and, in more
severe cases such as hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires or other natural disasters, cause temporary restaurant closures, all of
which negatively impact restaurant sales.
The health and safety of our employees are always our priority. If conditions do not allow for safe operations, we would not put
our employees in harm’s way. Severe weather events are out of our control; however, our design team continues to seek
solutions that will allow our restaurants to operate in adverse situations, and design choices to protect the infrastructure.
Emerging Regulation (medium-term)
Climate change and government regulation relating to climate change could result in construction delays for new restaurants
and interruptions to the availability or increases in the cost of utilities. The ongoing and long-term costs of these impacts
related to climate change and other sustainability-related issues could have a material adverse effect on our business and
financial condition if we are not able to mitigate them.
a) Describe the climate related risks and
To address regulatory risks, we closely monitor industry news, and pending regulations and trends. We incorporate sustainable
opportunities the organization has identified design to lower our energy demand, increase efficiencies, and plan for flexibility in our design and layout to support retrofits
that may arise from technological advancements.
over the short, medium, and long term.
OPPORTUNITIES
Resource Efficiency - agricultural productivity and supply chain resilience (medium-term)
Our suppliers are integral to our business, and we help our suppliers develop environmental standards and sustainability goals.
Strategy Building resilience within our supply chain requires open communication and selecting suppliers to partner with that have like-
minded goals in sustainability as we do. For example, we encourage our suppliers to practice sustainable farming techniques
and we often bring forward ideas such as regenerative agriculture concepts to our suppliers.
We know that there is not one specific solution to sustainable agriculture, but we believe in assessing and prioritizing
sustainability on an ingredient-by-ingredient basis. What is most sustainable for cilantro might not be the most sustainable
choice for tomatoes; what makes the biggest sustainable impact in cattle production might not be the best solution for raising
chickens. Although this approach takes significant investment, we feel it ultimately produces a more sustainable business and
a more sustainable future.
Beyond working with existing suppliers, we are working towards supporting the next generation of farmers. According to the
National Young Farmers Coalition Young Farmer Census, more than 80% of young farmers are farming sustainably. Through
these programs, and all of the assistance we are offering young farmers, we hope to help farming remain a sustainable
vocation for generations to come. Chipotle has committed to giving a total of $5 million by 2025 to support young farmers.
Resilience (medium-term)
We completed a water risk assessment to identify areas of our operations and supply chain operating in water stressed
regions to identify opportunties to build resiliency. We are prioritizing engagment with suppliers with high water use and
operating in either high or extremely water stressed areas to collaborate on water stewardship strategies. Working together to
create resilient water strategies to operate with greater efficiency and reduce overall water demand, while also assessing and
creating plans to address local watershed needs.
Resource Efficiency - buildings (short-term)
Our restaurants are the largest source of our direct emissions, primarily because of the energy requirements for operations.
Natural gas and electricity are required for all of our operations, for cooking, cleaning, heating, and cooling. We are focused on
increasing efficiency and evaluating low-carbon alternatives.
22002233 SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT PAGE 70
a) Describe the climate related risks and
opportunities the organization has identified
over the short, medium, and long term.
APPENDIX
TCFD Topic TCFD Recommended Disclosure Disclosure
Our design and operations teams are routinely assessing innovative technology to support improved operating efficiencies
and design at our restaurants. Finding design solutions that can help us reduce energy consumption or exploring alternative
low-carbon materials to furnish our restaurants. The teams’ design uses LEED-aligned practices, such as the use of LED
lighting, tankless water heaters, and energy star-rated equipment. We have completed energy audits of restaurants to identify
areas to potentially focus on. Once we have identified areas with improvement, we collaborate with suppliers on designs, pilot
solutions, and work with our facilities management and operations team to implement.
Climate-related risks and opportunities have influenced our strategy in the following categories.
Products and Services: Our approach in designing and sourcing products takes into consideration climate related risks and
opportunities. We assess market trends and innovative solutions to minimize the impact of the products we purchase for our
operations and services provided to our customers. For product design, our internal packaging team collaborates with
packaging suppliers to re-conceptualize the products, processes, systems, and sources to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
For example, we re-designed our burritos bowls to optimize for shipping and eliminate dead space in the shipping box. This
reduces the amount of materials required to create the bowl and reduces the number of corrugate boxes needed for shipping.
Design solutions like these reduce the amount of raw materials needed. The optimization in shipping may reduce the fossil
fuels consumption in logistics as a result of improved load configurations.
Supply and Value Chains: Climate-related risks and opportunities have influenced how we collaborate with our supply chain.
We are engaging with our partners to bring forward ideas such as regenerative farming, dairy pasture access, and animal
development. One area of focus is Food Safety Technology, where we have been able to bring advanced capabilities for
traceability and supply chain visibility from supplier to restaurant. Our packaging capabilities have been enhanced to make
our supply chain more sustainable. We are evaluating compostable and recyclable materials and continuously looking for ways
Strategy
to eliminate waste and reduce our carbon footprint. Along with some key partners, we are investing in organic and transitional
farming, and we are expanding these programs over time. In addition, we have upheld our animal welfare programs and
continue to make great strides with the help of our farming community. We aim to use local ingredients whenever
environmentally appropriate, economically viable, and where food safety is not jeopardized, although location is not the first
thing we prioritize as part of our responsible sourcing practices. Local ingredients are those grown within 350 miles of a
distribution center.
Investment in Research and Development: Climate related risks and opportunities have influenced our strategy for making
b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks investments. Energy resources may become limited with climate change, so supporting technologies to transition to low carbon
fuels creates a pathway to build resilient operations. We have explored opportunities to use alternative materials, energy
and opportunities on the organization’s
efficient equipment, and alternatives to fossil fuels as energy resources for restaurant operations.
businesses, strategy, and financial planning.
Operations: In the past we have consulted Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED®) green building standards
in our restaurants. Over the years we have certified four restaurants in our portfolio to LEED standards. Although we have not
pursued further certifications, we are guided by LEED building principles in our restaurant designs. We continue to seek
partnerships with others who share our pursuit of greater energy efficiency, innovation, and emissions reduction.
We are constantly seeking out innovative design solutions to increase energy efficiency while creating a unique experience for
our guests, such as implementing new designs in our cookline and using alternative renewable materials in our furnishings. We
work with the Food Service Technology Center, a national resource for commercial foodservice energy efficiency, to test the
efficiencies of our restaurant equipment. We prioritize the utilization of the following equipment to lessen environmental
impact across our restaurants: full LED lighting, high efficiency heating and cooling systems, energy management systems, low-
flow plumbing fixtures, tankless water heaters, EnergyStar-rated kitchen equipment, and finishes with low volatile organic
compounds (VOCs).
We continue to assess how to increase our climate resilience and reduce our demand on fossil fuels. In 2023 we designed and
opened 21 all-electric and hybrid electric restaurants. Moving forward we will monitor the impact on operations from these
new restaurants while continuing to build more all-electric restaurants.
22002233 SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT PAGE 71
b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks
and opportunities on the organization’s
businesses, strategy, and financial planning.
APPENDIX
TCFD Topic TCFD Recommended Disclosure Disclosure
Direct Costs: Since our beginning in 1993, Chipotle has been committed to serving food with integrity and revolutionizing the
fast-food industry. Our real ingredients are responsibly sourced and classically cooked keeping people, animals, and the
environment in mind. Everything is connected. Climate related risks such as increasing weather volatility or other long-term
changes in global weather patterns, including related to global climate change, could have a significant impact on the price or
availability of some of our ingredients. The markets for some of the ingredients we use, such as beef, avocado, and chicken, are
particularly volatile. This is due to factors such as limited sources, seasonal shifts, climate conditions, and industry demand.
Increasing weather volatility or other long-term changes in global weather patterns, including related to global climate
change, could have a significant impact on the price or availability of some of our ingredients. We have taken efforts to
mitigate future price increases through forward contracts, diversification of our suppliers, and reducing greenhouse gas
emissions in our operations and supply chain.
Chipotle has a transition plan which aligns with a 1.5°C world. We engage with our shareholders in a variety of ways throughout
the year, with the participants and topics dependent on the stakeholders engaged. Members of management and, upon
request, members of our Board regularly engage with our shareholders to provide updates and solicit their views and input on
various topics, including our sustainability and climate-related initiatives and programs. We regularly share the feedback and
input we receive from shareholders with our Board and the applicable Committees, which take them into account as we review
Strategy and update our ESG practices and policies.
In the quantitative model we used actual energy consumption for Scope 1 and 2 from 2019 data (used as a baseline). The model
assumed a 4.2% linear annual reduction consistent with an emission reduction pathway in line with limiting warming below 1.5
c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s
degrees Celsius. We also assessed the emission reduction trajectory at 2.5% linear reduction through 2030 (in line with a well
strategy, taking into consideration different below 2-degree pathway). We did not assess a 2-degree warming scenario given the level of ambition required per the IPCC.
climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or RCP 8.5 represents the IPCC’s high-end pathway approximation of global greenhouse gas emissions by 2100 if there are not
significant global actions to reduce emissions. We used this scenario to assess physical risks to operations. Under this scenario
lower scenario.
we assume severe climate impacts including warming above 2 degrees resulting in water scarcity, changes in seasonal
patterns, and an increased number of extreme weather events. Increasing our energy efficiency and continued evolution in the
way we design our restaurants and source products would help us adapt to the changing climate while engaging with
suppliers to implement or increase low-carbon practices can shore up resiliency. We completed a quantitative analysis by
utilizing the Science Based Targets absolute contraction tool. In the model we selected a 1.5-degree pathway with a baseline
year of 2019, and an emission reduction target of 2030. Actual energy consumption for Scope 1 and 2 from 2019 data was used
in the model, approximately 30-50% absolute reduction would be required from the baseline emissions for Scope 1, 2 emissions.
The range of emissions reduction required is directly tied to the level of ambition to keep global warming either well below 2
degrees or below 1.5 degrees Celsius.
Chipotle identifies climate-related risks that might impact our operations and business strategy as part of our risk management
process. We established an internal climate steering committee to guide decision making, determine reduction targets, and
a) Describe the organization’s processes for
drive strategy forward. We also created activity specific climate pillars comprised of cross functional teams to evaluate the
identifying and assessing climate-related risks. likelihood of climate-related risks that may disrupt our supply chain, decrease availability of resources, cause harm to
infrastructure, and/or impact our ability to operate. The teams also provide recommendations to mitigate the potential impacts.
Risk Management
See the Emissions section in our Annual Sustainabilty Report for further information.
The findings, recommendations, and strategies to address climate risks are summarized and shared with the executive
leadership team and the Board. Mitigation strategies are implemented with approval from the leadership and Board. For
b) Describe the organization’s processes for
example: Increasing weather volatility and changes in global weather patterns can reduce crop size and crop quality. We are
managing climate-related risks. engaging with our partners to bring forward ideas such as regenerative farming, to help build resilience to anticipated
changing climate conditions.
See the Emissions section in our Annual Sustainability Report for further information.
22002233 SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT PAGE 72
APPENDIX
TCFD Topic TCFD Recommended Disclosure Disclosure
Chipotle evaluates climate-related risks based on the substantive financial or strategic impact to be issues that, should they
occur or continue to occur, would adversely impact our business, financial condition, operations, reputation or the trading price
c) Describe how processes for identifying,
of our common stock in a material and ongoing way, such as a significant increase in the cost of operating our restaurants and
assessing, and managing climate-related risks
Risk Management serving our guests, a significant or sustained loss of revenue, or a required significant capital investment or a required capital
are integrated into the organization’s overall investment that requires scarce material. Chipotle evaluates its enterprise risk on an annual basis, which includes climate-
related risks, to identify, prioritize and create mitigation plans for those risks that are most likely to occur and, if they occur,
risk management.
have the most significant impact on the business.
See the Emissions section in our Annual Sustainability Report for further information.
a) Disclose the metrics used by the organization
to assess climate-related risks and opportunities
See the following sections in the Annual Sustainablity Report: Emissions; Appendix
in line with its strategy and risk management
process.
b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and if
Metrics & Targets
appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse has emissions, See the following sections in the Annual Sustainablity Report: Emissions; Appendix
and the related risks.
c) Describe the targets used by the organization
to manage climate-related risks and See the following sections in the Annual Sustainablity Report: Emissions; Appendix
opportunities and performance against targets
22002233 SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT PAGE 73
APPENDIX
Footnotes
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Greenhouse gas emissions are measured and calculated according to the principles in the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas
1
Protocol’s “A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, 2004 revised edition” (GHG Protocol). All GHG emissions are expressed as metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents.
Primary data are used to calculate emissions for both Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Estimates are used where primary data are not available. Depending on the type of site, the estimation methodology uses location
2 square footage and average energy consumption published by U.S Energy Information Administration. Global warming potentials reference the 100-year Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fifth
Assessment Report (AR5). Chipotle follows the GHG Protocol operational control method.
Restated emissions from previous year emissions have been made to reflect corrections, updates to methodology, and/or updates to emission factors. Emissions do not include non-Chipotle restaurants. Emissions
3
do not include fugitive refrigerant emissions.
4 Emissions are third-party verified with limited assurance for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions since 2022.
5 Market-based emissions include purchases of Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs). The renewable portion of the electricity grid mix for which we do not possess RECs is not included in this calculation.
6 Renewable electricity includes renewable energy credits (RECs).
7 Excludes grid mix renewables.
Scope 3 emissions are calculated following the guidance by the GHG Protocol. Estimates are used where primary data are not available and/or extrapolated data, utilize third-party emission factor databases and
industry averages. We will continue to improve and refine Scope 3 estimates over time, as data visibility and accessibility increases, and with updates to emission factors. Spend-based methodology estimates
8
emissions for goods and services by collecting data on the economic value of goods and services purchased and multiplying that by relevant secondary (e.g., industry average) emission factors (e.g., average
emissions per monetary value of goods). Updates to emission factors to 2019 and 2022 assured data result in less than 1% difference in the assured values. The assured values are reflected in this report.
9 Growth in sales and new restaurant openings, resulting in an associated increase in Scope 3 emissions.
10 The scope of these data excludes the Purchased Goods and Services of non-Chipotle restaurants, however this accounts for less than 0.01% of total emissions.
11 Purchases to support operations in North America only.
Waste
12 Excludes construction waste. Waste generated from restaurants operating in North America only.
Based on material handling and waste diversion processes, as reported by waste haulers, historical waste audits, and extrapolation of data where Chipotle does not manage waste services directly, and/or share
13
waste services with other businesses. Restated figures from previous years have been made to reflect corrections and/or updates to methodology.
Materials
14 Suppliers provide certifications on material specifications are including but not limited to third-party certifications, weight of materials, and end of life reusability, recyclability and/or compostability.
Water
Primary data is used to calculate water withdrawal from restaurants. When primary data is unavailable water withdrawal estimates are calculated with a water withdrawal intensity factor derived from actual
15
withdrawals from Chipotle restaurants located in North America.
16 High-risk refers to restaurants located in regions of high or extremely-high baseline water stress as identified with the World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct tool.
Diversity & Employment
Crew and Managers includes Crew, Kitchen Leaders, and Service Leaders. Restaurant Salary Managers includes Certified Training Managers, General Managers, Apprentices, and Restauranteurs. Field Staff
17 includes Field Leader (FL), Team Director (TD), Regional Vice President. Senior Management refers to our Executive Leadership Team, also referred to as ELT. Corporate and Field Support includes Restaurant
Support Center Staff and Field Staff.
18 This information reflects our United States population but excludes Puerto Rico.
19 All gender data are sourced from Chipotle's employment system of record.
20 Contingent workers are defined as independent contractors who work through a 1099. Full-Time/Part-Time breakdown does not include contingent workers.
22002233 SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT PAGE 74
