FY23 Purpose Report
The Power of Purpose
Introduction 2 Future 33
Our Purpose and our progress in fiscal 2023 Help advance a sustainable and regenerative
future for our planet
A message from Chuck Robbins 3
FY23 highlights 4 The Plan for Possible 34
ESG at Cisco 5 Clean energy transitions 35
Goals and progress 6 Circular transformation 41
Feature stories 8 Resilient ecosystems 44
Power 12 For All 46
Build and deliver technology responsibly to Address root causes of inequity, eliminate
securely power the world’s connectivity barriers, and foster lasting, generational change
Security, privacy, and trust 13 Crisis response 47
Human rights 15 Economic empowerment 51
Digital inclusion 20 Learning and digital skills 54
Ethics and integrity 22 Social justice 58
Partnering for Purpose 61
Public policy and advocacy 61
Inclusive 23
Accelerate fairness, inclusion, and equitable Looking Ahead 62
access to opportunity
Our Purpose can’t just be something we look
Diversity, equity, and inclusion 24
back on
Employee experience 27
Health and wellbeing 29 A message from Fran Katsoudas 63
Employee community impact 31
Forward-looking statements
This report contains forward-looking statements regarding future events. All statements other than statements of historical facts
are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates,
forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Readers
are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that
are difficult to predict, including those identified in our most recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 10-K
and Form 10-Q. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to
update any forward-looking statement.
Cisco continuously strives for transparency in our reporting on our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) initiatives, goals,
and progress. We set ambitious goals knowing that they may be difficult to fully achieve, but we strive to meet them within the
designated time frames all the same. Acquiring other companies can potentially impact our progress towards our ESG goals. We
will transparently report on our progress, including any impacts from acquisitions.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 2
Cisco is the worldwide
leader in technology that
powers the Internet.
Our products and services include
networking, collaboration solutions, security
solutions, wireless and mobility, data center,
Internet of Things (IoT), video, analytics, and
software solutions.
1984 84,900 About this report
founded employees This Purpose Report shares Cisco’s progress in its fiscal year (FY)
2023 toward its Purpose to Power an Inclusive Future for All. But
it is not the full story of our progress. Our ESG Reporting Hub
US$57 billion 95
contains detailed information on many of the topics covered
in this report, as well as policies and additional disclosures for
FY23 revenue countries
specialized audiences. Throughout the report, we provide links to
specific pages in the ESG Reporting Hub where additional detail
is available.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 3
A message from Chuck Robbins
“
Running a great business shouldn’t be at odds with caring for
Cisco has made a difference
and contributing to the communities where a company operates. for more than one-eighth of the
world’s population—a testament
The dynamic world we live in needs businesses to do both, and suffering and for causes that change lives. We’re also proud to bring to what we can achieve when
companies that successfully find that balance earn customer trust, our customers and partners along with us through initiatives like
people and purpose intersect in
respect from their peers, and create a culture that attracts and Partnering for Purpose, helping to amplify our impact because we
service of communities."
retains the best people. know we can’t solve these issues alone.
Each year, we are proud to share this report that demonstrates Through our innovation, we’re helping customers securely connect
having environmental, social, and governance (ESG) and corporate everything to make anything possible. We’re also driving sustainability
social responsibility efforts woven into a business strategy is in a meaningful way with products and solutions, such as IoT, Silicon
not just good for the world; it also creates important business One, and power over ethernet, that help customers reduce energy
opportunities. Through our commitments and actions, Cisco also consumption. With technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI)
continues to reaffirm its support of the Ten Principles of the United quickly taking shape, we continue to see endless possibilities for
Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, technology to change lives and experiences in countless ways. We
Environment, and Anti-Corruption, which Cisco signed in 2001. also recognize the need to harness the power of technology ethically
and responsibly as we shape and define the future alongside our
Through a powerful combination of our technology, our people, and
customers and partners.
our purpose—to power an inclusive future for all—we have helped
customers and communities all around the globe, and this year For nearly 40 years, Cisco’s technology has been at the heart of
we’re celebrating an amazing milestone. In 2016, we set a goal to connections—helping customers run their businesses every day
positively impact 1 billion people by fiscal 2025, and I’m incredibly and bringing more opportunities to more people around the world.
proud to share that we’ve surpassed that goal more than a year We are incredibly proud of this history—the impact we’ve made and
early. Together, we have made a real, tangible difference for more milestones we’ve achieved—but we know there is more to do to care
than one-eighth of the world’s population. This is truly a testament for our planet and build a more inclusive and equitable future for
to what a company can achieve when its people and purpose everyone. At Cisco, we work hard every day to prove that running a
intersect in service of communities. good business and a passion to do good absolutely can and should
live in the same place—because when they do, change and progress
It also speaks to the importance of a culture that fosters opportunities
take giant steps forward toward a better world for all of us.
and supports people as they go out and do good in the world.
From global conflicts to natural disasters, we often see that the
most marginalized communities are usually impacted the most.
In fiscal 2023, 85 percent of our employees took action to give
back to communities and support causes close to their hearts. Our Chuck Robbins
people continue to show up in times of crisis, for those who are Chair and Chief Executive Officer
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 4
The power of Purpose in FY23
The Plan for Possible 1.1 billion
our environmental sustainability strategy to connect a people positively impacted through our social impact
regenerative future grants and signature programs (FY16-FY23)
Learn more about our validation methodology.
1300 #1 91% US$461M
Country Digital Best Company to Work of electricity for Cisco in cash and in-kind
contributions provided by
Acceleration active or For in 16 countries, facilities came from
Cisco and the Cisco
completed projects in according to Fortune and renewable sources
Foundation, including US$387M
50 countries since 2015 Great Place to Work in in-kind contributions for
Cisco Networking Academy
85% US$19.8M
of employees committed to fund climate
participated to drive solutions through the Cisco
community impact Foundation, cumulative
#2 73% 20.5M+
ranked in the Gartner® increase in representation learners reached through
of all employees who
2023 Supply Chain Top 25: Cisco Networking
self-identify as African
High Tech report1 Academy in 190 countries
American/Black from entry
level through manager since 1997
(FY20 base year)
1 GARTNER is a registered trademark and service mark of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the United States and internationally and is used herein with permission. All rights reserved. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product, or service depicted in its research publications, and
does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties,
expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 5
ESG at Cisco
Our reporting is informed by an ESG materiality assessment1 and
aligns with globally recognized frameworks. We also support ESG focus areas*
the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs)
and share the UN’s vision for peace and prosperity for people
and the planet. We have been a participating company in the
Environmental Social Governance
UNGC since 2001, and our ESG strategy and priorities, which
are shaped by our stakeholder engagement and ESG materiality
assessment1 initiatives, align with and support the SDGs. Below, ● Climate change and GHGs ● Inclusion and diversity ● Corporate governance
explore some examples: ● Circular economy ● Talent ● Data security and privacy
● Operational waste ● Human rights and working ● Business ethics
conditions in the supply chain
● Environmental regeneration ● Innovation and
and protection ● Employee wellbeing responsible technology
● Water ● Employee health and safety
and labor rights
● Digital inclusion
● Community impact
Global Reporting Sustainability Accounting
● Critical human needs and
Initiative (GRI) Standards Board (SASB)
disaster relief
● Economic empowerment
* These ESG focus areas are the topics identified in our fiscal 2023 ESG materiality assessment.1 The topics found to be of greater significance are noted in bold.
Task Force on Climate-related
Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Visit Cisco’s ESG Reporting Hub for more information on:
Our strategy Key ratings and rankings
Stakeholder engagement and ESG materiality1 Policies, positions, and guides
1 ESG materiality, as referred to in this report, and our ESG materiality assessment process are different from “materiality” in the context of Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) disclosure obligations. Issues deemed material for purposes of our ESG reporting and for purposes of determining our ESG strategy may not be
CDP (formerly Carbon United Nations Sustainable considered material for SEC reporting purposes, nor does inclusion of information in our ESG reporting indicate that the topic or information is material to Cisco’s
Disclosure Project) Development Goals (SDGs) business or operating results.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 6
Goals and progress
We measure progress on engaging employees, reducing environmental impacts, and advancing our Purpose to Power an Inclusive Future for All
through quantitative enterprise goals that we report against each year. Here’s where we stand on these goals in fiscal 2023.
Our people Social Justice Actions
By FY23: Sustain 80% community impact participation, as Learn more about our Social Justice Actions. By FY25: Social Justice Action 8, Commit to Historically Black
measured by employees’ actions, including advocating for Colleges and Universities (HBCUs): Commit US$150 million
FY20 is the base year for metrics that are not year-over-year.
causes they care deeply about, volunteering, donating, and to preserve the legacy and sustainability of HBCUs, with
participating in programs that positively impact communities. By FY25: Social Justice Action 1, Support community US$50 million to fund science, technology, engineering, and
partnerships, legislation, and advocacy: Donate US$5 mathematics (STEM) education and US$100 million to drive
M aintained >80% participation in community impact for
million to African American/Black (AA/B) nonprofit technology modernization.
fourth year in a row
organizations advocating for equity and justice.
US$37.5 million spent on STEM education
Our global communities
US$4 million donated between FY20 and FY23
US$66 million spent on technology upgrades
By FY25: Positively impact 1 billion people through social By FY23: Social Justice Action 2, Increase representation:
By FY25: Social Justice Action 10, Diversify our partner
impact grants and signature programs. Achieve a 25% increase in representation of all employees
ecosystem: Commit US$50 million to increase the diversity
who self-identify as AA/B from entry level through manager
A CHIEVED. 1.1 billion people positively impacted between in our partner ecosystem by increasing the number of
and a 75% increase in representation from Director to VP+
FY16 and FY23 AA/B-owned technology companies and increasing
level, by expanding our diverse talent pipeline.
Learn more about our validation methodology. opportunities to accelerate the financial growth of AA/B-
ACHIEVED. owned partners.
By FY32: Provide digital and cybersecurity skills training
to 25 million more learners over the next 10 years through 73% increase (entry level through manager) Increased AA/B-owned companies in our partner ecosystem
Cisco Networking Academy.
103% increase (Director) Special focus on 17 Acceleration partners
3.7 million learners trained in FY23
240% increase (Vice President and above)
By FY25: Social Justice Action 11, Invest in next generation
By FY24: Social Justice Action 7, Supplier engagement: tech innovation: Invest US$50 million in startups and
Double how much we spend with diverse suppliers and venture funds led by diverse leaders.
receive reporting on diversity metrics from 95% of our
Ongoing investment in startups and venture funds led by BIPOC,
preferred suppliers.
Latinx, and female leaders
108% increase in diverse supplier spend between FY20 and FY23
Note: Progress against all goals listed by fiscal year is measured through the end of the
fiscal year, unless otherwise noted.
88% of preferred suppliers reported diversity metrics in FY23
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 7
Goals and progress
(continued)
Climate change and GHG emissions Circular design, products, and packaging Supplier climate targets
Net-zero goal: By FY25: 100% of new Cisco products and packaging By FY25: 80% of Cisco component, manufacturing, and
incorporate Circular Design Principles.5 logistics suppliers by spend have a public, absolute GHG
By 2040: Reach net-zero GHG emissions across our value
emissions reduction target.9
chain by reducing absolute Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions by 27% meeting circular design criteria
90% (FY19 base year).1 92% with targets
By FY25: Reduce foam used in Cisco product packaging by
We are reporting progress through the near-term
75% as measured by weight (FY19 base year).6 By FY25: 70% of Cisco component and manufacturing
targets below:
suppliers by spend achieve a zero-waste diversion rate at
22% reduction
one or more sites.10
Near-term targets
By FY25: Increase product packaging cube efficiency by
60% by spend with at least one certified site
By FY25: Reduce absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions
50% (FY19 base year).7
by 90% (FY19 base year).1
65% cumulative improvement
48% reduction
By FY25: 50% of the plastic used in our products (by weight)
By FY30: Reduce absolute Scope 3 emissions from
will be made of recycled content.8
purchased goods and services, upstream transportation
24% recycled content
and distribution, and use of sold products by 30% (FY19
base year).2,3
14% reduction (based on Cisco’s current Scope 3 emissions
calculation methodology and subject to change)4
Note: Progress against all goals listed by fiscal year is measured through the end of the fiscal year.
1 We will neutralize any remaining emissions by removing an equal amount from the atmosphere.
2 The baseline and progress reported for our 2030 goal includes: purchased goods and services from manufacturing, component, and warehouse suppliers; upstream transportation and distribution from Cisco purchased air transportation; and use of sold products.
3 We updated our methodology in fiscal 2023 for calculating "Scope 3 Category 11: Use of sold products" to further align with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. For more information on our current methodology, as well as data and goal tracking using our previous methodology, visit
the Historic GHG methodology discussion in the Strategy, goals, and emissions data section on our ESG Reporting Hub.
4 We expect our progress to fluctuate year-over-year based on the number and type of products we sell each year. Due to increased product sales, there was an increase in GHG emissions in fiscal 2023, thus progress has decreased from fiscal 2022.
5 The scope of this goal is limited to hardware products and associated packaging, excluding: standalone components (e.g., chassis, ASICs, optical modules); standalone basic product accessories (e.g., power cables, brackets); Original Equipment Manufacturer products (where
Cisco does not own the design); products and packaging of nonintegrated acquisitions. Product and packaging designs achieving a score of 75 percent or higher are counted toward the goal.
6 To improve measurement accuracy, we changed our methodology for this goal in fiscal 2023 to calculate the foam used in our shipped product packaging instead of the total foam purchased from suppliers. The base year (fiscal 2019) foam use was recalculated using the
updated methodology, and fiscal 2023 progress is measured against this.
7 Packaging efficiency is measured by comparing the size of the product relative to the packaging, using dimensional weight. Dimensional weight uses volume and a standard dimensional factor to calculate the weight of a package. In this methodology, the packaging efficiency
metric is based on the difference of the normalized dimensional weight (by volume) between the baseline and current year. In fiscal 2023, we updated our calculation methodology to improve accuracy. We will continue to report progress toward this goal annually through
fiscal 2025. This goal applies to high-volume packaging requiring redesigns.
8 The scope of this goal excludes plastics contained in commodity components (e.g., plastic screws, fans, and cables) and in products designed and manufactured by our Original Design Manufacturers.
9 Suppliers are expected to set absolute GHG emissions reduction targets or intensity targets that produce an absolute emissions reduction during the target period. Cisco encourages suppliers to set targets in line with an approved science-based methodology. Progress toward
this goal is quantified using Cisco’s supply chain spend which can vary annually. Cisco will continue to work with suppliers to set their own absolute GHG emissions reduction targets, and to report progress toward this goal annually through fiscal 2025.
10 According to current standard definitions used in certification protocols, “zero-waste” diversion is defined as a 90 percent or greater overall diversion of solid, nonhazardous wastes from landfill, incineration (waste-to-energy), and the environment. Diversion methods can include
reduction, reuse, recycling, and/or compost.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 8
One billion
lives positively
impacted
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 9
One billion lives
positively impacted
How many lives could we impact if we pushed
ourselves to truly create a better world for all?
In 2015, our newly appointed CEO, Chuck Robbins, some of the greatest challenges in this increasingly
asked us this question. In response, we went BIG, interconnected and technologically driven world. We
knowing that if we made a bold commitment we invested in innovative global partners through our
could make a profound difference. Social Impact grants and Cisco Networking Academy.
So we set an ambitious goal: to positively impact For a goal this big, we sought out promising nonprofits to The blueprint for 1 billion
1 billion people by 2025. develop and scale technology-based solutions to critical
What does it take to reach 1 billion people? As we celebrate this remarkable
challenges facing vulnerable, underserved communities
milestone, we’re sharing what we learned on our journey to 1 billion. We believe
This year—more than a year ahead of our schedule—
around the world. We worked with local and national that our guiding principles can be applied to organizations of any size to drive
we’ve reached our goal. In fact, we’ve surpassed it.
governments to expand economies, and across a increased social impact.
spectrum of nonprofits to develop the workforce of the
We have positively impacted 1.1 billion lives.
START WITH “WHY” BUILD A RIGOROUS TRACKING
future and fulfill the promises of digital inclusion.
METHODOLOGY
We’ve positively impacted approximately one-eighth of Start with defining your “why.” For each
the world’s population. Now we’re looking ahead. company, this is going to look a little Tracking and validating impact is a
different—and that’s a good thing. Root complex but crucial process, critical for
This extraordinary milestone was made possible by the As we consider the next goal we'll set for ourselves, we're your “why” in the products and services transparency and accurate reporting.
thinking about the future of our Purpose and the impact it for which your company has expertise,
passion and dedication of our leaders and employees,
and in the areas of your purpose that are INVEST IN POTENTIAL
is having on the world. We’re reflecting on the intertwined
along with the exceptional work of our global nonprofit
passions for your people.
challenges facing our communities and how we can While investing in proven solutions can
partners and the leadership of the Cisco Foundation
and Cisco Networking Academy. leverage our learnings, our strengths, and our technology CLEARLY DEFINE YOUR address immediate needs, identifying
and investing in new and innovative
to scale impact and build community resilience. INTENDED IMPACTS
solutions will help scale and amplify your
People were at the center of our work as we focused
We know we’re stronger with our partners at our side. There are many ways to define impact, impact over time.
on crisis response, learning and digital skills development,
so get clear about how your company
Together, we can create a world where everyone
and economic empowerment. For a goal this large, we
will define and measure it.
thrives. We hope you’ll join us as we continue our
needed help. It was critical to expand our ecosystem
journey to power an inclusive future for all.
of partnerships so we could create solutions to
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 10
Empowering communities
through digital access
It wasn’t long ago that an organization’s strategy and its technology were considered separate, their reliance on one another a
convenience, but not a necessity. That time has passed.
Not only have strategy and technology become deeply intertwined for Through Cisco Networking Academy, we’re working to address this skills gap
organizations of all kinds, but technology increasingly drives the ways in and help stave off a potential skills crisis. It is one of the longest-standing IT
which we pursue our personal, academic, and professional lives. Digital skills-to-jobs programs worldwide, and since its inception we’ve trained over
access is no longer a privilege for some, but a necessity for all. 20.5 million learners in 190 countries, 11,700 academies, and 27 languages.
And we’re looking ahead to the future. In early October 2022, we announced
But something stands between us and a future in which we can all participate.
a new goal, to offer digital and cybersecurity skills training to 25 million more
A digital divide exists between those who can connect and obtain the skills
global learners over the next 10 years.
to participate, and those who cannot. This gap limits people and communities
from engaging with our societies and an increasingly digital, global economy. There is incredible opportunity in meeting the challenges of this moment.
And with the rise of new technologies, the gap is growing. Closing the skills gap will not only benefit companies and societies
around the world, but also open doors of opportunity for many who are
Closing this divide would have a transformative impact on both the lives of
disproportionately impacted by economic inequality, such as women, ethnic
individuals and the global economy. According to PwC, global inclusion in
minorities, and people with disabilities. The potential economic benefit of
the Internet could bring 7 percent of the world’s population above absolute
these efforts is also staggering—according to WEF research, accelerating
poverty levels and add US$6.7 trillion to global economic output.
progress on education and upskilling could add US$8.3 trillion to global gross
domestic product by 2030.
As a company founded on connection, we know Cisco has a role to play
in connecting the unconnected. Through our Country Digital Acceleration
No single entity can close the digital divide. The private sector, governments,
(CDA) program, we co-invest and co-innovate to expand access and harness
educational institutions, nonprofits, and communities must work together in new
connectivity in communities around the world. In partnership with government
ways as we look ahead. The pace of change in technology is only increasing,
leaders, CDA helps countries and communities reach their digitization goals,
and we must increase the velocity of our collaboration to meet it.
expand online access, and open opportunities for more people to connect to
digital resources like education, healthcare, and jobs. It's often said that “knowledge is power.” As we enter the fourth industrial
revolution, these words were never truer. As we look ahead, digital access and
With the advent of generative artificial intelligence (Gen AI) and an evolving
skills will be fundamental to participating in our societies and economies. We
cybersecurity threat landscape, all workers need opportunities for digital skilling
can’t afford to wait, and we can’t afford to leave anyone behind. We can close
and reskilling. The World Economic Forum (WEF) estimates that half the global
the divide and open opportunities, for all.
labor force may need reskilling over the next two years, and 1.1 billion jobs will
be transformed by technology in the coming decade. WEF also estimates that
3 million cybersecurity experts are needed to support the current global economy.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 11
The power and possibility
in addressing the climate crisis
Climate change is here, and its impacts are painfully evident: the last decade was the hottest on record, storms have grown increasingly
powerful, and catastrophic fires are regular occurrences.
We’re at a pivotal moment, but with bold, strategic, and collective action, we can help Crucial work to address the climate crisis is already underway in the private sector,
mitigate the worst outcomes of climate change, ensuring the opportunity to build an and this momentum creates an incredible and transformative opportunity. But those
inclusive future for all. of us in the private sector can do more to help accelerate access to affordable
renewable energy. If more businesses move away from approaching environmental
All sectors have a responsibility to address the climate crisis, including the private sector.
goals as a checklist, we can also create new opportunities for our companies and our
We must begin by taking a strategic approach to decarbonizing our own operations
communities to succeed. The private sector must come together to share our learnings
and value chains, and promoting science-based plans, goals, and commitments. This
and develop best practices in order to build an ecosystem of partnership to scale our
fiscal year, Cisco announced our new environmental sustainability strategy, The Plan for
impact. We can help catalyze transformation when we work to align our efforts.
Possible, focused on accelerating our transition to clean energy, circular transformation,
and investing in resilient ecosystems. We must also take a new approach to our investments. With a more strategic
approach, the private sector can help build climate and economic resiliency, drive
Building a net-zero world will also require all communities to access more renewable
a digital and sustainable transformation, and set up vulnerable countries and
energy. Innovative technologies have lowered the cost of generating wind, solar,
communities for success in the future. And this shift can help create economic
hydro, and geothermal energy, making them more abundant and available than
opportunities. According to the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA),
ever. But connecting renewables to our existing power grids is a challenge. Digital
worldwide employment in renewable energy could reach more than 38 million in
infrastructure is needed to make grids “smarter,” better able to monitor and balance
2030. Through our CDA Program, Cisco takes a bold approach to co-investment and
energy demands and quickly connect to renewable sources. With digital grids, we
co-innovation. One example of this work is our partnership with Enel Group, Italy’s
can reduce black- and brown-outs while accelerating the clean energy transition.
largest electricity provider. Together, we’re accelerating the transition to a low-carbon
electrical grid across Italy. The work is underway, and it has the capacity to scale.
Updating and digitalizing global grids will require significant investments. According to
Through an expansion of our partnership with Mercy Corps, we’re also focused on
BloombergNEF research, the cost to make necessary grid upgrades to support a global
new ways to foster climate adaptation and resilience in the Horn of Africa, and the link
net-zero trajectory will be approximately US$21 trillion by 2050. Government initiatives
between climate change and humanitarian crises.
like the European Green Deal and the United States’ National Climate Resilience
Framework are driving focus, funding, and action toward net-zero goals. But globally,
There is power and possibility in the private sector working in new ways to address the
many communities are not seeing equitable levels of investment and momentum.
global climate crisis. If we can rise to the occasion and meet the moment, we’ll do good
for our businesses and good for the world.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 12
Power
Build and deliver technology
responsibly to securely power
the world’s connectivity
Increased connectivity, greater computing power, massive
data volumes, and changing global conditions dramatically
impact how we engage with the digital world. New
technologies such as Gen AI present new opportunities, but
also new risks. As we work to securely connect and protect
people and businesses—and support workers in our supply
chain—we take a mindful and systematic approach. We
design and build solutions with security, privacy, and human
rights in mind so that our partners, customers, and their
users can leverage the power of connected technologies to
improve their lives, meet their business objectives, and fulfill
their potential.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 13
Security, privacy,
and trust
Emerging regulations and fast-evolving technology mean If it’s connected, you're protected
that the cybersecurity landscape is continuously changing.
Many network administrators don’t think of legacy hardware like routers
Amid this change, one thing remains constant: Cisco’s commitment
and switches as vulnerable parts of their networks. Systems that were
to being trustworthy, transparent, fair, accountable, and resilient
designed, built, and deployed years ago couldn’t anticipate today’s
regarding the data entrusted to us and the solutions we deliver
advanced and nefarious cyber attacks, which have become more
to customers.
prevalent, sophisticated, and complex. With increasing demands on IT
and networking professionals, it can be a challenge to replace end-of-
Trust is difficult to earn and maintain, yet easy to lose. We build
service and end-of-life equipment. It can also be difficult for customers
confidence among our customers and stakeholders through action:
to prioritize the implementation of critical security updates and patches.
sharing up-to-date information about emerging threats, leveraging
a secure development lifecycle process that embeds security
Cisco has been sounding the alarm on the importance of updating
and privacy controls into our products and solutions, complying
and maintaining deployed network infrastructure for years. In 2023,
with global cybersecurity and privacy laws and regulations, and
we joined forces with technology providers, security experts, and
promoting responsible use of technologies like AI. Teams of
network operators to launch the Network Resilience Coalition to raise
professionals are working in these areas across Cisco, and ongoing
awareness of the issue from various perspectives, understand its true
security and privacy awareness, education, and training available
scope and scale, and provide recommendations and a coordinated
for all employees enables us to remain continuously vigilant and
framework for improving network security. It helps to bridge the gaps
maintain a strong security and privacy posture.
between vendors of networking technology, like Cisco, and customers
who manage complex networking systems with limited resources.
As a technology solution provider to businesses and organizations
Together, we can better plan how to manage risk and optimize the
globally, we face many of the same security and privacy challenges as
secure operation of critical networking equipment over its lifespan.
our customers. Cisco shares leading practices developed in-house
with our customers and other businesses to help them enhance
their own privacy and security so that they can confidently deliver
Learn more about
secure and privacy-aware solutions for their own customers.
security, privacy, and trust.
ESG
Reporting Hub
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 14
Embracing transparency in Keeping the lights
software development on in a war zone
We work to enhance transparency, security, and privacy across The Russian invasion of Ukraine
our network. Cisco is committed to meeting customer needs for began nearly two years ago—but
software transparency, including requirements that stem from cyber aggression against Ukraine
the U.S. Executive Order on Improving the Nation's Cybersecurity began much earlier and remains
and the pending European Union's Cyber-Resilience Act. an important battlefront in the war.
Cisco Talos provides cybersecurity
Our Cisco Trust Portal allows on-demand access to Cisco security, solutions to Ukrainian government
trust, and privacy compliance documents. In addition, our Privacy by organizations and their critical
Design approach reflects our responsible use of personal data, infrastructure, and recently extended
which continues to be important to our customers, as seen in the protection to 45,000 endpoints in Ukraine.
2023 Data Privacy Benchmark Study.
In 2023, Talos found another way to help
Ukraine beyond the cyber realm—by ensuring the
Training the next generation
country’s energy sector could continue to function despite
of security professionals Russian kinetic attacks on critical infrastructure. Ukraine’s high-
voltage electrical substations depend on the Global Positioning
System (GPS) for precise time synchronization, which is essential for
Cisco promotes technology skills through programs like Cisco
critical tasks. Ukraine is saturated with electronic interference from
Networking Academy, and in 2022 we partnered with the U.S. White
the war, from Russia, and Ukraine itself. This makes it very difficult
House to expand and enhance the United States’ cyber workforce
to keep power output stable, resulting in distribution challenges and
through education and training. In addition, the U.S. Department
possible blackouts. In response, Talos spearheaded a months-long
of Labor certified three Cisco digital- and cybersecurity-focused
effort to design and deploy custom devices to Ukraine that help
apprenticeships, helping to enable public and private entities to
substations to deliver a consistent power supply—keeping the lights
source diverse, work-ready apprentices.
on for a nation at war.
Talos, Cisco’s threat intelligence arm, hosted a cohort of interns
and partnered with Cisco Crisis Response to train nongovernmental
organizations on security and privacy fundamentals.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 15
Human rights
Advances in technology present new challenges and
considerations about how the technologies people
and businesses use every day impact human rights.
Cisco integrates a human rights by design approach to address
salient human rights issues across our business. We published
our Global Human Rights Policy more than a decade ago, and we
update it regularly to reflect new developments in the way Cisco
manages potential human rights impacts. We continue to mature
our approach to these issues through enhanced governance, as
well as the development of policies and procedures aimed at
addressing human rights impacts across the value chain.
Governance of human
rights issues
In fiscal 2023 we established a new Environmental, Social, and Public
Policy Committee on Cisco’s Board of Directors, which oversees
human rights issues and other ESG matters. Our Business and
Human Rights team oversees human rights policy and implementation
Cisco rose to third place from
across Cisco, while our Supply Chain Sustainability team conducts
11th out of 60 information and
human rights due diligence in our supply chain. Two cross-functional,
executive-level committees—our Human Rights Advisory Committee communications technology
and Supply Chain ESG Committee—provide guidance on human rights
(ICT) companies on Know the
risks and strategy.
Chain’s benchmark, which
assesses companies’ abilities
to manage human rights risks in
their supply chain.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 16
A human-centered approach to the product lifecycle
Cisco considers potential human rights impacts at every stage of our value chain. We assess effects on stakeholders,
including vulnerable workers in our supply chain, users of our products and solutions, and other impacted populations.
Here’s how:
RESPONSIBLE MINERAL COMPONENT AND PRODUCT PRODUCT DESIGN PRODUCT-LEVEL DILIGENCE PRODUCT END-OF-LIFE
SOURCING MANUFACTURING
Human rights impact assessments Cisco strives to identify and prevent We design products to allow for
We collaborate with supply chain Supply chain workers in manufacturing and Responsible AI impact human rights harms associated with self-service data wiping, helping
partners to promote responsible facilities face a variety of potential assessments help us design and the use of our technology. As part to ensure a right to privacy. Cisco
sourcing of minerals and to identify risks, including forced labor, safety build our products. We consider of this effort, Cisco complies with works with a number of e-scrap
and prevent sourcing from mines hazards, and chemical exposure. We the needs of vulnerable users, human rights driven trade controls recyclers and other partners
linked to armed conflict or human work across our global supply chain intended and unintended uses and conducts human rights due who disassemble our equipment,
rights violations. to identify and mitigate these risks. of our products, and unique use diligence on transactions that present and we hold those partners
Workers can leverage Cisco’s EthicsLine cases to address potential risks. heightened potential human rights accountable to our Supplier Code
as a grievance mechanism to share risks, considering product capabilities, of Conduct.
concerns with Cisco if they are unable purposes, and users.
to resolve issues with employers.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 17
Sourcing minerals responsibly Addressing modern slavery and Promoting worker rights
protecting vulnerable workers
While Cisco does not directly procure minerals from mines or the Cisco is a founder and active member of the RBA and adopted the
smelters or refiners (SORs) that process them, we collaborate with RBA Code of Conduct as our Supplier Code of Conduct. The Code
Cisco’s supply chain is vast and global. Engaging with suppliers to
suppliers to conduct due diligence in accordance with our Responsible sets standards for labor, health and safety, environment, ethics, and
drive conformance to our human rights policies is an ongoing effort
Minerals Policy. Cisco is a member of the Responsible Minerals Initiative management systems, and Cisco assesses our suppliers’ conformance
that requires constant vigilance. Our due diligence occasionally reveals
of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) where we participate to the Code using tools such as self-assessments and third-party
that workers in our supply chain have paid recruitment fees, which
in working groups to increase SOR participation in third-party audit audits. In fiscal 2023, 169 Cisco supplier facilities completed RBA
is considered a risk of bonded labor and is against Cisco policy. In
schemes. Conformance to these industry standards is important as it audits. We estimate these audits covered more than 446,000 workers
fiscal 2023, at nonconformant supplier facilities where workers were
serves as an indicator of decreased likelihood of human rights risks, in our supply chain.1
identified as having paid prohibited recruitment fees, we oversaw the
links to conflict financing, and the existence of corruption in the trade
reimbursement of US$2.2 million to 1865 workers. We work to incorporate the perspectives of people who work in our
of minerals. In Cisco’s supply chain, 71 percent of the 3TG (tantalum,
supply chain to inform our human rights programs. In fiscal 2023,
tin, tungsten, and gold) SORs and 61 percent of the cobalt refiners
Certain groups, including ethnic minorities, migrant workers, women,
we conducted a Human Rights Impact Assessment that included
reported by our surveyed suppliers were conformant or active in a
children, and LGBTQ+ communities, face heightened risk for forced
interviews with hundreds of workers to identify human rights risks
third-party audit program. Cisco also works to improve conditions
labor and other human rights risks. To demonstrate our commitment
and concerns. We are incorporating these insights into our human
for miners and the communities they live in globally.
to protect these groups, Cisco published the Respecting the Rights of
rights strategy, programming, and due diligence processes.
Vulnerable Groups Policy, as an extension of our existing human rights
Cisco is a member of the Public-Private Alliance for Responsible
commitments, in fiscal 2023.
Minerals Trade and the European Partnership for Responsible Minerals
(EPRM). We support the EPRM-funded Sustainable Trade in Artisanal
446,000+
Gold program, which benefits miners in Burkina Faso by improving
and scaling responsible sourcing tools and practices. We also
supply chain workers covered by
contribute to the RCS Global Better Mining program, which monitors
audits conducted during fiscal 20231
working conditions at artisanal and small-scale mines in and around
the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Learn more about our efforts related
to human rights in our supply chain.
1 The RBA is an industry standard scheme
which allows suppliers of multiple customers
to demonstrate conformance to a single
responsible business conduct standard. ESG
Reporting Hub
Number of workers represents the total
supply chain workers in the entire supplier
facility audited.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 18
Improving health and safety
Cisco works to build suppliers' capabilities to identify and address
health and safety issues. Since fiscal 2022, we have partnered with
the nonprofit Social Accountability International to implement its
TenSquared program that runs for 100 days and brings together In October 2023, Cisco
supply chain workers and managers to collaboratively address
was named a Leader in the
occupational health and safety challenges. Deploying TenSquared
Global Child Forum's annual
has revealed that greater worker engagement can yield sustainable
solutions to workplace safety issues, such as the consistent use of benchmark report. This
personal protective equipment or the safe operation of machinery.
designation recognizes that
The program increases managers’ awareness of workers’ abilities to
contribute solutions, while simultaneously helping workers feel more Cisco has taken concrete steps
comfortable sharing their ideas.
to embed children's rights into
Countering the cyber company practice, including
following up through monitoring,
mercenary market
transparent reporting, and
Cisco continues to observe a concerning growth in the use of “cyber
programs to create action for
mercenaries,” private-sector actors who develop and provide intrusive
cyber capabilities to their clients—often governments—for a fee. These children's rights.
capabilities allow access to networks, computers, phones, or Internet-
connected devices in ways that violate human rights and undermine
democratic principles. While these tools are often billed as a way to
fight terrorism and crime, they are often deployed against dissidents,
activists, and journalists instead.
As we take a security-first approach to our products and services, we
also continue to advocate for both industry partners and governments
worldwide to support a secure online ecosystem. In 2023, we were
a principal co-author of the Cybersecurity Tech Accord’s principles
limiting offensive operations in cyberspace, which received favorable
mention at the Summit for Democracy hosted in Washington, D.C.
by the governments of the United States, Costa Rica, Kenya, Korea,
Netherlands, and Zambia.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 19
Taking a principled approach
to artificial intelligence
Advances in AI, including generative AI, have the potential to A cross-functional team of Cisco subject matter experts developed TTrraannssppaarreennccyy
revolutionize our industry and transform many aspects of how we live, our AI Impact Assessment process, modeling it on Cisco’s PIA
work, and connect. These tools also have the potential to provide program. Through this process, trained assessors gather information
false, misleading, and biased outputs and expose confidential and to surface and mitigate risks associated with the intended, as well
personal information. In Cisco’s 2023 Data Privacy Benchmark Study, as unintended, use cases for each submission. These assessments
62 percent of respondents said that they were concerned about look at various aspects of how AI could be used during product
PPrriivvaaccyy Cisco FFaaiirrnneessss
businesses’ use of AI, with 60 percent saying they have already lost development, including by the development team, as well as for the
some trust in organizations because of their AI use. model, training data, fine tuning, prompts, privacy practices, and Responsible AI
testing methodologies. The ultimate goal is to identify, understand, Principles
For Cisco, responsible business practices are core to who we are.
and mitigate any issues related to Cisco’s RAI Principles of transparency,
And over the years, as we’ve incorporated AI technology to design
fairness, accountability, privacy, security, and reliability.
differentiated solutions and help our customers connect, automate,
and stay secure, we’ve done so with a keen focus on respecting We follow this assessment process when our engineering teams are
privacy and human rights along the way. developing a solution or feature powered by AI. We also use it when
Cisco engages a third-party vendor to provide AI tools or services for SSeeccuurriittyy AAccccoouunnttaabbiilliittyy
At its core, AI is about data. And if you’re using data, privacy
our internal operations.
is paramount. In 2015, we created a dedicated privacy team to
embed privacy by design as a core component of our development
methodologies. This team is responsible for conducting privacy
impact assessments (PIAs) as part of the Cisco Secure Development
RReelliiaabbiilliittyy
Lifecycle. These PIAs are a mandatory step in our product development
lifecycle and our IT and business processes.
As the use of AI became more widespread, and the implications more
novel, it became clear that we needed to build upon our foundation
of privacy to develop a program to match the specific risks and
opportunities associated with this new technology. In 2022, we
published Cisco’s Responsible AI (RAI) Principles to document
our position on AI and our RAI Framework to operationalize our
approach. Cisco’s RAI Framework aligns to the National Institute of
Standards and Technology (NIST) AI Risk Management Framework
and sets the foundation for our AI Impact Assessment process.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 20
Digital inclusion
As digital technologies advance, those without access Providing educational content
risk being left further behind.
to offline communities
Barriers to access can take many forms, including lack of
infrastructure, affordability, and accommodations for users with
Many of our investments through Cisco and Cisco Foundation
disabilities. Cisco works strategically to address each one, so that
connect unconnected communities to the Internet. In remote parts
more people can enjoy the benefits of digital connections.
of the world, where around-the-clock connectivity is not possible
or practical, we find ways to deliver digital content and services that
users can access even when an Internet connection is out of reach.
For example, the nonprofit World Possible creates miniature
networks using remote area servers that save terabytes of mobile
1 in 3 people worldwide
data downloads and enable schools, libraries, and nongovernmental
lack Internet access. organizations (NGOs) to access educational and digital content that
they otherwise would have no way to access. World Possible uses
Increasing Internet access
a mobile app connected to a cloud-based content catalog. Content
and affordability could is copied to a device, transported to a remote server location, and
synchronized securely with a community server. At the same time,
bring 500 million people
email communication, usage statistics, and requests for new content
out of poverty and increase
updates are collected from the site. Our recent investment expanded
global economic output by education access in remote areas of over 53 countries, including
Kiribati, Cambodia, Guatemala, and Malawi.
US$6.7 trillion.
Cisco also invests in CODE.org to provide computer science curricula
to remote and rural communities in Latin America, Asia, and Africa.
Our most recent investment supported platform architecture upgrades
that improved user experience, including for low-bandwidth and
Learn more about Cisco's offline learners.
work toward digital inclusion.
ESG
Reporting Hub
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 21
Powering inclusion
Digitization for good COUNTRY DIGITAL
through accessibility
ACCELERATION PROGRESS
1300
Cisco is working to accelerate disability inclusion with our
products, workplace policies, and our partnerships. Since 2015, Cisco has collaborated with governments, industries, and academia to advance national
active or completed CDA
digital agendas through the CDA program. Technology has enormous potential to deliver economic
projects in
We are a signatory to the Valuable 500 commitment, growth, create jobs, and improve the lives of citizens. However, it can also create digital divides and
a global partnership of 500 companies, representing reinforce existing inequities. Through CDA, we enable countries to embrace the potential of digital
50
22 million employees, working together to end disability and deliver technology that supports inclusion and accessibility for all. Here are a few ways that CDA
exclusion in the workplace. projects are making a difference: countries
Our Cisco Webex Platform Design team is making updates
to better serve people with vision impairments. According
HEALTHCARE INFRASTRUCTURE IN INDIA
to a WebAIM survey, almost half of web users use a screen
magnifier when browsing websites, with a quarter using We collaborated with the Assam state government and NGO Piramal Swasthya to launch “Niramay,” a
400 percent magnification. Our upgrades will allow users to pilot program to strengthen digital healthcare infrastructure. We supported the deployment of AMRIT, a
interact with Cisco Webex tools at this zoom level. We also technology platform developed by Piramal Swasthya to create and store electronic health records. AMRIT
recognize the importance of accessibility in virtual meetings, was deployed in 24 health centers, three primary care clinics, and three first referral units to enable
where, according to a recent survey, over 60 percent of faster diagnostics, telemedicine interactions, and collection of medical data at the grassroots level.
respondents experience accessibility barriers. In May 2023,
Webex introduced a new integration in collaboration with
Voiceitt, a leading speech recognition technology for
non-standard speech. This integration provides AI
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS IN COLOMBIA
captioning and transcription capabilities, making it easier
for people with speech impairments to participate fully and We partnered with the government to pilot a flood warning system in an area with limited connectivity
be understood during virtual meetings. and no electricity. A solar-powered system provides an alert when a nearby river is at risk of
flooding, providing the local government with valuable time to mobilize disaster response.
We’re enhancing accessibility in the Cisco workplace.
Through Social Justice Action 12, we conducted interviews
across the business, including people who identified as
disabled or neurodivergent, leading to a new suite of
CRISIS SUPPORT IN THE UNITED STATES
resources to help employees of all abilities thrive.
We partnered with the City of El Paso to launch El Paso Helps, an online portal through
which people experiencing crisis and homelessness can access social services. A live
agent can offer assistance for basic needs, housing placement, emergency shelter, and
connections to trained social workers.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 22
Ethics and integrity
At Cisco, we pride ourselves on a culture of integrity, both CHART 1:
in the workplace and the marketplace. Our ethical culture
Reports to Ethics Office
includes feeling safe, speaking up, and raising concerns.
2021 2022 2023
Cisco’s values and high expectations of employees are expressed
1190 1646 1644
in our Code of Business Conduct (COBC). Employees certify to the
COBC and complete training on its content. In fiscal 2023, 99.9
percent of Cisco employees completed their annual certification and
training within 45 days of launch. The latest training included a section
dedicated to reminding and encouraging employees to speak up freely.
Cisco also translated the Ethics Line into additional languages in
CHART 2:
2023, and we continue to do so to reach our increasingly global
population. If an employee identifies a concern or has a question that Fiscal 2023 reports by type
the COBC doesn’t answer, we encourage them to reach out to the
Ethics Office, their human resources representative, a member of
the Legal team, or their manager. Increasingly, Cisco is focused on
emphasizing our ethical culture to our partner network, encouraging
partners to use the Ethics Office to raise questions or report potential
ethics violations.
Learn more about how to
report a concern.
ESG
Reporting Hub
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 23
Inclusive
Accelerate fairness, inclusion, and
equitable access to opportunity
Cisco’s commitment to our people powers our ability to
drive positive societal change. We are recognized among
the world’s best workplaces, and we continually strive to
improve. For us, doing right by our people is not only a moral
imperative but a strategic one. Fostering a thriving, inclusive,
and supportive workplace culture is intrinsically linked to our
broader purpose of powering an inclusive future for all.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 24
Diversity, equity,
and inclusion
Our employees come from every walk of life and every part of the
world, and there is power in those perspectives.
Our business has always been about enabling people to connect and collaborate
across distance and difference. We believe diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI)
is a core competency that we leverage to accelerate and amplify Cisco’s existing
business goals and mission. It is intrinsic to who we are—and who we intend to
be long into the future.
Over the past several years, we have seen many organizations commit to—then
back away from—DEI work. The opposite is happening at Cisco. Many of our
programs that support underrepresented employees have been in place for more
than a decade. In 2020, we deepened our work to create a more diverse and
inclusive workplace and to address historic inequities both within and beyond our
company. In fiscal 2023, we strengthened our top-level commitment with two
key appointments: Gloria Goins, Cisco’s new Chief Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
Officer, and Brian Tippens, Cisco’s first Chief Social Impact Officer.
DEI informs all aspects of how Cisco recruits, develops, and engages our people.
Through fairness assessments, we look beyond pay to support equity in terms of
promotions, stock grant values, and bonuses. We enable employees to share their
pronouns through our technology and encourage them to connect with others
through employee resource groups, which we call Cisco Inclusive Communities.
Our teams accomplished a lot over the past few years—and we know that we still
have a long way to go. We won’t stop until we’ve realized our vision of creating
an inclusive future for everyone, everywhere.
Learn more about DEI.
ESG
Reporting Hub
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 25
Catalyzing change through Inclusive Communities
Nearly a third of our employees are members of at least one Cisco Inclusive Community. These groups drive their
own initiatives aligned to Cisco’s DEI strategy to support full-spectrum diversity and work together across our global
enterprise, driving engagement and creating a more Conscious Culture. Some examples of what our communities
focused on in fiscal 2023:
Adult Caregivers Network Connected Disability Awareness
Network 29
Providing education and resources for
our caregiver community Raising awareness of accessibility, disability, Inclusive
and neurodivergence
Communities
Conexión
316
Interfaith Network
Launching a leadership coaching program for
Advocating for policy that's sensitive to the
Latinx and Hispanic employees chapters across
needs of people with faith
77
Connected Asian Affinity Network
countries
Helping Asian and Asian American employees PRIDE LGBTQ+ & Allies
further their careers 1000+
Driving inclusion in Cisco and local communities
volunteer leaders
Connected Black Professionals
Women of Cisco
Recruiting and retaining Black talent
Highlighting intersections between DEI
and sustainability
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 26
Making connections that accelerate careers
Cisco has programs to build relationships and create opportunities for underrepresented employees. Now that each of these
programs has been in place for several years, we’re starting to see meaningful results: After these programs, I really felt like
that’s where my career started to
accelerate. It’s where I realized what
The Multiplier Effect The Proximity Initiative Jump and DARE
my potential could be, and I really
started to work toward that. It taught
Asks Cisco leaders to pledge to sponsor Encourages one-on-one dialogues about lived Retains future women leaders by providing
me to be brave and courageous.
an employee with a different background experiences between leaders and employees the knowledge and tools needed for their
And you feel like you’re supported
from themselves across the full spectrum of diversity career journeys at Cisco
by some really close friends, even
100% 2100+ 2400+ though you start out as strangers.”
of Cisco leaders at or above proximity meetings current alumnae of the - N ish Parkar, Marketing and Communications
Leader, Jump and DARE alumna
Vice President level have pledged held since 2019 DARE and Jump programs
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 27
Employee
experience
We know we get the best ideas and insights when we Catalyzing team development
listen to and learn from our people.
Through internal research and feedback channels, our employees
One of the channels for employees to provide regular candid
shared their interest in greater development resources. In response,
feedback is through our Real Deal survey, first launched in fiscal 2016.
we developed a quarterly program for all Cisco employees,
Recent responses highlighted a common theme—the need for clearer
Illuminate. We began our Illuminate journey in 2022, and in fiscal
pathways for career advancement. This helped shape the launch
2023 we continued to expand our program with new areas of
of Career & Learning, Cisco’s first dedicated career strategy that
focus for collective growth. Illuminate your Career aimed to inspire
employees can use to accelerate their professional development. It is
all employees to unlock their career aspirations by building their
built on the idea that careers need to be driven by individuals, enabled
brand and growing their network, and visits to our internal Career
by leaders, and supported by the systems around us.
& Learning site increased 591 percent following the event. Access
to personalized one-on-one career coaching sessions was also
Our people strategy is also guided by ongoing Future of Work
extended to all Cisconians. Illuminate Your Team enabled leaders
research, which analyzes the employee experience and helps inform
and teams to engage in self-paced workshops focused on building
solutions for employees navigating hybrid work. From this research
healthy, high-performing teams in a hybrid world. After the event,
and our Real Deal insights, we learned that regular check-ins with
90 percent of attendees reported confidence that the action plans
leaders predict higher employee engagement and career success,
they developed would help their team work better together.
and our people want more consistent and open conversations with
their leaders. These findings helped inform the new performance and
Upskilling our teams at a
development strategies we rolled out this year to help ensure the
success of our leaders and teams.
crucial moment
2.3 million Technology continues to shape our world and our work. Now more
than ever, technical literacy is crucial for workers in many fields. Cisco’s
Team Space Check-Ins submitted
TECH for Non-TECH program focuses on upskilling and career mobility
for people in nontechnical roles and provides a better understanding
85% 8%
of the technical aspects of Cisco’s products. Interactive virtual classes
of employees submitted increase from cover topics like cloud computing, networking, data science, security,
Check-Ins fiscal 2022 software development, and emerging technologies. In fiscal 2023 we
launched 21 new course offerings and reached 7471 attendees.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 28
The power of our people
In fiscal 2023, over 220 new volunteers joined
the Ambassador Hub, an internal site to foster
engagement among the greatest champions
of our Cisco culture. The space recognizes
employees who have participated in our
onboarding program for new hires and shared
their stories in live panel discussions.
Nurturing our culture
from day one
New Cisconians learn about all aspects of our company as part of
their orientation—My Onboarding Journey—and Culture Ambassadors
are there to welcome them! By volunteering to join panels as part of
the orientation process, Culture Ambassadors foster our company
culture and a sense of community through sharing their knowledge
and mentorship. They share their perspectives and experiences,
and help create an inclusive environment where new employees
By sharing our stories, challenges,
from around the world feel supported, empowered, and encouraged
and solutions, we provide a more to bring to life one of Cisco’s guiding principles—give your best. As Learn more about employee experience.
holistic understanding of what it expressed by one volunteer panelist, Lisa Andrews: “When we foster
means to be a part of Cisco.” dynamic, successful teams that collaborate and perform, our business,
ESG
people, and communities all benefit.” Reporting Hub
- Mohit Sharma, Consulting Engineer
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 29
Health and
wellbeing
We help employees take care of themselves and their Broadening support
families, recognizing that a healthy workforce is the
for neurodiversity
foundation for a thriving and resilient organization.
To ensure that our health and wellbeing programs align with employees’ Listening to our neurodivergent employees is integral to creating
needs, we actively seek input through Real Deal surveys, extensive a workplace where all can thrive. In fiscal 2023, we created a
wellbeing research, partnership with our Inclusive Communities, global Neurodivergent focus area of the Connected Disability
monitoring of healthcare trends, and more. Awareness Network (CDAN). Additionally, the CDAN chapter in our
Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) region partnered with Lexxic,
Embracing diverse a consultancy that helps organizations develop neurodiverse-friendly
environments, to provide education and resources tailored to the needs
parenting challenges
of neurodivergent employees. In the United Kingdom, we incorporated
neurodivergence and sensory considerations into the remodel of our
Cisco offers a range of benefits that acknowledge and address the London office, setting a precedent for future workplace design. These
unique demands of parenthood. RethinkCare, a program to support advancements have been largely driven by neurodivergent employees
Cisco parents of children with a learning, social, or behavioral themselves, sparking transformative dialogues and fostering meaningful
challenge, or a developmental disability, offers expert consultations, changes within the organization.
evidence-based education, and a library of skill-based content. New
in fiscal 2023, we expanded offerings to provide support and advice Evolving the Cisco
on various modern-day parenting issues, including managing child
Mind Set program
tantrums, communicating effectively with teenagers, and navigating
device usage.
Cisco Mind Set empowers employees to manage stress and enhance
their overall wellbeing. In fiscal 2023, we launched a pilot initiative to
Learn more about health, wellbeing, and transform this individual-focused program into a team experience.
benefits, as well as programs to keep This shift fosters culture change by encouraging entire teams to
employees safe. embark on mindfulness training together, integrating mindfulness
practices into team rituals and work practices.
ESG
Reporting Hub
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 30
Championing women’s wellness
Cisco doesn’t shy away from difficult conversations on sensitive
topics. Our Women of Cisco Inclusive Community’s annual Women
of Impact event featured discussions on crucial women’s health
concerns, like “Mastering Midlife,” which opened up conversations
about menopause-related issues and featured senior leaders
sharing their personal stories. The ripple effect of these powerful
conversations extended regionally, notably in the United Kingdom,
where employees and experts engaged in public discussions about
infertility, menstruation, and loss of a child.
Conversations are just the beginning. Cisco also demonstrated its
dedication to women’s health with a new virtual pelvic health program
in the United States. This pioneering initiative provides virtual physical
therapy for pelvic health at various life stages, addressing the needs
of those with vaginal anatomy who may never intend to have children,
those trying to conceive, those who have already given birth, and
those in menopause.
Prioritizing mental health equity
We are committed to creating a work environment that values and
prioritizes mental health and wellbeing—and destigmatizes seeking At Cisco, we recognize that mental
treatment for mental health concerns. Recognizing the importance health is health. We can only build a
of affordability for mental health care, Cisco recently embarked on a
culture of inclusivity and authenticity
comprehensive mental health parity analysis, examining the coverage
when we support our people across
gap between physical and mental health needs in various countries. In
all aspects of health and wellbeing.”
several locations, we adjusted coverage so that mental health support
mirrors what is provided for physical health concerns. But some gaps - S heila Champion-Smeeth,
remain, due to the complex landscape of insurance markets and Global Head of Wellbeing
healthcare systems in certain parts of the world. As we continue to
advocate for necessary changes in provider networks, we not only
enhance support for our own employees but also help drive broader
improvements across the industry.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 31
Employee
The power of participation
community impact
SINCE FY20:
>80%
Giving back is an important aspect of our culture. It’s a
employee community impact participation
way for our employees to bring Cisco’s purpose to life—
every year, including advocacy,
and it’s a sign of employee engagement.
volunteering, donations, and more
In fiscal 2023, 85 percent of employees participated in community
impact—the highest level yet. We measure impact by employees’ US$127 million
actions, including advocating for causes they care about, environmental
raised through employee donations
sustainability actions, volunteering (virtual and in-person), donating,
and matching gifts
digital give-back experiences, and learning about nonprofits through
lunch-and-learns. We also launched a new Community Impact Portal
2 million
and removed the monetary minimum to nominate a nonprofit for
donation matching, lowering the barrier for employees to take action. As volunteer hours recorded
a result, we raised more than US$27 million in fiscal 2023 in employee
donations and matching gifts to nonprofits. 7100+
We completed a three-year study that examined Cisco employees’ global causes and U.S. schools supported
participation in community impact alongside their performance,
including their likeliness to remain at Cisco, get recognized, and get
IN FY23:
promoted. The results confirmed what we have long suspected:
employees, leaders, and teams that engage in community impact 71,000+
outperform those who do not. Employees who take at
employees took action to give back
least one community impact
This finding aligns with countless anecdotal examples of employees
who are empowered to champion causes they care about, engage action per year, compared US$27 million
their teams to get involved, and gain valuable leadership skills to those who do not, have:
in employee donations and matching gifts
that contribute to their professional development. This correlation
suggests that if Cisco can attract employees who are excited about ● Lower attrition
702,000+
our community impact mission, these employees will build upon our ● More promotions
existing momentum—and go even further to bring our purpose to life.
● More recognition from peers employee volunteer hours
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 32
Protecting our environment Connecting inclusion and impact
Cisco employees are highly engaged on sustainability. We have 24 Green Cisco’s Inclusive Communities engage employees around an identity
Team Networks worldwide that drive environmental change, offer or topic of interest, including community engagement. For example,
resources and training on circular design and sustainability solutions, we launched HAVEN to expand opportunities for people interested in Sparking change in Lebanon
and host an annual SustainX event in celebration of Earth Day. addressing homelessness in their communities. Our Women in Science
and Engineering group organized career panels, coaching events, and In fiscal 2023, a Cisco Inclusive Community,
For more than 25 years, we have hosted electronics recycling
mock interviews for women exploring science, technology, engineering, Lebanese at Cisco, participated in a range of
events, gathering 111 tons of material in 2023. Employees also
and mathematics (STEM) careers. The Alzheimer’s Support Network impactful initiatives:
participate in volunteer cleanup events. For example, Thottikallu Falls
held its annual executive auction and raised US$152,000 for Cisco's
is a popular natural area and attraction near Bangalore, India, but ● E mpowering youth: Collaborating with Life
National Alzheimer's team, making Cisco the #1 tech fundraising
Project 4 Youth, members conducted mock
littering and pollution have impacted the falls’ natural beauty. In fiscal
team to participate in the Walk to End Alzheimer’s. Pride LGBTQ+ & interviews with economically disadvantaged
2023, over 250 Cisco volunteers participated in the area's cleanup
Allies established a new chapter in Singapore, organized Pride events youth, sharpening their interview skills and
and gathered over 2200 pounds of trash.
globally, and engaged with Cisco leaders in support of a US$100,000 fostering confidence in their professional
development.
donation made through Cisco's donor-advised fund at the Silicon Valley
We also recently launched “Ask The Experts,” a program where
Community Foundation to the Human Rights Campaign, whose mission ● Philanthropy in action: Partnering with
employees can hear from Cisco thought leaders on how emerging
arcenciel, a nonprofit that serves marginalized
is to end discrimination against LGBTQ+ people and realize a world that
technologies are used to power a more sustainable future.
communities, Cisco donated over US$600,000
achieves fundamental fairness and equality for all.
worth of Cisco products and technology,
connecting 12 centers across the country.
● F ueling warmth: In response to a nationwide
power outage, members raised funds and
secured 10 tons of fuel for an elder care
I am constantly inspired by
home in North Lebanon, ensuring comfort
stories of people across during the harsh winter.
Cisco, in different cities and ● R amadan outreach: During Ramadan,
countries, who give back. members partnered with nonprofit Ahla
Fawda to host a meal for the Lebanese Civil
Through our technology,
Defense, a public emergency medical service.
philanthropy, and
The community also distributed food parcels
community engagement, and partnered with the Cisco Foundation to
we have a real opportunity donate a defibrillator to the organization.
to make a significant mark
Learn more about our
on this planet.
employees in action.
-J onathan Davidson,
EVP/GM, Cisco Networking
ESG
Reporting Hub
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 33
Future
Help advance a sustainable and
regenerative future for our planet
Around the world, businesses are undergoing two
simultaneous shifts: the digitization of their operations,
products, and services, and the demand from stakeholders
to decarbonize and embrace a regenerative future. Cisco
is supporting our customers in both of these transitions.
We lead the way by reducing the environmental impacts of
our own operations, designing more energy-efficient and
circular products, engaging our suppliers to reduce their
impacts, and investing with intention in communities at the
forefront of the climate crisis.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 34
The Plan for
Possible
Transition to Evolve to a Invest in resilient
In a world where climate change is amplifying
clean energy regenerative, ecosystems
natural disasters, food shortages, and mass
circular model
migrations, we are embedding sustainability
into the way we operate.
Through collaboration, we believe we can help build not just a
sustainable future, but a regenerative one. This means moving
to a mindset in which we build the capacity of our social and
environmental systems to heal and thrive.
Cisco published its first corporate citizenship report in 2005. Our plan to
Lead in energy-efficiency Adopt business models to extend Reduce the impacts of our
Since that time, global atmospheric carbon levels have innovation the value of our products and business on water, waste,
increased from approximately 379 to 419 parts per million. connect a reduce environmental impacts ecosystems, and biodiversity
Average land and ocean temperatures have increased by Connect clean energy and
regenerative Invest in technology Enable communities to adapt to
digitize the grid
more than half a degree. With this sense of urgency in mind, incubation to be at pace with climate realities
Cisco revealed The Plan for Possible, our next-generation future environmental science
Collaborate with our Cultivate skills and talent for
environmental sustainability strategy, in fiscal 2023. The
customers, partners, and Champion a digital, the regenerative economy
strategy has three priorities, as seen at right. suppliers to accelerate the nature-positive value chain,
energy transition leveraging our global reach Deploy Cisco technology
Underpinning our new strategy is an enhanced governance to protect and restore
Continue to increase our ecosystems and biodiversity
model, led by Cisco’s first Chief Sustainability Officer,
use of renewable energy in
Mary de Wysocki. In fiscal 2023, we created the Cisco Harness AI, IoT, and blockchain to
Cisco’s operations
advance regenerative models
Sustainability Council, with representation from functions
across the business, to drive cross-company governance
and execution. We also established governance processes
for external communications, public goals, and claims related
to environmental sustainability.
Read more about how we’re driving sustainability
across each of these priorities and explore data.
Through enhanced governance, we are managing risk,
increasing the transparency with which we communicate
about sustainability, and upholding the high level of trust our ESG
Reporting Hub
customers and others have come to expect from Cisco.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 35
Clean energy
transitions
GHG emissions reduction goals
Cisco has an opportunity to speed the transition to
Net-zero goal
low-carbon energy within our own business and
among our suppliers, customers, communities, and
By 2040: Reach net-zero GHG emissions across our value
other stakeholders.
chain by reducing absolute Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions
by 90% (FY19 base year).1
Our focus on GHG emissions reduction is captured in our goal to
reach net zero across our value chain (Scopes 1, 2, and 3) by 2040. We are reporting progress through the near-term
This goal has been approved by the Science Based Targets initiative targets below:
(SBTi) under its Net-Zero Standard, which is aligned with the need to
limit global temperature rise to 1.5°C above preindustrial levels. Cisco
Near-term targets
was one of the first technology hardware and equipment companies
to have its net-zero goal validated under the SBTi Net-Zero Standard. By FY25: Reduce absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 90% (FY19 base year).1
Cisco’s approach to reaching net zero is anchored in reducing 48% reduction
emissions across the value chain. Our goal is to reduce all scopes
By FY30: Reduce absolute Scope 3 emissions from purchased goods and services, upstream
of emissions by at least 90 percent by 2040 and use high-quality transportation and distribution, and use of sold products by 30% (FY19 base year).2,3
carbon removal offsets to reduce no more than 10 percent of our
14% reduction (based on Cisco’s current Scope 3 emissions calculation methodology and subject to change)4
residual emissions.
1 We will neutralize any remaining emissions by removing an equal amount from the atmosphere.
2 The baseline and progress reported for our 2030 goal includes: purchased goods and services from manufacturing, component, and warehouse
suppliers; upstream transportation and distribution from Cisco purchased air transportation; and use of sold products.
3 We updated our methodology in fiscal 2023 for calculating "Scope 3 Category 11: Use of sold products" to further align with the Greenhouse Gas
Protocol. For more information on our current methodology, as well as data and goal tracking using our previous methodology, visit the
Historic GHG methodology discussion in the Strategy, goals and emissions data section on our ESG Reporting Hub.
4 We expect our progress to fluctuate year-over-year based on the number and type of products we sell each year. Due to increased product sales,
there was an increase in GHG emissions in fiscal 2023, thus progress has decreased from fiscal 2022.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 36
How our footprint determines our path forward Learn more about emissions reduction
strategy, goals, and data.
ESG
Cisco fiscal 2023 emissions and decarbonization strategies by category Reporting Hub
23 5
% %
PROCUREMENT AND PRODUCT LOGISTICS (Scope 3 Category 4)
MANUFACTURING (Scope 3 Categories 1 and 2)
We are addressing emissions produced by upstream
About one fourth of our emissions come from transportation and distribution of our products by
purchased goods and services (including capital prioritizing ocean over air and engaging with suppliers
goods). For Cisco, this includes manufacturing and to shift lower-emission modes of transport.
warehousing of Cisco components and products,
<1
and procurement of goods that support Cisco’s %
business. We are engaging with our suppliers to better
DIRECT OPERATIONS (Scope 1 and 2)
understand their use of renewable energy, to set
emissions reduction goals, and to help them engage Emissions from the operation of Cisco facilities and
with their own suppliers to tackle emissions. assets account for 1 percent of our emissions—but they
are also within our direct control. We’re addressing
70
% them through investments in renewable energy, energy
efficiency, and building and fleet electrification.
PRODUCT USE (Scope 3 Category 11)
2
The largest portion of our emissions results from the %
energy our products consume during use. We are
ALL OTHER SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS
addressing these emissions by investing in product
energy efficiency through cooling systems, optics, and A small percentage of our emissions come from other
power sources, as well as working to understand our Scope 3 categories such as employee business travel
customers' renewable electricity use and strategy. and commuting, downstream product transport,
and end of use product treatment. We are exploring
opportunities to reduce emissions in these categories.
Note: Numbers may not add up to 100 percent due to rounding.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 37
Developing more
sustainable products
The majority of Cisco's Scope 3 emissions are attributable to product
use. By embedding circularity and sustainability into the design of
our products, we can have a significant impact. We are working to Enabling smart grids
reduce our Scope 3 emissions, and our customers’ emissions, by
Enel, Italy’s largest electricity provider, uses
engineering more energy-efficient products and developing solutions
Cisco technology to monitor its energy grid
that can power smart buildings and other sustainable infrastructure.
and preemptively address faults or failures.
For example, the recently announced Cisco Silicon One G200 chip
Cisco also helps Enel connect to renewable
optimizes workloads while keeping costs and power low. For over a
energy sources, like solar and wind energy,
decade, Unified Computing System servers have been engineered
at scale, speeding the transition to a low-
with sustainability in mind. The product recently received the 2023
carbon electrical grid. See our ESG Reporting
Sustainability, Environmental Achievement, and Leadership (SEAL)
Hub for more ways we’re helping customers.
Sustainable Product Award. Built with modular, easily removable
components, its upgradeable designs help to extend the use of the
chassis, power supply, cooling, and other major components, and
are optimized for repair, reuse, and eventually recycling. The latest
X-Series architecture also features technology innovations such as
efficient 54V power distribution, intelligent fan controls, zone-based
cooling, and 80 Plus Titanium-rated power supplies.
Our customers and partners are a key part With network infrastructure growing increasingly complex, the Nexus
of our environmental strategy to build a Dashboard provides a single focal point to unite data center and cloud
regenerative future. We are in a unique networking operations. Operators can use telemetry to learn about
position to help them make progress their network’s impact on energy, cost, and emissions through Cisco
Nexus Dashboard Insights sustainability reports. Similarly, the Webex
toward their sustainability goals and enable
Control Hub recently launched the Carbon Emissions Insights widget,
them to optimize energy consumption,
which allows companies to view the estimated energy consumption
lower costs, achieve greater performance,
and carbon emissions of their Cisco devices.
and minimize their carbon footprint."
-Mary de Wysocki, Chief Sustainability Officer
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 38
Focusing on our direct operations
Cisco has been developing and executing on initiatives to reduce and Environmental Design (LEED®) and International WELL Building
the environmental impact of our facilities for more than 15 years. In Institute’s WELL v2 Building Standard with five more in progress.
fiscal 2023, we implemented 27 energy efficiency projects that avoid These certified spaces make up 19 percent of our building portfolio.
approximately 4.9 GWh of energy consumption and 2100 metric tonne
We also continue to advance sustainability in our global data centers
carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) each year. To reduce Scope 1 and 2
by focusing on sustainability in design, optimized operations, energy
emissions and make progress on our near-term target, we plan to
management, asset recovery and reuse, and responsible procurement.
invest approximately US$39 million in renewable energy, energy
efficiency, and electrification projects between fiscal years 2023
and 2025. This includes a multiyear project to electrify fuel-burning
heating systems in our buildings and increase the use of electric
vehicles in our European company car fleet.
48%
In fiscal 2023, approximately 91 percent of our global electricity
reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG
came from renewable energy sources, including 100 percent in the
emissions from FY19 baseline
United States, Canada, and various other countries. We are also
making significant strides in India, where 81 percent of our electricity
91%
came from renewable sources in fiscal 2023. We will continue our
focus on both our onsite and offsite renewable energy efforts over
of global electricity came from
the next few years.
renewable sources in FY23
Through our hybrid work strategy, we are adopting more sustainable
building practices that are not only more efficient, but also make for 19%
more productive places to work. By focusing on the quality, rather
of our building portfolio is
than the quantity, of facilities, we have reduced real estate square
LEED/WELL certified
footage by 15 percent since August 2017. As of fiscal 2023, we
have 35 Cisco facilities with green building certifications, such as
the United States' Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 39
Addressing emissions in our Collaborating with clean
supply chain energy initiatives
Engaging our suppliers is necessary to reduce the emissions that Cisco also supports suppliers in their clean energy transitions. In In January 2023, Cisco joined the Eco-Skies Alliance, which brings
arise from manufacturing and transporting our products. Along with fiscal 2023, we engaged with suppliers through surveys and in direct together United Airlines and leading global corporations to help
reaching net-zero emissions across our value chain by 2040, Cisco conversations to better understand their own challenges in GHG power lower-emissions air travel by investing in sustainable aviation
has a near-term target to reduce emissions in our supply chain and emissions reductions and renewable energy utilization. Looking fuel (SAF). SAF is a biofuel with similar properties to conventional
from our customers’ use of our products by 30 percent by fiscal 2030 ahead, we are working on developing a renewable energy strategy to jet fuel but a smaller carbon footprint. Depending on the feedstock
(fiscal 2019 base year).1 The first step in reducing our supply chain help us guide suppliers in accessing clean energy solutions that are and technologies used to produce it, SAF can reduce lifecycle
GHG emissions is to ensure our suppliers are committed to making right for them and that add new renewable energy to the grid. Learn GHG emissions dramatically, compared to conventional jet fuel. For
emissions reductions and tracking and reporting on those efforts. more about supplier engagement on emissions reduction in our ESG now, SAF is not widely available and is not yet incorporated in our
That’s why Cisco also set a goal to have 80 percent of our component, Reporting Hub. emissions accounting reporting. With this investment, however, Cisco
manufacturing, and logistics suppliers by spend set a public, absolute is sending a demand signal to support increased production of SAF.
GHG emissions reduction target by fiscal 2025. We collaborate
Cisco also recently joined the RE100 initiative, which brings together
with suppliers to reduce the emissions of their operations, such as
businesses committed to 100 percent renewable electricity.
supporting initiatives to reduce energy use and providing resources for
Sourcing more renewable energy is an important part of Cisco’s
emissions accounting and absolute or science-based target setting. Supplier climate target
goal to reach net zero by 2040 and our near-term Scope 1 and 2
In fiscal 2023, we piloted the RBA's new Emissions Management Tool
target. Beyond helping us make progress toward our own goals,
with key manufacturing suppliers to help businesses better understand By FY25: 80% of Cisco component,
joining RE100 supports Cisco’s ambition to increase clean energy
energy use and related emissions at their sites. manufacturing, and logistics suppliers by
access globally and contributes to the private-sector demand for
spend have a public, absolute GHG emissions
renewables. We also continue to engage with renewable energy
reduction target.2
providers and buyers through the Clean Energy Buyers Alliance
92% with targets (CEBA) and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Green
Power Partnership, and we are a founding member of the Asia
Clean Energy Coalition.
1 The baseline and progress reported for our 2030 goal includes: purchased goods and services from manufacturing, component, and warehouse
suppliers; upstream transportation and distribution from Cisco purchased air transportation; and use of sold products.
2 Suppliers are expected to set absolute GHG emissions reduction targets or intensity targets that produce an absolute emissions reduction
during the target period. Cisco encourages suppliers to set targets in line with an approved science-based methodology. Progress toward this
goal is quantified using Cisco’s supply chain spend which can vary annually. Cisco will continue to work with suppliers to set their own absolute
GHG emissions reduction targets, and to report progress toward this goal annually through fiscal 2025.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 40
Growing an ecosystem for climate finance
Addressing the climate crisis is not only a matter of keeping carbon in the ground and
out of the atmosphere. It’s also about putting money in the right places—specifically, with
organizations and solutions that are working on decarbonization solutions and programs PROGRESS TOWARD CISCO
that can lead to a regenerative future. FOUNDATION'S COMMITMENT
TO FUND US$100M IN CLIMATE
An estimated US$125 trillion is needed to achieve net zero globally, including investments SOLUTIONS THROUGH FISCAL 2030
in clean energy, agriculture, food, and land use. While many businesses have begun
US$10.1 million
to invest in decarbonization, there is still not nearly enough money where it’s needed,
particularly in terms of funding for early-stage solutions. Currently, less than 2 percent in grants since fiscal 20211
of philanthropic dollars goes toward addressing climate change. As with the need to
draw down carbon and regenerate depleted ecosystems before it’s too late, we need US$9.7 million
to catalyze investments in the right places—and fast.
in investments since fiscal 20211
In 2021, the Cisco Foundation committed to fund US$100 million in climate solutions over
the next 10 years. The funding takes two main forms: impact investments in for-profit
ventures and grant funding for nonprofits and NGOs. This innovative blended finance
approach allows the Cisco Foundation to seek out and scale the best solutions, no matter
their profit model or financing avenues available to support such early-stage ventures.
The Cisco Foundation’s focus on systems change connects disparate stakeholders and
encourages capital flows. As a result, the Cisco Foundation partners with financing
To bring about a more sustainable future, entirely new
organizations that provide funding to others. These include Enduring Planet, which
levels of innovation and investment are necessary. The
provides revenue-based financing and grant advancements that allow climate startups to
Cisco Foundation has responded to this call. I’m confident
continue operating while they wait for grant funding. Another partner, Trailhead Capital,
that our blended finance approach will inspire other
backs entrepreneurs building innovations for regenerative food and agricultural systems.
For Vesta, a hybrid nonprofit/public-benefit enterprise, the Cisco Foundation provided corporate foundations to fill key climate finance gaps and
both initial grants and an early-stage impact investment for coastal carbon capture. drive forward high-impact, inclusive climate solutions.”
- J ocelyn Matyas, Lead, Cisco Foundation Climate Impact Investing
1 Totals may vary from the summation due to rounding.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 41
Circular
transformation
Circular economy goals
Now is the time to transition from an economy that By FY25: 100% of new Cisco products and By FY25: 50% of the plastic used in our products
extracts resources and eventually wastes them, to packaging incorporate Circular Design (by weight) will be made of recycled content.4
a circular one that finds new uses for products and Principles.1
24% recycled content
their inputs. 27% meeting circular design criteria
By FY25: 70% of Cisco component and
We aim to transform our business to extend the useful life of our
By FY25: Reduce foam used in Cisco product manufacturing suppliers by spend achieve a
products and provide ongoing services.
packaging by 75% as measured by weight zero-waste diversion rate at one or more sites.5
(FY19 base year).2
We are embedding circularity into how we design our products 60% by spend with at least one certified site
and packaging. This means designing to enable reuse, minimize 22% reduction
environmental impacts, drive innovation, and realize value for our
stakeholders. We are deploying new offerings that can help Cisco By FY25: Increase product packaging cube
and our customers capture more value throughout a product’s life, efficiency by 50% (FY19 base year).3
such as IT payment solutions supporting circularity-as-a-service
65% cumulative improvement
models. And we are striving to minimize waste and extend the
lifecycle of our products by recapturing hardware and redeploying
1 The scope of this goal is limited to hardware products and associated packaging, excluding: standalone components (e.g., chassis, ASICs, optical
those assets through remanufacture, reuse, and recycling. This modules); standalone basic product accessories (e.g., power cables, brackets); Original Equipment Manufacturer products (where Cisco does not
own the design); products and packaging of nonintegrated acquisitions. Product and packaging designs achieving a score of 75 percent or higher are
circular approach is both good for business and good for the planet.
counted toward the goal.
2 To improve measurement accuracy, we changed our methodology for this goal in fiscal 2023 to calculate the foam used in our shipped product
packaging instead of the total foam purchased from suppliers. The base year (fiscal 2019) foam use was recalculated using the updated methodology,
and fiscal 2023 progress is measured against this.
3 Packaging efficiency is measured by comparing the size of the product relative to the packaging, using dimensional weight. Dimensional weight uses
volume and a standard dimensional factor to calculate the weight of a package. In this methodology, the packaging efficiency metric is based on
the difference of the normalized dimensional weight (by volume) between the baseline and current year. In fiscal 2023, we updated our calculation
methodology to improve accuracy. We will continue to report progress toward this goal annually through fiscal 2025. This goal applies to high-volume
packaging requiring redesigns.
4 The scope of this goal excludes plastics contained in commodity components (e.g., plastic screws, fans, and cables) and in products designed and
manufactured by our Original Design Manufacturers.
5 According to current standard definitions used in certification protocols, “zero-waste” diversion is defined as a 90 percent or greater overall diversion
of solid, nonhazardous wastes from landfill, incineration (waste-to-energy), and the environment. Diversion methods can include reduction, reuse,
recycling, and/or compost.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 42
Incorporating circular
design principles
Circular design means designing products and systems that enable
reuse, minimize environmental impacts, drive innovation, and realize
value for our stakeholders. We align to 25 Circular Design Principles
organized across five focus areas:
1. Material use
2. Standardization and modularization
3. Packaging and accessories
4. Smart energy consumption
5. Disassembly, repair, and reuse
In fiscal 2023, we continued to integrate our Circular Design Principles
into core design processes and operations. We also provided
opportunities for employees to learn more about circular design and
better incorporate the Principles into their work. We organized product
teardowns, where cross-functional teams took apart and analyzed
components of selected products and packaging to identify ways to
improve their design for circularity. Additionally, we collaborated with
our recycling partners to inform how we design products for end of life.
A group of supply chain engineers from Cisco's Collaboration team also
visited one of our recycling partner’s sites, where they learned how
products were disassembled for recycling. This greater understanding
can inform engineers' future design and material use decisions.
Reducing plastic use
Read more about our
In fiscal 2023, we continued working on several projects focused on
circular design program.
reducing the use of plastic and, where plastic could not be designed
out, increasing the use of recycled plastic. For example, Cisco's
ESG
Collaboration team redesigned products such as the Webex Room Reporting Hub
Bar to use at least 55 percent postconsumer recycled resin.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 43
Making packaging circular Recovering and redeploying
Cisco equipment
Protecting the product is the first priority for packaging, as repairing
or replacing products that are damaged in transit creates additional
negative business and environmental impacts. However, there are Our customers are increasingly considering new ways to extend the New services program
lifecycle of their equipment. In addition to Cisco Refresh, which allows
many ways we reduce packaging and make the packaging we do use reduces need to ship
customers to purchase remanufactured products with like-new
more sustainable, such as:
replacement equipment
warranties, in fiscal 2022 Cisco Capital launched Cisco Green Pay,
● Optimizing space in our packaging, including using multipack an IT payment solution supporting circularity that provides a path
solutions for high-volume products Cisco’s Supply Chain Services & Logistics
for customers of all sizes to acquire Cisco products in a manner
organization supports customer and partner
● Removing unnecessary materials that prioritizes sustainability. At the end of the contract, Cisco will
hardware Return Material Authorizations (RMAs),
● Using alternative materials that are renewable, recyclable, or both reuse, remanufacture, or recycle the loaned equipment, replacing
which are issued when a product is returned
out-of-date hardware with updated models. The program offers
to Cisco—whether at end-of-life or as part of
predictable payments for five years, up to a 5 percent discount on
a service need. A new services program aims
equipment, free shipping of returned assets, and a confirmation
to reduce the number of RMAs that result from
that the product has entered Cisco's Circular Economy Program.
service requests.
Cosentino, a global manufacturer of countertop and flooring products,
Cisco Customer Experience (CX) organization
was the first customer to leverage a Cisco Green Pay agreement.
led the development and implementation of
"By cycling out our network every three years, we eliminate e-waste
Intelligent RMA Experience (IRE) innovation,
and ensure we always have the most reliable and secure hardware
which aims to accelerate the resolution of
available," says Diego Zengin, Cosentino's Chief Technology Officer.
cases involving an RMA and to enable a
seamless RMA experience requiring minimal
touch for the customer, and reducing risk of
Read more examples of our progress damage to the product. IRE provides RMA
on packaging sustainability. support using an AI/ML (machine learning)
prediction engine and robotic process
ESG automation. In fiscal 2023, IRE helped avoid over
Reporting Hub
5000 RMAs through automation of workflows to
troubleshoot some of the most common issues
with products in the field. This process helps
reduce carbon emissions and supports Cisco’s
circular economy efforts.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 44
Resilient
ecosystems
As Cisco products are manufactured by our suppliers, water
In addition to transitioning to clean energy and adopting
stewardship within the supply chain is another area in which we
a circular flow of materials, Cisco is helping safeguard
engage. We work to improve the river basins and ecosystems where
the water, land, and ecosystems that businesses and
our suppliers operate, focusing on both internal and external water
communities depend on.
management. As a member of the Alliance for Water Stewardship
Within our own operations, we conserve water, reduce waste, and (AWS), we are proud to be a part of a global movement to advance
protect wildlife habitats near our office locations. We also work good water stewardship practices. In collaboration with ICT peers,
with our suppliers to promote environmental stewardship practices we engage high-water-consuming supplier areas located in high-
throughout our value chain. More broadly, our products and water-stress areas in water stewardship programs.
investments can be used to monitor and manage local resources and
In fiscal 2023, we worked with GAIASCAPE Studio under Friends
ecosystems. Support from the Cisco Foundation is helping to protect
of Nature, a China-based environmental NGO, to train suppliers to
and regenerate ecosystems while supporting communities in adapting
improve onsite water stewardship through nature-based solution
to the realities of a changing climate.
workshops, including rainwater harvesting systems, landscaping,
and wastewater treatment. We also cohosted a “water field trip” with
Water stewardship in our 98%
AWS and an industry peer for high-water-consumption suppliers to
operations and supply chain learn about the importance of wetland and water source protection on of Cisco key suppliers1 disclosed to CDP
China’s Qiandao Lake. (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project)
Water is a vital resource that we share with the communities where
we operate. Over the past few years, we have implemented water 76%
conservation projects in our direct operations that are still conserving
In FY23, we withdrew 2464 m3 of water, a of Cisco key suppliers1 set water-related
water today, like our comprehensive water management system at our
targets in CDP
25%
Bangalore campus. In fiscal 2023, we withdrew 2464 cubic meters
decrease from FY19.
of water in our direct operations globally, a 25 percent decrease
16
since fiscal 2019. Annually, we use the World Resources Institute's
(WRI) Aqueduct tool to better understand our water use and risks.
Learn more about supplier sites engaged in ICT water
The Aqueduct tool revealed that 35 percent of Cisco’s water use by
our water initiatives. stewardship program
volume is withdrawn from water-stressed areas.
1 Key suppliers means Cisco Contract Manufacturers, Strategic Original Design ESG
Reporting Hub
Manufacturers and Hardware Suppliers in the top 80 percent of spend in fiscal 2023.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 45
Reducing waste in our operations Protecting biodiversity
and ecosystems
As employees returned to offices worldwide, our waste generation
increased slightly. However, the percentage of waste we’ve diverted
Cisco recognizes that climate change and environmental degradation
from landfill has also increased, from 75 percent in fiscal 2022 to
can quicken habitat loss, which in turn accelerates the impacts of
78 percent in fiscal 2023. We achieved this diversion rate through
climate change by undermining natural defenses against extreme
reuse, recycling, composting, and donations.
weather, like forests and coastline ecosystems.
We also engage suppliers on waste and set a goal that 70 percent of
The Cisco Foundation’s US$100 million commitment to climate
our component and manufacturing suppliers by spend will achieve a
solutions helps protect and restore sensitive agroecosystems. One
zero-waste diversion rate at one or more sites by fiscal 2025. As of
recent grantee, PlantVillage, supports smallholder farmers in Africa
fiscal 2023, 60 percent of suppliers had reached this goal.
in transitioning to more regenerative and resilient farming practices,
including planting trees on the periphery of their farms. The Cisco
CHART 3: Foundation supported a pilot study that leverages technology to
plan and track the benefits of these agroforestry practices, such
Fiscal 2023 operational waste streams
as improved soil health, erosion prevention, and shade and wind
protection, as well as possible community income via carbon markets.
Also, Cisco strives to protect the natural world and its species in our
own operations and beyond. For nearly a decade, Cisco surveillance,
data, and analytics technology have been used to protect endangered
species and their habitats around the world through Connected
Conservation—the first solution of its kind to proactively protect
animals while allowing them to roam freely.
Learn more about how Cisco
manages operational waste.
ESG
Reporting Hub
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 46
For All
Address root causes of inequity,
eliminate barriers, and foster
lasting, generational change
The most important words of Cisco’s purpose statement
are the final two: “for all.” We strive to create a better future
for all, by all, and with all stakeholders who share our vision.
The ambitions we’ve set and the change we seek cannot
be achieved by any one company working alone. We scale
our efforts by collaborating with customers, peers, partners,
and nonprofit/NGO grantee partners to bring this new future
to life.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 47
Crisis response
A climate refugee in Africa and a person sleeping on
the streets of California share a common struggle—the
yearning for basic life necessities and a place to call home.
Cisco’s commitment to vulnerable populations worldwide addresses
critical needs arising from political instability, natural disasters, and
housing insecurity. Through the Cisco Crisis Response (CCR) team, we
stand with those in need, offering more than just temporary aid.
In times of crisis, the ability to connect is one of the most critical and
immediate needs. As a provider of networking technology, we are
uniquely positioned to securely connect and empower vulnerable
communities through digital access, enabling them to rebuild their lives
and create a brighter future. We provide financial support, equipment,
expertise, training, consulting, and deployment capabilities to support
our partners and affected communities.
Over the past 20 years, we have helped humanitarian and emergency
response organizations set up robust networks to deliver life-saving
aid. However, nonprofit organizations are often disproportionately
susceptible to cyber attacks, leaving them exposed in critical situations
and putting already vulnerable populations at even greater risk.
In response to these challenges, we prioritize the security of the
networks we build, by providing extensive consultation and leveraging
Cisco’s suite of security products to protect our nonprofit partners
and the communities they serve. By addressing these pressing issues
head-on, our partners can operate with confidence and safeguard
their vital humanitarian missions. Learn more about our
crisis response.
ESG
Reporting Hub
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 48
Combatting homelessness
Destination: Home 5-Year Impact
Building on the US$60 million donated to nonprofit Destination: Home
between 2018 and 2022, Cisco granted US$5 million to Destination:
Home in 2023 to continue its efforts to address homelessness in
Silicon Valley. Over the past five years, our efforts have focused on We finance impactful strategies that tackle homelessness at its core, securing stable homes
developing affordable housing; preventing homelessness through for our most vulnerable neighbors. And we've made impressive progress so far.
financial, legal, and other assistance programs; improving Wi-Fi
access in affordable housing developments; and supporting the
14,923 3300+ US$1.5 YEAR 1 (2017-2018)
hardware and software needs of residents.
individuals from new homes across billion+ 215
Cisco has also been a corporate partner of Covenant House since
5414 33 in other funding households served through
2014, volunteering and fundraising to address youth homelessness.
leveraged for homelessness prevention programs
Our employees mobilized around this issue, including participating households prevented developments housing production
in "sleep outs" during which they sleep outdoors for a night to raise from becoming homeless funded since 2018 in Santa Clara
YEAR 6 (2022-2023)
County through
awareness and funds about the homelessness crisis. Just seven
our investment 1600
Cisco employees participated as sleepers in 2014, a number that
grew to 754 in 2022. Over the past five years, Cisco employees have households served through
homelessness prevention programs
raised US$10 million for Covenant House.
CISCO AND COVENANT Households 61% 37% 89%
HOUSE IN FY23
served through include heads of extremely
children household with low income at
US$2.5 million
homelessness a disabling enrollment
condition
raised during FY23 prevention
Sleep Out events programs
750+
Cisco employees participated
in Sleep Out events across
multiple cities and countries
US$1.2 million
in Cisco product donations
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 49
Supporting forcibly displaced
communities from Ukraine
In the past decade, the global refugee crisis has more than doubled in
scope, with 110 million displaced people in 2023. Cisco and the Cisco
Foundation are focused on ensuring migrants and refugees have
Internet access. In fiscal 2023, we were especially focused on aiding
Ukrainians affected by war. Much of this work centered on digital
services and solutions that leveraged connectivity, including:
● Providing technical guidance and consulting support to build
emergency communications vehicles for the World Food
Programme’s Emergency Telecommunications Cluster
● Managing 29 communications networks established in 2022,
supporting the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
● Funding feature enhancements to LifeForce Ukraine, a digital
platform developed by AI for Good, aimed at providing accurate
Deepening our commitment to
and secure information on available services and resources for
more than 8 million internally displaced Ukrainians
climate change resilience
● Supporting the Norwegian Refugee Council’s (NRC) Digital
Community Hubs platform, which serves as a central point of
Cisco and Mercy Corps, a global humanitarian NGO, recently
engagement for crisis-affected people, offering referrals to
completed a transformative five-year Technology for Impact
essential services and resources
partnership, leveraging digital solutions to deliver aid and
● Providing grant funding for the International Rescue Committee’s
development assistance more efficiently. The partnership has
Signpost platform, which provides critical life-saving information
reached 13.8 million people across 45 countries. Cisco committed
to those displaced by disasters and conflict
US$5 million to expand our partnership and focus on climate
adaptation and resilience in the Horn of Africa, where over 20 million
people are threatened by droughts. With this investment, Mercy Learn more about how
Corps will empower pastoralist communities in the region with digital Cisco supports refugees.
tools and resources to make climate-risk-informed decisions and
manage environmental resources more effectively. The goal is to ESG
Reporting Hub
apply the lessons and technologies developed in East Africa to other
regions similarly affected by climate disruption.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 50
Scaling our crisis response team
The CCR community is comprised of 600 dedicated staff and employee
volunteers who donate their time and expertise to support the CCR
team and its NGO partners.
In 2023, CCR concentrated on building the capacity of its volunteer
community outside the United States, with a focus on the Philippines
and Australia. Cisco prepositioned emergency communications kits,
established teams, and conducted onsite trainings in these regions to
enhance response capabilities and preparedness.
20+
Responded to natural disasters CCR GRANTS IN FISCAL 2023
and humanitarian crises with
US$8.9 million Bolstering communications
in product donations for disaster response
US$2.9 million
Our Network Emergency Response Vehicles (NERVs) provide fast and secure
in cash grants communications when existing communications may be disrupted. In 2023, we
FUNDING EQUIPMENT released version 2.0 of these vehicles, which integrate a wide array of Cisco and
US$2.5 million+ Cisco Meraki technologies in a four-wheel-drive platform, offering reliable connections
for first responders and agencies during emergencies like storms and wildfires.
in disaster campaigns
The NERVs feature fully redundant components, Meraki network-based wireless
(employee donations + matching gifts)
access points, hyperconverged compute clusters, and IoT solutions for constant data
monitoring and control. In the latest NERVs, all networking equipment is powered by
50+
batteries that can be recharged as the truck drives—or by connecting with external,
PERSONNEL NETWORK solutions consulting engagements solar-panel arrays—enhancing reliability in a disaster scenario.
SUPPORT
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 51
Economic
empowerment
Cisco and the Cisco Foundation’s investments aim to Building bridges in rural Africa
create equitable access to opportunities and empower
individuals and families to be resilient and thrive. Cisco partners with Bridges to Prosperity, an organization focused
on building footbridges in rural areas of Africa to help alleviate
We focus on three critical pillars of economic empowerment: skills to
poverty and close the gap between regions experiencing uneven
careers, entrepreneurship, and financial inclusion.
economic growth. These seemingly simple structures play a crucial
role in economic empowerment by providing communities with
Our strategy is iterative and adaptive, designed to enable rapid
access to education, healthcare, and markets that were previously
response to emerging issues, needs, and opportunities within the
out of reach. Bridges to Prosperity also provides training to local
sector, at both a global and regional level. Our investments focus on
laborers, builders, and engineers and helps develop local skills
underserved communities that face heightened challenges due to the
and capacity. Building on their proven, evidence-based model,
lingering effects of the pandemic, humanitarian crises, and climate-
Cisco invested in their latest initiative—Fika Map—which leverages
related natural disasters, as well as preexisting social and economic
the power of technology, machine learning, and data to equip
challenges. During this time of intense need, we’re doubling down
and enable government agencies, local communities, and other
on our guiding principles for this sector: Stability, Agency, Resilience,
stakeholders to identify transportation barriers and prioritize where
Independence, and Economic Security.
to build bridges. Fika Map also addresses a critical data equity issue
in low- to middle-income countries, empowering local communities
to make data-informed decisions.
CONNECTIVITY VIA
FOOTBRIDGES CAN ENABLE:
36%
increase in wages
Learn more about our economic empowerment
and our social investment strategy.
75%
increase in farmer profitability
ESG
Reporting Hub
60%+
women entering labor market
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 52
Empowering women-led Training problem-solvers
companies and innovations across Zimbabwe
Less than 3 percent of venture capital funding is invested in women- Nkosana Butholenkosi Masuku, a 28-year-old from Zimbabwe, won
led companies. Astia addresses this disparity for companies led by the fifth annual 2023 Global Citizen Prize: Cisco Youth Leadership
women, especially women of color. Cisco has provided early-stage Award and a US$250,000 grant for his outstanding work creating
funding and subsequent investments to develop Astia Connect, the learning platform, Sciency Learning. Inspired by his experience
a tech-enabled platform through which all of their deal sourcing, teaching in rural schools, Sciency Learning provides affordable and
screening, and investment occurs. Cisco’s funding helped Astia accessible STEM education to students across Zimbabwe. Having
deliver on its mission to level the investment playing field for more reached over 65,000 learners to date, Nkosana hopes to reach
than 1300 women-led companies each year. Recent funding enabled 1 million more across Africa in the next five years.
Astia to reach a more diverse investor pool and more completely
support investments in highly innovative women-led ventures globally.
Advancing opportunities for
Cisco and Villgro®, an Indian social enterprise incubator, joined forces
skills training
to launch Tvaran, an India-based startup accelerator program. Seven
winning startups, all led by women entrepreneurs, were selected to
Generation helps adults of all ages achieve economic mobility participate in Tvaran’s inaugural year and received support, resources,
by training, placing, and supporting learners in careers that and mentorship. These startups address various facets of climate
would otherwise be out of reach. With a footprint in 18 countries, resilience—including waste management, sustainable agriculture, plastic
Generation targets a diverse spectrum of learner groups who have waste reduction, and sustainable mobility. Explore the impact report
been disproportionately affected by unemployment. The majority for more details on this program.
of Generation learners identify with underrepresented communities
within their respective countries. The Cisco Foundation invested to
enhance Generation’s digital training ecosystem, which will allow the The Global Citizen Prize:
nonprofit to offer a unified and streamlined experience for learners,
Cisco Youth Leadership Award
alumni, and staff across its network.
Since 2018, Cisco and Global Citizen have partnered to recognize young people
who are working to end extreme poverty and using technology as a force for
88% 3X good. The five extraordinary young winners from around the world have been
honored for their solutions in education, agriculture, clean water, and healthcare.
of Generation participants average
employed 180 days after increase The Youth Leadership Award is awarded annually to an individual aged 18-30
and includes a US$250,000 prize paid to the organization to which the individual
job placement in income
contributes to help them scale and amplify their impact.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 53
Cisco and NESsT forge a path to
sustainable impact
REFUGEE EMPLOYMENT INITIATIVE NESsT AMAZONIA INITIATIVE
A good job with a reliable income is a critical ingredient for rising out of poverty. But
for people in many parts of the world, the traditional job market isn’t accessible. That’s
One year 1 million+
where locally based social enterprises come in. Often located in remote, low-income,
or environmentally vulnerable areas, these organizations can act with their communities’ since its inception, the NESsT Refugee farmers reached in the
needs and best interests in mind. Employment portfolio has made a 10 Brazilian states where
significant impact ManejeBem operates
NESsT’s mission is to invest in these social enterprises and help entrepreneurs along the
way. In partnership with Cisco and IKEA Social Entrepreneurship, NESsT launched the
2000+ 3000+
Refugee Employment Initiative. The program invests in impact-oriented enterprises that
provide job opportunities, career training, and support services to refugees in Poland and individual refugees were provided farmers provided with web
Romania, creating 3000 jobs and improving the lives of 5000 people. with skills training, language courses, and mobile apps from Elysios
and legal aid that help farmers improve the
Cisco and NESsT are also helping Brazilian farmers address rapid deforestation through
planning and documentation of
the NESsT Amazonia Initiative. The NESsT Amazonia Initiative consists of 50 enterprises, 3800
agricultural activities
spanning from Indigenous enterprises that support fishers along the Amazon River to
early-stage tech enterprises delivering and scaling climate solutions in the Amazon. refugee families received
Nearly 60 percent of the enterprises supported are led by Indigenous peoples. wraparound services, offering support
in housing, childcare, education,
Since its inception, the NESsT Amazonia Initiative has mapped 750 enterprises and
and psychological assistance
evaluated and monitored 20 value chains. Its portfolio has sustained over 8300 jobs.
Through this initiative, for example, NESsT is supporting two local tech social enterprises, 450+
ManejeBem and Elysios. ManejeBem empowers small-scale farmers with digital tools that
promote sustainable agricultural practices. Elysios equips farmers with web and mobile jobs created and sustained for refugees
apps to optimize planning, documentation, and regulation compliance, helping to increase
crop yields and reduce resource usage.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 54
Learning and
digital skills
Many people have the talent and drive to succeed in
technology careers but need help developing the right
skills to pursue job opportunities.
Cisco Networking Academy, one of Cisco’s signature social impact
programs, empowers learners with in-demand tech skills and bridges CISCO NETWORKING
the education-employment divide. ACADEMY
47
As one of the world’s longest-standing IT skills-to-jobs programs,
Cisco Networking Academy offers world-class learning products
courses offered
through a robust partner ecosystem. We provide IT courses and
in up to
operate a web-scale platform, collaborating with an unmatched
ecosystem of 11,700 academies. This approach meets learners 27
where they are, whether through a high school, vocational college,
university, correctional facility, nonprofit, or independent learning languages
through our Skills for All platform. We focus not just on skills, but
16.8%
on providing resources to support people on their career journeys,
connecting students to job opportunities.
growth in student
participants since FY22
While core in-demand tech skills aligned to globally recognized
certifications—such as Cisco Certified Support Technician (CCST)
Security, CCST Networking, Cisco Certified Network Associate We also use AI-based features to enhance the learning experience.
(CCNA), CyberOps Associate, and DevNet Associate—remain a For instance, our Skills for All platform uses AI to assess learners’ Learn more about Cisco
priority, we also understand the evolving needs of learners in the competencies both at the start of and during their courses. Through Networking Academy.
digital landscape. In fiscal 2023, the program continued to expand a feature called “My Knowledge Check,” learners can evaluate their
our learning portfolio with subjects like entrepreneurship, English for skill mastery throughout a course. Using an adaptive assessment to Networking
Academy
IT, cybersecurity, data science, and programming. This helps equip efficiently determine their proficiency across a large amount of course
learners with critical skills to support work in AI and thrive in the content, learners can identify their strengths and areas that may
ever-changing digital world. require more attention.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 55
25 years of Cisco Networking Academy
Cisco Networking
In fiscal 2023, Cisco Networking Academy celebrated its 25th anniversary, Academy achievements
reaching 20.5 million learners across 190 countries since 1997. As we marked these
SINCE 1997 IN FISCAL 2023
successes, we also announced an ambitious next phase goal: to provide digital
and cybersecurity skills training to 25 million more learners over the next 10 years 20.5 million 11,700
through Cisco Networking Academy.1
students reached globally academies
27% 190
Our roadmap to 25 million more students Networking
female students countries
Academy
Cisco Networking Academy provides an equitable and inclusive workforce
development program on a global scale. Our goals around the world include:
95% 29,700
of students surveyed instructors
say that Networking
AMERICAS EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AND AFRICA ASIA PACIFIC, JAPAN, Academy helped them 22%
AND CHINA
obtain a job and/or
Train 200,000 people in the United Train 10 million people in digital and cybersecurity female instructors
educational opportunity4
States with cybersecurity skills skills over the next 10 years, across the region. Train 6.7 million people with digital
by 2025.2 Progress: 1.4 million people in FY23 and cybersecurity skills by 2032. 188,000 94%
Progress: 50,000 people in FY23 Progress: 1 million people in FY23 of instructors say that
students have self-
Train 3 million people in Africa in digital and Networking Academy
reported a disability5
Launch a cybersecurity cybersecurity skills by 2032—representing an Train 500,000 people in India with helped them become
a better educator6
apprenticeship program aligned estimated US$200 million of in-kind contributions. cybersecurity skills by 2025.2
with the Department of Labor’s Progress: 605,000 people and US$41.3 million in Progress: 219,000 people in FY23
1 From beginning of fiscal 2023 through end of fiscal 2032, unless
Registered Apprenticeship Program. in-kind contributions in FY23
otherwise noted.
Provide digital upskilling training
Completed 2 From fiscal 2023 through end of fiscal 2025.
Train 10,000 Ukrainian refugees in Poland via for 50,000 women annually across 3 From fiscal 2023 through end of fiscal 2024.
Partner with Brazil’s National Cisco4Ukraine by 2024.3 Brunei, Fiji, India, Indonesia, 4 Based on student outcome surveys of students participating in Cisco
certification courses between fiscal 2005 (when exit surveys began)
Industrial Apprenticeship Service Progress: 4200 Ukrainian refugees in FY23 Malaysia, the Philippines, Thailand, and fiscal 2023.
to advance digital training and and Vietnam through 2032. 5 Since July 2019 when Cisco started collecting this data; self-reporting
innovation in the country. Train 2.6 million people in the European Union with Progress: 135,000 women in FY23 is optional.
6 Based on instructor survey participants in fiscal 2023 who were
digital and cybersecurity skills by 2032.
Completed actively teaching.
Progress: 444,000 people in FY23
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 56
A more secure future
When Camilla Ngala Timfe was a teenager in Cameroon, she would go to a
cyber café to spend time on the Internet. Years later, when she immigrated
to the United States with her two young children, she continued to explore
Knowledge is
her interest in technology, and particularly in online safety. Soon, she
power. When you
enrolled in the Cisco Networking Academy Program at the Community
know what you’re
College of Baltimore County.
doing, it gives
you confidence.” While juggling part-time work at night to support her family, Camilla
embraced the program, honing her skills and gaining confidence. She
- Camilla Ngala Timfe
found the concise course topics and manageable practice sessions
especially beneficial for reskilling into the IT industry. She also appreciated
the practicality of tools like Cisco Packet Tracer, which enables users to
construct virtual networks, input commands, and verify connectivity.
Of particular value was the knowledge she acquired around networking. “If
you don’t know how the network works, you won’t know how to protect the
data,” Camilla explained. “In cybersecurity, knowledge of the network and
networking itself is very important.”
Leveraging her networking foundation to excel in her career, she evolved
from an intern to a security analyst for a financial consulting firm. “Cisco
Cisco Networking Academy Networking Academy has been a critical part of my career progression,”
Camilla reflected. “Without the networking knowledge that I got from the
partners with nearly half of
program, I wouldn’t be able to impact my teams the way I have. My career
all community colleges in
growth wouldn’t have been what it was.”
the United States
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 57
Elevating K-12 education
and teacher professional
development
Cisco and the Cisco Foundation invest in early stage, technology and reinforce learning. This platform encourages learners to share
enabled, replicable, and scalable education solutions. These and remix their code projects in a safe, secure, and moderated
solutions expand digital inclusion for all children and positively environment. Our investments resulted in 406,000 youth in 2022
impact attendance, behavior, and course outcomes. We partner with demonstrating evidence of learning in computer science.
NGOs around the world to tackle pressing issues, including bridging
Cisco also joined forces with CommonLit, a nonprofit focused on
student learning gaps caused by pandemic-related school closures,
improving literacy, to expand access to free digital reading and writing
increasing female participation in STEM subjects, and supporting
lessons, create distance learning resources, and train teachers in best
teacher capacity-building in lower-income countries. For example, the
practices for vulnerable students in low-income schools. CommonLit’s
Cisco Foundation partnered with ed-tech startup Darsel to address Advancing gender equality in tech
impact has been significant, with operations spanning over 88,000
math education challenges in Jordan, where six in 10 students
schools in the United States and 195 countries and territories,
lack math proficiency, due in part to lack of access to qualified math Launched in 2014, the Women Rock-IT program
reaching almost 7 million students in English and Spanish.
teachers and technology. Darsel’s AI-powered personalized learning addresses gender disparity in tech by encouraging and
chatbot has engaged over 2000 seventh-grade math teachers and enabling young women to pursue careers in STEM fields.
benefited more than 50,000 students, leading to national adoption in At the 2023 event for International Girls in ICT Day, our
COMMONLIT'S IMPACT
Jordan and ongoing expansion in India and Nigeria. focus was on women using technology to address climate
7 million
change and protect the planet. The virtual broadcast
We partner with the Raspberry Pi Foundation to support Code Club
had over 5000 live viewers and included a Learn-A-Thon
students positively impacted per year
World, a free online platform that helps children ages 9 to 13 learn
focused on cybersecurity in 41 countries. More than
to code and be creative using digital technology. Reaching over across the United States and Latin America
200 Cisco volunteers worldwide facilitated live events
3 million students annually, with an emphasis on female participation
2x and career talks. Visit Women Rock-IT to learn more.
and focused country engagements in Kenya, South Africa, and Accelerated learning gains up to the
India, students use Code Club World to engage in hands-on coding academic year average
WOMEN ROCK-IT IMPACT SINCE 2014
projects, earn badges, and complete quiz features to demonstrate
2 million+ 91
participants live broadcasts
974,000+ 156
course enrollments speakers
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 58
Social justice
We believe in equal rights, equitable access to
opportunity, and standing up to injustice.
In 2020, we transformed our longstanding advocacy for social justice Cisco's AACPC, completed critical installations to modernize CAU OUR IMPACT
into a global, enterprisewide commitment to inspiring action and technology infrastructure, meet NIST cybersecurity standards, and
US$150 million
creating lasting change. ensure their eligibility for Title IV Federal Student Aid.
committed to HBCUs over five years, which includes
Guided by our Social Justice Beliefs, we designed 12 Actions for Social We've also donated Cisco Networking Academy services, provided
US$100 million for technology upgrades and
Justice to bring together the full power of our technology, our people, a Certified Leasing and Finance Program Certification Scholarship
US$50 million for students pursuing STEM education
and our ecosystem. We embarked on a five-year journey backed by training to students, and we sponsored the Black Economic Alliance
a US$300 million commitment to address systemic challenges and Endowment, a US$1 million endowed chair to help empower the next
US$66 million
empower communities for an inclusive future. Cisco’s 12 Actions initially generation of CAU entrepreneurs.
focused on tackling inequities faced by the AA/B community. Now, in software donated FY20-FY23
we’re building a strategic framework that can be adapted and scaled
46 NIST
across the full spectrum of diversity.
assessments completed FY20-FY23
Building a bridge for HBCUs
30
In 2020, Cisco committed US$150 million over five years to the
technology installations completed FY20-FY23
strategic recovery and sustainability of America's HBCUs, with
US$100 million going toward technology modernization to keep
US$1.5 billion
colleges compliant with cybersecurity risk standards established by
NIST. By the end of fiscal 2023, Cisco had invested US$66 million in in Title IV Federal Funding preserved at HBCUs
services and software, which also preserved more than US$1.5 billion
in Title IV funding. We also enlist our African American Cisco Partner
Community (AACPC) to do the technology installations.
See how Cisco is helping Clark Atlanta
Cisco’s collaboration with Clark Atlanta University (CAU) is a powerful University enhance its network security.
example of the impact we’re driving through our social justice
commitments. To start, we’ve donated over US$1.7 million in security
software and services. The CAU IT team and Procellis, a member of
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 59
Our Social Justice Beliefs
At Cisco, we believe in fairness and equity for all. Our commitment to
advancing Social Justice is grounded in six core beliefs. Our beliefs
inspire us—and guide us—in advocating for justice, equitable treatment,
and changing systems to be more inclusive around the world.
Technology for good Proximity
Technology connects us. It makes the world better. We're committed We educate ourselves by getting closer to people who have lived—and
to building technology that encourages people to create new are living—through injustice, hatred, prejudice, or discrimination simply
possibilities. And we defend against any misuse of our technology to for being who they are. It's that empathy and understanding that
censor, oppress, or bring injustice against anyone. drives us to act boldly.
Equity Security of being
Social justice isn't political. It's a call for fairness and solutions that We stand for the most fundamental of human rights—the security
confront injustice and create economies, cultures, and communities of being—to protect people who are targets of prejudice, hate,
where everyone can thrive. and violence. Supplier diversity
Coalescence
at Cisco
We're creating a culture that brings our employees, suppliers,
Cisco’s Supplier Diversity Program and our
communities, and partners together to take action and drive
Social Justice Action 7 focus on extending our
meaningful change.
commitment to full spectrum diversity to the owners
Full-spectrum diversity and employees of businesses that supply billions
in goods and services that we purchase every
We believe that social justice must ultimately be addressed across year. This year we exceeded our goal to double
the full spectrum of diversity, including gender identity, age, race, the amount we spend with diverse suppliers by
ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability status, nationality, religion, 2023. We track not only diversity of ownership in
military status, background, culture, experience, strengths, our supplier community, but also the diversity of
and perspectives. preferred suppliers’ employees that directly support
Cisco. In turn, we share resources with suppliers
about how they can drive diversity and create
strong cultures within their own workforces.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 60
Highlights of our progress
Fiscal years 2020 through 2023 (FY20-FY23).
FY20 is the base year for metrics that are not year-over-year.
By FY25: Social Justice Action 1, Support By FY24: Social Justice Action 7, Supplier By FY25: Social Justice Action 10, Diversify our
community partnerships, legislation, and engagement: Double how much we spend partner ecosystem: Commit US$50 million to
advocacy: Donate US$5 million to AA/B nonprofit with diverse suppliers and receive reporting increase the diversity in our partner ecosystem
organizations advocating for equity and justice. on diversity metrics from 95% of our by increasing the number of AA/B-owned
preferred suppliers.1 technology companies and increasing
US$4 million donated between FY20 and FY23
opportunities to accelerate the financial growth
108% increase in diverse supplier spend
of AA/B-owned partners.
between FY20 and FY23
By FY23: Social Justice Action 2, Increase
Increased AA/B-owned companies in our
representation: Achieve a 25% increase in 88% of preferred suppliers reported diversity
partner ecosystem
representation of all employees who self-identify metrics in FY23
as AA/B from entry level through manager and a Special focus on 17 Acceleration partners
75% increase in representation from Director to
By FY25: Social Justice Action 8, Commit to
VP+ level, by expanding our diverse talent pipeline.
HBCUs: Commit US$150 million to preserve the By FY25: Social Justice Action 11, Invest in next
ACHIEVED. legacy and sustainability of HBCUs, with US$50 generation tech innovation: Invest
million to fund science, technology, engineering, US$50 million in startups and venture
73% increase (entry level through manager)
and mathematics (STEM) education and US$100 funds led by diverse leaders.
103% increase (Director)
million to drive technology modernization.
Ongoing investment in startups and venture funds
240% increase (Vice President and above)
US$37.5 million spent on STEM education led by BIPOC, Latinx, and female leaders
US$66 million spent on technology upgrades
Learn more about our
Social Justice Actions.
Note: Progress against all goals listed by fiscal year is measured through the end of the fiscal year, unless otherwise noted. ESG
Reporting Hub
1 T he timeframe for this goal is calendar year 2023.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 61
Partnering for
Purpose
Partnering for Purpose is an initiative that was launched at Cisco ● Over 1300 volunteer hours accumulated during a week of give-back
Partner Summit in November 2022. It aligns with our commitment activities that involved multiple partners in the United States,
for an inclusive future and makes it easier for our partners, customers, Canada, and Latin America
and suppliers around the world to collaborate with us in order to ● The many partners engaged in our new Allied Partner model who
accelerate and amplify our collective positive impact around the world. are mentoring minority-owned businesses and working together
to build their own diverse companies and cultures
Since launch, we’ve seen it grow into a movement that includes
It is fulfilling to see how purpose is playing a significant role in the ways
our partners and Cisco sharing best practices and collaborating in Public policy and advocacy
in which our partners drive innovation. This was demonstrated through
different ways to amplify and grow this work together. We’ve seen
the many purpose-driven submissions received in the new Partnering
actions big and small that all help to drive our purpose such as: Cisco develops and advocates for pro-technology
for Purpose category of the 2023 Global Partner Innovation Challenge.
policies and regulations. We engage with
● ePlus working with Cisco and its own customers to provide
The winners in this category included: governments at all levels, focusing on public
digital skills training for over 300 middle school girls through
policies that support Cisco, our partners, and
their successful Girls Re-Imagining Tomorrow (GRIT) program
● Long View Systems in Canada and Kiw One in Spain for
our customers, as well as enabling our purpose
innovations addressing environmental sustainability, helping their
to Power an Inclusive Future for All. Visit our
customers achieve their ESG objectives and net-zero targets
Government Affairs website for more information
Championing sustainability through ● Connect Professional Services in Egypt for innovation leveraging
on our policy priorities, including:
technology to address the access to healthcare in remote areas
professional excellence
● LiteScape Technologies in the United States for their innovation ● Unlocking the power of the Internet
Cisco and Ingram Micro united to launch the first Cisco Partnering in ensuring vulnerable and marginalized populations can stay ● Supporting sustainability
connected to family and loved ones
for Purpose Initiative in Australia: Blackbelt Certification for a ● Free trade and inclusive trade policies
Better Future. Both companies pledged donations to Planet These inspiring submissions not only highlight the ingenuity and
● Investing in people and knowledge
Ark, an Australian environmental nonprofit, for every Black Belt innovative spirit of Cisco’s partners, but also show how doing good is
● Preserving an open Internet
Sustainability Certification completed. The initiative surpassed good business when we create a lasting, positive impact on the world
its goal with 202 Black Belt Sustainability Certificates issued, around us. ● Protecting innovation
representing a 154 percent increase in Cisco Environmental ● Promoting investment
Sustainability Specialized Partners and a AU$40,000 donation ● Security against evolving threats
to Planet Ark. The increase in certifications and specializations Get involved with Partnering for Purpose.
● Building next-generation wireless networks
translates into more skilled people designing more environmental
savvy solutions for our customers.
ESG
Reporting Hub
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 62
Looking
Ahead
Our Purpose can’t just be
something we look back on
Each year we look back at our accomplishments and
the positive impact we’ve made in the world, but we
can’t stop there. To continue driving lasting change,
we must also look ahead and consider the changing
terrain, identify challenges and trends, and recognize
opportunities. We find our way forward by leveraging
our unique strengths to do good for our communities,
good for our business, and good for all.
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 63
A message from
Fran Katsoudas What is the purpose of a Purpose Report? Historically we’ve used our bear the brunt of its impact. And due to a lack of infrastructure and
Purpose Report as an opportunity to reflect on the year’s work and the technological advancement, they are often the least equipped to
progress we’ve made against our goals, to quantify our impact, and respond to natural disasters. While the digital economy continues to
Chief People, Policy, and to highlight the people and lives we’ve touched. Several years ago, grow, 2.6 billion people remain unconnected, denying them access to
we realized that intersecting our business, technology, and innovation the opportunities and resources available. The consequences of each
Purpose Officer
together with our Purpose allowed us to focus where we could have crisis exacerbate others—access to education is disrupted, progress
the biggest impact. We also recognized that if we designed and for women and girls is set back, and extreme poverty rates rise.
operationalized our purpose thoughtfully, we could drive impact while
Pursuing our Purpose can and must be the glue that brings
driving business results—creating something lasting and real.
us together to meet this moment and address these complex,
Any company looking to successfully execute their business strategy interconnected issues. The question we must continue to ask as
must consider the changing terrain, identify upcoming challenges and we look ahead is, how?
trends, and anticipate how to best meet evolving requirements. The
Crisis response won’t solve these issues.
same is true for purpose.
We must build resilient communities.
Our biggest challenges are interconnected
and interdependent. To get ahead of compounding shocks, we must embed resilience
in all aspects of our communities. Resilient communities are those
The past several years brought us all unprecedented challenges, and equipped with the necessary tools and resources to adapt and
a world more prone to polarization than before. But instead of binary bounce back in the face of various challenges, including natural
questions and issues, a more multipolar world has emerged, requiring disasters, economic disruptions, and social crises. Over the past few
us to operate with more nuance and greater context than ever. In years, we’ve seen that many communities around the world don’t
this context one thing is clear—we are more interconnected and have what they need to withstand, respond, and recover from the
interdependent than ever. challenges we have and will face.
Our lives and futures are linked by our shared dependence on our Our efforts to bring our Purpose to life can be harnessed and
planet and its environments. We have a global responsibility to solve focused on building resilient global communities. When we defined
the climate crisis together. We see the growth of an increasingly our Purpose, to Power an Inclusive Future for All, we operationalized
digital and global economy, keeping us connected through the work of our teams to co-innovate with partners leveraging
ecosystems of financial interdependence. And as we learned in the connectivity; address the digital skills gap; drive sustainability,
recent pandemic, our collective health is also inextricably linked. inclusivity, and social justice; and support new ideas with partnerships
and impact grants. All these bodies of work have a place in building
Global crises also continue to grow increasingly interconnected—and
community resilience.
the consequences disproportionately fall on vulnerable communities.
Developing nations who often contribute the least to climate change
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 64
We can’t do it alone. In Africa, we have a powerful opportunity
to build resilience and opportunity.
I often speak about how in the arena of purpose and social impact,
there should be less competition. When we see a problem, those of
This summer, I spent eight weeks in Africa. I have been honored to be to drive impact. Cisco has invested in infrastructure, cross-sector
us focused on this work are so often compelled to jump in, offering
Cisco’s Executive Sponsor of the continent for several years, and while collaboration, support for innovation, and new approaches to
our company’s help. But no one company can solve deeply complex
I had visited many times in the past, this summer was different. I had partnership—investments that I believe could help create the potential
issues, and we can do so much more and amplify our work when we
time to connect more deeply with customers, partners, and community for many African countries to “leapfrog” technologically and create
do it together. I recognize the irony in saying this in an annual report
organizations, and listen to their challenges and opportunities. new dynamics.
focused on quantifying and celebrating the impact of our company.
A better approach as we look ahead will be to consider how we can There is tremendous global interest in the continent today, and We can approach communities and our work in new ways with our
accelerate solutions by partnering—particularly with organizations it’s easy to see why: Africa has the world’s youngest population, private sector peers, governments, nonprofits, and community
whose strengths complement our own. incredible innovation, and cities that are rapidly expanding, creating members. We can solve community challenges by leveraging the
cycles of growth. The energy is palpable. There are also challenges, strengths and expertise of all organizations with proximity.
I’ve learned that when we try to tackle issues alone, we often create
including political upheaval and its impact on communities, unstable
fragmented solutions. When many companies are building stand- If we can shift our approach—to partner, collaborate, and endorse,
energy grids, threats posed by climate change, and limited access to
alone solutions in a community, the community bears the burden of rather than compete—I believe we will not only build thriving, resilient
the Internet and the services and opportunities it provides.
bringing them together. A community, like a customer, has specific communities across Africa, but also open opportunities for our
needs and can only take in so many solutions at one time. It's a Spending time on the continent taught me about the local, nuanced company’s unique offerings to shine, driving even greater success.
delicate dance for all companies and all leaders, but I truly believe the issues facing the communities and how we can better cooperate
future of Purpose work in the private sector lies in our taking a more
collaborative, less independent approach.
When you invest in communities and build resilience, you aren’t just
protecting against future shocks. You’re opening up the potential for
exponential opportunity and growth.
Purpose can flex. It operates in a lane that is
valued around the world, giving all of us who
do this work the space to create and iterate,
to sway and pivot, and find our rhythm. And
when we do, pursuing our Purpose holds
the door open for economic initiatives."
Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead FY23 Purpose Report | 65
Where do we go from here?
Our Purpose can’t just be something we look back on—we must also look ahead.
There is no doubt that the path forward for business in a multipolar world is
less clear. There is significant work ahead to address risks in supply chains
and manufacturing, and complex questions on how to best navigate a shifting
geopolitical terrain. But should these challenges and uncertainties also apply to
Purpose? I don’t think so. In fact, in this moment when many are shying away
from a global mindset and approach, our Purpose work proceeds by pursuing
what is most meaningful, regardless of whether that is at the local or global
level. Purpose can flex. It operates in a lane that is valued around the world,
giving all of us who do this work the space to create and iterate, to sway and
pivot, and find our rhythm. And when we do, pursuing our Purpose holds the
door open for economic initiatives.
As we close the year in which we reached a goal of positively impacting
1 billion people, I’m looking ahead to the next goal we’ll set for ourselves.
We’ll continue to drive positive impact if we integrate the lessons of the
past and take a new approach in the days and years ahead. If we approach
problems as an ecosystem of partner organizations, each leveraging our unique
strengths, we’ll do good for our communities, good for our businesses, and
good for all.
Fran Katsoudas
Executive Vice President and
Chief People, Policy, and Purpose Officer
Americas Headquarters
San Jose, CA, USA
Asia Pacific Headquarters
Singapore
Europe Headquarters
Amsterdam, The Netherlands
Cisco has approximately 400 offices worldwide. Addresses, phone numbers, and fax numbers are listed on the Cisco website at www.cisco.com/go/offices.
Cisco and the Cisco logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cisco and/or its affiliates in the United States and other countries. To view a list of Cisco
trademarks, go to this URL: www.cisco.com/go/trademarks. Third-party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word
“partner” does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company. (111OR)
© 2023 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. This document is Cisco public information.
Version 5, April 2024
Forward-looking statements
This report contains forward-looking statements that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical facts are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and
assumptions of our management. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “targets,” “goals,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “momentum,” “seeks,”
“estimates,” “continues,” “endeavors,” “strives,” “may,” variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
In addition, any statements that refer to (1) our goals, commitments, and programs; (2) our business plans, initiatives, and objectives; (3) our assumptions and
expectations; (4) the scope and impact of our corporate responsibility risks and opportunities; and (5) standards and expectations of third parties are forward-
looking. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult
to predict, including those identified in our most recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. Forward-looking
statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Cisco continuously strives for transparency in our reporting on our ESG initiatives, goals, and progress. We set ambitious goals knowing that they may be difficult
to fully achieve, but we strive to meet them within the designated time frames all the same. Acquiring other companies can potentially impact our progress
towards our ESG goals. We will transparently report on our progress, including any impacts from acquisitions.
