Environmental
Social
Governance
Report
2023
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
2 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Contents
Introduction 3 Driving Positive Climate Impact 21
Message From Our Chairman and CEO 4 Partnering With Our Clients 22
About This Report 6 Understanding and Managing Climate-Related Risks 24
About Citizens Financial Group 6 Reducing Our Operational Emissions 25
2023 Highlights 8
Summary of Citizens’ Sustainability Announcement 9 Building the Workforce of the Future 27
Our Approach 10
Creating an Inclusive Environment 28
Stakeholder Engagement 12
Talent Attraction, Development, and Engagement 33
Addressing Community Workforce Needs 37
Leading With Robust Corporate Governance 13
Board Governance 14 Fostering Strong Communities 39
Shareholder Engagement 15
Community Development Financing 40
Executive Compensation 15
Offering Innovative Products and Better Access to Capital 42
Business Conduct and Ethics 16
Fair and Responsible Banking 42
Enterprise Risk Management 17
Citizens Helping Citizens 43
Privacy and Personal Information Protection 18
Cybersecurity 19
Appendix 44
Fraud Prevention 20
GRI Index 45
Political Engagement 20
SASB Index 51
Supply Chain Management 20
Notes 53
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
3 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Introduction
At Citizens, our approach to environmental, social and governance topics is an
extension of our Credo, which calls for us to perform our best every day so that we
can do more for our customers, colleagues, communities, and shareholders. Our
commitment to continuous progress is woven into the fabric of our business,
supporting our effort to help deliver long-term value for our stakeholders while
helping create a thriving, sustainable, and inclusive future for all those we serve.
IN THIS SECTION:
Message From Our Chairman and CEO 4
About This Report 6
About Citizens Financial Group 6
2023 Highlights 8
Summary of Citizens’ Sustainability Announcement 9
Our Approach 10
Stakeholder Engagement 12
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
4 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Message From Our Chairman and CEO
At Citizens, we are guided by our Credo to perform our best every day impact by seizing business opportunity, meeting stakeholder
to help our customers, colleagues, and communities reach their expectations, and advancing credible and tangible impact.
potential. These values serve as our north star, allowing us to
As a trusted advisor, we are committed to helping our commercial
successfully navigate dynamic external environments by putting the
clients achieve their business objectives and sustainability goals
best interests of our stakeholders at the forefront. Our
through tailored guidance and resources, innovative green financial
environmental, social and governance efforts are an extension of
solutions, such as our Sustainable Deposits and Carbon Offset
these values, creating opportunity for us to use our reach,
Deposit Account products, and insights based on our own
innovation, and insights to build a more diverse and sustainable
experiences and industry expertise. Our client engagement efforts
future where all can thrive. This report showcases how we continue
are being well-received and our teams have found opportunities to
to take a pragmatic and thoughtful approach to create lasting change
help our clients drive sustainability progress and strong
for those we serve and the communities where we live and work.
business results.
Leading With Robust
Building the Workforce of the Future
Corporate Governance
The needs of today’s economy and workforce are rapidly changing.
Core to how we do business is our strong governance framework Within and beyond Citizens, we are committed to developing a
which enables us to strengthen board and management diverse and skilled talent base that can help position our company,
accountability and create long-term value for shareholders. Strong clients, and communities for future success. Inclusion and belonging
corporate governance is essential to mitigating risk and ensuring are woven into the fabric of our bank. We know diversity of thought
ethical and transparent conduct. It is these guidelines and structures and experience makes us stronger and more innovative, and we
that allow us to deliver on our promise to perform our best. continue to take measurable steps to create greater representation
within our teams, invest in our colleagues’ growth and development,
and foster a culture that celebrates new and creative ideas.
Driving Positive Climate Impact
We also use our reach, innovation, and insights to help ensure our
We believe banks have the responsibility and opportunity to play a clients and communities have the diverse and skilled talent needed
role in helping build a more sustainable future. This past fall, we to achieve the best possible tomorrow. As a bank that supports large
stepped up with a sustainability announcement that has three major and small companies across industries and markets, Citizens is well-
components – a target to finance and facilitate $50 billion in support positioned to address local workforce challenges, serving as a bridge
of green and social initiatives by 2030, including a $5 billion green between companies looking to fill critical roles and community
sub-target for initiatives that support a lower-carbon future; an organizations that provide upskilling and reskilling programs to
ambition to engage corporate clients in high-emitting sectors on students and workers for career advancement.
climate-related topics, starting with 100% of our Oil & Gas clients by
In 2023, we applied this community-driven approach to convene
the end of 2024; and a commitment to achieve carbon neutrality by
industry, civic, and community leaders in Rhode Island, New Jersey,
2035. These targets reinforce our strategy to drive positive climate
Pittsburgh, and New York City to develop strategies on how we can
work together to create sustainable solutions that catalyze economic
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
5 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
growth. We also partnered with impactful organizations like Looking Ahead
Education Design Lab, Pursuit, and the Greater Boston YMCA to
provide upskilling and reskilling services that are creating new As we progress on our environmental, social, and governance
pathways for diverse and low- and moderate-income community journey, I am confident in our strategy and areas of focus, as well as
members to enter in-demand, well-paying careers. our ability to identify and execute on new opportunities for our
company and stakeholders. Over the past year, we have made
meaningful commitments and advancements to do more for those we
Fostering Strong Communities
serve. While our more than 17,500 colleagues and partners continue
to make great progress towards fostering a strong and sustainable
Vibrant, thriving communities are the cornerstone of our business
economy, we know that there is even more we can do.
strategy and success. Across our footprint, we work to strengthen
low- and moderate-income communities by expanding economic Thank you for your partnership. Together, we can build a strong,
opportunity and closing the wealth gap. In 2023, we provided $6 diverse, and sustainable economy for the future.
million in closing cost assistance grants and more than 18,000
Kind regards,
mortgages totaling $5.3 billion to boost homeownership in these
communities. We made 6,700 loans totaling $333 million to support
small business growth. And we provided $1.3 billion in total equity
and loan commitments to finance the construction or revitalization of
more than 5,000 new units of affordable housing.
We take great pride in prioritizing and investing in our sustainability Bruce Van Saun
and impact efforts on an enterprise level, and it is our colleagues —
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
and their skills and passions — who bring this work to life. In 2023,
Citizens Financial Group, Inc.
our volunteer participation grew by an incredible 33%, with nearly
9,000 colleagues contributing a record 232,000 volunteer hours to
support 3,349 community organizations across our footprint.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
6 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
About This Report About Citizens Financial Group
This is Citizens’ seventh annual Environmental Social Governance Citizens Financial Group, Inc. is one of the nation’s oldest and largest
Report, previously known as the Corporate Responsibility Report. financial institutions, with $222 billion in assets as of December 31, $222.0 billion
Unless stated otherwise, the information and data in this report 2023. Headquartered in Providence, Rhode Island, Citizens offers a
reflect Citizens’ performance for the period of January 1, 2023, broad range of retail and commercial banking products and services in Assets
through December 31, 2023. Prior to this report, our most recent to individuals, small businesses, middle-market companies, large
Environmental Social Governance Report was published in corporations, and institutions. Citizens helps its customers reach
September 2023. their potential by listening to them and by understanding their needs $177.3 billion
in order to offer tailored advice, ideas, and solutions.
This report has been prepared with reference to the Global Reporting
in Deposits
Initiative (GRI) Standards and the Sustainability Accounting In Consumer Banking, Citizens provides an integrated experience that
Standards Board (SASB) Commercial Banks sector standard. Content includes mobile and online banking, a full-service customer contact
indexes for both standards are provided in the Appendix. center, and the convenience of approximately 3,200 ATMs and more $146.0 billion
than 1,100 branches in 14 states and the District of Columbia.
To support the transparency and reliability of our disclosures, we
Consumer Banking products and services include a full range of in Loans & Leases
have obtained third-party limited assurance of our Scope 1 and 2
banking, lending, savings, wealth management, and small
greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory and additional performance
business offerings.
measures reported to CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). 17,570
This assurance was provided by Stantec. In Commercial Banking, Citizens offers a broad complement of
financial products and solutions, including lending and leasing, full-time-equivalent colleagues
Additional information about our company’s Sustainability & Impact
deposit and treasury management services, foreign exchange, and
strategy and programs, including an archive of past reports and other
interest rate and commodity risk management solutions, as well as
related disclosures, is available on our website. Data as of Dec. 31, 2023.
loan syndication, corporate finance, merger and acquisition, and debt
and equity capital markets capabilities.
More information is available at citizensbank.com, or visit us on
LinkedIn, Facebook, or X.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
7 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Our Mission, Vision, and Values National Reach
Our mission is to help our customers, colleagues, and communities
reach their potential. Our vision is to be a top-performing bank
Deposits from all More than 6 million
distinguished by its customer-centric culture, mindset of continuous
improvement, and excellent capabilities.
50 states retail customers
Our Credo brings to life our internal values. These values drive our
actions and help us perform our best every day, delivering more for
all stakeholders and serving clients with a broad range of products
with Citizens Access® across all 50 states
and services.
Our Credo
We perform our best every day so we
can do more for our customers,
colleagues, communities,
and shareholders.
Our Values
We strive to always:
Citizens Private Bank current
and future branch locations
National retail lending and
deposits, and Commercial
Exceed Customer Banking client coverage
Do the Right Thing
Expectations
Regional branch network
Light branch network
Think Long Term Work Together
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
8 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
2023 Highlights
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering Strong
Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Communities
12 out of 13 directors are Announced a $50 billion Approximately 3,500 colleagues Since 2012, provided nearly $8 billion
considered independent in Sustainable Finance Target, belonged to at least one business in debt and equity to support the
accordance with NYSE and SEC including $5 billion for resource group as of creation or rehabilitation of nearly
independence standards. green initiatives.* December 31, 2023. 50,000 housing units, impacting an
estimated 565,000 individuals.
Lead Independent Director Completed enterprise climate risk Used local relationships to support
appointed annually. assessment and expanded bottom- a variety of workforce Since 2021, provided $65 million in
up client review for evaluation of development-related organizations capital and made $210,000 in cash
Diverse Board composition with climate-related risks and opportunities. and initiatives across our footprint, grants to aspiring entrepreneurs from
varied experiences and
including contributing to the Andy
underrepresented communities
perspectives informs discussion and Began receiving renewable electricity
Warhol Museum in Pittsburgh, the
through our Small Business
supports sound decision-making. Our credits from the Sunflower Wind
Queens Night Market, and others.
Opportunity Fund.
nominated Board is 38% gender diverse Project facility under a virtual power
and regularly refreshed, with eight new purchase agreement between Citizens Transitioned to new Organizational Invested approximately $500
directors appointed in the past and Ørsted. Health Survey tool, achieving a million in Low-Income Housing Tax
five years. participation rate of 87%. Credit developments, helping to
Aided seven environmental nonprofits provide over 3,200 affordable
Citizens' Board named 2023 Top through the Champions for Energy Citizens contributed more than $5.5 housing units.
Public Company Board of the Year Efficiency & Renewable million to benefit workforce
by the National Association of Energy Award. development programs in 2023. Colleagues logged 232,000+ volunteer
Corporate Directors New hours benefiting 3,000+ community
England Chapter. organizations, served on 1,000+
community boards or committees, and
contributed more than $1.1 million
through the bank’s matching gifts
donation program.
* Citizens’ September 2023 sustainability announcement, including the $50 billion Sustainable Finance Target, is explained on the next page.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
9 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Summary of Citizens’ Sustainability Announcement
In September 2023, Citizens announced a series of initiatives designed to elevate and enhance our commitment to sustainability and impact. These included a $50 billion
Sustainable Finance Target, a plan to engage corporate clients on the lower-carbon transition, and a goal to achieve operational carbon neutrality by 2035. As part of our
commitment to transparency, we will disclose our progress annually.
Supporting Sustainable Helping Clients Transition Minimizing Citizens’
Solutions to a Sustainable Future Environmental Impact
To contribute to a more sustainable future, we have set a As a trusted advisor, Citizens is committed to We have also announced our intention to be carbon
$50 billion Sustainable Finance Target to finance and supporting clients wherever they are on their neutral in our operations by 2035. We set Scope 1 and 2
facilitate green and social activities by 2030. This includes sustainability journeys. With that in mind, we plan to emissions targets in 2021 that will be achieved through
investments in affordable housing, support for small engage with corporate clients in high-emitting sectors ongoing energy conservation investments and energy
businesses, and the financing of targeted community on climate-related topics. To start with, we set a goal to reduction initiatives across the company’s footprint.
development projects. It also includes $5 billion in engage with 100% of Oil & Gas clients by the end
By 2035, we are targeting to offset remaining Scope 1
financing and facilitation for green initiatives such as of 2024.
and 2 emissions through high-quality offsets and
renewable energy, clean technologies, and green buildings.
We are also working to ensure that 100% of our renewable energy credits.
Our Approach to Sustainable Finance outlines our Commercial colleagues are prepared to engage with
methodology for tracking progress against the target. clients on climate-related topics, which will better
enable them to leverage opportunities, meet
stakeholder expectations, and manage risk.
Goal: $50 billion Sustainable Finance Target that Goal: To engage with 100% of Oil & Gas clients by the Goal: To be carbon neutral in our operations by 2035
includes $5 billion in financing and facilitation for end of 2024
green initiatives
For additional details, including reporting on eligible financing For more information, see Partnering With Our Clients. For more information, see Reducing Our Operational Emissions.
activity in 2023, see Driving Positive Climate Impact and
Fostering Strong Communities.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
10 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Our Approach
Effective management of environmental, social, and governance Oversight of Environmental, Social, At the management level, several key leaders are responsible for
topics enables us to better meet the needs of our clients and embedding our Sustainability & Impact strategy across the
customers, serving as a lever to drive business growth while helping and Governance Matters organization. The Chief Experience Officer, who reports directly to the
colleagues and communities thrive. CEO and is a member of the Executive Committee, is responsible for
Our strategy and activities on environmental, social, and governance overseeing and aligning Sustainability & Impact efforts across
Our integrated, enterprise-wide Sustainability & Impact strategy
matters are overseen and guided by our Board of Directors and functions. The Head of Sustainability is responsible for developing
helps us unite our values and purpose to build a more diverse and
executive leadership. The Nominating and Corporate Governance and implementing a strategic approach to the company’s related
sustainable future for all those we serve. Led by robust corporate
Committee of the Board has primary responsibility for this oversight. initiatives, with a focus on climate.
governance, this strategy guides the decisions we make. It means
Each Board committee also has oversight responsibilities for related
serving our customers and clients, engaging shareholders, reducing
matters pertaining to its directive.
Our management structure also includes the ESG Executive Steering
our environmental impact, and empowering our colleagues and Council. Co-chaired by the Chief Experience Officer and Chief
communities to thrive. The four pillars of our strategy outline where • Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee — Guides our Financial Officer, the Council is responsible for:
we believe we have the greatest opportunity to use our reach, commitment to ESG matters, including implementation of our ESG
innovation, and insights to create a positive impact for the economy, governance framework, completion of materiality assessments,
• Reviewing and providing strategic guidance on priority and
society, and the environment. and monitoring the evolution of our Sustainability &
important environmental, social, and governance topics
Impact strategy. • Helping integrate efforts across the lines of business
• Compensation and Human Resources Committee — Oversees • Monitoring progress, trends, and benchmarking exercises
Our Strategy Pillars
compensation programs and policies, talent management and • Providing a clearinghouse for ESG-related business ideas,
succession, and inclusion programs. The Compensation and strategies, and long-term goals
Leading With Human Resources Committee also evaluates executive
Driving performance and approves executive compensation.
• Championing the integration of ESG into the business, key
Robust initiatives, and long-term planning
Positive • Risk Committee — Oversees risks associated with ESG matters
We have also established robust oversight and governance of risks
Corporate through its oversight of the operation of the company’s Enterprise
and opportunities related to climate change. For more information,
Climate Impact Risk Management (ERM) Governance Framework, under which all
Governance risks are managed, including reputation risk, cybersecurity risk, see our 2024 Climate Report.
and impact on risks due to climate change.
• Audit Committee — Oversees the internal control environment for
material ESG disclosures, and approving their inclusion in relevant
Building the Fostering
external reports. The Audit Committee also oversees the Conduct
Workforce of Strong and Ethics Office, which has responsibility for identification and
oversight of risks associated with our culture and conduct.
the Future Communities
For additional information, see the Corporate Governance Guidelines
and Board committee charters available on the Corporate
Governance page of our website.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
11 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Materiality Assessment
Our Sustainability & Impact strategy is focused on the areas that are In addition to reconfirming our priorities, the assessment
most critical to our business success and that align with the interests Key Topics (alphabetical) underscored one of the most important drivers of our Sustainability
and expectations of our stakeholders. To help set our priorities, we & Impact strategy: the essential role that Citizens plays in supporting
periodically conduct a formal materiality assessment in partnership • Community Development and Impact economic development and contributing to the financial well-being
with an independent firm. Our most recent assessment, completed in • Data Privacy and Information Security of our clients, customers, and communities. The process also
2023, included consultation with internal and external stakeholders provided insight into new and emerging issues, such as artificial
• Inclusion
and a comprehensive review of relevant research and standards. We intelligence, that Citizens will continue to monitor and assess. By
prioritized key topics using a “double materiality” lens, looking not • Energy Transition and Climate Change continuing to identify and address key challenges and opportunities
just at how environmental, social, and governance issues affect our • Enterprise Risk Management for our business and stakeholders, we aim to contribute to a strong
business, but also how our business could positively or negatively economy and thriving communities for all.
• Ethics and Compliance
impact the economy, the environment, and people. In evaluating the
significance of potential impacts, we considered their likelihood and • Fair and Responsible Banking
severity over the short, medium, and long term. The assessment • Talent Attraction, Engagement, and Development
highlighted the topics listed to the right.
Other Important Topics
• Corporate Governance
• Human Rights
• Other Environmental Impacts
• Supply Chain Management
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
12 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Stakeholder Engagement
We strive to continuously develop stronger relationships with our stakeholders, including by engaging them in transparent and productive discussions to better understand their questions, priorities, and concerns. This
approach provides us with valuable insights that inform our business strategy and objectives, and is a core element of Citizens’ culture as reflected by our Credo. The table summarizes how we engage with our
stakeholders throughout the year, including on ESG topics.
Stakeholder Key Methods of Engagement Examples of Topics Discussed
Colleagues • Annual colleague listening survey • Colleague volunteerism program and portal, including a matching • Business strategy and performance
• “Let’s Connect” sessions with executives gifts program • Business transformation
• Town hall meetings with CEO and other executives • Credo Awards program and Credo Week celebration • Performance and development
• Intranet site • Performance Enablement reviews and check-ins • Wellness and benefits
• Business Resource Groups • Inclusion
• Community engagement
• Sustainability
Customers • Branch interactions and 1:1 banking relationships • M&A Outlook survey of CEOs/CFOs and private equity sponsors • Customer experience
• Citizens website • Payments pulse survey • Banking needs
• Social media channels • Junior Achievement survey • Business lending and advisory services
• Citizens Listens surveys and focus groups • Business Banking Advisory Board • Financial education
• Customer complaint program • Treasury Solutions Client Advisory Panel • Community events
• Quarterly market outlook report/calls for clients (and advisors) • Business Banking Resiliency Report
• Annual Voice of the Client survey
Community Nonprofit • Citizens’ local market leadership teams • Citizens colleagues serving on nonprofit boards and committees • Community needs and trends
Organizations • Corporate giving through Citizens, Citizens Charitable Foundation, and • Convening community partners and other key stakeholders • Financial empowerment
Citizens Philanthropic Foundation • Skills-based volunteerism provided to share expertise • Workforce development
Shareholders • Annual meeting of shareholders • Phone and email inquiries • Corporate strategy
• Shareholder engagement calls and meetings • Proxy statement • Financial performance
• Investor conferences • Press releases and SEC filings • Executive compensation
• Quarterly earnings calls • Annual Review • Sustainability
• Human capital management
• Board composition
Regulators, Policymakers, • Regular supervisory examinations • Trade associations • Capital planning
Legislators • Regular meetings with management and Chairs of the Audit Committee • Required regulatory reporting • Liquidity management
and Risk Committee • Governance
• Regular engagement with Regulatory Affairs and Government • Regulatory compliance
Affairs teams • Risk management
• Cybersecurity
• Workforce development
• Safety and soundness
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
13 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Leading With Robust
Corporate Governance
Strong corporate governance is foundational to how we do business. Having a
robust corporate governance framework strengthens Board and management
accountability and is essential to ensuring we make sound business decisions.
Our commitment to strong governance aligns with best practices and creates an
ethical culture that promotes the long-term interests of our customers,
colleagues, shareholders, communities, and other stakeholders.
IN THIS SECTION:
Board Governance 14 Privacy and Personal Information Protection 18
Shareholder Engagement 15 Cybersecurity 19
Executive Compensation 15 Fraud Prevention 20
Business Conduct and Ethics 16 Political Engagement 20
Enterprise Risk Management 17 Supply Chain Management 20
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
14 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Board Governance
Citizens’ Board monitors the company’s governance practices to Board Diversity
ensure they create an ethical and transparent culture, promote the
12 of 13
long-term interests of our stakeholders, and foster confidence in how The Board values diverse perspectives and experiences, which
we manage our business. For more information, see our 2024 Proxy it believes are critical to robust discussion and effective
directors independent
Statement, which describes our key governance practices that are decision-making. When reviewing the composition of our Board
collectively designed to promote: and its committees, the Nominating and Corporate Governance
• Board independence and oversight Committee considers self-identified diverse characteristics of
All key Board committees
directors and nominees, in addition to each person’s background,
• Selection of highly qualified and diverse Board candidates experience, independence, and tenure. Moreover, the Board requests fully independent*
• Alignment of the Board’s skills with the company’s strategy that any firms engaged in the director search process include diverse
• Alignment of the Board’s and executive management’s interests individuals in their lists of potential candidates. 6.5 years
with those of our shareholders
Between 2019 and our most recent annual meeting held on April 25,
• Director development with an ongoing Board education program 2024, eight new directors have been appointed to the Board, with average tenure
four of those representing diverse groups. In addition to Board
• Robust oversight of risk
refreshment, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee 8 new directors
• Shareholder rights that support our shareholders’ voice
considers the periodic rotation of committee members, ensuring
Citizens’ Corporate Governance Guidelines dictate how our Board each committee has an appropriate balance of experience and appointed in last 5 years
directs our affairs and establish a common set of expectations as to fresh perspectives.
how the Board, its various committees, and individual directors
66 years
should perform their functions. These and other key corporate Board Education
governance documents, including our Bylaws, Certificate of
average age
Incorporation, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and committee
Each of our Board members participates in annual training and
charters, are available in the Corporate Governance section of
continuing education programming that covers a broad range of
our website.
topics to enhance and strengthen the skills, knowledge, and
54% of directors
competencies of directors, both individually and collectively. Topics
represent diverse groups: five women, one person of color, and
covered during 2023 included cybersecurity, payments, sustainability,
Board Recognition innovation, and anti-money laundering. one veteran
Data as of Apr. 25, 2024.
Citizens’ Board was named 2023
Top Public Company Board * Audit, Compensation and Human Resources, Nominating and Corporate Governance,
and Risk committees
of the Year by the National
Association of Corporate
Directors New England Chapter.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
15 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Shareholder Executive
Engagement Compensation
Continuous engagement with our shareholders is important to Citizens’ executive compensation program is designed to attract,
fostering trust, transparency, and alignment of interests. We actively retain, and motivate the company’s leaders to deliver long-term
communicate and engage with shareholders through various business performance in a manner that promotes effective risk
channels, including quarterly earnings presentations, investor management and strong accountability and is aligned with
conferences, press releases, SEC filings, shareholder dialogue, our shareholder interests. The program is overseen by the Board’s
annual review, our proxy statement, and the annual meeting Compensation and Human Resources Committee, which continuously
of shareholders. evaluates its design and related disclosure with the support of an
independent compensation consultant and with reference to peer
Our enhanced shareholder rights support our shareholders’ voice.
and market practices, as well as shareholder feedback.
These include providing shareholders with proxy access, the right to
call a special meeting, the annual election of directors with a Executive compensation is composed primarily of base salary and
majority vote standard in an uncontested election, and a simple variable compensation, which includes short- and long-term awards.
majority vote standard to amend our Certificate of Incorporation To promote alignment with shareholder interests, our executive pay
and Bylaws. mix delivers more than 80% of total compensation in at-risk variable
compensation. In addition, at least 50% of long-term awards for
Each year, we proactively engage with our largest shareholders to
senior leaders (and nearly two-thirds in the case of the CEO, Chief
seek their feedback and input on corporate governance, executive
Financial Officer, and Heads of Consumer and Commercial Banking)
compensation, sustainability, human capital management, and any
are granted in the form of performance-based awards with a three-
other topics that are top of mind for them. We share the feedback we
year performance period.
receive with our Board and use it to enhance our existing practices.
We also hold discussions with shareholders at their request. In 2023, More information regarding our executive compensation program,
we met with shareholders representing ~30% of our outstanding including 2023 performance year compensation, the decision-making
stock, with discussions focusing on governance, progress on climate process, and related governance processes, can be found in our 2024
actions and reporting, human capital management, executive Proxy Statement.
compensation, and Board composition.
More information on our shareholder outreach program, including
details on how our shareholders can contact the Board, can be found
in our 2024 Proxy Statement.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
16 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Business Conduct and Ethics
We are committed to conducting our business with honesty and All Citizens colleagues are required to complete annual training on
integrity and in full compliance with all applicable laws and the Code and to recertify that they have read, understood, and
regulations. We believe that fostering an ethical culture is essential agreed to comply with its principles and provisions. All colleagues
to delivering the best possible banking experience for our customers, also receive mandatory annual training in anti-money laundering,
a great workplace for our colleagues, and long-term returns for anti-bribery and corruption, privacy, cybersecurity, and fraud
our shareholders. prevention, among other topics.
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the Code) establishes the Each business line has implemented processes and controls to
core standards of ethical conduct for our company and is applicable facilitate compliance with our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and
to all directors, officers, and colleagues. Our Conduct and Ethics relevant laws and regulations. This includes performing risk
Office is overseen by the Audit Committee of the Board and has assessments for financial crimes with consideration of the nature of
primary authority and responsibility for implementation, including operations, vendor activities, geography, and interaction with
monitoring the behavior of our colleagues in relation to the Code and customers. The Conduct and Ethics Office assists business lines in
other key policy considerations on a company-wide basis. complying with the Policy by offering advice and guidance and
providing relevant management information and reporting, including
trend analysis and escalation of any instances of noncompliance to
senior management.
Topics addressed by the Code include:
• Protection of customer and company assets Reporting Ethics Concerns
• Conflicts of interest
Colleagues are required to promptly report any known or suspected
• Outside activities
violations of the Code, laws and regulations, or company policies.
• Personal conduct Citizens provides several channels for colleagues to report suspected
• Equal opportunity violations, including our Right Call hotline and website, both of which
offer an anonymous reporting option.
• Anti-money laundering and sanctions compliance
It is a violation of the Code for any supervisor, manager, or colleague
• Compliance with antitrust laws
to discourage anyone from filing a report or limiting the avenues in
• Environment, health, and safety
which to file a report. Being directed to violate the Code by a
• Integrity of reports, disclosures, and investigations supervisor or manager is not a valid reason or excuse for committing
the violation, and colleagues are required to report any such
directions if they occur. All reports are kept in confidence to the
extent possible. Retaliation against any individual who in good faith
reports an issue or concern, or who cooperates with a Citizens-
sanctioned investigation, is not tolerated.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
17 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Enterprise Risk Management
The responsible and effective management of risk is fundamental to
our business and includes our efforts to ensure financial stability,
Three Lines of Defense Environmental and Social Risk
protect stakeholder interests, and promote long-term sustainability.
We are dedicated to maintaining a strong, integrated, and proactive Our ERM Governance Framework is embedded in our Citizens interacts with entities and individuals that operate
approach to the management of the risks we are exposed to in business through a three-lines-of-defense model, which across a variety of sectors, some of which may be associated
pursuit of our business objectives. defines responsibilities and accountabilities at all levels of with environmental and/or social risk. We conduct our
the organization: business affairs in accordance with the highest ethical, legal,
Our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Governance Framework
and regulatory standards and only engage in business
includes active oversight by the Board of Directors and its Risk
relationships with individuals or entities of reliable
Committee, which advises the Board in relation to current and
1 The business lines are accountable for reputation and sound character. We have integrated the
potential future risk strategies, including determination of risk
identifying, assessing, managing, and management and oversight of these risks with our strategic
appetite and tolerance. Risk governance is further supported by our
controlling risks associated with the products planning and risk management processes. This includes the
Chief Risk Officer and various management-level risk committees First Line
and services they provide, regardless of where administration of an Environmental, Social, and Ethical (ESE)
through which senior executives and key stakeholders provide of Defense
the activity is performed. Risk Screening to all wholesale borrowers to determine if they
oversight, guidance, and strategic direction in managing risks across
operate in certain high-risk, non-preferred or prohibited
the enterprise.
sectors. An ESE Risk Assessment is required for all borrowers
2 Corporate Risk Management, our independent that operate in any of these sectors or otherwise raise ESE
risk management function, is accountable for concerns for any other reason; this includes an ESE
owning and developing the policies, risk and Questionnaire to determine if the risk category is normal,
Second Line
control frameworks, and tools that the business sensitive, or high. Any transaction with borrowers that fall
of Defense
lines use to manage risk in their businesses. under sensitive- or high-risk designations is subject to
Corporate Risk Management is accountable for enhanced due diligence and approval requirements. Our
overseeing and challenging the business lines Commercial and Consumer credit policies include risks
on the effective management of all risks. related to environmental, social, and governance matters
(e.g., physical risks associated with climate change),
as relevant.
3 Our Internal Audit function provides
independent assurance that the ERM
Governance Framework is appropriate
Third Line
considering the size, business model,
of Defense
complexity of operations, and risk profile of
the organization.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
18 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Privacy and Personal Information Protection
Privacy and confidentiality of personal information form the Our Internal Audit function also performs annual audits related to
foundation of trust and consumer confidence. Citizens is committed the Privacy Program. The Privacy Office presents its Annual Privacy
to collecting, using, and sharing personal information responsibly. Report to the Board of Directors and escalates risks through
executive management and governance committees as necessary.
Citizens’ publicly available Privacy Policy, available on our Privacy
Citizens is also subject to periodic reviews of its Privacy Program by
Policies landing page, outlines how we process personal information
federal regulators.
and choices consumers have to control the use and sharing of such
information. Citizens also maintains an internal Privacy Policy and Both our Privacy Office and our Enterprise Incident Management
related standards that establish controls around minimizing privacy team have established processes and procedures to identify and
risk in the processing of personal information. respond to suspected or actual data privacy incidents that may
compromise the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of personal
Our commitment to data privacy is rooted in both strict compliance
information. We provide our employees with the ability to report
with federal and state privacy laws and the intention to use personal
such incidents through our internal systems, and our centralized
information in the least intrusive way possible. As a result, we seek to
processes allow escalation to a dedicated incident response team for
incorporate concepts such as data minimization, purpose limitation,
severity assessment, mitigation, root cause analysis, and corrective
and privacy by design into our tools, technologies, and culture.
action if warranted. Our privacy training module, required of all our
Our independent Privacy Office reports to the Chief Privacy Officer employees and contractors, is an important tool to ensure those
and oversees our Privacy Program, including monitoring ongoing who have access to our customer and employee personal
risks, implementing appropriate tools and processes, and supervising information understand proper use, disclosure, and protection of
vendor and third-party adherence to the Privacy Policy and Program. that information.
The Privacy Office partners with our Cybersecurity team to ensure
We recognize that emerging technologies such as artificial
that effective controls over personal information are in place. It also
intelligence — and other new innovative products and services —
works closely with our Legal team to monitor new and emerging
offer opportunities to better serve our customers, but that they can
privacy laws and implement timely solutions to maintain compliance.
also raise new privacy and security risks. Citizens is committed to
In addition to ongoing monitoring, the Privacy Office conducts
responsibly managing how we use such technologies, including
privacy risk assessments on an annual basis.
maintaining a multistakeholder approach to identifying emerging
risks that may pose privacy harm to our customers.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
19 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Cybersecurity
As digital technologies continue to play an increasing role in banking from security events. We also participate in and support programs Board Oversight
and other sectors, the importance of cybersecurity continues to within the public and private sectors to enhance cybersecurity
increase as well. Citizens is committed to maintaining a robust preparedness across the business community. The full Board and both its Risk and Audit committees have oversight
security ecosystem that can effectively safeguard our customers and of the management of our cybersecurity risk. The Audit Committee is
We continue to hire top industry talent and provide our CS&R team
other stakeholders from the ever-changing landscape responsible for overseeing the cybersecurity program under its risk
with the training and tools needed to build our capabilities. This
of cyberthreats. oversight responsibilities as it relates to financial controls. The Risk
includes efforts to cultivate future talent through internships and
Committee is responsible for oversight of the management of
Overseen by our Chief Security Officer, the company’s comprehensive early career development programs.
cybersecurity risk consistent with the ERM Governance Framework.
cybersecurity program is designed to protect our colleagues,
Citizens colleagues serve as a critical first line of defense against
customers, assets, premises, systems, and information against The Chief Security Officer presents the cybersecurity program to the
cyberthreats. Every colleague and contractor at Citizens is required
unauthorized access, misuse, alteration, or destruction that could Risk Committee for annual approval in conjunction with an annual
to complete an annual training program that includes coverage of
result in harm or inconvenience to our customers, loss, and/or cybersecurity briefing, which provides an overall assessment of the
cybersecurity, physical security, fraud, anti-money laundering, and
reputational damage for the company. Our program includes our effectiveness of the program and an outlook for the upcoming year.
customer identification. Additionally, we provide ongoing security
security policies and covers access control, infrastructure security,
training and awareness information to our colleagues, including In addition to this briefing, the Chief Security Officer provides
cybersecurity event and incident management, data protection,
regular phishing awareness campaigns. This comprehensive training updates on cybersecurity to the Risk Committee at each of its
third-party-vendor cyberrisk oversight, payment security, and related
program ensures that each of our colleagues is well informed and meetings. The Audit Committee and Board also receive regular
training and awareness. The cybersecurity program leverages the
equipped to protect customer data and other sensitive cybersecurity updates as part of reporting provided by the
Enterprise Incident Management team as needed for incident
information effectively. Technology/Cyber Oversight (TCO) Committee. Chaired by the CEO,
response support.
the TCO Committee is a management committee that provides
We also strive to educate our customers about emerging
Our program undergoes regular independent assessments and executive oversight, guidance, and transparency for key initiatives
cybersecurity and fraud issues. We utilize numerous channels
benchmarking and is subject to oversight and evaluation by federal designed to enhance our technology stability, cyberdefenses, and
including email, branch signage, online banking messages, and social
regulators to ensure compliance and efficacy. This includes routine risk management capabilities. Further, to ensure the Board maintains
media posts to inform them about how to best protect themselves. In
testing of our defenses against external threat actors. We reference appropriate knowledge of this work, it receives cybersecurity
addition, we run online communication campaigns linked to national
and align with multiple external frameworks and standards, including training on an annual basis, supplemented with additional training
awareness-raising efforts including Internet Safety Month,
the U.S. Department of Commerce’s National Institute of Standards as appropriate.
Cybersecurity Month, and Identity Theft Awareness Week. In each
and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework, to ensure that our
case, we employ a combination of strategies to engage customers
program is maintained in accordance with regulatory expectations
and offer them practical advice and tips on how to avoid online
and industry best practices.
scams, phishing attacks, and more.
Our Corporate Security and Resilience (CS&R) team is responsible for
In addition to our consumer-focused efforts, we provide timely
driving continuous improvement of our cybersecurity and business
information on cybersecurity and fraud topics to our
resilience capabilities. This includes putting in place effective
commercial clients.
controls to safeguard our customers’ information and privacy and
continually enhancing our approach as cyberthreats evolve. We work
with law enforcement, regulatory agencies, industry experts, and
trade organizations to ensure we are prepared for emerging threats,
and regularly test our capabilities to detect, respond to, and recover
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
20 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Fraud Political Supply Chain
Prevention Engagement Management
Combating fraud is critical to safeguarding our customers’ financial Citizens engages in advocacy on legislative and regulatory matters We recognize the significant influence that suppliers have on the
assets, earning and retaining stakeholder trust, and maintaining the that affect our company, our customers, and the communities quality of the products and services we provide to our customers,
integrity and stability of the financial system. we serve. and on our efforts to deliver positive impacts across our value chain.
Citizens works to protect customers from evolving fraud threats Citizens’ political action committees (PACs) raise funds from The supply chain management practice is led by Procurement
across multiple channels, including telephone interactions and colleagues on a voluntary basis. Citizens corporate funds are not Services, which works with internal business partners to identify,
online banking. To do so, we employ a multilayered technology used to make contributions to political candidates, political parties, select, manage, and develop the supply base to meet the current and
approach including authentication, monitoring, and early or other political committees, such as “super PACs,” that contribute future vendor needs of the bank. Our objective is to identify
identification. We strive to balance customer experience and fraud to or make independent expenditures on behalf of candidates. All responsible suppliers and treat them equitably, utilizing documented
prevention through technologies and processes that reduce friction, PAC expenditures are overseen by senior management and disclosed criteria that ensure high performance standards and value.
such as two-way text messaging and email communications. via regular state and federal filings.
Our suppliers are integral to our mission and we view them and their
However, as the industry evolves, so does fraud. We are therefore
The Board’s Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee actions as having an impact on our own reputation. Our Supplier
committed to continuous improvement of our fraud prevention
receives regular reports on political contributions and other Code of Conduct establishes a set of guiding principles that govern
practices to keep our customers protected.
expenditures associated with government advocacy, including our relationships with suppliers. We expect suppliers to fully comply
lobbying activities and support for trade associations and similar with this code, communicate it to their key leaders and employees,
organizations. In 2023, Citizens received a Center for Political and extend its application throughout their supply chains.
Accountability-Zicklin Index score of 82.9 points.
Our Third-Party Risk Management program ensures that consistent,
For more information, see our Statement on Advocacy and Political risk-based due diligence is completed across our vendor population
Activities and our most recent Corporate Political Activity Report, on an upfront and ongoing basis. The program also provides
available in the Corporate Governance section of our website. transparent, enterprise-level visibility into our supply chain through
regular reporting to the CRO and the Board Risk Committee.
Our supply chain management practice also includes efforts to
promote supplier diversity (see page 32) and reduce supply chain
environmental impacts (see page 26).
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
21 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Driving Positive
Climate Impact
The impacts of climate change and the transition to a lower-carbon economy present
risks and opportunities for our business and our stakeholders. We believe banks will
play a key role in leading the transition. At Citizens, we’re committed to driving
positive climate impact by supporting our clients, empowering communities, reducing
our operational emissions, and disclosing our progress along the way.
IN THIS SECTION:
Partnering With Our Clients 22
Understanding and Managing Climate-Related Risks 24
Reducing Our Operational Emissions 25
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
22 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Partnering With Our Clients
To earn the role of trusted advisor to our clients, we strive to deliver In support of our engagement strategy, we have committed to train Accelerating the Green Economy
clear and objective advice and provide tailored solutions that help all frontline Commercial colleagues on climate-related topics so they
them reach their goals. This includes assisting them in navigating the are prepared to listen, learn, and share insights with clients. Training In addition to helping clients in existing industries respond to climate
risks and opportunities associated with climate change. By helping content covers the fundamentals of climate, the energy transition, change, we are focused on identifying and supporting emerging
them achieve their objectives, we aim to drive positive climate impact relevant impacts on clients, Citizens’ enterprise-wide Sustainability & growth sectors and companies whose products and services will be
while continuing to generate long-term value for our shareholders. Impact strategy, and how we can support clients through our critical to a sustainable, lower-carbon economy.
innovative products and capabilities. As of year-end 2023, we trained
To that end, we are continuing to build capabilities to help our To meet the unique needs of the renewable energy industry, Citizens
61% of frontline Commercial colleagues, which is inclusive of
commercial clients manage and benefit from the transition to a Asset Finance provides equity investments to support a greener and
relationship and portfolio managers, and are on track to complete
lower-carbon economy. Our key areas of focus include supporting more independent energy future. Since 2015, we have participated in
the remainder of our training target in 2024. In addition to targeted
clients with transition-related advice and services, advancing product the funding of a number of U.S. renewable energy projects, with total
frontline colleagues, 45% of Treasury Solutions colleagues have
innovation, and financing technologies and companies that are investments valued at approximately $314 million at the end of 2023.
completed training on climate-related topics.
driving the green economy. Acknowledging the growth of and need for diverse types of clean
energy technology, Citizens invested in its first solar tax equity
transaction, which also included battery storage, in 2023.
Supporting the Transition
Citizens’ 2030 Sustainable Finance Target
The transition to a green economy requires a range of technological
Citizens partners with clients to help them achieve their key business Citizens’ $50 billion Sustainable Finance Target includes solutions to support the reduction and offset of carbon emissions,
objectives. This includes supporting them in navigating climate- $5 billion to finance and facilitate green initiatives. Eligible increase efficiency, and enable transparent tracking of data. Software
related risks and seizing new opportunities to innovate and grow activities include those that support a broad array of solutions in particular are critical for emissions analytics, energy
their businesses as the world transitions to a lower-carbon future. To environmental benefits, such as helping our customers’ management and optimization, and offset management and
that end, we continue to deepen our expertise and expand our transition to a lower-carbon economy, advancing green verification. Through mergers and acquisitions and capital markets
engagement with new and existing clients on climate and transition- technologies, measuring and minimizing climate change risk, coverage of this high-growth and critical sector, we are building
related matters — especially with middle-market companies and and mitigating the impacts of adverse climate events. advisory capabilities focused on software and tech-enabled climate
clients that may have limited internal capacity for this work. services that are powering an energy transformation, enabling
In 2023, we completed qualifying green financing transactions
sustainable policies, and improving stakeholder transparency.
With that in mind, we have announced our ambition to engage totaling more than $91 million.
corporate clients in high-emitting sectors on climate-related topics,
starting with 100% of our Oil & Gas clients by the end of 2024. In 2023,
we made progress by engaging with 34% of clients in our Oil & Gas
portfolio, and we are on target to engage the rest in 2024. We also
continued to engage with numerous clients in other transition-
relevant sectors, such as Commercial Real Estate, Transportation and
Logistics, and Chemicals. We also deepened engagement through
expansion of our ongoing pilot of sector-specific climate risk
questionnaires. For more information, see Client Climate
Questionnaire on page 24.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
23 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Advancing Product Innovation
Supporting Financing for Emissions-Reducing Providing Sustainable Wealth Management Solutions
Technology Upgrades
Citizens has a strong track record of developing innovative solutions
to meet customers’ and communities’ evolving needs. This includes In response to growing client interest, we are working to
Ascend Performance Materials makes specialty materials, products to help clients put their capital to work in support of the expand our offerings and support of sustainable and impact-
including nylon plastics and fibers, that are used in a variety transition to a lower-carbon economy and reduce environmental based investment solutions. Our strategy emphasizes the
of products from airbags to electronics. The manufacturing impacts associated with banking services. utilization of core allocation models for client investment
process for Ascend’s products requires large quantities of solutions, including exploring model portfolio solutions from
both steam and electricity. To increase reliability and reduce
Citizens’ Sustainable Deposits offering enables commercial and
leading providers in the sustainable and impact investing
emissions at its Decatur, Alabama plant, the company sought
public-sector clients to direct their cash reserves in support of
space. We also continue to invest in research and training to
to replace its aging coal-fired steam boilers with natural gas-
companies and projects focused on driving positive environmental
ensure frontline colleagues are versed in sustainable and
powered cogeneration facilities. As cogeneration involves the
and social impacts. The product is governed in accordance with our
impact-focused investment products.
Sustainable Deposits Product Framework and Sustainable Deposits
production of steam and electricity in a single plant, this
Eligibility Criteria, which were developed with the support of These efforts not only support our clients’ desire to
would greatly increase efficiency and reliability, as well as
Morningstar Sustainalytics, a leading independent environmental, incorporate the environmental and social topics they care
reduce the company’s dependence on grid energy. However,
social, and governance and corporate governance research, ratings, about into their investment strategies, but also help increase
financing the new units presented a major hurdle.
and analytics firm. the flow of capital in support of companies working to enable
Together, Ascend and Citizens devised a customized financing a more sustainable and inclusive future.
Citizens’ unique Carbon Offset Deposit Accounti allows clients to use
strategy that provided a construction loan to complete the
credit earned on their deposit balances to purchase high-quality,
equipment, followed by a six-year capital lease. As the agent,
third-party-verified carbon offsets that are retired on the client’s
Citizens assembled a group of six banks to complete the deal,
behalf and for their exclusive use. This gives corporate clients the
including four that were new lenders to Ascend.
opportunity to make a positive environmental impact while they
In the years since they were installed, the new cogeneration continue to work on their longer-term emissions reduction strategies.
units have produced benefits that position Ascend for long- Our Carbon Offset Program Framework establishes minimum
term success, including reduced downtime for the plant; requirements for offset quality and is updated annually to align with
annual savings of approximately $20 million in fuel, waste, best practices and emerging standards and ratings in the voluntary
and electricity costs; and a 40% reduction in GHG emissions. carbon market.
We also recognize the opportunity to provide sustainable solutions to
customers using our retail banking services. In 2023, Citizens
partnered with Mastercard to develop a debit and ATM card made
from 90% recycled plastic. Additionally, the card carries the
Mastercard sustainable card badge, reflecting its lower life-cycle
impact in terms of energy, material consumption, and carbon
footprint. We began issuance of the new consumer and business
debit and ATM cards in early 2024. Citizens was also the first bank in
the U.S. to introduce Mastercard’s Touch Card feature, which
increases accessibility for customers with visual impairment. Each
card has a differently shaped, tactile notch on its side — rounded for
debit and ATM and squared for credit — so customers can easily tell
their cards apart by feel.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
24 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Understanding and Managing Climate-Related Risks
Citizens’ business and operations are exposed to risks Measuring Climate-Related Risks in Portfolio Risk Sensitivity Analysis
stemming from climate change. These encompass both
physical risks associated with shifting temperatures and Our Lending and Investments Another way we identify and evaluate potential exposure to
extreme weather events and transition risks related to climate-related risks is by monitoring and comparing the sensitivity
regulatory, market, technological, and other changes that may One likely impact of climate change is the potential for increased of client sector portfolios to such risks. This includes leveraging
arise from the shift to a lower-carbon economy. credit risk associated with our lending portfolio. This is primarily due insights from our client climate questionnaire and other in-depth
to the possibility of physical climate risk events, such as severe research to inform qualitative assessments of the potential impact
Coordinated by our Climate Risk Working Group, we continue to
weather, leading to decreased capacity of bank customers to repay of transition and/or physical risk on different sectors. Results of
advance our organizational capability to identify, measure, monitor,
debt and/or physical damage to underlying collateral assets. In our most recent assessment are summarized in a portfolio risk heat
and control climate-related risks, including developing tools and
connection with our requirement to assess risk and manage our map available in our 2024 Climate Report. The outcome of this
processes to assess how physical and transition risks may impact us
company in a safe and sound manner, we are required to understand analysis is useful for informing potential new product solutions as
or our clients. These efforts not only position us to meet current and
and address the potential for increased credit risk associated with we engage with clients in affected sectors, as well as providing a
emerging regulatory and financial disclosure requirements, but also
our lending portfolio. To that end, we are continuing to develop our more granular understanding of how climate risks may impact our
to advise and support our clients in navigating the lower-carbon
capabilities to capture client carbon emissions data and assess client business. While evaluating potential climate exposure on an
transition.
exposure to transition and/or physical risk. industry basis helps inform our credit and product analysis, we do
not make credit decisions on an industry basis alone. Instead,
Identifying Climate-Related Client Climate Questionnaire credit decisions are made on the basis of the unique characteristics
and financial position of the potential borrower.
Enterprise Risks In 2022, we developed a client climate questionnaire to help us better
assess climate risk exposure at the client level and understand ways
Financed Emissions
Climate risk is considered a horizontal risk that impacts the bank we can assist clients with their own climate risk mitigation. The client
through the amplification of traditional risk types, including credit, climate questionnaire helps us to evaluate risks and opportunities We attempt to measure our financed emissions to assist us in
market, and operational risks, among others. To support a deeper associated with a given client’s decarbonization journey based on, for monitoring our exposure to climate risk and understanding how we
understanding of these relationships and prepare for emerging example, recent or planned initiatives that will reduce their can support our clients in navigating the transition to a lower-carbon
regulatory expectations, we completed an Enterprise Climate Risk emissions impact or help them mitigate their own physical risks. economy.
Assessment in 2023. This included assessing the severity of impacts
In 2023, our Climate Risk team worked with Commercial Bank and For year-end 2023, we completed an initial estimate for our business
from physical and transition risk on our traditional risks across
Technology partners to pilot the questionnaire with a select group of loan, commercial real estate, residential mortgage, and auto loan
different time horizons. Given that climate risk manifests as a
portfolio and relationship managers, develop and facilitate relevant portfolios following the Partnership for Carbon Accounting
potential accelerator of traditionally managed risk types, the
training, and integrate the questionnaire into our technology Financials’ (PCAF) Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard.
assessment focused on how climate risk is mitigated through existing
platforms for wider deployment. In 2024, we plan to significantly This included extensive work to establish sources and protocols for
risk management processes as well as identifying areas of emergent
expand the pilot population to cover additional sectors and to train a addressing data gaps, including utilizing a cascading approach based
risk beyond what is already accounted for in existing processes. For
wider group of portfolio and relationship managers on employing the on multiple data sources to provide baseline emissions estimates for
details on our findings, see our 2024 Climate Report.
questionnaire. We expect this will yield new insights regarding our nonreporting companies. In 2024, we are moving to make the
clients’ decarbonization journeys from both a risk and business estimation process more repeatable and to incorporate the
perspective. additional data management and control protocols necessary to
enable future external reporting.
For more details on our client engagement strategy, see page 22.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
25 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Reducing Our Operational Emissions
We are committed to doing our part to address the environmental GHG Emissions and Climate Targets
impacts of our physical operations, including reducing our energy use
Summary of our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions performance (MTCOe, actual and estimates) and progress toward our stated targets.*
and GHG emissions. 2
Our operational GHG emissions are driven primarily by energy
consumption in our buildings, which are powered by electricity and
heated by multiple sources including electricity, natural gas, and
heating oil. We also generate emissions through business travel,
waste management, employee commuting, and our supply chain,
which includes the purchase of goods and services.
In 2021, we set targets to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions
30% by 2025 and 50% by 2035, compared to a 2016 baseline. These
targets align with the goals of the Paris Agreement, including the
ambition to limit the average global temperature increase to well
below 2°C compared to preindustrial levels.
Citizens’ year-over-year cumulative Scope 1 and 2 emissions
decreased by 18% in 2023, driven primarily by lower heating and
cooling demands and site closures. Across the New England and Mid-
Atlantic regions, we saw the average number of heating degree days
and cooling degree days decrease by 10% and 19%, respectively, in
comparison to the previous year. Following Citizens’ acquisition of
HSBC’s East Coast footprint and Investors Bancorp, Inc. in 2022, our * Scope 2 emissions included in this summary reflect market-based emissions. Citizens’ Scope 1 and 2 emissions targets align with the goals of the Paris Agreement, including the
consolidating efforts resulted in a higher-than-average number of
ambition to limit the average global temperature increase to well below 2°C compared to preindustrial levels.
site closures in 2023, contributing to significant reductions in energy
consumption. Our overall energy consumption decreased by 14%
across our footprint.
To ensure consistency and accuracy, our environmental policy
requires that we measure and track our performance in
accordance with the GHG Protocol, and that our GHG inventory is
independently verified. Our most recent CDP response can be viewed
on our website and includes a complete summary of our operational
emissions, with data segregated by scope and intensity metrics.
Additional information is also available in our 2024 Climate Report.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
26 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Driving Progress Toward Our Goals Committing to Carbon Neutrality
Empowering Communities
Our strategy for driving progress toward our GHG reduction targets In 2023, we built on Citizens’ robust operational sustainability
focuses on improving energy efficiency, optimizing our branch strategy with a commitment to achieve carbon neutrality by 2035. To Citizens’ Champions in Action program is designed to support
footprint, and supporting renewable energy. do so, we will continue ongoing efforts to reduce our direct and nonprofit organizations that address social challenges facing
indirect GHG emissions and address any remaining emissions our communities. In 2023, the Champions for Energy Efficiency
Citizens invests annually in energy conservation measures that
through the purchase and retirement of high-quality carbon offsets. & Renewable Energy Award recognized several nonprofits for
reduce emissions to achieve our targets, including transitioning to
In addition, we will continue to support emerging efforts in the their dedication to building a more sustainable future by
LED lighting; installing building energy management systems; and
voluntary carbon market to increase transparency, better understand improving energy efficiency within their own operations or
upgrading heating, ventilation, and air conditioning units.
project integrity, and ensure that projects have the desired positive expanding access to clean or renewable energy services in
We continue to optimize the design of our branch network in impacts they claim. Standards for our own procurement of offsets are the communities they serve. Recipients included Sustainable
response to changing customer preferences and the opportunity to outlined in the Citizens Carbon Offset Program Framework. Princeton for its work to implement local solutions to
increase efficiency. In addition to consolidating select branch positively impact the surrounding environment, and Clean
locations, we are deploying new designs with reduced square footage Energy NH, which is leading New Hampshire’s energy
Engaging Our Supply Chain
and other enhancements, resulting in lower energy use and decarbonization efforts.
emissions per branch.
Our suppliers play a critical role in helping us execute our mission We also help drive positive climate impact by enabling
While we aim to continue reducing our energy use and associated and we view their impact on the environment as an extension of our colleagues to volunteer in support of environmental causes in
emissions, we also recognize the importance of meeting our own. Our Supplier Code of Conduct outlines guidelines for suppliers, the communities where they live and work. For example, in
remaining energy needs sustainably. In September 2022, we entered including the management of climate-related matters. 2023, more than 150 Citizens colleagues across eight states
into a virtual power purchase agreement with Ørsted to support the took part in Ocean Conservancy’s International Coastal
construction of the Sunflower Wind Farm in Marion County, Kansas,
In 2023, we launched a formal supplier engagement program and
Cleanup® initiative, helping to remove more than 720 pounds
with the intent to match the majority of Citizens’ power consumption
invited an inaugural cohort of vendors to participate in the program.
of trash before it could reach the water.
As of year-end, we exceeded our internal goal of engaging 35% of our
across its operational footprint with renewable energy credits (RECs).
vendors by spend for a total of 38%.
In September 2023, the project became fully operational, allowing
Citizens to begin taking delivery of its share of the associated RECs.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
27 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Building the Workforce of
the Future
Developing the workforce of the future is critical to meet the acceleration of needed
skills and capabilities across all generations. To meet this need, Citizens is making
meaningful progress while adapting to the ever-changing landscape. We are expanding
the pipeline for diverse talent, ensuring opportunities for growth and leadership,
building a culture of belonging, and investing in organizations that provide upskilling
and reskilling services. Through these efforts, we are making a measurable impact within
and beyond Citizens that positions us and the communities we serve for the best
possible tomorrow.
IN THIS SECTION:
Creating an Inclusive Environment 28
Talent Attraction, Development, and Engagement 33
Addressing Community Workforce Needs 37
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
28 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Creating an Inclusive Environment
Fostering a Culture of Inclusion and
Diversifying our teams, investing in our colleagues’ growth and
development, and fostering an inclusive culture are at the heart of Our Approach Belonging in Our Workplace
our Credo and culture. We are taking thoughtful and measurable
steps to drive efforts that build a more future-ready, diverse, and
Our approach to inclusion is grounded in understanding the needs
inclusive workforce. Our Board’s Compensation and Human For Our Colleagues For Our Customers and
and goals of our colleagues while providing education, resources,
Resources Committee directly oversees our strategy and progress.
Ensure our colleagues are
Communities
and tools to increase our organizational effectiveness. We regularly
We are committed to creating an inclusive culture in our workplace valued, respected, heard, Mitigate bias in our business survey our workforce on a wide range of topics and use the results to
and delivering products and services that meet the increasingly and feel a strong sense decisions while promoting refine our focus, address any gaps, and strengthen efforts to improve
diverse needs of our expanding customer base. We also partner with of belonging. fairness. our organizational effectiveness and the colleague experience.
nonprofits, local community leaders, and other external stakeholders Education and training also play a critical role in building a culture of
to invest in programs that empower and uplift underserved Embed inclusive capabilities Facilitate fair access to belonging. Additionally, our growing number of business resource
communities. We invest in upskilling and reskilling individuals across and behaviors throughout capital for small businesses groups (BRGs) contribute to Citizens’ inclusive environment by
our communities so they can be ready for the jobs of today our business practices. and underserved bringing together colleagues with similar interests or other areas of
and tomorrow. communities. commonality and engaging those communities to help strengthen our
culture, fuel innovation across our business, and address critical
In 2023, we continued to focus on embedding inclusion across our needs in our communities. These groups provide networking
talent and business practices to ensure we are expanding the Mitigate bias in our hiring Work with community opportunities, build awareness, fuel innovation, and foster a sense
capabilities we offer to our colleagues and our customers. We made and performance review partners to build in-demand of belonging.
measurable progress, but there is also more to be done. decisions while promoting skills and capabilities for
fairness and inclusion. now and the future.
Surveying Our Colleagues
Increase diverse Support supplier diversity As part of our ongoing efforts to develop a high-performing
representation in our through inclusion of workforce and make Citizens a great place to work and build a career,
workforce, particularly in certified diverse businesses we transitioned to a new colleague listening platform in 2023
senior roles. in our sourcing process. enabling multiple touchpoints to acquire feedback on colleague
sentiment in an ongoing and iterative way throughout the year. This
Develop a talent pipeline Expand solutions for diverse platform includes an Organizational Health Survey that serves as a
and expand hiring slates market segments. leading indicator of organizational effectiveness and workplace
representative of all culture. Overall inclusion results were among the most favorable
dimensions of diversity. surveyed at 78%, which exceeded global averages across every ethnic
group. However, we did identify opportunities to ensure that all
Build inclusive and highly colleagues are experiencing the culture in similarly positive ways.
collaborative teams to
drive innovation.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
29 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Building Inclusive Skills and Capabilities Each BRG is sponsored by a member of our Executive Committee and
chaired by a senior leader. In 2023, BRGs hosted listening sessions,
Citizens Awake — Disability awareness
Citizens’ leaders are the catalysts for achieving the culture we want to organized volunteer opportunities with mission-aligned nonprofits,
foster. Our dedication to learning and development has continued and welcomed internal and external thought leaders for inspirational
with tailored inclusive training and development resources for all our conversations on timely topics. Additionally, BRG leadership teams
colleagues. In 2023, more than 3,456 colleagues completed our participate in roundtable discussions with our CEO where they relay Caring for Citizens — Working parents
required Ignite Inclusion course, which focuses on valuing ideas from members, discuss business opportunities, and explore and caregivers
uniqueness, building belonging, and making fair decisions. More than other topics impacting our colleagues, customers, and communities.
20,000 colleagues have taken this course since its launch in 2021.
With the launch of Caring for Citizens in 2023, we now have seven
Citizens Elev8 — Helping our colleagues and
Our approach to building diverse, trusting, and psychologically safe BRGs advancing this important work (see the complete list at right).
communities reach their potential
teams is further strengthened through our Inclusive Hiring and A community for parents and caregivers, Caring for Citizens supports
Inclusive Performance Reviews training. The former focuses on and embraces families to strengthen the quality of our Citizens
mitigating bias in the talent selection process, while the latter experience across colleagues and communities. This BRG attracted Citizens Pride — LGBTQ+ inclusion
mitigates bias through coaching and performance discussions held more than 600 members by the end of 2023.
throughout the year.
More than 3,500 colleagues were members of at least one BRG at
Prism — Inclusive of cultures, heritage,
year-end, representing an increase of approximately 10% over 2022.
Business Resource Groups and racial groups
Each of our BRGs identifies priority initiatives. For example, our
Our BRGs provide members with a sense of belonging, professional
Citizens Veterans BRG identified an opportunity to engage colleagues
growth, and access to senior leaders, as well as opportunities to as mentors with American Corporate Partners, an organization that Citizens Veterans — Supporting veterans, those
make a difference in their communities. These company-sponsored, matches mentors with veterans and/or their partners to help as they who are serving, and their families
colleague-led groups serve as diverse sounding boards for company
transition from active service to civilian workplaces. The bank’s
strategies, policies, and initiatives to ensure that we make decisions
foundations granted $100,000 to support the mentorship program.
through a lens of inclusion and cultural sensitivity. They help inform
Citizens WIN — Women’s Impact Network
our innovation pipeline and business growth agenda by sharing
insights on workforce expectations, product development,
multicultural marketing, customer service, and more. They also
enhance our ability to recruit, retain, engage, and develop
diverse talent.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
30 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Increasing Diverse Representation in • Service Academy Career Conference, the only job fair exclusively
for service academy alumni.
External Recognition
Our Workforce
• Work Without Limits, a network devoted to increasing the
Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI)
Across virtually every category, we made incremental representation
employment of people with disabilities.
For the second consecutive year, Citizens was named to the
progress in 2023. We continued to deliver on our commitment to
Bloomberg GEI, which tracks the performance of public
further diversify our workforce, with more than 48% of our new hires
Strengthening Our Diverse Talent Pipelines companies committed to disclosing their efforts to support
representing people of color, improving 9.5% since 2019. This partly
gender equality through policy development, representation,
reflects strong diversity in hiring, with 2,500 hires who are women Year Up is a nonprofit committed to closing the opportunity
and transparency.
and/or people of color. divide for young adults — many of whom are Black, Hispanic/
We also continued efforts to expand the diversity of our recruiting
Latino, or Indigenous — by providing them with skills, Fair360 Top Regional Company
experiences, and support to help them achieve their higher
pipeline and support innovative hiring programs. Among them, our Citizens was ranked 11th on Fair360’s (formerly DiversityInc)
education and career goals. Our 18-year partnership
Autism at Work program provides employment opportunities for 2023 list of top regional companies for our inclusion efforts.
exemplifies our efforts to develop a diverse talent pipeline.
those who are neurodivergent.
We welcome Year Up participants with the intent of providing Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion
We have continued to make strategic investments to attract, hire, and them with training and hands-on work experience over the
Citizens earned a 90% score on the 2023 Disability Equality
retain highly talented employees from diverse groups. As part of course of a six-month program, preparing them for future
Index®, making us a “Best Place to Work” for the third
these efforts, Citizens has forged partnerships with a variety of employment, including at Citizens.
consecutive year.
organizations. In 2023, our partners included:
Since the inception of our partnership in 2005, we have
• Anita B/Grace Hopper Celebration, the world’s largest gathering of hosted more than 370 Year Up participants, including 61 National Organization on Disability (NOD) Leading Disability
women and nonbinary technologists, featuring a multiday career in 2023. From the 2023 cohort, we hired 24 graduates into Employer Seal
fair, keynote speakers, sessions, and networking. open roles in retail banking, commercial operations, and Citizens was among 64 companies in 2023 awarded the NOD
• Association of Latino Professionals for America, the longest
other departments. seal, which is presented to top performing companies that
standing Latino organization in the country, with 100,000 members Among our other workforce development initiatives,
complete the NOD Disability Employment Tracker™.
and 45 professional chapters. BankForward engages low- and moderate-income
Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s Corporate Equality
communities, especially communities of color, in a
• Certified Financial Planner Diversity Board Summit, a diversity- Index (CEI)
partnership to increase diversity and opportunities in the
centric event to facilitate discussions on initiatives for a more
financial services sector. In doing so, it empowers individuals Citizens received a top score of 100 on the 2023-2024 CEI.
diverse, inclusive, and equitable financial planning profession.
who may have felt that a career in banking was out of reach.
Certified Age-Friendly Employer (CAFÉ)
• Massachusetts General Hospital Aspire program, which helps
individuals on the autism spectrum develop positive self- Citizens received CAFÉ recognition from the Age-Friendly
awareness, stress management, and social competency skills. We were also recognized for our diversity efforts by several leading Institute in 2023 for outstanding achievement in the creation
organizations. (See the list at right to learn more about our external of an age-friendly workplace.
• National Black MBA Association, the largest network of Black
recognition.)
professionals, with 41 local chapters and more than Military Friendly® Employer
20,000 members.
Citizens was named a Military Friendly Employer for 2024 in
• Out in Finance, an organization that unites individuals across the recognition of our support for veterans and military families.
financial services industry to drive LGBTQ+ inclusion and equality.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
31 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
The tables on this page reflect our colleague demographics as of year-end 2023, including an overall breakdown by gender, race and ethnicity, and job function (in line with our EEO-1 reporting), and total colleagues and
new hires by gender, region, and age group. We remain committed to continuing our progress on diverse representation.
2023 Workforce Diversity
Data is reported in accordance with the categories required in our annual EEO-1 report. Our full 2023 EEO-1 report is available on our website.
Native Hawaiian/
Black/African American Indian/ Other Pacific
EEO Job Group Male Female White American Hispanic/Latino Asian Alaska Native Islander Two or More Races
Executive-/Senior-Level Managers 68.0% 32.0% 88.7% 1.0% 4.1% 5.2% 0.0% 0.0% 1.0%
First-/Mid-Level Managers 55.3% 44.7% 75.9% 6.8% 5.7% 10.2% 0.1% 0.0% 1.4%
Professionals 54.7% 45.3% 69.5% 5.8% 6.5% 16.0% 0.2% 0.2% 1.9%
All Other* 33.1% 66.9% 60.3% 14.5% 13.9% 7.9% 0.2% 0.1% 2.9%
Total Workforce 43.8% 56.2% 66.3% 10.5% 10.1% 10.5% 0.2% 0.1% 2.3%
* “All Other” is a combination of the following EEO-1 job categories: sales workers, administrative support workers, craft workers, and service workers. Data as of Dec. 31, 2023.
2023 Colleague and Hiring Data
Total Colleagues Colleagues by Region New Hires by Gender New Hires by Generation
Total Number of Colleagues 17,684 New England 8,034 Female 1,728 Silent Generation: 1935-1945 3
Full-time 17,186 Mid-Atlantic 4,834 Male 1,741 Baby Boomers: 1946-1964 193
Part-time 498 Midwest 1,608 Undisclosed - Generation X: 1965-1980 755
% Female Full-time 56% Other 3,208 Millennials: 1981-1996 1,611
Part-time 77%
New Hires by Region
Generation Z: 1997-present 907
% Male Full-time 44% Colleagues by Generation New England 1,300 Data as of Dec. 31, 2023.
Part-time 23% Silent Generation: 1935-1945 14 Mid-Atlantic 1,005
% Undisclosed Full-time 0.01% Baby Boomers: 1946-1964 2,511 Midwest 295
Part-time - Generation X: 1965-1980 6,420 Other 869
Millennials: 1981-1996 6,915
Generation Z: 1997-present 1,824
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
32 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Pay Equity Supporting Diverse Supplier Growth
Our commitment to pay equity is an important aspect of building an We remain committed to ensuring that certified diverse businesses
inclusive culture where our colleagues feel heard, valued, and can compete for opportunities across the Citizens value chain. In
respected. Managers are provided with tools and resources to make 2023, we built on our long-standing efforts to engage diverse
appropriate compensation decisions. In addition, manager-submitted suppliers by providing additional opportunities for underrepresented
rating and compensation recommendations are reviewed to ensure populations. We also exceeded our $200 million goal for spend
that they are fair and equitable. with diverse suppliers and established new relationships with
more than 30 of them. For 2024, we are continuing our commitment
For the past several years, we have engaged an independent
to $200 million in diverse spend, with the addition of 15 new
third-party firm to conduct an annual pay equity analysis. This review
diverse vendors.
covers all of our operations and colleagues and considers factors
that appropriately explain differences in pay, such as performance Our Supplier Code of Conduct articulates our expectations for
and experience, in analyzing base salary, cash bonuses, and equity suppliers to integrate strong diverse and inclusive policies and
awards for colleagues serving in similar roles. Pay adjustments are practices into their businesses to create an inclusive workplace. This
made if job-related factors do not explain a disparity. includes maintaining talent recruitment and development programs
and cultivating relationships with diverse third-party vendors. Our
Women are paid 99% of what men are paid in similar roles, and
vendors are an essential part of our vision for a supply chain that is
racially diverse colleagues are paid 100% of what white colleagues
diverse, inclusive, reflective of the markets we serve, and accessible
are paid in similar roles. Although these are strong results, we
and efficient for all suppliers with whom we work.
understand that the opportunity gap for women and people of color
continues to exist. We remain committed to the programs we have in
place to help facilitate, among other things, increasing the
representation of women and people of color in senior and
leadership roles over time.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
33 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Talent Attraction, Development, and Engagement
Attracting, developing, and retaining high-performing colleagues We champion the growth and empowerment of colleagues from all Performance Enablement
from a diverse set of backgrounds determines our success as a backgrounds, abilities, and life experiences. We want to build a
company. Our culture is one where colleagues feel appreciated for workforce that better represents our communities and customers. To Our Performance Enablement framework is critical to driving
their contributions and can thrive personally and professionally. We do so, we prioritize ongoing education for talent acquisition beneficial organizational outcomes by helping our colleagues
continually look for opportunities to evolve and strengthen colleagues that focuses on driving inclusivity in recruiting. perform at their best while supporting learning and growth
our culture. opportunities. Citizens achieves this through promoting and enabling
We aim to have 50% of candidates interviewed be women, people of
continuous feedback and coaching, with an emphasis on meaningful
We are also continuing to digitize and transform our ways of working color, or a combination of both. In 2023, we achieved a diverse
conversations. As part of the framework, colleagues establish
to meet evolving customer needs, while enabling our colleagues to candidate interview slate more than 72% of the time, up from 69% in
performance and development goals and review progress with their
build the skills and capabilities they need to grow and advance in 2022. Through partnerships with a variety of organizations, we have
managers during midyear check-ins as well as year-end performance
their careers. This includes supporting each colleague’s unique also focused on recruiting from the LGBTQ+ community and bringing
reviews. Outside of those touchpoints, we encourage and support
personal and professional journey with best-in-class tools, resources, greater neurodiversity into the workforce.
ongoing “check-in” conversations regarding colleagues’ goals
and benefits.
Beyond our focus on recruiting externally, Citizens has more than and growth.
17,500 talented individuals with a wide array of skills and
Talent Attraction experiences. We believe it’s our responsibility to help colleagues
realize a fulfilling career. We offer programs, upskilling and
Recruiting talented professionals in fluctuating labor and economic networking opportunities, and advice that enable colleagues to build
markets, coupled with high candidate expectations and our entrance the careers they want. In 2023, nearly 30% of all open positions were
into new geographic areas, has required Citizens to adapt our talent filled by existing colleagues.
acquisition strategies.
Candidates expect to move through the recruiting cycle quickly and
be treated with respect. Our Candidate Promise is a pledge to show
all candidates that we appreciate their interest in a career with us —
regardless of whether they are hired — by giving them a personalized
experience and communicating with them every step of the way. To
improve the candidate experience and bring quality talent into the
company more quickly, we implemented a new applicant tracking
system and used automated scheduling tools to allow candidates
and hiring managers to choose their interview day and time. We
recognize that candidates don’t apply for new roles within the
8 a.m.–5 p.m. workday. Our award-winning AI-powered chatbot is
available 24/7/365 to answer questions about our benefits, culture,
and more.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
34 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Growth and Career Development
Citizens is preparing our colleagues for the future by supporting
growth and development and empowering them to navigate and Citizens Academies accelerate the upskilling of all
drive their own career journeys. We are committed to a culture of
colleagues in capabilities that are in demand and will
continuous learning and an environment where colleagues build the
skills necessary to excel in their current and future roles. Growth and
propel our performance and growth.
development opportunities are key to driving retention in today’s
competitive talent landscape.
OUR SIX CITIZENS ACADEMIES
We continue to expand development programs and learning
experiences that support colleagues and build skills for the future
through resources such as the Citizens Learning Hub. In 2023, more
than 81% of colleagues used the Citizens Learning Hub for
professional skills training and completed over 452,000 hours of Leadership Academy* NeXT Gen Tech
learning and development (inclusive of professional skills and Unlock the bold leader in all Be on the cutting edge
compliance training). In addition, more than 5,100 colleagues colleagues with content and with hands-on experiences
attended our Citizens Academies which offers learning experiences to experiences that grow geared toward
build critical skills that better equip colleagues to succeed. Each champions of the future. emerging technology.
academy has learning experiences that provide pathways for growth
and recognition. In 2023, approximately 30% of open job requisitions Business of Banking Agile Academy
were filled by colleagues, demonstrating how our development and Credit Equip colleagues with
programs and learning experiences are preparing colleagues Build skills critical to the skills needed to
for success. understanding our business adopt an agile mindset
and the role each of and to succeed in an
us plays within Citizens. agile team.
312,600+
+
139,800+
Innovation Academy Data and Analytics
Learn and apply creative Expand colleague
hours of professional skills hours of compliance problem-solving knowledge of data
training completed training completed techniques, bring ideas to literacy, data
life, and think differently. visualization, and data-
= 452,500+ hours of learning and based decision-making.
development completed * Includes Inclusion Leadership courses prior to 2024.
1,300+ colleagues completed leadership and
management training
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
35 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Colleague Engagement Colleague Volunteerism Recognizing Our Colleagues
Getting insight into our colleagues’ perceptions of Citizens is vital to Our colleagues are central to — and take great pride in — our Citizens embraces a culture of recognition where colleagues are
our ongoing efforts to develop a high-performing workforce and philanthropic efforts. This starts with our senior leaders, who serve valued and rewarded for their contributions and achievements.
make Citizens a great place to work and build a career. The new OHS as hands-on champions of our volunteer efforts by actively engaging Through our multifaceted Credo Awards program, colleagues can
listening platform includes a colleague survey tool aimed at with community activities and programs. Colleagues served on over provide real-time recognition for living our values and driving
providing valuable insights as we continue to evolve our strategy 1,000 community boards and/or committees in 2023, lending their innovation, as well as celebrating career milestones, special
and culture. expertise to organizations that provide vital services across moments in their lives, and participation in community events.
our footprint. In total, more than 8,800 colleagues logged over In 2023, more than 92% of colleagues received over 170,000
Like our previous platform, it focuses on our progress in areas such
232,000 volunteer hours during the past year, a 33% increase Credo Awards.
as leadership, innovation, development, motivation, and commitment
compared with 2022.
— as well as other aspects we feel are key to our organizational In 2023, we recognized 332 colleagues as Credo Champions at our
effectiveness and colleague satisfaction. In 2023, colleagues logged over 61,000 skills-based volunteer hours annual Credo Champion event. These individuals demonstrate an
which includes nonprofit board and committee service along with exceptional commitment to our customers, colleagues, communities,
targeted volunteer efforts where colleagues use their skills and and shareholders. Business-line leaders review top Credo Awards
experience to benefit an organization. This past year, Citizens hosted recipients and nominations submitted by colleagues to select
Let’s Connect three skills-based volunteer days of service which brought together Credo Champions.
We use a variety of platforms and forums to facilitate open 217 colleagues to work with 18 nonprofits. We also celebrate colleagues who embody the Citizens spirit of
and direct communication with colleagues, including “Let’s Through our payroll giving campaign, colleagues pledged over volunteerism and innovation. The Chairman’s Community Awards
Connect LIVE” streaming sessions hosted by our CEO and $412,000 to nonprofits. Additionally, the Citizens Charitable honor 10 colleagues for their leadership in serving others and
members of our Executive Committee. They reach an average Foundation amplified our colleagues’ personal donations with more inspiring colleagues to give back, while the Chairman’s Innovation
of 2,300 colleagues per session. Colleagues are able to hear than $1.1 million in matching gifts. Awards recognize 10–12 colleagues who demonstrate novel
from leaders and ask questions on wide-ranging topics. For approaches to solving customer and colleague problems or who
example, we discuss innovative solutions to complex otherwise exhibit innovative behaviors and mindsets in their work.
business topics, ways in which Citizens invests in our
workforce, how we deliver for our customers, and our
progress in executing our strategy.
In 2023, we also hosted 199 smaller group and one-on-one
sessions connecting senior leaders with over
3,200 colleagues.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
36 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Innovation at Citizens Keeping Our Colleagues Healthy
Innovation is in our DNA, and we constantly challenge colleagues to
Citizens is committed to supporting our colleagues’ unique journeys
find new ways to do more for our customers. More than 1,200
and investing in benefits, resources, and programs to enable their
colleagues participate in our Innovation Forum, where they advance
well-being across all dimensions of their lives. Supporting “whole-
new ideas to drive our success and better serve our customers. These
person well-being” means encouraging colleagues to infuse healthy
colleagues engage regularly, either during the Forum’s monthly
habits into the way they live and work, helping them thrive. Our
meeting and/or via our internal collaboration sites, to discuss
benefits programs are designed to support colleagues’ physical,
bankwide initiatives, new product developments, and broader
mental, and financial well-being, with programs that offer access to
implications of innovation in the financial services industry, including
services such as telehealth, digital physical therapy, retirement
those related to environmental, social, and governance topics.
readiness modeling, and more. In 2023, we granted colleagues a
The Innovation Academy is a collection of courses, industry wellness day — an additional paid time off day to focus on their
resources, and forums to help colleagues develop critical skills to personal wellness — and increased our paid bereavement leave from
experiment and translate ideas into valuable solutions for five to 15 days for immediate family members to grieve and fulfill
our customers. family obligations. We also added to our collection of 24/7 digital
resources with sleep, anxiety, and chronic pain management
programs and enriched our fertility benefits, ensuring they are
inclusive for families of all types.
Through our annual Step Up to Make a Difference program,
colleagues are encouraged to come together in teams to get active
for a good cause. This year, during the three-week campaign in
October, more than 3,600 colleagues donated their time and effort to
take 625 million steps. As part of the campaign, the Citizens
Charitable Foundation contributed $140,000 to nine
nonprofit organizations.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
37 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Addressing Community Workforce Needs
As a super-regional bank, Citizens is uniquely positioned to help Partnering With Nonprofits and Other • In Rhode Island, Citizens announced a $600,000 commitment to
ensure our clients and communities have the diverse and skilled support much-needed technical skills training and career
talent needed to achieve the best possible tomorrow. We strive to Community Organizations counseling across the state, including support for training
use our reach, innovation, and insights to build impactful programs through the YMCA of Pawtucket, Davies Career and
partnerships that drive lasting change on a local level. By supporting We know that partnerships are essential to addressing complex Technical High School, Genesis Center Culinary Hub of Providence,
community organizations providing upskilling and reskilling services, workforce challenges. Citizens is committed to listening to the needs Rhode Island Hospital, Crossroads Rhode Island, and BankForward.
we are creating new pathways for diverse and low- and moderate- of our communities and helping close the skills gap by creating
• In New Jersey, we announced a $700,000 commitment to support
income communities to enter in-demand, well-paying careers. innovative and impactful partnerships with nonprofits that prepare
workforce initiatives, including Oasis’ new Career Counseling
people for the workforce of tomorrow.
program for low-income minority women and LISC Greater Newark.
Regional Workforce Events In 2023, we continued to expand investment in Citizens Community • In Massachusetts, we provided more than $1 million in funding to
College Accelerator through our work with Education Design Lab (see
support workforce initiatives, including a $85,000 contribution to
In building and developing the workforce of the future, Citizens takes box on the next page). Additionally, we used our industry insights and help launch the YMCA of Greater Boston’s innovative Early
a community-driven approach. Since 2021, Chairman and CEO Bruce local relationships to support a variety of local organizations and Childhood Apprenticeship Program that is helping create new
Van Saun and Citizens’ market leaders have regularly hosted initiatives across our footprint. pathways for prospective early childhood educators to receive
workforce roundtable discussions in markets across our footprint to • In Pittsburgh, our $350,000 contribution to The Andy Warhol paid on-the-job training.
better understand local workforce challenges and discuss viable
Museum in part supported careers in the arts by funding 28 • Citizens and its Philanthropic Foundation also invested $135,000
solutions. In 2023, Van Saun hosted discussions with industry, civic,
fellowships to support the museum’s digital content across multiple markets in programs offered by Per Scholas, which
and community leaders in Rhode Island, New Jersey, Pittsburgh, and
and production. provides technology skills training to individuals often excluded
New York City. Participants addressed issues such as challenges
• In New York City, Citizens and its Philanthropic Foundation from such careers.
pertaining to an aging workforce and systemic barriers for diverse
provided $300,000 in funding to the Queens Night Market to
candidates and together developed strategies and ideas on how to
underwrite the cost of vendor fees, so local entrepreneurs can test
work together to drive change.
new ideas and grow their businesses with low overhead costs. As
Through these events, we strive to serve as a bridge between local part of our involvement, Citizens also invited vendors to
companies looking to fill critical roles and education and community participate in business seminars through NYC Small Business
organizations that provide upskilling and reskilling programs to Services in Queens and Brooklyn.
students and workers looking to advance their careers. The insights
• Also in New York City, we provided a $100,000 Citizens
gained during these events help inform our funding decisions to
Philanthropic Foundation grant to Pursuit, a New York-based
ensure that we are supporting community-driven and informed
nonprofit whose long-term intensive program trains adults with
programs that are positioning our communities for
the most need and potential to get their first tech jobs, advance
long-term success.
their careers, and become part of that industry’s next generation
of leaders.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
38 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Local nonprofits play a critical role in addressing community needs.
Since 2002, the Citizens Champions in Action program has given more
Building New Career Pathways With Education Design
than $10 million in unrestricted funds to celebrate and support over
Lab and Citizens’ Community College Accelerator
370 local nonprofits with annual budgets of less than $5 million that
are driving meaningful change. Each champion received $35,000 in Since 2021, Citizens has partnered with Education Design Lab
funding, plus promotional and volunteer support from Citizens (EDL) to accelerate workforce development innovation
colleagues. In 2023, this flagship program recognized six nonprofits through our Citizens Community College Accelerator.
focused on providing youth summer workforce programming. For
Designed to address the growing skills gap, our innovative
example, Riverzedge Arts uses innovative applied and work-based
partnership brings EDL’s Community College Growth Engine to
learning strategies to teach art, design, and critical thinking to the
communities and demonstrates the important role
youth of northern Rhode Island. We also supported six nonprofits
community colleges can play in building a diverse and
working to promote environmental sustainability in their
inclusive workforce in local communities. Through this public-
communities. In total, these 12 organizations received $420,000 to
private partnership between community colleges and local
advance their missions and deliver a lasting impact.
employers, EDL cocreates “micropathways” that provide
training aligned to regional labor market demand. For adult
learners, underserved populations, first-generation students,
and returning veterans, micropathways enable students to
pursue role-specific trainings that lead directly to living-wage
jobs. They can also stack to a degree.
To date, Citizens has invested more than $1 million to expand
the partnership to eight community colleges in Boston, Rhode
Island, Philadelphia, New York City, and Pittsburgh.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
39 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Fostering Strong
Communities
Supporting healthy, thriving communities is the cornerstone of our Credo and a
key driver of our success. Across the Citizens footprint, we endeavor to strengthen
communities by expanding economic opportunity and closing the wealth gap.
We fund social equity partnerships and programs working with small businesses in
underrepresented communities, boost homeownership, expand affordable housing,
and develop innovative products and services that benefit traditionally
underserved populations.
IN THIS SECTION:
Community Development Financing 40
Offering Innovative Products and
42
Better Access to Capital
Fair and Responsible Banking 42
Citizens Helping Citizens 43
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
40 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Community Development Financing
Citizens is committed to being a leader in community development. • In Brooklyn, New York, we provided more than $36 million in
We accomplish this, in part, by delivering innovative products and financing for the renovation of 55 units of affordable housing. Financing to Support Social Activities
services that support and stabilize neighborhoods, including the
• We provided more than $67 million in financing for the renovation The ambitious Sustainable Finance Target we announced in
creation and preservation of affordable housing. In addition, Citizens
of 222 units of affordable housing in Medford, Massachusetts. 2023 will finance and facilitate $50 billion to drive credible
provides financial education and engages business-line partners to
and tangible impact by 2030. This includes initiatives that
support the financial needs of minority and underserved Citizens also offers a product for nonprofits engaged in the
support the well-being of society by advancing economic
communities. preservation of multifamily affordable housing stock by providing
inclusion, increasing access to basic infrastructure and
financing for up to 95% of the purchase price toward the acquisition
essential services, boosting employment generation, and
of existing stabilized multifamily developments. This helps nonprofits
Funding Community Revitalization and providing affordable housing.
in highly competitive real estate markets compete with market-rate
Affordable Housing developers to acquire existing developments and preserve affordable In 2023, we financed and facilitated a total of $6.9 billion
housing opportunities. in support of qualifying social initiatives, including
Access to affordable housing is critical to the long-term financial $388 million in small business loans, almost $5.3 billion in
Additionally, we continued to deliver on our commitment to provide
security of families. Citizens is committed to helping build the mortgage loans for underserved communities and affordable
$300 million in premium-priced investments in affordable housing
housing supply in the communities we serve by providing both debt housing, and nearly $1.3 billion in community development
projects in majority-minority census tracts by the end of 2025. The
and equity to support the development and preservation of lending and investments.
incremental capital created by the premium we pay helps address
affordable housing. Since 2013 we have provided nearly $8 billion in ($ in millions)
the digital divide by providing facilities and services — at no cost
debt and equity to support the creation or rehabilitation of nearly
to residents — including technology centers with computer
388
50,000 housing units, impacting approximately 565,000 individuals.
workstations, internet connectivity, tutoring services, and 1,262
In 2023, we invested approximately $500 million in Low-Income professional job training/coaching. Through year-end 2023, we
Housing Tax Credit developments and other community development provided approximately $170 million in funding for Housing Tax
Small Business Loans
projects, helping to provide over 3,200 affordable housing units in Credit developments.
6,916 Mortgage Loans
our communities. Below are just a few of the projects in which
we participated: Community Development
Lending & Investments
• Citizens provided more than $23 million in financing to enable the $1.3 billion
substantial renovation of 144 units of affordable housing
in Philadelphia. in total equity and loan commitments provided to community- 5,266
development-qualified initiatives
5,000+ units
of affordable housing provided
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
41 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Boosting Homeownership Supporting Small Businesses in Economic Opportunity Fund for
Underrepresented Communities Underbanked Businesses
Homeownership is a primary goal for many individuals and families
and a vital ingredient for community wealth building. We work closely
Small businesses in underrepresented communities are the lifeblood The Citizens Economic Opportunity Fund (EOF) provides critical
with customers to understand their needs and help them determine
of our communities, providing valuable goods and services and capital to underbanked businesses through partnerships with
if homeownership is right for them. We support their decision-making
creating local jobs. They also play a critical role in creating community development financial institutions (CDFIs) and small
process with clear terms, sound advice, and, where appropriate,
sustainable economic pathways to close the wealth gap. At Citizens, business loan funds. In 2023, we invested $12 million to support them.
mortgage products tailored to meet the needs of first-time
we help valued customers manage and grow their businesses through Since its launch in 2020, our EOF has contributed $65 million to 23
homebuyers and low- and moderate-income (LMI) families.
a portfolio of tools, resources, products, and advice tailored to their CDFIs and other financial intermediaries.
We are committed to boosting homeownership and affordable unique needs.
In addition to financing, the EOF provides operating funds for
housing options for underserved communities, including LMI or
In 2023, we provided more than 6,700 loans totaling $388 million to entrepreneurial training programs in which we pair Citizens Business
minority borrowers, or those in LMI or majority-minority census
businesses with sales less than or equal to $1 million, or located in Banking Relationship Managers with small businesses to provide
tracts. In 2023, we provided more than 18,000 home mortgage loans
LMI or majority-minority census tracts. We also continue to invest in them with training and support. After the training, participants
totaling $5.3 billion for such borrowers.
small business capability building through training programs, lunch- compete in a business-pitch-style competition to display their newly
Destination Home Mortgage™, our flagship affordable housing loan and-learn sessions, and other resources to help entrepreneurs run learned knowledge. We have contributed $700,000 in awards to this
program, provides first-time homeowners the opportunity to receive and grow their businesses. competition since 2020.
lower rates and flexible underwriting requirements.ii In 2023, we
Through our Small Business Community Champion Awards program, Through the EOF we have funded the entrepreneurial training
originated a record-high of $129 million in loans under this program.
launched in 2018, Citizens has awarded financial prizes to woman- program of the ProsperUs Detroit CDFI for the past three years.
Customers in the LMI category and those purchasing a home in an
owned, minority-owned, or other qualified businesses across our ProsperUs works to advance economic equity in under-resourced
LMI neighborhood can qualify for the program, which allows a lower
branch footprint. This funding recognizes the positive impact these communities by supporting entrepreneurs with opportunities and
down payment without mortgage insurance.
passionate owner/operators are making in their communities, while capital needed to build businesses, generational wealth, and vibrant
The program can be combined with approved community seconds, also seeding their future growth and success. In 2023, we awarded neighborhoods. Its entrepreneurship training program includes 12
which enable borrowers to leverage grants from the community, $10,000 each to 30 qualified businesses selected from almost interactive group training sessions along with 10 one-on-one
nonprofits, and employers as a source of funding for closing costs 9,000 applications. coaching sessions per participant. Among other 2023 recipients, our
and down payment assistance. We also help address a key element of EOF helped fund the She Means Business training program by
the homebuying affordability gap by providing closing cost PathStone Corporation in Rochester, New York. This virtual, seven-
assistance grants to eligible LMI homebuyers or customers week intensive program is designed to take women entrepreneurs
purchasing homes in LMI census tracts. We provided nearly $6 million through the steps and processes needed to succeed.
in closing cost assistance grants in 2023.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
42 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Offering Innovative Fair and Responsible Banking
Products and Better
Our commitment to fair and responsible banking practices is fully Citizens’ commitment to fairness and responsibility extends to how
integrated into our product governance process. Our Office of Fair we service our accounts. Our Compliance team is actively involved in
and Responsible Banking, which is part of our Compliance designing our customer service processes to ensure we deliver a fair
Access to Capital
Department, is charged with ensuring our products are fair and equitable experience to our customer, every time. All colleagues
and inclusive; are communicated accurately, clearly, and that interact with customers, or perform functions affecting them,
comprehensively in all Citizens materials; and are complete annual UDAAP standards training. In addition, under the
Citizens strives to provide all customers with an exceptional banking
implemented equitably. fair and responsible banking program, the bank offers annual
role-based training in the areas of fair and responsible lending
experience that exceeds their expectations. We offer several products Strong governance routines are embedded in our product
and compliance with the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act.
and features designed to increase accessibility and transparency development and marketing processes to drive clarity and inclusivity.
while continuing to drive customer satisfaction. Citizens Peace of Our Board’s Risk Committee oversees policies governing our
Mind® helps customers avoid unexpected fees by monitoring and commitment to fair and responsible lending, as well as our
alerting them when they overdraft.iii Overdraft fees are automatically compliance with Unfair, Deceptive, or Abusive Acts or Practices Responding to Customer Complaints
reversed if customers transfer funds to bring their account to a (UDAAP) requirements. UDAAP can cause significant financial injury to
positive balance before the close of business the following day.iv consumers, erode consumer confidence, and undermine the financial We actively listen to our customers and value all feedback
Citizens EverValue Checking™ is an overdraft-free checking account marketplace. Under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and — including complaints. Every comment, question, and
designed to increase banking access for underbanked and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), it is unlawful for any interaction provides an opportunity to improve our products,
underserved communities. It has been certified by the Cities for provider of consumer financial products or services or a service processes, and services. Customers can reach us through a
Financial Empowerment Fund as meeting the Bank On National provider to engage in any unfair, deceptive, or abusive act variety of channels, including interactions with Citizens
Account Standards. Citizens GoalBuilder® Home Equity Line of Credit or practice. colleagues, social media, our branch network, and Call Center.
offers expanded borrowing options for LMI homeowners, supporting A dedicated team reporting to the Office of the Customer
our commitment to boost homeownership in Representatives from both our Compliance and our Community handles complaints and our company’s centralized feedback
underserved communities.ii Development teams engage in our cross-functional product management process. These customer service advocates
development process. Additionally, all new products or services — or guide the process to resolution, serving as a consistent point
changes to existing products or services — undergo a formal risk of contact for customers. We also use data from internal and
assessment to ensure compliance with fair banking requirements external sources to track, evaluate, and enhance the
(and other areas). Risk governance and management forums provide customer experience.
additional oversight of new products or significant updates.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
43 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Citizens Helping Citizens
VITA Volunteerism Across Our Markets 4
Citizens colleagues volunteered at IRS Volunteer Income Tax
Citizens Helping Citizens, our holistic platform for giving back to local Delivering Financial
Assistance (VITA) sites in 2023, serving as intake specialists,
communities, encompasses our philanthropic giving and volunteer
Empowerment Programs translators, and, in some cases, tax preparers. For LMI
outreach. We dedicate time, resources, and talent to foster the well-
individuals, persons with disabilities, senior citizens, and
being of our neighbors and neighborhoods with a focus on financial
We help our communities by supporting programs that give people taxpayers with limited English skills, the VITA program has
empowerment and workforce development. Through financial
the confidence and tools they need to budget, save, invest, be long provided free basic tax return preparation. In 2023, local
investments and colleague engagement, we aim to advance social
financially healthy, and inspire them to pursue their goals. Through governments and nonprofit partners staffed approximately
equity, close opportunity gaps, and revitalize local communities.
our colleague volunteerism, partnerships, and programmatic support, 3,200 VITA sites in all 50 states and the District of Columbia,
Helping people realize their potential in this way creates new growth
we provide our neighbors with the resources and tools they need to and they helped generate $1.8 billion in federal tax refunds
opportunities for Citizens as well.
make informed financial decisions. on returns for the 2022 tax year.
In 2023, we provided approximately $2.3 million to financial In New Hampshire, for example, Citizens volunteers gave their
empowerment programs that helped individuals, families, and small time to the VITA initiative led by Granite United Way. This
$20+ million businesses build financial acumen. Our Citizens Helping Citizens organization helped more than 2,700 taxpayers file their
Manage Money program focuses on helping people become federal tax returns and claim about $2.9 million in refunds.
provided in 2023 to support community programs through Citizens, financially knowledgeable and develop healthy money Granite United Way also helped filers save an estimated
Citizens Charitable Foundation, and Citizens Philanthropic management habits. $809,000 compared to the cost of going to a commercial
Foundation tax preparer.
We also continued our partnership with Junior Achievement USA (JA),
a national organization dedicated to preparing young people for
232,000+ economic success. We helped provide financial education to
approximately 5,400 students across 23 LMI communities. Colleague
in-person and virtual volunteer hours logged in 2023 volunteers brought JA programs to life, hosting financial education Helping Make New Workforce Opportunities a Reality
and empowerment workshops, providing income tax assistance, and
Citizens has devoted significant resources to nonprofits that
8,800+
mentoring individuals to help them develop financial confidence.
help create workforce opportunities for individuals from LMI
Among our 2023 activities, we held a JA in a Day event in June in neighborhoods. These organizations provide valuable
colleagues volunteered in 2023, a 33% year-over-year increase collaboration with our Elev8 business resource group at Rhode upskilling and reskilling services that establish new pathways
Island’s Segue Institute for Learning. JA in a Day exposes students of to in-demand, well-paying careers. Our commitment is broad-
all ages to lessons in financial empowerment, and 34 colleagues ranging and includes partnerships with national organizations
3,340+ volunteered throughout the day. For our JA work, Citizens was such as Year Up, Education Design Lab, and Per Scholas.
presented with a Bronze President’s Volunteer Service Award for the Across our footprint, we also support the workforce initiatives
organizations supported 2022–2023 school year. This presidential recognition program was of dozens of other organizations, such as The Andy Warhol
created by the President’s Council on Service and Civic Participation Museum, Pursuit, Oasis, LISC Greater Newark, YMCA of
for individuals and organizations that contribute a significant amount Pawtucket, and Rhode Island Hospital Foundation. Read more
of time to volunteer service. on pages 36–37.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
44 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Appendix
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
45 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
GRI Index
GRI is an international organization that provides a framework for sustainability reporting. Citizens has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period January 1, 2023, to December 31, 2023, with
reference to the GRI Standards. Some additional disclosures not related to material GRI topics have been included in this index, in cases where we have reported information in line with other relevant GRI standards. For
additional financial performance disclosures, please refer to the company’s quarterly and annual reports and quarterly earnings materials, available on our Investor Relations website.
Standard/Disclosure Link or Response
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
2-1 Organizational details About Citizens Financial Group, p. 6
Citizens website: Our Company
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting Unless otherwise specified, Citizens’ sustainability reporting includes all entities included in its consolidated financial
statements. For more information, see our 2023 Form 10-K, p. 6.
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point About This Report, p. 6
2-4 Restatements of information None
2-5 External assurance About This Report, p. 6
2-6 Activities, value chain, and other business relationships About Citizens Financial Group, p. 6
2023 Form 10-K, pp. 6-7
Citizens website: Our Business
2-7 Employees About Citizens Financial Group, p. 6
2023 Colleague and Hiring Data, p. 31
2-8 Workers who are not employees Not applicable — Citizens does not rely on a significant number of contractors or other workers who are not employees.
2-9 Governance structure and composition Board Governance, p. 14
Oversight of Environmental, Social, and Governance Matters, p. 10
2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 11-13, 16-24, 29-32
Citizens website: Corporate Governance
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body Board Governance, p. 14
2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 25-28
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body Board Governance, p. 14
2024 Proxy Statement, p. 30
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of impacts Oversight of Environmental, Social, and Governance Matters, p. 10
2024 Proxy Statement, p. 36
2023 CDP Response, pp. 2-3
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Oversight of Environmental, Social, and Governance Matters, p. 10
2024 Proxy Statement, p. 36
2023 CDP Response, pp. 2-3
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
46 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Standard/Disclosure Link or Response
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Audit Committee of the Board review and approve
Citizens’ annual Environmental Social Governance Report and Climate Report prior to publication.
2-15 Conflicts of interest Board Governance, p. 14
2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 24, 26, 29, 37-38
Corporate Governance Guidelines, p. 6
2-16 Communication of critical concerns Oversight of Environmental, Social, and Governance Matters, p. 10
Cybersecurity, p. 19
2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 33-38
Information unavailable (partial) — Citizens does not currently disclose details on the number and nature of critical
concerns communicated to the Board.
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body Oversight of Environmental, Social, and Governance Matters, p. 10
2024 Proxy Statement, p. 41
2023 CDP Response, p. 3
Corporate Governance Guidelines, p. 7
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body 2024 Proxy Statement, p. 42
Corporate Governance Guidelines, p. 2
2-19 Remuneration policies Executive Compensation, p. 15
2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 14-15, 43-44, 55-63
2-20 Process to determine remuneration Executive Compensation, p. 15
2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 56-63
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio 2024 Proxy Statement, p. 86-87
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy Message From Our Chairman and CEO, p. 4
2-23 Policy commitments Corporate Governance Guidelines
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
Supplier Code of Conduct
Third Party Resource Code of Conduct and Ethics
Citizens also maintains numerous internal policies related to responsible business conduct, including but not limited to
human resource policies, legal and compliance policies, and privacy and security policies.
2-24 Embedding policy commitments Board Governance, p. 14
Business Conduct and Ethics, p. 16
Supply Chain Management, p. 20
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts We are strongly committed to conducting our business affairs with honesty and integrity and in full compliance with all
applicable laws, rules, and regulations. As part of this commitment, we cooperate fully with efforts to investigate and
remediate any relevant issues identified via applicable grievance mechanisms, including courts, consumer protection
agencies, and regulatory oversight bodies.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
47 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Standard/Disclosure Link or Response
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns Reporting Ethics Concerns, p. 16
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, p. 6
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations Instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations would be disclosed in the 2022 Form 10-K if they met the SEC’s
threshold for inclusion in financial filings. There were no instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations that
required disclosure during the reporting period. For more information, see our 2022 Form 10-K, pp. 134-135.
2-28 Membership associations Citizens is a member of a number of trade associations at both the national and regional levels. Our national
memberships include the American Bankers Association, Bank Policy Institute, and Consumer Bankers Association,
among others.
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Shareholder Engagement, p. 15
Stakeholder Engagement, p. 12
2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 39-41
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements 0% of Citizens colleagues are covered by collective bargaining agreements.
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3-1 Process to determine material topics Materiality Assessment, p. 11
3-2 List of material topics Materiality Assessment, p. 11
3-3 Management of material topics See material topic disclosures below.
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
3-3 Management of material topics 2023 Form 10-K, pp. 6-9
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed About Citizens Financial Group, p. 6
Fostering Strong Communities, p. 39
2023 Form 10-K, pp. 39-44
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Understanding and Managing Climate-Related Risks, p. 24
2024 Climate Report, pp. 7-13
2023 CDP Response, pp. 4-11
Information unavailable (partial) — Citizens does not currently have adequate methods for calculating the potential
financial implications of climate change. We will continue in our efforts to identify and implement such methods in the
future, in line with evolving industry practices, and to expand our disclosures as appropriate.
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 2023 Form 10-K, pp. 129-131
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016
3-3 Management of material topics Fostering Strong Communities, p. 39
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Community Development Financing, p. 40
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Fostering Strong Communities, p. 39
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
48 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Standard/Disclosure Link or Response
GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 2016
3-3 Management of material topics Business Conduct and Ethics, p. 16
Enterprise Risk Management, p. 17
2023 Form 10-K, p. 19
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, pp. 13-16, 19
Supplier Code of Conduct
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Not applicable — Citizens assesses risks related to corruption on a companywide basis, rather than for specific
operational locations.
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Business Conduct and Ethics, p. 16
2023 Form 10-K, p. 19
All Citizens colleagues are required to complete annual training on the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which
includes content on anti-corruption.
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Confirmed incidents of corruption would be disclosed in the 2023 Form 10-K if they met the SEC’s threshold for inclusion
in financial filings. Citizens experienced no confirmed incidents of corruption during the reporting period.
GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior 2016
3-3 Management of material topics Business Conduct and Ethics, p. 16
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, p. 19
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, or monopoly practices would be disclosed in the 2023 Form 10-K if
they met the SEC’s threshold for inclusion in financial filings. There were no such legal actions that required disclosure
during the reporting period. For more information, see our 2023 Form 10-K, p. 135.
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
3-3 Management of material topics Reducing Our Operational Emissions, p. 25
2024 Climate Report, p. 13
2023 CDP Response, pp. 4-14
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Reducing Our Operational Emissions, p. 25
2024 Climate Report, p. 16
2023 CDP Response, pp. 21-22
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Reducing Our Operational Emissions, p. 25
2024 Climate Report, p. 16
2023 CDP Response, pp. 21-22
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 2024 Climate Report, p. 16
2023 CDP Response, pp. 22-25
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2023 CDP Response, p. 25
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 2023 CDP Response, pp. 16, 18, 21-23
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Information unavailable — Citizens does not currently disclose non-GHG emissions.
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NO), sulfur oxides (SO), and other significant air emissions Information unavailable — Citizens does not currently disclose non-GHG emissions.
x x
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
49 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Standard/Disclosure Link or Response
GRI 401: Employment 2016
3-3 Management of material topics Talent Attraction, Development, and Engagement, p. 33
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Talent Attraction, Development, and Engagement, p. 33
Information unavailable (partial) — Citizens does not currently disclose the total number and rate of employee turnover.
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees Keeping Our Colleagues Healthy, p. 36
Citizens Careers: Benefits
401-3 Parental leave Keeping Our Colleagues Healthy, p. 36
Information unavailable (partial) — Citizens does not currently disclose information on the number of employees using
our Parental Leave Policy.
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
3-3 Management of material topics Talent Attraction, Development, and Engagement, p. 33
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Growth and Career Development, p. 34
Information unavailable (partial) — Citizens does not currently disclose the average hours of training per year per
employee by gender and employee category.
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Growth and Career Development, p. 34
Information unavailable (partial) — Citizens does not currently provide transition assistance programs to facilitate
continued employability and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment.
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Growth and Career Development, p. 34
95% of colleagues receive annual performance reviews via our Performance Enablement (PE) framework.
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
3-3 Management of material topics Creating an Inclusive Environment, p. 28
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Creating an Inclusive Environment, p. 28
2024 Proxy Statement, p. 12
2023 Form 10-K, pp. 9-10
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Pay Equity, p. 32
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
3-3 Management of material topics Fostering Strong Communities, p. 39
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Information unavailable (partial) — Citizens does not currently track the percentage of operations with local engagement,
impact assessments, and/or development programs.
413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities Information unavailable (partial) — Citizens does not currently assess the significant actual and potential negative
impacts of our operations on local communities.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
50 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Standard/Disclosure Link or Response
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016
3-3 Management of material topics Fair and Responsible Banking, p. 42
417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling Fair and Responsible Banking, p. 42
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling would be disclosed in the 2023
Form 10-K if they met the SEC’s threshold for inclusion in financial filings. There were no instances of non-compliance
concerning product and service information and labeling that required disclosure during the reporting period. For more
information, see our 2023 Form 10-K, p. 135.
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications would be disclosed in the 2023 Form 10-K if they met
the SEC’s threshold for inclusion in financial filings. There were no instances of non-compliance concerning marketing
communications that required disclosure during the reporting period. For more information, see our 2023 Form 10-K,
p. 135.
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016
3-3 Management of material topics Privacy and Personal Information Protection, p. 18
Cybersecurity, p. 19
2023 Form 10-K, pp. 17-18
Citizens: Privacy Policy
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 2023 Form 10-K, pp. 27
There were no substantiated complaints received during the reporting period.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
51 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
SASB Index
The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards identify the disclosure topics and metrics that are most likely to be useful to investors based on a company’s sector. This report has been prepared in
alignment with the SASB Commercial Banks sector standard.
For several SASB metrics, information is not disclosed because that information is considered confidential or material, or we do not track information in a manner that corresponds to the SASB metric. Unless otherwise
specified, all disclosed information applies to the entire company for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023.
Please refer to the company’s quarterly and annual reports and quarterly earnings materials for additional financial performance disclosures.
SASB Commercial Banks Standard, Version 2023-12
SASB Code Accounting or Activity Metric Link or Response
Data Security
FN-CB-230a.1 (1) Number of data breaches, Data breaches would be disclosed in the 2022 Form 10-K if they met the SEC’s threshold for inclusion in
(2) percentage that are personal data breaches, financial filings. There were no data breaches that required disclosure during the reporting period.
(3) number of account holders affected
FN-CB-230a.2 Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security risks Cybersecurity, p. 19
2023 Form 10-K, pp. 17-18
2024 Proxy Statement, p. 35
Financial Inclusion & Capacity Building
FN-CB-240a.1 (1) Number and (2) amount of loans outstanding qualified to programs designed to promote small business Community Development Financing, p. 40
and community development
FN-CB-240a.2 (1) Number and (2) amount of past due and nonaccrual loans or loans subject to forbearance that qualify for Citizens does not track this in a way that is fully correlative with this disclosure metric. We report related
programs designed to promote small business and community development information under Community Development Financing, p. 40.
FN-CB-240a.3 Number of no-cost retail checking accounts provided to previously unbanked or underbanked customers Citizens does not track this in a way that is fully correlative with this disclosure metric. We report related
information under Community Development Financing, p. 40.
FN-CB-240a.4 Number of participants in financial literacy initiatives for unbanked, underbanked, or underserved customers Citizens does not track this in a way that is fully correlative with this disclosure metric. We report related
information under Delivering Financial Empowerment Programs, p. 43.
Incorporation of Environmental, Social, and Governance Factors in Credit Analysis
FN-CB-410a.2 Description of approach to incorporation of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors in Our Commercial Credit Policy includes compliance with environmental laws and regulations as a factor in
credit analysis evaluating the creditworthiness of a client.
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
52 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
SASB Code Accounting or Activity Metric Link or Response
Financed Emissions
FN-CB-410b.1 Absolute gross financed emissions, disaggregated by (1) Scope 1, (2) Scope 2 and (3) Scope 3 We have not yet finalized our methodology for estimating financed emissions but are continuing to take steps
to do so with the intention of reporting this information in the future. For more information, see Financed
Emissions, p. 24.
FN-CB-410b.2 Gross exposure for each industry by asset class Information not reported. See above.
FN-CB-410b.3 Percentage of gross exposure included in the financed emissions calculation Information not reported. See above.
FN-CB-410b.4 Description of the methodology used to calculate financed emissions Information not reported. See above.
Business Ethics
FN-CB-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with fraud, insider trading, Losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with any of these topics would be disclosed in the
antitrust, anti-competitive behavior, market manipulation, malpractice, or other related financial industry laws 2022 Form 10-K if they met the SEC’s threshold for inclusion in financial filings. There were no such losses that
or regulations required disclosure during the reporting period. For more information, see our 2022 Form 10-K, p. 135.
FN-CB-510a.2 Description of whistleblower policies and procedures Reporting Ethics Concerns, p. 16
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, p. 6
Systemic Risk Management
FN-CB-550a.1 Global Systemically Important Bank (G-SIB) score, by category According to the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision's assessment methodology, Citizens is not
considered to be a G-SIB and therefore does not have a G-SIB score.
FN-CB-550a.2 Description of approach to incorporation of results of mandatory and voluntary stress tests into capital 2023 Form 10-K, pp. 11-14
adequacy planning, long-term corporate strategy, and other business activities
Activity Metrics
FN-CB-000.A (1) Number and (2) value of checking and savings accounts by segment: (a) Personal
(a) personal and (b) small business (1) Approximately 6 million checking, savings, money market, and CD accounts
(2) Approximately $116 billion total value of accounts
(b) Small business
Not disclosed
FN-CB-000.B (1) Number and (2) value of loans by segment: Citizens does not publicly disclose total numbers of loans by segment. In addition, our reportable segments do
(a) personal, (b) small business, and (c) corporate not align directly with those specified by SASB. However, relevant values may be found be found at the
references below.
(a) Personal
2023 Form 10-K, p. 46
(b) Small business
Supporting Small Business and Diverse Supplier Growth, p. 41
(c) Corporate
2023 Form 10-K, p. 46
Leading With Robust Driving Positive Building the Workforce Fostering
53 Citizens 2023 Environmental Social Governance Report Contents Introduction Corporate Governance Climate Impact of the Future Strong Communities Appendix
Notes
i Banking products and services are offered by Citizens Bank, N.A. For Deposit pr oducts, Member FDIC.
ii Mortgages and Home Equity Line of Credit are offered and originated by Citizens Bank, N.A. All loans subject to approval. NMLS ID# 433960. Equal Housing Lender.
iii Citizens Peace of Mind® provides additional time to bring your account to a positive available balance and reverse overdraft fees. If your account is overdrawn, you have up until 10:00 PM ET the following business day (e.g., if your account is overdrawn at the end of the day
Monday, you have until 10:00 PM ET Tuesday) to deposit enough funds to cover all of the overdraft items (minus the fees) and any additional transactions that post to the account that day. If the available balance, excluding the overdraft fees, is positive (greater than or equal to
$0) at the end of the following business day, any overdraft fees will be reversed. When determining the amount you need to deposit to take advantage of Citizens Peace of Mind, you can check your balance in the Citizens mobile app or Online Banking and then consider
transactions that may post to your account that day — such as checks or other debits. As we do not see these transactions until they are presented for payments, only you know what transactions may post to your account and how much you need to deposit. A deposit that only
partially covers transactions or overdraft items will not result in a fee reversal. All deposits are subject to our Funds Availability schedule. This schedule helps you determine when a deposit you make will increase your available balance. For example, some deposit types, such as
checks drawn on a bank other than Citizens, even if made by 10:00 PM ET the next business day, are not available to cover transactions that day. But a deposit of cash, a Citizens check, or an electronic funds transfer will generally be available to cover the transactions. For
information on our Funds Availability Policy, please visit citizensbank.com/overdraft or see your Personal Deposit Account Agreement.
Citizens Peace of Mind is available on personal checking accounts and does not apply to Overdraft Line of Credit Transfer Fees.
iv IMPORTANT DETAILS ON OVERDRAFT COVERAGE: When we pay a transaction that overdraws your account, we will charge you an overdraft fee of $35 per item paid. When we return a check or ACH transaction unpaid because your account had insufficient funds, we will not charge
you a fee. We will limit to five the number of overdraft fees charged on any one business day, up to a total of $175. Once you have overdrawn your account, you must bring it to a positive balance as soon as possible. Whether your overdrafts will be paid is discretionary and we
reserve the right not to pay. For example, we typically do not pay overdrafts if your account is not in good standing or if the overdraft amount is excessive.
About Citizens Financial Group
Citizens Financial Group, Inc. is one of the nation’s oldest and largest financial institutions, with $222 billion in
assets as of December 31, 2023. Headquartered in Providence, Rhode Island, Citizens offers a broad range of
retail and commercial banking products and services to individuals, small businesses, middle-market
companies, large corporations, and institutions. Citizens helps its customers reach their potential by listening
to them and by understanding their needs in order to offer tailored advice, ideas, and solutions.
In Consumer Banking, Citizens provides an integrated experience that includes mobile and online banking,
a full-service customer contact center, and the convenience of approximately 3,200 ATMs and more than 1,100
branches in 14 states and the District of Columbia. Consumer Banking products and services include a full
range of banking, lending, savings, wealth management, and small business offerings.
In Commercial Banking, Citizens offers a broad complement of financial products and solutions, including
lending and leasing, deposit and treasury management services, foreign exchange, and interest rate and
commodity risk management solutions, as well as loan syndication, corporate finance, merger and
acquisition, and debt and equity capital markets capabilities.
More information is available at citizensbank.com, or visit us on LinkedIn, Facebook, or X.
Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Statements
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Any statement that does not describe historical or current facts is a forward-looking
statement. These statements often include the words “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,”
“intends,” “plans,” “goals,” “targets,” “initiatives,” “potentially,” “probably,” “projects,” “outlook,” “hopeful,”
“guidance” or similar expressions or future conditional verbs such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “would,”
and “could.”
