
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
FY24 BY THE NUMBERS
$7.1B
60%
net sales
portfolio
has superior
consumer
100+
value*
markets *a s measured by our
consumer value metric
~8,000 ~25
employees country/territory
operations
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Through our IGNITE-led transformation,
we are building a stronger, more
FUTURE.
resilient company for the
Our long-term investments and successful execution continue
to create stakeholder value and deliver on our purpose to
champion people to be well and thrive — every single day.
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 1
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
DEAR STAKEHOLDER,
We entered fiscal year 2024 with strong momentum but soon faced
both expected and unexpected complexity as we navigated a
challenging macroeconomic environment, a more pressured consumer
and the aftermath of our August 2023 cyberattack.
Thanks to the team’s steadfast execution, we quickly 100 million consumers, allowing us to deliver more
restored operations, fully rebuilt supply and distribution, personalized experiences and deepen engagement
and recovered the vast majority of the market share to deliver stronger marketing return on investment
we lost from the cyberattack. This strong recovery and support our value superiority ratings.
reflects the superior value of our brands, supported • Reimagine Work: We successfully completed
by consistent investments through both good and implementation of our streamlined operating model,
challenging times.
helping us become more consumer obsessed,
faster and leaner, and deliver expected ongoing
In the face of these hurdles, we continued to deliver on our
cost savings of about $100 million annually. We
commitment to rebuild margin, expanding gross margin
also completed the first wave of our new enterprise
by another 360 basis points, and are on track to return to
resource planning (ERP) system implementation in
pre-pandemic gross margins in fiscal year 2025. We also
Canada and Global Finance. This work will enable a
achieved another year of double-digit adjusted earnings
more strategic, integrated environment across supply
per share growth while investing strongly in our brands.
chain, finance and our business units, improving
While there is still more work to do, we are now in a our agility and ability to grow and operate more
position of operational strength as we continue to efficiently. Our new ERP, along with catalysts such as
execute our transformation and focus on delivering our integrated business planning tool, is a key part of
superior consumer experiences that win in the market. our five-year program to invest in technologies and
processes to accelerate our digital transformation.
RELENTLESS EXECUTION OF OUR IGNITE STRATEGY
• Evolve Portfolio: We’re evolving our portfolio to
Our IGNITE strategy continues to serve us well — guiding strengthen our core, exemplified by the divestiture of
us through the uncertainties of today while shaping the our Argentina business. This reflects our commitment
Clorox of tomorrow. We have been relentlessly focused to reduce volatility and accelerate sales growth as well
on executing this strategy and made progress against as structurally improve our margin in service of driving
our long-term goals, including: more consistent and profitable growth over time.
• Fuel Growth: We delivered on our hallmark cost- PURPOSE-DRIVEN GROWTH
savings program and made strong progress on our
Our purpose — to champion people to be well and thrive
commitment to rebuild margins to pre-pandemic
every single day — guides everything we do. This starts
levels, supported by our new integrated, holistic
with our teammates, who are critical to Clorox’s success.
margin management toolbox, which enhances our
Ensuring teammates are compensated fairly, regardless
ability to fuel growth.
of race, ethnicity or gender, is central to creating an
• Innovate Experiences: Innovation is the foundation for equitable work environment, and we again achieved our
success, and we are leveraging data, technology and pay equity goal. As part of our unwavering commitment
artificial intelligence (AI) in new ways to accelerate to safety, we further advanced our already world-class
our innovation pipeline. Building off existing product safety performance by improving the recordable incident
platforms, we launched innovation across our major rate in our manufacturing facilities by 14.5% to 0.47, which
brands. We also achieved our 2025 goal of knowing is significantly better than the industry average.
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 2
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
We continue to embed our principles of inclusion, ACCELERATING GROWTH AND
diversity, equity and allyship, what we call IDEA, TRANSFORMATION FOR OUR FUTURE
across our business to create more inclusive brands,
Looking ahead, we see an environment where
performance and talent programs, and global
consumers continue to seek value and superior
development and leadership training. In support of
experiences amid ongoing uncertainty in the world
our IDEA aspirations, we have rolled out actionable,
around them.
enterprise-wide allyship programs so every teammate
can play a role in shaping this culture. Additionally, we We created our IGNITE strategy to meet those needs.
continued to increase our spend with diverse suppliers. That’s why we’re focused on delivering superior value
Creating a workplace where people can be their through brands that consumers love and trust. We are
best selves deepens consumer empathy, stimulates innovating with clear intent. We are creating a more
innovation, helps make Clorox a stronger company consumer-obsessed, faster and leaner organization. And
and accelerates our IGNITE journey. we are reinvesting in our business to accelerate growth
and transform for the future.
Fully integrating environmental, social and governance
(ESG) goals into our strategy is fundamental to how we We have been purposeful and balanced in our actions,
drive growth, mitigate risk and create positive value for leaning on IGNITE to execute through every challenge.
our brands. We remain committed to being in the top Led by our values of doing the right thing, putting people
third of ESG industry leaders and continue to support at the center and playing to win, we are taking the right
our goals for scopes 1 and 2 emissions reductions and steps to navigate the near term and stay true to our goal
100% renewable electricity in the U.S. and Canada. More of being a stronger and more resilient company — one
than half of our facilities and almost 80% of our plants poised to deliver more consistent, profitable growth and
have attained zero-waste-to-landfill status, and this enhance long-term shareholder value.
year we added two more manufacturing sites to the
list, both in Saudi Arabia. We also continued delivering I would like to thank my Clorox teammates for their
on our commitment to reduce the chemical footprint contributions and dedication to our business throughout
of our domestic cleaning portfolio. We are proud to the year, and for their courage and commitment to the
be recognized, once again, as a U.S. Environmental road ahead.
Protection Agency Safer Choice Partner of the Year and
Thank you for your continued support and
by Barron’s as the most sustainable company in the U.S.
interest in Clorox.
for a second consecutive year.
Linda Rendle
Chair and Chief Executive Officer
Led by our values of doing the right thing, putting
people at the center and playing to win, we are
taking the right steps to navigate the near term
and stay true to our goal of being a stronger and
more resilient company.”
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 3
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
COMPANY
PURPOSE & STRATEGY
PURPOSE VISION OBJECTIVE
We champion people to Exceptional innovators Deliver purpose-driven
be well and thrive every who earn people’s growth.
single day. enduring loyalty.
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 4
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Fuel Growth Innovate Experiences Reimagine Work Evolve the Portfolio
IGNITE
Integrated strategic choices
FUEL INNOVATE REIMAGINE EVOLVE THE
GROWTH EXPERIENCES WORK PORTFOLIO
Widen the funnel on Turn data into insights Galvanize our people Broaden our playing
how we deliver cost to build purpose- with a bolder, more field in and around
savings, leveraging driven, personalized inclusive workplace our core business,
technology and brands and deliver in which we simplify emphasizing consumer
sustainability to bigger, stickier our operations and megatrends, including
generate fuel innovation platforms use technology to sustainability, and
for growth. while enhancing be more consumer continue to lean into
consumer shopping obsessed, faster enhanced wellness.
experiences — and leaner than
allowing us to better ever before.
serve people.
INTEGRATED ESG APPROACH
HEALTHY LIVES CLEAN WORLD THRIVING COMMUNITIES
Improving people’s health Taking climate action Investing in our people and
and well-being. and reducing plastic communities to contribute
and other waste. to a more equitable world.
Strong Governance
Enhancing our leadership in ESG through an unwavering commitment to strong
corporate governance, overseen by the board of directors.
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 5
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Fuel Growth Innovate Experiences Reimagine Work Evolve the Portfolio
TRANSFORMING CLOROX TO
FUEL GROWTH
We are leveraging the power of technology,
our new streamlined operating model and
the benefits of our signature cost-savings
program and margin management to
transform Clorox and accelerate growth.
FY24 HIGHLIGHTS
• Delivered gross margin • Continued to deliver on • Continued to deliver on • Achieved zero-waste-
improvement for the our hallmark cost- our 2030 science-based to-landfill, or ZWtL,
seventh consecutive savings program, target for scopes 1 and 2 status in two plants in
quarter thanks to a executing strategic greenhouse gas emission Dammam and Jeddah
more integrated, holistic pricing in International reductions with 100% in the Kingdom of Saudi
margin management while maintaining renewable electricity in Arabia, supporting
toolbox. Using data, superior value and the U.S. and Canada, with enterprise resource
technology and a new double-digit adjusted two virtual power purchase conservation efforts and
operating model allows earnings per share agreements as an integral our goal to achieve ZWtL
us to see our business growth. We are well on part of that commitment, status in 100% of our
more end-to-end and our way to returning to supporting the expansion plants by 2025.D6
make faster and pre-pandemic margins of renewable energy
better decisions. and growing from there. infrastructure in the U.S.D7, D8
Clorox’s investments in new technology
have been a game-changer. We’re
boosting our efficiency, reducing
downtime and meeting growing
demands with greater precision
and speed.”
Donn Lato
Solution Architect, Enterprise Data and Technology
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 6
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Fuel Growth Innovate Experiences Reimagine Work Evolve the Portfolio
ACCELERATING OUR BUSINESS
In today’s ever-evolving market, functional dexterity and consumer
obsession are paramount. As part of Clorox’s IGNITE journey, we are
making transformative changes to our structure, capabilities
and the way we invest in our business to create a stronger
and more resilient company for the future.
To answer this call for growth, we introduced a new
integrated business planning set of capabilities, including
a new organizational design, processes, tools and data
infrastructure. This new tool is powered by AI that will
spark new approaches to demand and supply
planning. Linked to an automated data fabric that
reduces manual data capture and provides what-if
scenario analysis, the tool integrates with financial and
commercial planning for collaborative insights and
orchestrated navigation through uncertain markets.
This holistic integration of planning helps to synchronize
sales, finance, marketing and supply chain teams with
unified and enhanced forecasting, while ensuring that our
strategies are cohesive, adaptable and aligned toward
shared goals. This enables better market execution, benefiting
Clorox, our supply and channel partners, and ultimately
consumers. We’ve piloted the new tool and processes
within select business units and expect to scale the model
across most of our portfolio in the coming year.
DELIVERING MORE VALUE IN EACH DROP
When tasked with finding a simple solution to meet our consumers’ evolving expectations
for a superior cleaning option that saves them both time and space, our Pine-Sol team
delivered a reformulated and more concentrated line of Multi-Surface Cleaners.
Strategic price pack architecture enabled us to optimize product size variations while
improving margins, growing category share and continuing to deliver more value to our
customers and end consumers. With more cleaning power packed into every ounce, the
new offerings use less packaging and last twice as long, making it easier for consumers
to do more with less waste while still killing 99.9% of germs* — even when diluted.
This innovation also reduces the amount of water we’re shipping per dose, with the goal
of reducing our shipping footprint. These Pine-Sol bottles are made with a minimum
of 50% post-consumer recycled plastic, contributing to our ESG goal of 50% combined
reduction in virgin plastic and fiber packaging by 2030 and giving new life to materials
that may otherwise contribute to landfill waste.
This year’s launch of the new Multi-Surface Cleaners moves us forward in our innovation
journey to adapt to the changing needs of our consumers while delivering high-quality,
effective cleaning solutions.
* Pine-Sol Pine only.
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 7
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Fuel Growth Innovate Experiences Reimagine Work Evolve the Portfolio
DELIVERING
INNOVATIVE EXPERIENCES
With a deep understanding of
consumer megatrends and utilization
of advanced technologies like AI and
data clouds, we are driving enduring
innovation across our products, supply
chain and business operations.
FY24 HIGHLIGHTS
• Achieved our 2025 • Launched new • Reduced our cycle • Introduced innovation
goal of knowing 100M collaborations with time on innovation across seven major
consumers, helping Walmart and Instacart discovery by 50% through brands to meet
us gain informed to create personalized, implementation of AI- and consumers’ needs and
insights, deliver greater more frictionless and generative AI-enabled support their well-being,
personalization to farther-reaching Digital Core to build including new products
consumers and improve shopping experiences. bigger ideas faster. from Burt’s Bees, Clorox,
marketing return on Glad and more.
investment.
New technologies and deeper insights
are the key to innovation at Clorox.
Modern AI-powered tools are boosting
our agility, enabling us to learn from
consumers at scale and bring exciting
new products to market faster.”
Oksana Sobol
Insights Lead
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 8
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Fuel Growth Innovate Experiences Reimagine Work Evolve the Portfolio
GETTING TO KNOW 100 MILLION CONSUMERS
This year we met and surpassed our goal to know 100 million consumers,
enabling better insights so we can meet consumers’ needs wherever they
are in their journey and whenever they’re most receptive to hearing from
us. To reach this milestone, we implemented a centralized cloud solution
that allows us to store, enrich and activate our first-party data in a
privacy-compliant manner. In powerful combination with our new digital
asset management tool, the result is more personalized content and
effective brand engagement across our entire portfolio of brands.
What does it look like in action? During cold and flu season, our Clorox brand
adopted a new approach to authentically connecting with consumers. We
leveraged data to gain a nuanced understanding of consumer needs, applying
advanced AI algorithms to monitor signals across social media platforms,
consumer reviews and market trends. This allowed us to gauge consumer
sentiments and to identify their current and emerging needs. Then, we tailored
our marketing outreach for maximum relevance and impact, with choiceful
decisions about targeted digital advertising, influencer partnerships and how
we place products in retail environments.
HARNESSING SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION TO TACKLE PLASTIC WASTE
Minimizing waste is top of mind as we formulate, manufacture and package our products, because delivering value to
our consumers means helping them reduce the environmental impact left behind.
While we are proud of our work to reduce packaging waste, we remain realistic about the challenges, including a
cyberattack which disrupted near-term plans to advance our 2030 plastic and waste reduction goals. We are taking
stock of our goal progress while considering controllable as well as dynamic factors that will impact our ability to
achieve them. This includes access to high-quality, post-consumer recycled plastic, limited recycling infrastructure
and packaging technology, particularly for film and flexible materials that are not recyclable.
As we re-assess our goals, we continue to integrate sustainability into our business. Our business units have developed
plans to enhance the sustainability of packaging for their product portfolios and have tailored sustainability targets
that advance our overall enterprise goals. In recent years we also advanced the circularity of our product portfolio by
introducing packaging formats across Brita, Clorox and Burt’s Bees products that enable consumers to refill and reuse
primary packaging.
Recognizing that progress does not happen in a
vacuum, our company continues to collaborate and
advance solutions with industry groups, including the
Association of Plastic Recyclers, CDP, Ellen MacArthur
Foundation’s New Plastics Economy, rePurpose Global
and the U.S. Plastics Pact. We also support Extended
Producer Responsibility (EPR), which is critical for
advancing waste management globally. We are
doing our part to advocate in favor and support EPR
through our participation in AMERIPEN, Circular Action
Alliance and the Consumer Brands Association.
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 9
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Fuel Growth Innovate Experiences Reimagine Work Evolve the Portfolio
FY24
INNOVATION HIGHLIGHTS
• Brita Refillable System
Pitcher, Starter Kit,
Filter Refills
• Brita Plus Filter
• Burt’s Bees Lip Sleeping Mask
Lavender Vanilla, Moonlight Orchard
• Burt’s Bees Shea + Mango Collection
Luxurious Hand & Body Butter
Glowing Body Oil
• Burt’s Bees SPF 30 Lip Balm
Beaches and Cream, Tropic Like It’s Hot, Coco Loco
• Burt’s Bees Cold Sore Healing Patch
• Burt’s Bees Herbal Blemish Patch
• Burt’s Bees Booster Serums
Hydrating, Brightening, Antioxidant, Firming
• Burt’s Bees Fermented Honey Cleansers
Facial Cleansing Balm
Gel Cleanser
• Clorox Foaming Toilet Bomb Toilet Bowl Cleaner
Fresh Scent, Lavender Clean
• Clorox Scentiva Disinfecting Mist
Grapefruit & Orange Blossom, Coconut & Waterlily
• Clorox Scentiva Toilet Bowl Cleaning Gel
Lavender & Jasmine, Coconut & Waterlily
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 10
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Fuel Growth Innovate Experiences Reimagine Work Evolve the Portfolio
• Pine-Sol Concentrated Multi-Surface Cleaners
U.S. Retail: Original Pine, Lavender Clean, Lemon Fresh,
Refreshing Clean
Professional: Original Pine, Lavender Clean,
Lemon Fresh, Sparkling Wave
• CloroxPro Clorox Fraganzia Multi-Purpose Cleaners
Spring Scent, Lavender Meadows Scent,
Citrus Blossom Scent
• Hidden Valley Ranch — New Ranch Flavors
Cheezy, Garlic, Creamy Jalapeno, Spicy
Hot Honey, Sizzlin’ Nashville Hot, Green
Goddess, Parmesan
• Hidden Valley The Original Ranch Chicken
Secret Sauce
• Hidden Valley Ranch Lemon Pepper Ranch
Premium Recipe Mix
• Glad ForceFlex MaxStrength Kitchen Trash Bags
Bahama Bliss
• Glad ForceFlex Kitchen Trash Bags
Gain Lemon Zest
• Glad Made Using 50% Recycled Plastic Trash Bags
• Glad Press n’ Seal Multipurpose Sealing Wrap
New Smaller Size
• Glad Elastic Fresh Cover
• Natural Vitality FOCUS Memory & Cognition Capsules
• Natural Vitality SLEEP Gummies
• Renew Life Men’s Care Probiotic Capsules
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 11
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Fuel Growth Innovate Experiences Reimagine Work Evolve the Portfolio
REIMAGINING
HOW WE WORK
We’re fostering bolder ways of working that simplify
operations and leverage technology to empower
today’s workforce, all while building on our strong
foundation of inclusion and diversity to attract future
generations of talent.
FY24 HIGHLIGHTS
• Completed • Recorded a teammate • Continued to advance our • Achieved pay equity
implementation of our engagement score work with suppliers who for nonproduction
streamlined operating of 82%, which reflects reflect the increasingly teammates for gender
model, leading to continued pride in Clorox diverse consumers of globally and race and
approximately $100M as a great place to work. our products, spending ethnicity in the U.S.*
in expected ongoing This achievement is $202.8M with diverse • Improved our recordable
cost savings annually, above the 50th percentile suppliers in fiscal year incident rate by 14.5% to
margin improvements, for both Fortune 500 and 2024 — increasing 0.47, which is significantly
new capabilities and the industry benchmarks.D11 by $1.5M from fiscal lower than the average
ability to further invest year 2023.D13 for goods-producing
in business growth. manufacturing
companies, through
enhanced teammate
involvement and incident
* There are no statistically significant differences (at a confidence level of 95%) in pay by gender globally and race/
ethnicity in the U.S., accounting for relevant factors such as grade level, location and experience. management protocols.D1
I see the tremendous passion and
commitment to keep each other safe —
not only through best practices, but also
through our culture. Making thoughtful
decisions every minute of every shift is
what sets Clorox apart.”
Lalo Calvo
Fairfield Process Department Associate
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 12
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Fuel Growth Innovate Experiences Reimagine Work Evolve the Portfolio
ELEVATED RESOURCE PLANNING
Fiscal year 2024 marked the third year of a more than $500 million investment
in technologies and processes to accelerate digital transformation across the
company over a five-year period. This element of our IGNITE strategy continues
to drive new capabilities and improve ways of working across Clorox.
This year we began deploying our highly anticipated enterprise resource
planning, or ERP, tool to unlock the potential of a true data-driven culture. The
new ERP will modernize the backbone of our supply chain and finance capabilities
by shifting them to a more integrated environment. Data that was previously
fragmented across systems, geographies, functions and business units will now be
centralized, offering immediate transparency and more strategic decision-making.
We successfully completed the first wave of our new ERP implementation in Canada and
Global Finance and are poised to launch in the U.S. in fiscal year 2026, further improving our
agility and ability to grow and operate more efficiently over the long term.
EMPOWERING TEAMMATES TO THRIVE
An engaged and motivated workforce is essential to Clorox’s success, which
is why we continue to invest in our teammates’ personal and professional
well-being. This year we launched a new technical upskilling curriculum called
Brand & Marketing University, which offers a blended learning approach and
end-to-end training to develop the expertise of core functional teams.
We are deeply committed to offering competitive and inclusive benefits that
support the total well-being of our employees globally. We understand that a
healthy workforce is a productive workforce, and as part of our dedication to this
principle, we have continued to enhance the utilization of preventive screenings
within our U.S. population. Our initiatives include comprehensive education on
the importance of early detection and streamlined access to various health
screenings. These efforts have yielded impressive results, with a notable increase
in our screening utilization rate that surpasses our industry benchmark. By prioritizing
preventive care, we are not only fostering a healthier work environment but also
empowering our employees to take proactive steps toward their long-term health.
MORE CONSUMER OBSESSED,
FASTER AND LEANER
This year marked the full implementation of our streamlined operating model.
We’ve put our brands closer to the end consumer and are enabling our
businesses to make faster decisions with a more consumer-obsessed mindset.
We are also further embedding ESG into our business-unit operations and
modernizing our capabilities to yield better business outcomes.
We have taken steps to integrate end-to-end across business functions,
remove layers for more agile decision-making and centralize many
capabilities that can be dynamically deployed into our business units. This
is boosting effectiveness and efficiency while enabling our business units
to more deeply focus on our consumers and more quickly deliver on our
business objectives. These strategic capabilities are essential to becoming
a faster, leaner and higher-growth company for the future.
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 13
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Fuel Growth Innovate Experiences Reimagine Work Evolve the Portfolio
IDEA
Building a diverse workplace where every
person can feel respected, valued and fully
able to participate in our Clorox community
in the years ahead means paving pathways
for inclusion, diversity, equity and allyship —
what we like to call IDEA.
PUTTING ALLYSHIP INTO ACTION
Allyship is a core part of our IDEA journey, providing an actionable framework for teammates to better understand their
role in creating a more inclusive workplace in which teammates can do their best work and help meet the diverse needs
of the consumers we serve globally. We focus on four behaviors teammates can use to put allyship into practice:
Be Curious, Seek to Understand, Show Empathy and Act Courageously.
Through enterprise-wide programming — including our annual IDEAcon event — business unit and functional integration
and training, we’re taking steps to ensure each teammate can play an active role in shaping a culture of allyship.
Our 13 employee resource groups are critical to how we bring allyship into our everyday lives. By celebrating our diverse
culture, nurturing professional development and giving back to communities through volunteering, these internal networks
extend IDEA’s impact to all teammates and empower everyone to reach beyond their own lived experiences.
DIVERSE REPRESENTATION*, **, D10
LEADERSHIP & GOVERNANCE
25% 50% 15% 54%
PEOPLE OF COLOR WOMEN PEOPLE OF COLOR WOMEN
BOARD MEMBERS BOARD MEMBERS CLOROX EXECUTIVE CLOROX EXECUTIVE
(vs. 25% Fortune 500 (vs. 32% Fortune 500 COMMITTEE MEMBERS COMMITTEE MEMBERS
average in 2023)*** average in 2023)***
ACROSS THE COMPANY
People of Color | U.S. Women | Global
42% total employees (2,526) 36% total employees (2,903)
24% senior executives (5) 48% senior executives (11)
35% managers (599) 50% managers (1,147)
51% other nonproduction employees (512) 57% other nonproduction employees (974)
44% production employees (1,409) 19% production employees (771)
* For a comprehensive update on our IGNITE ESG goals and metrics, see pages 40-41, and visit our ESG Data Hub at https://clorox.metrio.net to view progress over
time. References that include a “D” refer to endnotes that can be viewed on pages 53-54.
** As of June 30, 2024.
*** “US Public Company Board Diversity in 2023: How Corporate Director Diversity Can Contribute to Board CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 14
Effectiveness,” Harvard Law School Forum on Corporate Governance (November 2023)
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Fuel Growth Innovate Experiences Reimagine Work Evolve the Portfolio
SOCIAL IMPACT
We’re committed to advancing wellness
in our communities around the world with
the shared ambition of creating a more
equitable and sustainable future.
CLOROX IN THE COMMUNITY
Whether we’re contributing to important causes through our workplace giving program,
volunteering for local nonprofit organizations or providing products that aid recovery efforts
after natural disasters, our teammates play a pivotal role in bringing positive change and
creating lasting social impact.
Here are just a few ways this came to life in the last year:
Volunteered with local Participated in a 5K race Celebrated 10th anniversary Packed food donations to
community improvement in service of The Voices of ride with Bike MS to raise funds provide more than 62,000
causes, including Pleasanton Rhaiza Vélez Plumey in Puerto that support life-changing meals for our communities
and Oakland, CA; Chicago, IL; Rico, which raises funds to breakthroughs for those in partnership with food
Atlanta, GA; Durham, NC, and support regional education affected by multiple sclerosis. banks, rescue missions and
many more. about cervical cancer. other nonprofit organizations
across the U.S.
SOCIAL IMPACT HIGHLIGHTS*,** PARTNERSHIPS FORGED IN PURPOSE
Clorox’s success relies on a broad spectrum of partners, including those
that distribute and sell our products, as well as those that supply the
50%
$43.3M
participation in ingredients and packaging to produce them. That’s why we strive to
U.S. corporate
employee giving work with partners that share our values. This year, we embedded more
product
campaign
donationsD12 robust environmental and social sustainability criteria into our supplier
relationship management practices, scorecards and contracts with
priority suppliers to further support adherence to the principles set forth
in our Business Partner Code of Conduct.
73,000
$0.5M
employee We also continued our collaboration to
U.S. cause volunteer hours
marketing (or $2.4M) advance social and environmental impact
in CY23D14 in our supply chain with organizations
like Action for Sustainable Derivatives,
AIM-Progress, Earthworm Foundation,
Global Shea Alliance, Responsible
$5.3M
foundation 3,950 Mica Initiative and Sustainable
& corporate nonprofit Coconut Partnership, among other
community beneficiaries nongovernmental organizations and
cash grants
strategic partners.
* For a comprehensive update on our IGNITE ESG goals and metrics, see pages 40-41, and visit our
ESG Data Hub at https://clorox.metrio.net to view progress over time. References that include a
“D” refer to endnotes that can be viewed on pages 53-54.
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 15
** As of June 30, 2024, unless stated otherwise.
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Fuel Growth Innovate Experiences Reimagine Work Evolve the Portfolio
UNLOCKING VALUE BY
EVOLVING THE PORTFOLIO
We continue delivering superior value
across our family of brands by optimizing
our business for growth and profitability
while leaning into megatrends to deliver
new and innovative products that meet
the needs of our modern consumers.
FY24 HIGHLIGHTS
• 60% of our portfolio, • Optimized our portfolio • Continued delivering • Recognized once again
including all strategic for driving growth on our commitment to as a U.S. EPA Safer
brands, achieved and profitability, while reduce the chemical Choice Partner of the
superior brand value*, reducing volatility, by footprint of our domestic Year, which reflects our
a testament to our divesting our cleaning portfolio efforts to meet rising
strong, trusted brands Argentina business. by achieving and consumer interest in
and the benefit they exceeding our goal to wellness by delivering
deliver to the consumer. improve the Chemical products with ingredients
Footprint Project score that are safer for
for our domestic cleaning communities and
portfolio 35% by 2025 with the environment.
the long-term goal of
* As measured by our consumer value metric. improving 50% by 2030.D3
Clorox teammates are dreamers and
agents of change, all with the common
goal of defining the difference that
we can make for consumers and our
businesses. Rather than waiting for
something to happen, we take the
reins. And that’s an organization that’s
incredibly fun to be a part of.”
Yating Wong
Senior Director, Business Administration
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 16
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Fuel Growth Innovate Experiences Reimagine Work Evolve the Portfolio
EVERYTHING IS BETTER WITH RANCH
We strive to be exceptional trailblazers who win people’s enduring loyalty
with our creativity, experimentation and ability to offer groundbreaking
products that meet growing consumer fascination with unique flavor
combinations and novelty products. With the ascension of Hidden Valley
Ranch as one of the most popular condiments in America, the brand
continues to surprise and delight with new ways to make favorite foods
even better:
Burt’s Bees x Hidden Valley Ranch Hidden Valley Ranch x Hidden
Dippers Lip Balm 4-Pack* A cross- Valley Ranch* A playful and
portfolio venture into personal care attention-grabbing packaging
with fellow Clorox brand Burt’s Bees. innovation with double the herbs,
spices and flavor.
Hidden Valley Cheezy Ranch
& Cheez-It Hidden Valley Hidden Valley Ranch Gourmet
Ranch Crackers A cross-aisle Popcorn* A zesty combo that
combination inspiration that takes brings comfort of at-home
flavor-pairing prowess to new, snacking to AMC big screens.
savory heights.
Hidden Valley Ranch Chili Crunch*
A bold and versatile collaboration
with Top Chef winner Stephanie
Izard’s brand, This Little Goat.
* Limited time offer.
SAFER WATER, STRONGER BUSINESS
As a leader in at-home water filtration products for more than 30 years,
Brita is committed to providing more equitable access to great tasting,
filtered water. That’s why Brita is partnering with cities in need of a lead-
filtering product solution for their residents, some of whom are in danger
of potential lead exposure from aging water service lines.
By working with cities to supply the lead-reducing Brita Elite filters to
impacted communities, Brita is ensuring families aren’t forced to turn to
more expensive and wasteful alternatives like single-use plastic bottles
while critical, long-term infrastructure projects are underway. With more
than 180 partnerships across the U.S., Brita and its lead-reducing Elite
filters are helping to provide a cost-effective solution to a growing crisis,
while welcoming new households into the Brita family.
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 17
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
COMMITMENT TO
STRONG CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
Clorox’s governance practices extend to
transparency in our disclosures, robust risk
management mechanisms, thoughtful board
oversight of human capital matters and
corporate culture, and proactive engagement
with stakeholders.
FY24 HIGHLIGHTS
• Hosted a global town hall with • Expanded the scope of assurance • Completed annual mandatory
our board of directors which for our ESG data to include the training for Clorox teammates on
allowed them to engage directly baseline for our science-based our Clorox Code of Conduct, which
with our teammates on a number target for scope 3 greenhouse outlines employee and director
of topics, including leadership gas emissions. responsibilities in legal and ethical
through change. areas, including human rights and
health and safety.
I am inspired to be part of a company
that does the right thing and lives
its values each and every day. We’re
committed to not only building a
sustainable and lasting business — but
also making a meaningful and positive
impact on the world around us.”
Gabe Martinez
Senior Director of Legal
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 18
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
DIVERSE AND ENGAGED BOARD
We believe our diverse and well-rounded board possesses the
appropriate skills to provide meaningful oversight of the company and
actively engage with the issues most important to our stakeholders.
Through our continuous board succession planning and refreshment,
we evaluate overall board composition in light of the company’s
strategic needs, legal and regulatory requirements, as well as
market and corporate governance trends, among other factors.
As part of our board’s oversight of human capital and culture
matters, the board receives regular updates from executives on
IDEA and our employee engagement survey. Additionally, this year,
four of our directors, including our lead independent director
Matthew J. Shattock, hosted a townhall meeting at our Oakland
headquarters, which was broadcast to our teammates in other offices
across the U.S. and globally. The townhall focused on the directors’
experience with transformation at other organizations and allowed
employees to engage directly with our board. We also have strong
shareholder-friendly practices, including the right for shareholders to
nominate candidates and the right to call a special meeting, assuming
certain ownership thresholds and other qualifications are met.
2 of 3
6.1 50%
people of color
years average women board
committee
board tenure* members*
chairs*
* As of June 30, 2024.
HARNESSING AI FOR GROWTH
Clorox recognizes the transformative potential of AI, as we are exploring and
rapidly adopting these evolving capabilities to drive efficiency, foster creativity
and support our IGNITE strategy goals. For instance, this year we embedded
AI into our innovation discovery process, generating a significant increase in
concepts that delight our consumers as well as cutting development time.
Team members using AI feel more effective and more efficient, with secure
enterprise productivity tools that are now widely available at Clorox,
enabling new ways to get work done faster. Additionally, we are starting to
use customized AI capabilities that learn from our own data to make our
work more consumer-obsessed, streamline the generation of personalized
content and deliver predictive integrated business planning.
At the same time, we have implemented guardrails to harness the power
of AI in a way that upholds our core values and protects our consumers,
customers, teammates and brands. Our responsible approach to leveraging
this technology is reinforced by oversight mechanisms and comprehensive
cybersecurity measures to monitor deployment and promote compliance with our
standards while protecting our systems and data from emerging cyber threats.
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 19
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
CLOROX
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Linda Rendle Matthew J. Shattock Amy Banse Julia Denman
Chair and Chief Lead Independent Director; Venture Partner, Mosaic Corporate Vice President
Executive Officer, former Non-Executive General Partnership LLC and Head of Internal
The Clorox Company Chairman, Beam Suntory Inc. Audit, Enterprise Risk
and Compliance,
Microsoft Corporation
Spencer C. Fleischer Esther Lee A.D. David Mackay Paul Parker
Chairman, Former Executive Vice Former President and Former Vice President,
FFL Partners LP President and Global Chief Chief Executive Officer, Strategy and Corporate
Marketing Officer, The Kellogg Company Development,
MetLife Inc. Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.
Stephanie Plaines Kathryn Tesija Russell J. Weiner Christopher J. Williams
Former Chief Financial Former Executive Vice Chief Executive Officer, Chairman,
Officer, JCPenney President and Chief Domino’s Pizza Inc. Siebert, Williams,
Merchandising and Supply Shank & Co. LLC
Chain Officer,
Target Corporation
As of June 30, 2024.
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 20
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
CLOROX
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Linda Rendle Nina Barton* Stacey Grier Angela Hilt**
Chair and Chief Executive Vice President Executive Vice President and Executive Vice President
Executive Officer and Group President — Executive Chief of Staff and Chief Legal Officer
Care & Connection and Corporate Secretary
Chris Hyder Kevin Jacobsen Kirsten Marriner Eric Reynolds
Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President
and Group President — and Chief Financial Officer and Chief People and and Chief Operating and
Health & Hygiene Corporate Affairs Officer Strategy Officer
Chau Banks Shanique Bonelli-Moore Gina Kelly Rick McDonald***
Senior Vice President Vice President and Chief Senior Vice President and Senior Vice President and
and Chief Information Diversity and Social Chief Customer Officer Chief Supply Chain Officer
and Data Officer Impact Officer
Michael Ott Eric Schwartz
* Joined Clorox July 22, 2024.
Senior Vice President Senior Vice President and **Assumed the role of Corporate Secretary on August 20, 2024.
and Chief Research & Chief Marketing Officer *** As of June 30, 2024.
Development Officer
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 21
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
NET SALES
($ millions)
FY22 FY23 FY24
701,7$
983,7$
390,7$
NET SALES GROWTH
(vs. year ago)
FY22 FY23 FY24
%3-
%4
%4-
ADJUSTED
EBIT MARGIN1
(as a % of net sales)
(non-GAAP)
FY22 FY23 FY24
%8.01
%4.21
%7.41
ECONOMIC PROFIT2
($ millions)(non-GAAP)
FY22 FY23 FY24
282$
793$
375$
ADJUSTED EPS3
(non-GAAP)
FY22 FY23 FY24
01.4$
90.5$
71.6$
FREE CASH FLOW4
(% of net sales)(non-GAAP)
FY22 FY23 FY24
%5.7
%6.21
%8.6
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
CORPORATE
AND OTHER: 3%
SALES BY
Vitamins, Minerals
INTERNATIONAL: 16%
SEGMENT
and Supplements
Clorox Pine-Sol Rainbow Light
Glad Ever Clean Natural Vitality
Poett Clorinda NeoCell
Brita Chux RenewLife
Burt’s Bees Fresh Step
HEALTH AND WELLNESS: 35%
Cleaning
Clorox
LIFESTYLE: 18% Clorox 2
Pine-Sol
Food Products Scentiva
Hidden Valley
Tilex
Water Filtration Liquid-Plumr
Brita Formula 409
Natural Personal Care Professional Products
Burt’s Bees Clorox Healthcare
CloroxPro
HOUSEHOLD: 28%
Bags and Wraps Cat Litter
Glad Fresh Step
Scoop Away
Grilling
Ever Clean CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 22
Kingsford
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
IGNITE FINANCIAL PROGRESS
ANNUAL GOALS IGNITE PROGRESS*
Sales Growth +3 to 5% 2.7% (5-year compound annual growth rate)
Adjusted EBIT Margin Improvement +25 to 50 Basis Points -65 basis point (5-year average)1
Free Cash Flow % of Sales 11 to 13% 12% (5-year average)2
* As of June 30, 2024.
1 Adjusted EBIT (a non-GAAP measure) represents earnings (losses) before income taxes (a GAAP measure), excluding interest income, interest expense and other
significant items that are nonrecurring or unusual (such as the pension settlement charge, incremental costs, net of insurance recoveries, related to the cyberattack,
asset impairments, charges related to the streamlined operating model, charges related to the digital capabilities and productivity enhancements investment,
significant losses/(gains) related to acquisitions / divestitures and other nonrecurring or unusual items). Adjusted EBIT margin is the ratio of adjusted EBIT to net sales.
The five-year average adjusted EBIT margin growth/decrease is calculated as the sum of the growth/ decrease in adjusted EBIT margin between each of fiscal years
2019 and 2020, 2020 and 2021, 2021 and 2022, 2022 and 2023 and 2023 and 2024 divided by five.
2 Free cash flow (a non-GAAP measure) represents net cash provided by operations less capital expenditures. The five-year average free cash flow is calculated as
the average free cash flow as a percentage of net sales for fiscal years 2024, 2023, 2022, 2021 and 2020.
FINANCIAL FOOTNOTES
See footnotes below for descriptions of these not generally accepted accounting principles, or non-GAAP, measures, how
management uses them, the reasons management believes they are useful to investors and reconciliations to the most
directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These non-GAAP
financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the comparable GAAP measures;
should be read in connection with the company’s consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with
GAAP; and may not be the same as similar measures provided by other companies due to potential differences in
methods of calculation or differences in which items are incorporated into these adjustments. For additional details
regarding the reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures below, see the company’s Current Reports on
Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in the Investors section of the company’s website
www.thecloroxcompany.com.
1SUPPLEMENTAL UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION iii In accordance with the SEC’s Regulation G, this schedule provides the
OF EARNINGS BEFORE INCOME TAXES TO EBITI,III definition of certain non-GAAP measures and the reconciliation to the most
closely related GAAP measure. Management believes the presentation of EBIT,
AND ADJUSTED EBITII,III EBIT margin, adjusted EBIT and adjusted EBIT margin provides useful additional
information to investors about trends in the company’s operations and is
Dollars in millions and percentages FY24 FY23 FY22 useful for comparability of performance over time. These non-GAAP financial
based on rounded numbers measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the
comparable GAAP measures. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures
Earnings before income taxes $ 398 $ 238 $ 607
may not be the same as similar measures provided by other companies due
Interest income (23) (16) (5) to potential differences in methods of calculation and items being excluded.
They should be read in connection with the company’s consolidated financial
Interest expense 90 90 106
statements presented in accordance with GAAP.
EBITi,iii $ 465 $ 312 $ 708 iv Represents losses related to the divestiture of the Argentina business.
EBIT margini,iii 6.6% 4.2% 10.0%
v Represents costs related to the settlement of the domestic qualified
Loss on divestitureiv 240 — — pension plan.
Pension settlement chargev 171 — — vi Reflects incremental costs, net of insurance recoveries, related to the
cyberattack incurred during fiscal year 2024. These costs relate primarily to
Cyberattack costs, net of
29 — — third-party consulting services, including IT recovery and forensic experts and
insurance recoveriesvi
other professional services incurred to investigate and remediate the attack,
VMS impairmentvii — 445 — as well as incremental operating costs from the resulting disruption to the
company’s business operations.
Streamlined operating modelviii 32 60 —
vii Reflects a noncash impairment charge for goodwill and trademarks related to
Digital capabilities and productivity
108 100 61 the Better Health Vitamins, Minerals and Supplements (VMS) business.
enhancements investmentix
viii Reflects the restructuring and related costs, net incurred by the company for
Adjusted EBIT — non-GAAPii,iii $ 1,045 $ 917 $ 769
implementation of the streamlined operating model. These expenses were
Adjusted EBIT marginii,iii 14.7% 12.4% 10.8% primarily attributable to employee-related costs and other associated costs.
Net sales $ 7,093 $ 7,389 $ 7,107 ix Reflects the operating expenses incurred by the company related to its
digital capabilities and productivity enhancements investment. The majority
i EBIT (a non-GAAP measure) represents earnings before income taxes (a GAAP of these expenses relate to external consulting fees. The remaining expenses
measure), excluding interest income and interest expense, as reported above. relate to internal IT project management and supporting personnel costs and
EBIT margin is the ratio of EBIT to net sales. other costs.
ii Adjusted EBIT (a non-GAAP measure) represents earnings before income
taxes (a GAAP measure), excluding interest income, interest expense and
other significant items that are nonrecurring or unusual (such as the pension
settlement charge, incremental costs, net of insurance recoveries, related
to the cyberattack, asset impairments, charges related to the streamlined
operating model, charges related to the digital capabilities and productivity
enhancements investment, significant losses/(gains) related to acquisitions
/ divestitures and other nonrecurring or unusual items as reported above).
Adjusted EBIT margin is the ratio of adjusted EBIT to net sales.
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 23
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
2RECONCILIATION OF ECONOMIC PROFIT iv Total capital employed represents total assets less non-interest bearing
(UNAUDITED)I liabilities. Adjusted capital employed represents total capital employed
adjusted to add back current year after tax U.S. GAAP items, as applicable,
and deduct the current year after tax noncash, nonrecurring gain. Average
Dollars in millions FY24 FY23 FY22 capital employed is the average of adjusted capital employed for the current
year and total capital employed for the prior year, based on year-end
balances. See below for details of the average capital employed calculation.
Earnings before income taxes $ 398 $ 238 $ 607
v Capital charge represents average capital employed multiplied by a cost of
Add back: capital, which was 9% for all fiscal years presented. The calculation of capital
charge includes the impact of rounding numbers.
Certain U.S. GAAP itemsii 580 605 61
Interest expense 90 90 106
Dollars in millions FY24 FY23 FY22
Earnings before income taxes, certain
U.S. GAAP items and interest expense 1,068 933 774
Total assets $ 5,751 $ 5,945 $ 6,158
Less:
Less:
Income taxes on earnings before
income taxes, certain U.S. GAAP items Accounts payable and
1,473 1,650 1,463
and interest expenseiii 215 220 174 accrued liabilitiesvi
Adjusted after tax profit 853 713 600 Current operating lease liabilities 84 87 78
Less: After tax profit attributable to Income taxes payable — 121 —
noncontrolling interests 12 12 9
Long-term operating lease liabilities 334 310 314
Adjusted after tax profit attributable to Clorox 841 701 591
Other liabilitiesvi 827 804 778
Average capital employediv 2,978 3,383 3,428
Deferred income taxes 22 28 66
Less: Capital chargev 268 304 309
Non-interest bearing liabilities 2,740 3,000 2,699
Economic profiti (Adjusted after tax profit
attributable to Clorox less capital charge) $ 573 $ 397 $ 282 Total capital employediv 3,011 2,945 3,459
i Economic profit (EP) is defined by the Company as earnings before income After tax certain U.S. GAAP itemsii — 362 —
taxes, excluding certain U.S. GAAP items (such as the pension settlement
charge, incremental costs, net of insurance recoveries, related to the Adjusted capital employediv 3,011 3,307 3,459
cyberattack, asset impairments, charges related to implementation of the
streamlined operating model, charges related to digital capabilities and Average capital employed $ 2,978 $ 3,383 $ 3,428
productivity enhancements investment, significant losses/(gains) related to
acquisitions / divestitures and other nonrecurring or unusual items impacting vi Accounts payable and accrued liabilities and Other liabilities are adjusted to
comparability) and interest expense; less income taxes (calculated based on exclude interest-bearing liabilities.
the Company’s effective tax rate excluding the identified U.S. GAAP items), and
less after tax profit attributable to noncontrolling interests, and less a capital
charge (calculated as average capital employed multiplied by a cost of
capital rate). EP is a key financial metric that the Company’s management
uses to evaluate business performance and allocate resources, and is a
component in determining employee incentive compensation. The Company’s
management believes EP provides additional perspective to investors about
financial returns generated by the business and represents profit generated
over and above the cost of capital used by the business to generate that profit.
ii Certain U.S. GAAP items include the loss on divestiture, the pension settlement
charge, incremental costs, net of insurance recoveries, related to the cyberattack,
incremental operating expenses related to the implementation of the Company’s
digital capabilities and productivity enhancements investment, restructuring
and related costs related to implementation of the streamlined operating
model and noncash impairment charges related to the VMS business.
iii The tax rate applied is the effective tax rate before the identified U.S. GAAP
items and was 20.1%, 23.6% and 22.5% in fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022,
respectively. The difference between the fiscal year 2024 effective tax rate on
earnings of 26.5% is due to the tax rate impact of the FY24 divestiture of the
Argentina business, the pension settlement charge, incremental operating
expenses recorded related to the implementation of the Company’s digital
capabilities and productivity enhancements investment, incremental
cyberattack costs, net of insurance recoveries, and costs related to the
streamlined operating model of (8.6)%, 0.9%, 0.9%, 0.2%, and 0.2%, respectively.
The difference between the fiscal year 2023 effective tax rate on earnings of
32.4% is due to the tax rate impact of the FY23 VMS impairment and incremental
operating expenses recorded related to the implementation of the Company’s
digital capabilities and productivity enhancements investment of (8.9)% and
0.1%, respectively. The difference between the fiscal year 2022 effective tax
rate on earnings of 22.4% is due to the tax rate impact of the incremental
operating expenses recorded related to the implementation of the Company’s
digital capabilities and productivity enhancements investment of 0.1%.
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 24
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
3SUPPLEMENTAL UNAUDITED RECONCILIATION 4RECONCILIATION OF FREE CASH FLOW
OF ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHAREvii,viii
Dollars in millions and percentages
FY24 FY23 FY22
Dollars in millions % based on rounded numbers
except per share data FY24 FY23 Change
Net cash provided by operations — GAAP $ 695 $ 1,158 $ 786
As reported (GAAP) $ 2.25 $ 1.20 88% Less: Capital expenditures 212 228 251
Loss on divestiturei 1.85 — Free cash flow — non-GAAPi $ 483 $ 930 $ 535
Pension settlement chargeii 1.04 — Free cash flow as a percentage of net sales
6.8% 12.6% 7.5%
— non-GAAPi
Cyberattack costs, net of
0.17 —
insurance recoveriesiii Net sales $ 7,093 $ 7,389 $ 7,107
VMS impairmentiv — 2.91 i In accordance with the SEC’s Regulation G, this schedule provides the
definition of certain non-GAAP measures and the reconciliation to the most
Streamlined operating modelv 0.20 0.37
closely related GAAP measure. Management uses free cash flow and free
Digital capabilities and productivity cash flow as a percentage of net sales to help assess the cash generation
enhancements investmentvi 0.66 0.61 ability of the business and funds available for investing activities, such as
acquisitions, investing in the business to drive growth and financing
As adjusted (Non-GAAP)vii,viii $ 6.17 $ 5.09 21% activities, including debt payments, dividend payments and stock
repurchases. Free cash flow does not represent cash available only for
i During the year ended Jun. 30, 2024, the company incurred approximately $240 discretionary expenditures since the Company has mandatory debt service
($231 after tax) of costs related to the divestiture of the Argentina business. requirements and other contractual and non-discretionary expenditures. In
addition, free cash flow may not be the same as similar measures provided
ii During the year ended Jun. 30, 2024, the company incurred approximately
by other companies due to potential differences in methods of calculation
$171 ($130 after tax) of costs related to the settlement of the domestic qualified
and items being excluded. These non-GAAP financial measures should not
pension plan.
be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the comparable GAAP
iii During the year ended Jun. 30, 2024, the company incurred approximately $29 measures and should be read in connection with the company’s
($22 after tax) of costs related to the cyberattack, net of insurance recoveries. consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP.
These costs relate primarily to third-party consulting services, including IT
recovery and forensic experts and other professional services incurred to
investigate and remediate the attack, as well as incremental operating costs
from the resulting disruption to the company’s business operations.
iv During the year ended Jun. 30, 2023, noncash impairment charges of goodwill and
trademarks were recorded of $445 ($362 after tax) related to the VMS business.
v During the year ended Jun. 30, 2024, and Jun 30, 2023, the company incurred
approximately $32 ($25 after tax) and $60 ($45 after tax), respectively, of
restructuring and related costs, net for implementation of the streamlined
operating model.
vi During the year ended Jun. 30, 2024, and Jun. 30, 2023, the company incurred
approximately $108 ($82 after tax) and $100 ($76 after tax), respectively,
of operating expenses related to its digital capabilities and productivity
enhancements investment.
vii Adjusted EPS is defined as diluted earnings per share that excludes or has
otherwise been adjusted for significant items that are nonrecurring or unusual.
The income tax effect on non-GAAP items is calculated based upon the tax
laws and statutory income tax rates applicable in the tax jurisdiction(s) of the
underlying non-GAAP adjustment.
viii Adjusted EPS is supplemental information that management uses to help
evaluate the company’s historical and prospective financial performance on a
consistent basis over time. Management believes that by adjusting for certain
items affecting comparability of performance over time, such as the pension
settlement charge, incremental costs, net of insurance recoveries, related to the
cyberattack, asset impairments, charges related to the streamlined operating
model, charges related to the digital capabilities and productivity enhancements
investment, significant losses/(gains) related to acquisitions / divestitures and
other nonrecurring or unusual items, investors and management are able to
gain additional insight into the company’s underlying operating performance
on a consistent basis over time. However, adjusted EPS may not be the same
as similar measures provided by other companies due to potential differences
in methods of calculation or differences in which items are incorporated into
these adjustments.
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 25
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
YEARS ENDED JUNE 30
2024 2023 2022
DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA
Net sales $ 7,093 $ 7,389 $ 7,107
Cost of products sold 4,045 4,481 4,562
Gross profit 3,048 2,908 2,545
Selling and administrative expenses 1,167 1,183 954
Advertising costs 832 734 709
Research and development costs 126 138 132
Loss on divestiture 240 — —
Pension settlement charge 171 — —
Goodwill, trademark, and other asset impairments — 445 —
Interest expense 90 90 106
Other (income) expense, net 24 80 37
Earnings before income taxes 398 238 607
Income taxes 106 77 136
Net earnings 292 161 471
Less: Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests 12 12 9
Net earnings attributable to Clorox $ 280 $ 149 $ 462
Net earnings per share attributable to Clorox
Basic net earnings per share $ 2.26 $ 1.21 $ 3.75
Diluted net earnings per share $ 2.25 $ 1.20 $ 3.73
Weighted average shares outstanding (in thousands)
Basic 124,174 123,589 123,113
Diluted 124,804 124,181 123,906
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 26
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
YEARS ENDED JUNE 30
2024 2023 2022
DOLLARS IN MILLIONS
Net earnings $ 292 $ 161 $ 471
Other comprehensive (loss) income:
Foreign currency adjustments, net of tax 206 3 (45)
Net unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives, net of tax (14) (22) 100
Pension and postretirement benefit adjustments, net of tax 146 5 12
Total other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax 338 (14) 67
Comprehensive income 630 147 538
Less: Total comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests 12 12 9
Total comprehensive income attributable to Clorox $ 618 $ 135 $ 529
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 27
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
AS OF JUNE 30
2024 2023
DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA
ASSETS
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents $ 202 $ 367
Receivables, net 695 688
Inventories, net 637 696
Prepaid expenses and other current assets 88 77
Total current assets 1,622 1,828
Property, plant, and equipment, net 1,315 1,345
Operating lease right-of-use assets 360 346
Goodwill 1,228 1,252
Trademarks, net 538 543
Other intangible assets, net 143 169
Other assets 545 462
Total assets $ 5,751 $ 5,945
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Current liabilities
Notes and loans payable $ 4 $ 50
Current operating lease liabilities 84 87
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 1,486 1,659
Income taxes payable — 121
Total current liabilities 1,574 1,917
Long-term debt 2,481 2,477
Long-term operating lease liabilities 334 310
Other liabilities 848 825
Deferred income taxes 22 28
Total liabilities 5,259 5,557
Commitments and contingencies
Stockholders’ equity
Preferred stock: $1.00 par value; 5,000,000 shares authorized; none issued or outstanding — —
Common stock: $1.00 par value; 750,000,000 shares authorized; 130,741,461 shares issued as
of June 30, 2024 and 2023; and 124,201,807 and 123,820,022 shares outstanding as of June 30, 131 131
2024 and 2023, respectively
Additional paid-in capital 1,288 1,245
Retained earnings 250 583
Treasury stock, at cost: 6,539,654 and 6,921,439 shares as of June 30, 2024
(1,186) (1,246)
and 2023, respectively
Accumulated other comprehensive net (loss) income (155) (493)
Total Clorox stockholders’ equity 328 220
Noncontrolling interests 164 168
Total stockholders’ equity 492 388
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 5,751 $ 5,945
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 28
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Common Stock Treasury Stock Accumulated
Other
Additional Comprehensive Total
Dollars in millions, except per share data; Paid-in Retained Net (Loss) Noncontrolling Stockholders’
shares in thousands Amount Shares Capital Earnings Amount Shares Income Interests Equity
Balance as of June 30, 2021 $ 131 130,741 $ 1,186 $ 1,036 $ (1,396) (7,961) $ (546) $ 181 $ 592
Net earnings — — — 462 — — — 9 471
Other comprehensive (loss) income — — — — — — 67 — 67
Dividends to Clorox stockholders
— — — (430) — — — — (430)
($3.48 per share declared)
Dividends to noncontrolling interests — — — — — — — (17) (17)
Stock-based compensation — — 52 — — — — — 52
Other employee stock plan activities — — (36) (20) 75 524 — — 19
Treasury stock purchased — — — — (25) (152) — — (25)
Balance as of June 30, 2022 $ 131 130,741 $ 1,202 $ 1,048 $ (1,346) (7,589) $ (479) $ 173 $ 729
Net earnings — — — 149 — — — 12 161
Other comprehensive (loss) income — — — — — — (14) — (14)
Dividends to Clorox stockholders
— — — (588) — — — — (588)
($4.72 per share declared)
Dividends to noncontrolling interests — — — — — — — (17) (17)
Stock-based compensation — — 73 — — — — — 73
Other employee stock plan activities — — (30) (26) 100 668 — — 44
Balance as of June 30, 2023 $ 131 130,741 $ 1,245 $ 583 $ (1,246) (6,921) $ (493) $ 168 $ 388
Net earnings — — — 280 — — — 12 292
Other comprehensive (loss) income — — — — — — 338 — 338
Dividends to Clorox stockholders
— — — (600) — — — — (600)
($4.80 per share declared)
Dividends to noncontrolling interests — — — — — — — (16) (16)
Stock-based compensation — — 74 — — — — — 74
Other employee stock plan activities — — (31) (13) 60 381 — — 16
Balance as of June 30, 2024 $ 131 130,741 $ 1,288 $ 250 $ (1,186) (6,540) $ (155) $ 164 $ 492
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 29
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
YEARS ENDED JUNE 30
2024 2023 2022
DOLLARS IN MILLIONS
Operating activities:
Net earnings $ 292 $ 161 $ 471
Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by operations:
Depreciation and amortization 235 236 224
Stock-based compensation 74 73 52
Deferred income taxes (100) (149) 5
Loss on divestiture 238 — —
Pension settlement charge 171 — —
Goodwill, trademark and other asset impairments — 445 —
Settlement of interest rate derivative contracts — — 114
Other 26 38 19
Changes in:
Receivables, net (34) (13) (84)
Inventories, net 55 58 (18)
Prepaid expenses and other current assets 25 (1) 16
Account payable and accrued liabilities (140) 157 (47)
Operating lease right-of-use assets and liabilities, net — 1 (1)
Income taxes payable/prepaid (147) 152 35
Net cash provided by operations 695 1,158 786
Investing activities:
Capital expenditures (212) (228) (251)
Proceeds from divestiture, net of cash divested 17 — —
Other 20 5 22
Net cash used for investing activities (175) (223) (229)
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 30
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (CONTINUED)
YEARS ENDED JUNE 30
2024 2023 2022
DOLLARS IN MILLIONS
Financing activities:
Notes and loans payable, net (45) (188) 237
Long-term debt repayments — — (1,405)
Long-term debt borrowings, net of issuance costs paid — — 1,085
Treasury stock purchased — — (25)
Cash dividends paid to Clorox stockholders (595) (583) (571)
Cash dividends paid to noncontrolling interests (16) (15) (15)
Issuance of common stock for employee stock plans and other 1 33 5
Net cash used for financing activities (655) (753) (689)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash (26) — (6)
Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash (161) 182 (138)
Cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash:
Beginning of year 368 186 324
End of year $ 207 $ 368 $ 186
Supplemental cash flow information:
Interest paid $ 102 $ 99 $ 89
Income taxes paid, net of refunds 347 73 100
Noncash financing activities:
Cash dividends declared and accrued, but not paid 16 16 14
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 31
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
AUDITOR STATEMENT
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
To the Stockholders and the Board of We also have audited, in accordance with the standards
Directors of The Clorox Company of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the effectiveness of The Clorox Company’s
We have audited, in accordance with
internal control over financial reporting as of June 30,
the standards of the Public Company
2024, based on criteria established in Internal Control
Accounting Oversight Board (United
— Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
States), the consolidated balance
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
sheets of The Clorox Company at June 30, 2024 and
(2013 framework) and our report dated August 8, 2024 (not
2023, the related consolidated statements of earnings,
presented separately herein) expressed an unqualified
comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity and cash
opinion thereon.
flows for each of the three years in the period ended
June 30, 2024 and the related notes (collectively referred to
as the “consolidated financial statements”) (not presented
separately herein) and in our report dated August 8, 2024,
we expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated
financial statements. In our opinion, the information set forth
in the accompanying condensed consolidated financial San Francisco, California
statements as of June 30, 2024 and 2023 and for each of the August 8, 2024
three years in the period ended June 30, 2024 (presented
on pages 26 through 31) is fairly stated, in all material
respects, in relation to the consolidated financial
statements from which it has been derived.
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 32
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
AUDITOR STATEMENT
INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS’ REVIEW REPORT
To the Management of We are required to be independent of Clorox and to
The Clorox Company meet our other ethical responsibilities, in accordance
with the relevant ethical requirements related to our
We have reviewed The Clorox
review engagement. Additionally, we have complied
Company’s (“Clorox”) accompanying
with the other ethical requirements set forth in the Code
selected sustainability indicators
of Professional Conduct and applied the Statements on
noted in the table below and included
Quality Control Standards established by the AICPA.
in Appendix A (the “Subject Matter”)
and as presented in the Company’s Annual Report identified The procedures we performed were based on our
by the “ ” symbol presented in Clorox’s Annual Report for professional judgment. Our review consisted principally
the reporting periods indicated in the table below, based of applying analytical procedures, making inquiries of
on the criteria also set forth in Appendix A (the “Criteria”). persons responsible for the subject matter, obtaining an
Clorox’s management is responsible for the Subject Matter, understanding of the data management systems and
based on the Criteria. Our responsibility is to express a processes used to generate, aggregate and report the
conclusion on the Subject Matter based on our review. Subject Matter and performing such other procedures as
we considered necessary in the circumstances.
Subject Matter Reporting Period
As described in Appendix A the Subject Matter is
Schedule of Selected Environmental For the year ended subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from
Indicators December 31, 2023
limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used
For the year ended for determining such data. The selection of different
Schedule of Base Year GHG emissions
December 31, 2020 but acceptable measurement techniques can result
Schedule of Selected Quantitative For the year ended in materially different measurements. The precision
Performance Indicators June 30, 2024 of different measurement techniques may also vary.
Furthermore, Scope 3 emissions are calculated based on
Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation a significant number of estimations and management
standards established by the American Institute of Certified assumptions due to the inherent nature of the Greenhouse
Public Accountants (AICPA) AT-C section 105, Concepts Gas Protocol Corporate Standard and Technical Guidance
Common to All Attestation Engagements, and AT-C section for Calculating Scope 3 Emissions criteria.
210, Review Engagements. Those standards require that we
The information included in The Clorox Company’s Annual
plan and perform our review to obtain limited assurance
Report, other than the Subject Matter, has not been
about whether any material modifications should be
subjected to the procedures applied in our review and,
made to the Subject Matter in order for it to be based on
accordingly, we express no conclusion on it.
the Criteria. The procedures performed in a review vary in
nature and timing from and are substantially less in extent
Based on our review, we are not aware of any material
than, an examination, the objective of which is to obtain
modifications that should be made to the accompanying
reasonable assurance about whether the Subject Matter
selected sustainability indicators for the periods indicated in
is based on the Criteria, in all material respects, in order to
the table above in order for them to be based on the Criteria.
express an opinion. Accordingly, we do not express such an
opinion. Because of the limited nature of the engagement,
the level of assurance obtained in a review is substantially
lower than the assurance that would have been obtained
had an examination been performed. As such, a review
September 3, 2024
does not provide assurance that we became aware
of all significant matters that would be disclosed in an
examination. We believe that the review evidence obtained
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a reasonable basis
for our conclusion. CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 33
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Performance Notes Value Creation Materiality Progress Snapshot SASB TCFD UN SDGs
ESG PERFORMANCE NOTES
APPENDIX A:
Schedule of Selected Environmental Indicators for the year ended December 31, 20231
INDICATOR NAME UNIT2 VALUE CRITERIA
Scope 1 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions3, 4 Metric tons 65,504
carbon dioxide
Scope 2 GHG emissions, location-based-method (LBM)4 equivalent (tCO2e)5 158,892
Scope 2 GHG emissions, market-based-method (MBM)4, 6 27,888
The World Resources Institute/World Business Council for
Combined Scope 1 + Scope 2 MBM emissions3, 4, 6 93,392 Sustainable Development (WRI/WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas (GHG)
Protocol Corporate Standard
Change in Scope 1 GHG emissions from 2020 baseline year7 Percent (%) -13%
WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Standard, GHG Protocol
Change in Scope 2 LBM GHG emissions from 2020 baseline year7 -14% Scope 2 Guidance
Change in Scope 2 MBM GHG emissions from 2020 baseline year7 -85%
Change in combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 MBM GHG emissions -64%
from 2020 baseline year7
Scope 3 GHG emissions category 1 Purchased Goods and Services8 tCO2e 1,987,757
Scope 3 GHG emissions, category 4 Upstream Transportation 254,857
and Distribution8
WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Standard, WRI/WBCSD GHG
Scope 3 GHG emissions, category 6 Business Travel8 5,726
Protocol Technical Guidance for Calculating Scope 3 Emissions
Scope 3 GHG emissions, category 11 Use of Sold Products3, 8 276,828
Change in Scope 3 (Category 1 and 11) emissions from 2020 Percent (%) -13%
baseline year7
Energy consumption4 Megawatt hours 687,341 Total energy consumption, as defined by GRI 302-1e-g9.
(MWh) Significant contextual information necessary to understand how
the disclosed data have been compiled.
Water withdrawal4 Megaliters 2,860 Total water withdrawal as defined by a component of GRI 303-3a10.
Renewable electricity consumption11 MWh 344,779 Total renewable electricity consumption in the U.S. and Canada.
Percentage of electricity from renewable energy11 Percent (%) 100% Total renewable electricity procured from renewable energy
sources in the U.S. and Canada divided by the total electricity
usage in the U.S. and Canada.
Schedule of Base Year GHG emissions for the year ended December 31, 202012
INDICATOR NAME UNIT AMOUNT CRITERIA
Scope 3 GHG emissions category 1 Purchased Goods and Services8 tCO2e 2,174,083
WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Standard, WRI/WBCSD GHG
Protocol Technical Guidance for Calculating Scope 3 Emissions
Scope 3 GHG emissions, category 11 Use of Sold Products8 tCO2e 434,804
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 34
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Performance Notes Value Creation Materiality Progress Snapshot SASB TCFD UN SDGs
Schedule of Selected Quantitative Performance Indicators for the year ended June 30, 2024
INDICATOR NAME UNIT AMOUNT CRITERIA
Employee Engagement Score Percent (%) 82% Total percentage of actively engaged employees, as defined by
SASB TC-IM-330a.213. Significant contextual information necessary
to understand how the disclosed data have been compiled.
Recordable Incident Rate Rate of 0.47
recordable Rate of recordable work-related incidents as defined by
work-related GRI 403-9aiii, e-f-g14.
incidents
Workforce Representation Female managers, global 50% Global female managers, divided by the total number of
global managers.
Female senior executives, global 48% Global female senior executives divided by the total number of
global senior executives.
Percent (%)
People of Color (POC) managers, 35%
U.S. POC15 managers, divided by the total number of U.S. managers.
United States (U.S.)
POC senior executives, U.S. 24% U.S. POC15 senior executives, divided by the total number of U.S.
senior executives.
U.S. Product Donations $ USD (million) 43.3 Total direct economic value distributed through
community investments.
Note on sources of emissions, energy, and water data
ESTIMATIONS
INDICATOR NAME SOURCES AND METHODOLOGIES AND ASSUMPTIONS
Scope 1 GHG emissions • Stationary combustion, mobile combustion, refrigerant use, and process emissions. Data is based on actual metered
Process emissions outside of the Kingsford business unit were identified as being or invoiced data when it is available.
immaterial as a source of emissions within Clorox’s operational boundary. When actual data is not available,
Clorox utilizes an estimation
Scope 2 GHG emissions, LBM • Purchased electricity. methodology based on
historical data.
Scope 2 GHG emissions, MBM • Purchased electricity and contractual instruments.
Energy consumption • Purchased electricity, onsite solar electricity generation, natural gas, fuel oil, diesel,
propane, gasoline, and jet fuel and aligns with the sources included in the calculation
of Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions.
Water withdrawal • City/municipal, well, lake and river water.
Scope 3 GHG emissions category 1 • Emissions are calculated using the average data-method applying ‘per unit of good or For certain sources where primary
Purchased Goods and Services service’ emission factors and spend-based method applying ‘per $’ emission factors. data is not available, Clorox
Primary data: U.S. raw materials, U.S. services, U.S. packaging, Latin American (LATAM) estimates using a linear ratio
raw materials, LATAM packaging, LATAM services, Canada raw materials, Canada calculation. For certain countries
packaging, AMEA packaging, and Asia packaging. where raw material, packaging,
and/or services primary data is
unavailable, emissions are estimated.
Scope 3 GHG emissions, category 4 • Emissions are calculated using the distance-based method applying ‘per ton-mile’ Not applicable.
Upstream Transportation emission factors for U.S. domestic finished goods transportation16. Air transport, rail
and Distribution transport, road transport, and marine transport.
Scope 3 GHG emissions, category 6 For a limited number of rental cars
Business Travel • Emissions are calculated using the distance-based method applying ‘per vehicle- booked through non-Hertz rental
mile traveled’ and ‘per passenger-mile traveled’ ’ emission factors. Commercial air vehicles, Clorox applies a miles per
flights and rental car use by Clorox’s employees booked through their selected travel day average from the actual Hertz
agencies, including BCD and Hertz. data to determine mileage to
non-Hertz rental days.
Scope 3 GHG emissions, category 11 • Emissions are calculated using ‘per using direct use-phase emissions from fuels (fuels Not applicable.
Use of Sold Products and feedstocks) method applying ‘per fuel or feedstock sold’ emission factors. All units
of Kingsford Charcoal produced for sale in the reporting year.
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 35
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Performance Notes Value Creation Materiality Progress Snapshot SASB TCFD UN SDGs
Note on sources of emissions factors and global warming potentials (GWPs)
INDICATOR NAME EMISSIONS FACTORS GWPS
Scope 1 GHG emissions • U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Center for Corporate Climate Leadership for • 2014 Intergovernmental Panel
Greenhouse Gas Inventories (Published in 2024), Table 2 on Climate Change (IPCC) Fifth
Assessment Report
• 40 CFR Part 98 Table C-1
• Title 40 Part 98 Table C-2
Scope 2 GHG emissions, LBM • 2021 International Energy Agency (IEA), published in 2023
Scope 2 GHG emissions, MBM17 • U.S. EPA Emissions & Generation Resource Integrated (eGRID) Database 2022, published
in January 2024
• 2021 emission factors from 2023 Canada National Inventory Report (NIR) Annex 23
for Ontario
Scope 3 GHG emissions category 1 • Ecoinvent LCA factors
Purchased Goods and Services (2020) • U.S. Environmentally-Extended Input-Output (USEEIO) Supply Chain Greenhouse Gas • 2007 IPCC Fourth Assessment Report
Emission Factors for US Industries and Commodities (2020 publication)
Scope 3 GHG emissions category 1 • Ecoinvent LCA factors • 2014 IPCC Fifth Assessment Report
Purchased Goods and Services (2023)
• U.S. EEIO Supply Chain Greenhouse Gas Emission Factors for US Industries and • 2021 IPCC Sixth Assessment Report
Commodities (2021 publication)
Scope 3 GHG emissions, category 4 • U.S. EPA Center for Corporate Climate Leadership Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas
Upstream Transportation Inventories (Published in 2024), Table 8
and Distribution
• UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2023 Version 2.0,
Well-to-Tank (WTT) fuels conversion factors, Department for Environmental and Rural
Affairs (DEFRA)
• 2014 IPCC Fifth Assessment Report
Scope 3 GHG emissions, category 6 • U.S. EPA Center for Corporate Climate Leadership Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas
Business Travel Inventories (Published in 2024), Tables 2,3,4, & 5
• UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2023 Version 2.0,
WTT fuels conversion factors, DEFRA
Scope 3 GHG emissions, category 11 • 2007 IPCC Fourth Assessment Report
Use of Sold Products (2020)
• 40 CFR U.S. EPA Part 98 Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Regulations
Scope 3 GHG emissions, category 11 • 2014 IPCC Fifth Assessment Report
Use of Sold Products (2023)
Energy consumption • Clorox utilizes standard and widely accepted conversion factors for the purposes of calculating their emissions footprint.
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 36
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Performance Notes Value Creation Materiality Progress Snapshot SASB TCFD UN SDGs
Note on Methodologies of Selected Quantitative Performance Indicators for the year ended June 30, 2024
INDICATOR NAME METHODOLOGY
Employee Engagement Score Employee engagement is measured by four questions within a survey that was administered by a third-
party, Perceptyx, Inc. The survey took place from February 26th, 2024, through March 15th, 2024, and 7,451
of about 8,491 Company employees responded to the survey. Responses were scored on a scale of 1 to
5 as follows: 5: Strongly agree, 4: Agree, 3: Neither agree or disagree, 2: Disagree, or 1: Strongly disagree.
A response of 5 or 4 is considered a favorable response representing active employee engagement.
Employee engagement is based upon employees self-reporting. To the extent that the employees do
not respond to the survey, the data would not be included in the employee engagement calculation.
Clorox does not expect to receive survey responses from 100% of employees, as it is not mandatory for
all employees to complete the survey. As such, the employee engagement score is calculated only from
responses to the Company’s annual survey. The survey is available to all full time and part time employees
excluding contractors and interns.
Recordable Incident Rate Recordable incident rate, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, is calculated as the sum of all recorded
injuries or illnesses multiplied by 200,000 divided by the total labor hours. Recordable incident rate
is calculated based upon employees self-reporting work-related injuries or illnesses which may be
affected by culture, societal norms, and/or regulations. To the extent a recordable incident is not self-
reported, it would not be included in the recordable incident rate calculation. Guidance on the definition
of recordable work-related injuries or illnesses is based on the United States Occupational Safety and
Health Administration (OSHA), General recording criteria 1904.7. Guidance on work-relatedness is defined
by the United States OSHA, Determination of work-relatedness 1904.5.
Workforce Representation Female managers, global Percentage of female is calculated based upon employees self-reporting their gender. Percentage of
POC is calculated based upon employees self-reporting their race. To the extent that the employees
Female senior executives, global do not self-report, the data would not be included in the diversity calculation. Populations of 5 or less
employees are excluded as they are immaterial to the overall calculation.
POC managers, U.S.
Managers is based on headcount data of employees who reported gender and race. “Manager” is
defined as internal grade ranking between “26-31” for U.S. employees and “25-31” for international
POC senior executives, U.S.
employees. These internal grade ranks are determined by the Company’s Human Resources
compensation structure. Senior Executive is based on headcount data of employees who reported
gender and race. “Senior Executive” is defined as internal grade ranking of “32” and “EX”. These internal
grade ranks are determined by the Company’s Human Resources compensation structure.
All U.S. and global employees, both active and part-time employees (excluding interns, contractors, and
fixed-term employees).
U.S. Product Donations Fair market value (FMV) of all U.S. product donations used to aid in disaster relief or to support schools,
food banks, and other non-profit organizations (defined as 501(c)(3) organizations and equivalents).
Note: Non-financial information is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from electricity, heating, cooling and steam consumption, and in joules, watt-hours
limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. or multiples, the total electricity, heating, cooling, and steam sold) are excluded.
Selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially Purchased steam, heating, and cooling, as well as sold electricity, steam, heating,
different measurements. Precision of different measurement techniques may vary. and cooling were not identified as a source within Clorox’s operational boundary.
1 Clorox has selected an organizational boundary for the Subject Matter based 10 Other components of GRI 303-3a (i.e., breakout by source) and GRI 303-3 (i.e.,
on the company’s operational control and includes Clorox’s plants, research water stressed areas and sediment levels) are excluded.
and development facilities, distribution centers, and offices (collectively, “Global 11 Clorox’s renewable electricity consumption data for the U.S. and Canada includes
Facilities”) and Clorox’s operated fleet. RECs associated with two VPPAs. RECs from the U.S. and Canada have been or are
2 All reported percentage values are rounded to the nearest whole digit. being certified through the Green-e certification program.
3 Clorox produces biogenic emissions as a result of direct wood pyrolysis. Direct 12 Clorox has selected a 2020 base year for reporting against their publicly stated
wood pyrolysis is considered to be a carbon neutral process; therefore, there are goals. Clorox has a recalculation standard, following guidance from Science
zero biogenic CO emissions, but CO equivalent emissions from CH and NO are Based Target Initiative (SBTi), to inform how the company makes adjustments
2 2 4 2
included within Clorox’s Scope 1 and Scope 3, 11 Use of Sold Products GHG emissions. to previously reported metrics for structural changes, calculation methodology
4 Clorox’s natural gas, electricity and municipal water consumption data for U.S. updates, the inclusion of additional activity data and improvements in the
sites are tracked by Clorox’s third-party utility management company. Other accuracy of data. Clorox applies a quantitative or qualitative significance
sources of energy and water consumption in the U.S. are tracked manually threshold criteria to trigger whether a metric needs to be recalculated.
on a site-by-site basis and reported to Clorox’s corporate team on an annual 13 Other criteria included in TC-IM-330a.2 (i.e., distinct breakouts of the percent of
basis. For international sites, all energy and water consumption data is tracked each employee engagement levels including not engaged, passive and actively
manually and reported annually to Clorox’s corporate team. disengaged.) are excluded.
5 Gases included in the reporting boundary are CO, CH, NO and Hydrofluorocarbons 14 Other criteria included in GRI 403-9a (i.e., for all employees, number and rate of
2 4 2
(HFCs). HFCs are used in refrigerants. The majority of the reported COe emissions fatalities as a result of work-related injuries, number and rate of high consequence
2
are from CO with the remainder being composed of CH, NO, and HFCs. work-related injuries, types of work-related injuries, number of hours worked)
2 4 2
6 Scope 2 MBM emissions utilize various environmental attributes from Renewable and other components of GRI 403-9 (i.e., for employees and workers who are not
Energy Certificates (RECs) associated with two virtual power purchase agreements employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by the organization,
(VPPAs), RECs purchased on the open market, and International RECs (I-RECs) the number and rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury, the number
purchased through an energy service provider. The accounting for these and rate of high-consequence work-related injuries (excluding fatalities), the
contractual instruments is in alignment with the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance number of recordable work-related injuries for employees and both number and
Quality Criteria. These instruments were specific to facilities in the U.S., Canada, rate of recordable work-related injuries for non-employees, the main types of
and Colombia in the 2023 reporting year. Scope 2 MBM emission sources include work-related injury, the number of hours worked; work-related hazards that pose
purchased electricity and contractual instruments. For Scope 2 MBM emissions, a risk of high-consequence injury; any actions taken or underway to eliminate
supplier specific and residual mix emission factors were not applied to the Scope 2 these hazards and minimize risks using the hierarchy of controls; and whether any
MBM emissions calculation. An adjusted emissions factor has not been estimated workers have been excluded from this disclosure) are excluded.
to account for voluntary purchases as this may result in double counting between 15 POC is defined as any race that is not White (including but not limited to Asian;
electricity consumers. Black; Latino; Native American; Native Hawaiian; or two or more races).
7 Percent change in GHG emissions from the 2020 baseline year utilizes values as 16 Upstream Transportation and Distribution for Latin America, Canada, AMEA, and
of December 31, 2020. Asia are excluded.
8 The vast majority of Scope 3 Category 4 and 6 emissions are using data from 17 For Scope 2 MBM emissions, supplier specific and residual mix emission factors
suppliers or other value chain partners. Scope 3 emissions outside of the were not applied to the Scope 2 MBM emissions calculation. An adjusted emissions
categories listed in the table above are not subject to assurance by EY. Data from factor has not been estimated to account for voluntary purchases as this may
suppliers or other value chain partners is not used for Category 1 and Category 11. result in double counting between electricity consumers.
9 Other criteria included in GRI 302-1 (i.e., total fuel consumption within the
organization from non-renewable sources, total fuel consumption within the
organization from renewable sources, in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 37
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Performance Notes Value Creation Materiality Progress Snapshot SASB TCFD UN SDGs
HOW WE
CREATE VALUE
To achieve our business goals, we need to leverage the unique foundational attributes of our company, manage
external factors and optimize our relationships with important partners. We’re successful when we create value for our
company, employees, consumers, retail and nonretail customers, investors, communities, suppliers and other business
partners, the environment and society.
Total assets Raw material costs and other expenses Industry collaborations
1
Employees Cost-savings program Virgin raw materials (including
renewable resources)
INPUTS* Investments, including five-year, ~8,000 global employees
$560 million-$580 million strategic Reused or recycled materials
Professional development and training
investment in digital capabilities
Energy (including 100% renewable
and productivity enhancements Supplier contracts and investments
electricity in U.S. and Canada)
Capital expenditures Customer support and engagement
Water (including recycled water)
2
Vision: To be Purpose: We champion Objective: Deliver 3 Sales
exceptional innovators people to be well and purpose-driven growth.
Transformed financial operations
BUSINESS who earn people’s thrive every single day.
enduring loyalty. OUTPUTS** and reporting with automated
MODEL processes and enhanced
IGNITE Strategy: • Product Supply planning capabilities
• Fuel Growth • Research & Development Patents
• Innovate Experiences • Sales
• Reimagine Work Partner investments
Segments:
• Evolve Portfolio • Health and Wellness Product portfolio
ESG Priorities: • Household Enhanced technology driving
• Healthy Lives • Lifestyle more meaningful connections
• Clean World • International with consumers
• Thriving Communities • Corporate and Other
• Strong Governance Enhanced forecasting and
How we conduct our business: manufacturing capabilities to
Our Values: • Innovative consumer deliver the right product at the
• Do the right thing products and services right time in the right place
• Put people at the center • Diverse health, well-being and
• Play to win household essentials portfolio Meaningful analytics and insights
• Retail and professional with integrated data across
Functions: customer base systems and functions
• Finance
• Enterprise Data and Tech • Best in class delivery of end- Inclusive culture
to-end supply chain solutions
• Environmental, Social • U.S. focus with presence in key Diverse representation
and Governance
• Internal Audit global markets Engaged employees
• Enterprise strategy integrating
• Legal, Government Affairs ESG priorities Tech-enabled employee
and Risk Management • Strong execution experience
• Marketing
• People (Human Resources • ESG team driving Business Partner Code of Conduct
and Corporate Affairs) sustainability strategy supplier compliance program
Responsible sourcing program
Reusable, recyclable or
compostable materials
4 Innovation Shareholder value Brand loyalty
Waste to landfill/energy
(stock price and
Employer brand Healthy Lives, Clean
OUTCOMES*** reputation dividends) World, Thriving Emissions
Partnerships Communities, Profit and cash flows
Consumer
obsessed, faster (industry, ESG, Strong Governance Employee professional growth
and leaner supply chain) (ESG pillars)
Brand equity
Consumer
satisfaction
* Based on principles of integrated reporting, inputs refers to what goes into the development of an organization’s key products and services, including byproducts
and waste (such as emissions).
** Based on principles of integrated reporting, outputs refers to what’s generated by a company’s operations, including both positive and negative factors.
We focus on material issues and evaluate the opportunities and risks of our actions.
*** Outcomes are the internal and external consequences (positive and negative) for the types of capital
(financial, manufactured, intellectual, human, social and relationship, and natural) as a result of an CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 38
organization’s business activities and outputs.
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Performance Notes Value Creation Materiality Progress Snapshot SASB TCFD UN SDGs
ESG MATERIALITY
By focusing on environmental, social and governance
ESG REPORTING
topics that are of greatest importance to our company
and stakeholders, we drive long-term business value As part of our commitment to transparency, we
and help deliver on our purpose and values. We strive disclose our ESG progress through voluntary third-party
to maintain our focus on ESG topics that are most frameworks. For fiscal 2024, we continue to report
impactful to our business, society and the environment through the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
through a formal ESG materiality assessment that we standard and the Task Force on Climate-related
have updated periodically since 2015. In each of these Financial Disclosures framework because we believe
assessments, we considered inputs such as corporate these disclosures represent some of the most
strategic choices, risks and opportunities, emerging meaningful ESG areas of focus for our strategy, our
and existing regulations, ESG reporting frameworks, company’s social and environmental impact and the
ESG raters and peer ESG efforts. We then developed a interests of Clorox’s stakeholders. We also continue
prioritized list of topics and conducted interviews with to report on progress against the United Nations’
internal and external stakeholders to understand their Sustainable Development Goals using a principled
perspectives and validate our findings. We use their prioritization process to select those goals that reflect
input to refine our list, resulting in a prioritization of ESG the findings of our recent materiality assessment and
topics. Finally, we reference these findings against our that present our greatest risks. Clorox’s CEO, CFO and
existing ESG priorities to understand if any adjustments executive vice president — chief legal officer and
to our work are necessary. We are in the process of corporate secretary approve our integrated report,
refreshing our ESG materiality — which was last updated which includes priority sustainability reporting.
in 2021 — and expect to share results in the upcoming
In the tables on the next pages, we provide links to
fiscal year. As stakeholder priorities continue to evolve,
reporting platforms that contain more information on
we’re committed to ongoing dialogue and will remain
our ESG initiatives such as our responses to the CDP
anchored to our IGNITE strategy to ensure we’re
questionnaire, the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil,
focusing on the areas that will generate the most
The Clorox Company website and our ESG Data Hub.
meaningful outcomes.
For more information on our ESG materiality process
and stakeholder engagement approach, visit
thecloroxcompany.com.
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 39
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Performance Notes Value Creation Materiality Progress Snapshot SASB TCFD UN SDGs
FY24
ESG PROGRESS SNAPSHOT
PROGRESS KEY
Achieved: Met IGNITE goal On track: Meeting internal milestones to achieve goal
Achieved/ongoing: Previously met IGNITE goal; commitment In progress: Taking action to achieve goal or set targets;
to continue meeting same goal annually through 2030 however, internal milestones have not yet been met
HEALTHY LIVES
PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL
IGNITE ESG GOAL/TARGET (metrics are global and as of June 30, STATUS PROGRESS
INFORMATION
2024, unless stated otherwise)
Employee well-being: Maintain Achieved <1.0 RIR every Achieved/
our recordable incident rate of year since goal was ongoing
<1.0 with a comprehensive safety announced. In FY24, RIR
management effort striving for an was 0.47
injury-free workplaceD1 Overview: Employee rights,
safety & well-being
Employee well-being: Enhance Composite score of On track
health and well-being outcomes 32% which exceeds FY24 updates: See pages 12, 13
as measured by employee UnitedHealthcare’s
utilization of preventive health CPG benchmark of 26%
screenings, with an aspirational as of CY23
composite target of 33%D2
Product stewardship — 66% increase in sales of In
Transparency: Increase sales products with targeted progress
of products with targeted certifications and product
certifications and product affiliations as of CY23
transparency affiliations for
domestic cleaning product
portfolio 100% by 2025 vs.
2020 baseline
Product stewardship — Achieved 2025 interim On track
Ingredient management: target to improve score
Improve Chemical Footprint by 35% as of CY23
Project survey score for our Overview: What we’re made of,
domestic cleaning portfolio 50%
by 2030 with an interim target of Ingredient management,
35% by 2025 vs. 2020 baselineD3 Animal welfare
Product stewardship — Product Continued our On track FY24 updates: See page 16
advocacy: Collaborate with partnership with research
key stakeholders to advance organizations, government
the science behind alternative entities and peers to
approaches to animal testing. advance the acceptance
Our vision for our industry is to of non-animal alternatives
eliminate such animal testing to fulfill U.S. EPA acute
requirements for disinfecting toxicity data requirements
products by the U.S. Environmental for antimicrobials; four of
Protection Agency and replace six non-animal methods
animal testing with non-animal are currently fully or
alternatives conditionally accepted for
most Clorox formulations
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 40
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Performance Notes Value Creation Materiality Progress Snapshot SASB TCFD UN SDGs
CLEAN WORLD
PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL
GOAL/TARGET (metrics as of December 31, 2023, STATUS PROGRESS
INFORMATION
unless stated otherwise)
50% combined reduction in virgin 9% reduction (19% toward In
plastic and fiber packaging by 50% goal) progress
2030, per case of product sold vs.
2018 baselineD4
100% recyclable, reusable or 89% of packaging is In
compostable packaging by 2025D5 recyclable, reusable progress
or compostable Overview: Reducing plastic
and other waste
Double post-consumer recycled 10% of plastic used in In
CY23 updates:
plastic in packaging by 2030 (+50% packaging is PCR progress
See pages 6, 7, 9-11
by 2025) vs. 11% 2018 baseline
100% global facilities zero waste to 79% of plants, 51% of In Plants
landfill by 2030 (plants by 2025)D6 facilities are ZWtL, as progress
of FY24
Facilities
Achieve science-based targets by 64% reduction in Achieved/
2030 vs. a 2020 baseline:D7 scopes 1 and 2 emissions, ongoing
achieving our target
• 50% scopes 1 and 2 target
Overview: Reducing
• 25% scope 3 target for 13% reduction in In greenhouse gas emissions
purchased goods and services targeted scope 3 progress CY23 updates: See pages 6, 18
and use of sold products emissions for purchased
Achieve net-zero emissions goods and services and
by 2050 use of sold products
100% electricity from renewable 100% ; achieved our target Achieved/
energy in the U.S. and CanadaD8 ongoing
Committed to continue Overview: Energy
sourcing 100% renewable
CY23 updates: See page 6
electricity for U.S. and
Canadian operations
THRIVING COMMUNITIES
PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL
IGNITE ESG GOAL/TARGET (metrics are global and as of June 30, STATUS PROGRESS
INFORMATION
2024, unless stated otherwise)
Employees: Ensure pay equity Achieved pay equity for Achieved/
across gender globally and races/ gender globally and for ongoing
ethnicities in the U.S.D9 race/ethnicity in the U.S.
based on our annual
pay equity analysis
for nonproduction
teammates after making
salary adjustments Overview: IDEA — a leadership
commitment to our
Employees: Achieve our inclusion Commitment to continue Women: teammates
index goals: parity across total annually measuring Achieved/ FY24 updates: See pages 12, 14
company, women, people of colorD11 and publicly reporting ongoing
inclusion scores for three
employee groups: POC:
On track
• Women (Global): 77%
• POC (U.S.): 74%
• Total Clorox (Global): 76%
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 41
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Performance Notes Value Creation Materiality Progress Snapshot SASB TCFD UN SDGs
ESG REPORTING
SASB: HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL PRODUCTS STANDARDD16
SASB
TOPIC SASB ACCOUNTING METRIC REFERENCE LOCATION OR RESPONSE
CODE
Water Management Total water withdrawn and percentage CG-HP-140a.1 2,860 thousand cubic meters
in regions with High or Extremely High (megaliters) in CY23
Baseline Water Stress
27% withdrawn from regions with
high or extremely high baseline
water stress in CY23
See CDP Report Section 9
Description of water management CG-HP-140a.2 See CDP Report Section 3
risks and discussion of strategies and
See Clorox website: Clean
practices to mitigate those risks
World — Water
Product Environmental, Health Discussion of process to identify and CG-HP-250a.3 See Clorox website: Brands — What
and Safety Performance manage emerging materials and We’re Made Of
chemicals of concern
Packaging Lifecycle Percentage of packaging made from CG-HP-410a.1 64% of primary and secondary
Management recycled and/or renewable materials packaging is made from recycled or
renewable materials in CY23 D5
Percentage that is recyclable,
reusable, and/or compostable 89% of primary packaging is
recyclable, reusable and/or
compostable in CY23 ✪ D5
See Clorox website: Reducing plastic
& other waste
Discussion of strategies to reduce the CG-HP-410a.2 See Clorox website: Reducing plastic
environmental impact of packaging & other waste
throughout its lifecycle
Environmental and Amount of palm oil sourced, CG-HP-430a.1 2,921 metric tons of palm oil and
Social Impacts of percentage certified through the palm derivative ingredients (palm
Palm Oil Supply Chain Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil content only) Clorox purchased
(RSPO) supply chains as for its domestic and international
(a) Identity Preserved, businesses in CY23.
(b) Segregated,
10% of palm oil and palm derivative
(c) Mass Balance, or
ingredients (palm content only)
(d) Book & Claim
purchased has been third-party
certified through the RSPO supply
chains in CY23. 99% is certified
through the RSPO as mass balance.
See RSPO Annual Communication
of Progress; Clorox website: Palm Oil
Commitments
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 42
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Performance Notes Value Creation Materiality Progress Snapshot SASB TCFD UN SDGs
SASB: HOUSEHOLD AND PERSONAL PRODUCTS STANDARDD16 (continued)
SASB
TOPIC SASB ACCOUNTING METRIC REFERENCE LOCATION OR RESPONSE
CODE
Energy Management Total energy consumed, CG-BF-130a.1 687,341 global absolute megawatt
percentage renewable hours in CY23, of which 50% is
renewable in CY23.
Achieved goal for 100% renewable
electricity in the U.S. and Canada
beginning in January 2021, four years
ahead of the original target year. Two
virtual power purchase agreements
are estimated to fully support this
goal beginning in January 2023. ✪ D8
See CDP Report Section 7; Clorox
website: Energy
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Gross global scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions FB-AG-110a.1 Scopes 1 and 2 (market-based
method): 93,392 absolute metric
tons carbon dioxide equivalent
(tCO2e) in CY23 D7
Scope 3: 3,111,421 absolute metric
tons CO2e in CY23
Scope 3: Combined categories 4,
U.S. finished goods distribution, and 6,
employee business travel: 260,583
absolute metric tons CO2e in CY23 D7
Combined categories 1, purchased
goods and services, and 11, consumer
use: 2,264,585 tCO2e in CY23 D7
See CDP Report Section 7;
Clorox website: Reducing greenhouse
gas emissions; Climate Action Plan
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Discussion of long- and short-term FB-AG-110a.2 See CDP Report Section 7; Clorox
Management strategy or plan to manage emissions, website: Reducing greenhouse
emissions reduction targets, and an gas emissions
analysis of performance against
those targets
Employee Engagement Employee engagement as TC-IM-330a.2 82% as of June 30, 2024 D11
a percentage
See Clorox website: Empowering our
teammates to thrive
Activity Metric Number of manufacturing facilities CG-HP-000.B 33 as of June 30, 2024 D15
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 43
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Performance Notes Value Creation Materiality Progress Snapshot SASB TCFD UN SDGs
ESG REPORTING
TCFD FRAMEWORK
CORE TCFD
THE CLOROX COMPANY DISCLOSURE
ELEMENT DISCLOSURE
Governance Board oversight The full board of directors oversees matters related to environmental, social and governance
of climate- issues (including climate change and environmental sustainability policies, programs, goals
related risks and and progress), as well as targets, standards and other metrics used to measure and track
opportunities ESG performance and progress. The board participates in regular (at least annual) updates
on ESG topics, including climate, and as part of its enterprise risk management oversight role,
oversees the company’s climate-related risks, which have been identified as important external
risk factors for the company through the ERM process. See Clorox’s Fiscal Year 2024 Proxy
Statements and Financial Statements for additional details.
Pursuant to its charter, the Nominating, Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee of the
board, comprised exclusively of independent directors, supports the board in reviewing, monitoring
and engaging management — typically quarterly — on the development of climate change and
environmental policies, programs, goals and progress, and regularly reviewing such matters with
the board.
See CDP Report section 4
Management’s The company’s executive vice president — chief legal officer and corporate secretary chairs the ESG
role in assessing Executive Committee which includes Clorox’s executive vice president, chief people and corporate
and managing affairs officer; executive vice president and group president — Health & Hygiene; and executive vice
climate-related president and group president — Care & Connection. The ESG Executive Committee is responsible
risks and for overseeing the execution of our ESG priorities and ensuring our business strategy considers and
opportunities optimizes our ESG priorities, including our climate goals. The ESG Executive Committee is tasked
with helping to develop and recommend climate ambitions to the CEO, as well as overseeing and
assessing progress against the climate goals. The executive vice president — chief legal officer and
corporate secretary, as chair of the ESG Executive Committee, along with the vice president and
chief sustainability officer, reports quarterly to the NGCRC and annually to the board.
See CDP Report section 4
Strategy Climate-related Clorox identifies climate-related risks and opportunities across its products, operations, and supply
risks and chain. These are disclosed as part of our annual CDP reporting. The primary risks and opportunities
opportunities associated with climate change that the company is exposed to and manages include:
• Physical risks associated with extreme weather conditions or water stress due to climate change
impacting our business operations, disrupting our supply chain, limiting our access to water, or
impacting commodity, operational and distribution costs: short-term (1-2 years). The estimated
financial impact to Clorox from a weather event could potentially be in the range of less than
one million dollars to tens of millions of dollars. The lower-end financial impact is based on
a short-term disruptive weather event and includes cost estimates for testing alternate raw
materials and for material pre-build and other logistics costs to ensure supply and continued
operation. The higher-end financial impact is based on a major weather event that causes
a long-term (three- to four-quarter) disruption to the supply of a major commodity used at
multiple manufacturing locations. To mitigate these risks, we have business continuity plans
for most locations and all critical functions. Using learnings from recent hurricanes, we have
enhanced contingency plans to ensure both work-in-process and finished goods inventories are
adequate leading into hurricane season. We also established systems to incorporate hurricane
contingency planning into our supply planning and forecasting processes.
• Transition risks associated with policy and regulations that increase the pricing on greenhouse
gas emissions: medium-term (2-5 years). The estimated financial impact to Clorox from such
regulations could potentially be in the range of $10,000 to $200,000 per year. These estimates
are based on our current emissions in countries where regulations currently exist, thus having
the potential to impact our business in the future. To mitigate these risks, we are focusing on
reducing our GHG emissions as part of our commitment to achieving science-based targets by
2030 and net-zero emissions by 2050.
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 44
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Performance Notes Value Creation Materiality Progress Snapshot SASB TCFD UN SDGs
TCFD FRAMEWORK (continued)
CORE TCFD
THE CLOROX COMPANY DISCLOSURE
ELEMENT DISCLOSURE
Strategy Climate-related • Transition risks associated with extended producer responsibility policies and regulations that
(cont.) risks and make producers responsible for the collection, recycling and safe disposal of products after use:
opportunities medium-term (2-5 years). The estimated financial impact to Clorox from such regulations could
(cont.) potentially be in the range of $2 million to $5 million per year in the medium term; $15 million
to $20 million in the longer term if regulations are expanded to more markets. These programs
often include fees or taxes paid by manufacturers or importers to fund recycling and waste
management initiatives, with emerging regulations focused heavily on plastic packaging. The
financial impact to Clorox is estimated based on potential fees charged to the company for selling
packaging, including those made with virgin plastic, a significant contributor to GHG emissions, in
the medium-term. To mitigate these risks, we are focusing on reducing our use of virgin plastics as
part of our commitment to achieving SBTs by 2030 and net-zero emissions by 2050.
• Transition risks (medium-term, [2-5 years]) and opportunities (long-term, [5-10 years]) associated
with shifts in market preferences as consumers seek products and services from companies that
are proactively working to reduce climate change-related impacts and offering less carbon-
intensive products. Risks include that the company’s innovation cycle may not keep up with
consumers’ growing demand for products with lower environmental footprints; that the consumer
value equation may change with new necessary consumption models (e.g., refills and concentrates
may lead to trade-downs or slimmer margins due to decreased convenience or consumer
expectations); and that material costs may increase as consumer preferences for sustainably
sourced materials, such as forest commodities and postconsumer recycled resin (whose low
availability is a short- and long-term risk), increase. The estimated financial impact to Clorox to
make substantial increases (around 50%) to our PCR content in plastic packaging plus the cost
to procure 100% Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO)-certified palm oil could potentially be
$3.5 million to $7 million per year. Opportunities include climate change related awareness and
concern for the environment driving long-term demand and creating and expanding opportunities
for sustainable products, as well as related product improvements resulting in further cost savings,
mostly from decreased product and packaging material used. While we are not able to assign a
financial impact, our 2023 proxy statement noted that the company’s long-term financial goals
reflected in IGNITE include annual net sales growth of 3% to 5%.
• Transition opportunities associated with reduced operating and product costs resulting
from resource efficiency improvements through LED lighting, HVAC, compressor and other
manufacturing equipment upgrades, as well as zero-waste-to-landfill program expansion,
transportation/logistics improvements and reductions in energy use, water use, waste and
material use as a result of product and packaging innovation: medium term (2-5 years). The
estimated financial impact to Clorox could potentially be $50,000 to over $1,000,000 per year.
To capture these opportunities, we have set environmental goals that incorporate resource and
material efficiencies in our operations and packaging, and we have a robust enterprise-wide
cost reduction program that delivers annual cost savings through efficiency improvements that,
in certain instances, also reduce our environmental footprint.
See CDP Report section 3
Impact of Climate risks and opportunities that might impact our business strategy and financial
climate planning include:
risks and
• Consumer demand for products with lower environmental footprints growing faster than we
opportunities
have allowed for in our innovation investment planning. This is both an opportunity for greater
on businesses,
brand value and sales of products with lower environmental impact such as our concentrated
strategy and
bleach and refillable sprays cartridges, as well as a risk if we are unable to meet demand. That
financial
risk could entail major investment in manufacturing equipment to process and package more
planning
sustainable products, resulting in a low-to-medium impact on capital expenditures over the
next 5 to 10 years as our current manufacturing capabilities may not support the processing
and packaging requirements of these innovations.
• Acceleration of infectious disease and pandemics associated with warmer climates, water-borne
illness, the potential release of long-dormant viruses by the thawing of permafrost and shifts in
the proximity of animals and other sources of diseases with concentrated human populations
increasing global demand for disinfecting products and solutions in consumer and business-to-
business markets. This is both an opportunity, given our leadership in disinfection, and a risk if we
cannot meet demand or sufficiently innovate to meet particular consumer needs.
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 45
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Performance Notes Value Creation Materiality Progress Snapshot SASB TCFD UN SDGs
TCFD FRAMEWORK (continued)
CORE TCFD
THE CLOROX COMPANY DISCLOSURE
ELEMENT DISCLOSURE
Strategy Impact of • Low carbon energy sources and material supply chains that cannot keep up with growing
(cont.) climate industry demand (e.g., for RSPO-certified palm products, postconsumer resin for packaging and
risks and renewable energy to power raw material supply chains). This risk may drive up costs or limit our
opportunities ability to meet our environmental commitments or bring sustainable innovation to market.
on businesses,
• More frequent and extreme weather events causing supply chain disruption and leading to
strategy and
health and sanitation issues due to flooding and property damage. This is a risk given the
financial
potential impact on supply chains (e.g., historical hurricane-related impacts), which is projected
planning (cont.)
to require increased capital expenditures for securing additional production and warehouse
storage capacity over the next 10 to 15 years. It is also an opportunity with the potential to
increase demand for our disinfection and other household products.
• More severe and geographically dispersed water stress causing supply chain disruption.
• Adoption of climate change regulation that might increase our operating costs as described above.
• Emerging U.S. extended producer responsibility regulations that may help enable or may
conflict with our climate goals, depending on how the laws are defined, while increasing our
operating costs.
• Certain investors may choose not to invest in our stock if we do not meet their environmental
expectations or their preferences for how to balance near- and long-term costs and benefits,
which could negatively impact our share price. Conversely, proactively addressing such
investors’ interests may be an opportunity to increase investor demand for our stock, and our
share price could be positively impacted.
See CDP Report section 5
Scenario Clorox anticipates performing scenario analysis in the future that considers a range of warming
planning scenarios (e.g., at least 2° and 4°C) to better quantify the possible financial and operational
impacts of these risks and opportunities, which will help us improve our climate strategy and
future TCFD disclosures.
See CDP Report section 5
Risk Process for Clorox has established and continues to maintain a robust, comprehensive ERM program. Our
Management identifying and strong governance practices help drive continued improvement of established processes. The
managing ERM Steering Committee oversees the global program subject to oversight by the board. The
climate risks steering committee is made up of the following: executive vice president — chief legal officer and
corporate secretary (executive co-sponsor for ERM); executive vice president and chief financial
officer (executive co-sponsor for ERM); executive vice president and group president — Care &
Connection; and executive vice president and group president — Health & Hygiene. The steering
committee proactively identifies, assesses, prioritizes and continuously manages enterprisewide
risks, including ESG and climate change risks among other top enterprise risks. A supplementary
ERM working group provides additional cross- functional support and expertise to key ERM
initiatives and other programs which support the operationalizing of ERM within the company.
Our dedicated climate team, comprised of sustainability experts, plays a central role in
identifying climate-related risks. This team collaborates with external consultants and industry
experts to stay abreast of and prioritize emerging trends, regulatory changes, and technological
advancements. Their expertise helps raise awareness of and prepare for both current and future
climate-related risks.
Defining and prioritizing substantive Clorox risks is core to the ERM program and our annual
enterprise risk assessment. Clorox uses both quantitative and qualitative information to define
the likelihood and potential impact of risks. For example:
• Quantitative definitions include percentage of earnings before income taxes and volatility
of Clorox’s share price. Given that businesses are not static and can experience growth and
contractions, we chose to use a percentage of earnings to identify substantive financial and
strategic risks.
• Qualitative definitions address topics such as reputation/brand equity and customer and
consumer impacts.
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 46
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Performance Notes Value Creation Materiality Progress Snapshot SASB TCFD UN SDGs
TCFD FRAMEWORK (continued)
CORE TCFD
THE CLOROX COMPANY DISCLOSURE
ELEMENT DISCLOSURE
Risk Process for Based on these definitions, we rate potential risk impacts from very low to very high. A substantive
Management identifying and risk is one where the impact is medium to very high across a number of criteria and, if that risk
(cont.) managing were to materialize, may disrupt our ability to operate our business.
climate risks
Climate change is an important external risk factor identified by the company. While the time
(cont.)
horizon (i.e., decades) may be longer than other risks, climate change remains an enterprise risk
due to the degree to potentially impact the organization and our operations.
Further, we understand that climate change risks can impact the entire organization over a
longer- term horizon, and we act on those risks whether they are considered currently “substantive”
or not. Therefore, we advance climate stewardship goals to mitigate climate-related risks and
address climate change as part of our overall management strategy. At the corporate level, we
identify potential physical, regulatory, reputational, changing consumer trends/awareness and
other risk factors associated with climate change (e.g., GHG emissions, energy consumption and
water consumption) that might not rise to the level of substantive risk. This is accomplished within
the cross-functional ESG steering team and engagement by various internal stakeholders, business
units and functional teams as appropriate. This approach helps us proactively manage and
mitigate the many aspects of our climate-related risks.
See CDP Report section 2
Integration of As described above, climate risk is integrated into Clorox’s ERM process. To mitigate the risks
climate risk associated with climate change, Clorox has identified climate stewardship as a key ESG priority
management integrated into the company’s IGNITE business strategy, building on the progress we have achieved
into company’s in reducing the carbon footprint of our operations and products for over 10 years..
overall risk
Through IGNITE, Clorox has committed to taking science-based climate action across our value
management
chain. Actions include innovations to reduce the material, water, and transportation footprints of
our products, renewable energy procurement, and engagement with our supply chain based on life
cycle analyses. These analyses help us identify and address upstream carbon and water footprints,
as well as impacts during product use and at end-of-life. For example, life cycle assessments
inform the design of new products and packaging, balancing sustainability trade-offs such as the
choice between plastic that is often lighter weight to ship and requires less energy to produce than
glass or metal but has different recyclability and end-of-life considerations.
The ESG steering team, composed of owners and subject matter experts from product stewardship,
R&D, procurement, corporate governance, government affairs, and climate/water/energy lead
provides strategic leadership and expertise, overseeing the measurement, tracking, and progress
of our ESG goals, including those related to climate. The team is led by the vice president and chief
sustainability officer and reports to the ESG executive committee, chaired by the executive vice
president — chief legal officer and corporate secretary.
The presence of the ESG steering team and executive oversight enables us to drive accountability
and integrate all aspects of ESG into our business decisions. This structure enhances our ability to
impactfully address climate risks and ensures consistent and clear messaging to stakeholders,
including customers, suppliers, investors, and employees. By representing various teams and
formalizing connections to business units, the ESG steering team supports the advancement of
our ESG goals and commitments.
Additionally, the ESG steering team is supported by specialized subcommittees with expertise in
climate, energy, plastics, and R&D. These support teams provide valuable insights and
recommendations, further strengthening our climate risk management and ensuring that our
strategies are effectively implemented across the company.
See CDP Report section 4
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 47
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Performance Notes Value Creation Materiality Progress Snapshot SASB TCFD UN SDGs
TCFD FRAMEWORK (continued)
CORE TCFD
THE CLOROX COMPANY DISCLOSURE
ELEMENT DISCLOSURE
Metrics and Metrics used to We track, manage and disclose our performance in several areas related to climate risk, including
Targets address climate GHG emissions, GHG emissions intensity, energy consumption, energy intensity, water withdrawn,
risks and water intensity and water withdrawn from areas of high baseline water stress.
opportunities
GHG emissions were estimated in accordance with The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate
Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition), Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2 Guidance,
and Greenhouse Gas Protocol Technical Guidance for Calculating Scope 3 Emissions.
See CDP Report section 7; Clorox website: Taking Climate Action
Scope 1, 2 and 3 • Scope 1: 65,504 metric tons of CO2e for CY23 and 75,164 for CY20, our baseline year.
GHG emissions D7
• Scope 2 (Market Based): 27,888 metric tons of CO2e for CY23 and 184,379 for CY20.
• Scope 3: 3,111,421 metric tons CO2e for CY23 and 3,765,938 for CY20.
All relevant Scope 3 categories for current year and baseline year:
• Scope 3 category 1: 1,987,757 metric tons CO2e for CY23 and 2,174,083 for CY20
• Scope 3 category 2: 38,127 metric tons CO2e for CY23 and 53,962 for CY20
• Scope 3 category 3: 24,158 metric tons CO2e for CY23 and 49,889 for CY20
• Scope 3 category 4: 371,044 metric tons CO2e for CY23 and 562,074 for CY20
• Scope 3 category 5: 7,473 metric tons CO2e for CY23 and 8,754 for CY20
• Scope 3 category 6: 5,726 metric tons CO2e for CY23 and 1,406 for CY20
• Scope 3 category 7: 14,148 metric tons CO2e for CY23 and 12,054 for CY20
• Scope 3 category 8: 4,838 metric tons CO2e for CY23 and 5,088 for CY20
• Scope 3 category 9: 106,589 metric tons CO2e for CY23 and 168,912 for CY20
• Scope 3 category 11: 276,828 metric tons CO2e for CY23 and 434,804 for CY20
• Scope 3 category 12 (direct): 274,733 metric tons CO2e for CY23 and 294,912 for CY20
See FY24 Integrated Annual Report, IGNITE ESG progress snapshot, pages 40-41;
See CDP Report section 7; Clorox website: Taking Climate Action; ESG Data Hub
GHG emissions Achieve SBTs for scopes 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions by 2030. Committed to net-zero GHG emissions
targets D7, D8 by 2050: ✪
• Scopes 1 and 2: 50% absolute reduction by 2030 vs. 2020 base year. This target is consistent with
reductions required to keep warming to 1.5°C. We achieved a 64% reduction in 2023 relative to
our 2020 baseline as a result of achieving 100% renewable electricity for our U.S. and Canada
locations plus a full year of renewable electricity at our Colombia location.
• Scope 3: 25% absolute reduction by 2030 vs. 2020 base year in category 1 — purchased goods
and services and category 11 — use of sold products (direct). We achieved a 13% reduction in
category 1 and category 11 in 2023 relative to our 2020 baseline, primarily driven by business
contraction as the business normalized from the COVID-19 pandemic.
• Net-zero emissions across scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 2050.
See FY24 Integrated Annual Report, IGNITE ESG progress snapshot, pages 40-41; CDP Report section 7;
Clorox website: Taking Climate Action
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 48
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Performance Notes Value Creation Materiality Progress Snapshot SASB TCFD UN SDGs
TCFD FRAMEWORK (continued)
CORE TCFD
THE CLOROX COMPANY DISCLOSURE
ELEMENT DISCLOSURE
Metrics and Energy 687,341 megawatt hours for CY23, 703,893 megawatt hours for CY22 and 730,098 megawatt hours
Targets consumption D8 for CY21.
(cont.)
See CDP Report section 7; Clorox website: Energy; ESG Data Hub
Energy targets D8 100% electricity from renewable energy in U.S. and Canada in 2023.
• Renewable energy goal was first achieved in January 2021 and is expected to be maintained
going forward. As of CY23, the goal is fully met through two VPPAs, supporting the expansion of
renewable energy infrastructure in the U.S.
Drive continued energy efficiency improvements that achieve or exceed our 2018 baseline levels.
• 5% less energy use per case of product sold in CY23 vs. CY18 base year.
See FY24 Integrated Annual Report, IGNITE ESG progress snapshot, pages 40-41; CDP Report section 7;
Clorox website: Energy
Water 2,860 thousand cubic meters (megaliters) of water withdrawn for CY23, 2,922 megaliters for CY22
consumption and 3,136 megaliters for CY21. Clorox reports water consumed as water withdrawn. 784 megaliters
withdrawn from regions with high or extremely high baseline water stress in CY23. We utilized Water
Resource Institute’s Aqueduct tool to assess our facilities for baseline water stress (source: WRI
Aquduct v4.0 accessed in July 2024).
See CDP Report section 9; Clorox website: Water; ESG Data Hub
Water targets Drive continued water efficiency improvements that achieve or exceed our 2018 baseline levels.
• 10% less water use per case of product sold in CY23 vs. CY18 base year.
Advance a more localized approach to water stewardship in high or extremely high baseline water
stress areas.
• In 2023, 20 Clorox facilities were located in high to extremely high baseline water stress areas,
based on World Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Tool, accessed in July 2024. The number of
locations increased by 9 over 2022, primarily as a result of updated input data sets in Aqueduct
version 4.0. Twelve of the locations are manufacturing facilities, seven of which represented 92%
of Clorox’s water use in those areas. Four of those locations are implementing localized water
action plans which include assessing plant water use and implementing opportunities to be
more efficient. For example, last year our Quilicura, Chile plant received a Blue Water Certificate
from the Agency for Sustainable Climate Change, a voluntary certification which promotes the
sustainable management of water resources in Chile.
See CDP Report section 9
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 49
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Performance Notes Value Creation Materiality Progress Snapshot SASB TCFD UN SDGs
ESG REPORTING
UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
We report on progress against the UN SDGs using a principled prioritization process to select those goals that reflect the
findings of our recent materiality assessment and that present our greatest risks and opportunities to solve the world’s most
significant challenges.
✪
IGNITE GOAL. For a comprehensive update on our IGNITE ESG goals, metrics and endnotes, see pages 40-41 and 53-54.
Visit our ESG Data Hub at https://clorox.metrio.net to view progress over time.
Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being — Ensure Healthy Lives and Promote Well-Being for All at All Ages
TARGETS AND ACTIONS FY24 OUTCOMES AND IMPACTS
Good health and well-being is embedded in our purpose • Donated $43.3 million in products to help with disaster-
to champion people to be well and thrive every single day, relief efforts and to support schools, food banks and other
including the consumers, employees and communities we nonprofit organizations that serve communities in need.
serve around the world. We advance this purpose through the
• Expanded Brita municipality program to over 180+ partnerships
strength of our brand portfolio that has contributed to public
across the U.S., helping cities with lead in their drinking water
health for over a century: through products that kill germs,
provide their communities with safe and lead-free water
clean water and enhance nutrition.
using Elite filters while they await the extensive infrastructure
We also collaborate with organizations to support public replacement scheduled to take place over the next 15+ years.
health, infection prevention and access to cleaner water.
• Achieved composite score of 32% for employee utilization
Through our foundations and brands, we support those
of preventive health screenings, exceeding consumer
impacted by pandemics, hurricanes, earthquakes and other
packaged goods benchmark of 26%. D2
natural disasters.
For our employees, we offer physical and mental health
benefits that can be tailored to diverse life paths and needs,
including inclusive family-forming benefits, supplemental
health benefits for additional financial protection and our
global employee assistance program. In FY24, we advanced
our educational campaign in the U.S. to increase the use
of preventive screenings and help our employees and their
families prioritize preventive care by getting annual wellness
visits, and completing routine screenings — all of which we
expect will contribute to improved health outcomes.
See FY24 Integrated Annual Report; Clorox website: Consumer Health & Well-being, Employee Safety & Well-being; The Clorox
Company Foundation
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 50
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Performance Notes Value Creation Materiality Progress Snapshot SASB TCFD UN SDGs
UN SDGs (continued)
Goal 10: Reduced Inequalities — Reduce Inequality Within and Among Countries
TARGETS AND ACTIONS FY24 OUTCOMES AND IMPACTS
Clorox values and promotes equal employment opportunity and Representation:
inclusion and does not tolerate discrimination, intimidation or
• Clorox was led by a woman, Linda Rendle, who assumed
harassment among employees or business partners, consistent
the role of CEO in 2020 and Chair of the Board in 2024.
with the United Nations Global Compact Principles on Human
Rights. These expectations are outlined in our Codes of Conduct • Women represented 50% and people of color 25% of
and other policies and must be adhered to by all our employees our board.
and those who do business with us.
• Two of our board committees are chaired by POC.
To combat the risk of human rights violations in our supply
• 54% of the Clorox Executive Committee were women and
chain, our responsible sourcing program works with business
15% were POC.
partners on key issues such as ethical business conduct and
practices. We use external monitoring systems to enable • POC represented 24% of senior executives and 35% of
suppliers to demonstrate compliance, and we engage third managers in the U.S. Women represented 48% of senior
parties to audit higher-risk suppliers. We have also established executives and 50% of managers globally.
formal trainings to help identify and address potential risks of
Percentage of employees experiencing Clorox as an
slavery and human trafficking in our supply chain. We have
inclusive workplace: D11
grievance mechanisms available, including Clorox’s compliance
hotline, to ensure that individuals have a forum to raise concerns • Women (Global): 77%
about compliance with the expectations set out in our codes of
• POC (U.S.): 74%
conduct. Any significant issues raised via the anonymous hotline
are shared with our board of directors. • Total Clorox (Global): 76%
We believe diverse backgrounds and perspectives create Additional:
stronger teams, unlock more innovation and ultimately
• We embedded more robust environmental and social
contribute to a stronger society. Our chief diversity and social
sustainability criteria into our supplier relationship
impact officer leads our work to advance inclusion, diversity,
management practices, supplier scorecards and contracts
equity and allyship at Clorox. This year, we accelerated this
with priority suppliers to further support adherence to the
work through programming that ensures each employee can
principles set forth in our Business Partner Code of Conduct.
play an active role in shaping a culture of allyship. We also
executed our second year of our IDEAcon event and other • Achieved pay equity for nonproduction teammates for gender
enterprise-wide programming to further integrate IDEA into globally and for race and ethnicity in the U.S.
our businesses and functions. And we continued to advance • Burt’s Bees Shea Collection’s latest products reinforce
our public pay equity and inclusion goals. the brand’s purpose by raising up women in the sourcing
Our commitments extend to the communities where Clorox communities of West Africa.
employees live and work to help foster healthy and inclusive • Offered seven mentoring programs to develop our talent —
communities where everyone has equal opportunity to enrolling 1,091 employees — for general and more specialized
thrive. Through The Clorox Company Foundation, we focus audiences, including a group program designed for both our
on advancing health security, targeting initiatives that new-in-career and woman-focused employee resource
support equal opportunities for marginalized individuals group members.
and communities.
• Helped drive inclusion through 13 ERGs within Clorox and
fostered greater understanding of different backgrounds
and perspectives.
• Matched donations through The Clorox Company Foundation
to 3,950 organizations that are meaningful to employees, many
of which focused on literacy; racial justice; science, technology,
engineering and mathematics, or STEM, education and youth
development in marginalized communities.
See FY24 Integrated Annual Report; Clorox website: Codes of Conduct, Human Rights Commitment, Freedom of Association
Policy, California Transparency in Supply Chains Act disclosure statement, Modern Slavery Act & Transparency Statement;
Empowering our teammates to thrive, Responsible & Sustainable Sourcing
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 51
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
Performance Notes Value Creation Materiality Progress Snapshot SASB TCFD UN SDGs
UN SDGs (continued)
Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and Production — Ensure Sustainable Consumption and Production Patterns
TARGETS AND ACTIONS FY24 OUTCOMES AND IMPACTS
We set ambitious targets to reduce plastic and other waste by • 9% combined virgin plastic and fiber packaging reduction,
2030. These efforts are in conjunction with long-standing efforts per case of product sold vs. 2018 baseline, as of CY23.
to reduce our waste impacts across our value chain, from
• 89% of packaging is recyclable, reusable or compostable, as
sourcing our raw materials to within our own manufacturing
of CY23.
and operations, as well as during consumer use. We are also
focusing on packaging innovations, compaction, light-weighting • 10% of plastic used in packaging is post-consumer resin, as
and other material reductions to reduce inputs and the of CY23.
footprint of products.
• 51% of facilities, 79% of plants are zero waste to landfill as of
As part of our commitment to sustainability, we aim to June 30, 2024.
be transparent about our environmental challenges and
FY24 examples of product launches with more
opportunities in our annual integrated report, which is
sustainable attributes:
approved by Clorox’s CEO, CFO and executive vice president
— chief legal officer and corporate secretary. We are also • A new line of Pine-Sol concentrated Multi-Surface Cleaners
committed to reporting to external organizations that we reduces the amount of water shipped per dose, with the goal
are signatories and members of. And we encourage our of reducing our shipping footprint. The bottles are made with
business partners — through collaborations such as the CDP a minimum of 50% post-consumer recycled plastic.
Supply Chain program — to report on progress on their own • Brita Refillable Filter comes with a reusable plastic shell so
sustainability goals, with a particular focus for select suppliers only the refills — which are themselves made of coconut
on GHG emissions, and sustainably sourced raw materials. husks and can be recycled through Terracycle — get
discarded. This results in an 80% reduction in the consumer’s
plastic usage over three years.
• Burt’s Bees Shea Collection’s latest products reinforce the
brand purpose by advancing financial resiliency and social
opportunities with women in sourcing communities of
West Africa.
• Poett two liter bottles in Mexico are made with a minimum of
30% PCR plastic.
See FY24 Integrated Annual Report; Clorox website: Clean World; Responsible Sourcing
Goal 13: Climate Action — Take Urgent Action to Combat Climate Change and Its Impacts
TARGETS AND ACTIONS FY24 OUTCOMES AND IMPACTS
Goals on climate action are embedded into our IGNITE strategy • Achieved 100% electricity from renewable energy in the U.S.
because addressing climate change is essential to ensuring and Canada. First achieved in 2021.
our long-term success. We have set science-based targets
• Committed to maintaining achievement, using two VPPAs
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in our operations and
as an integral part of the commitment, supporting the
across our value chain by 2030, and to source 100% renewable
expansion of renewable energy infrastructure in the U.S. This
electricity for our U.S. and Canada operations, all in support of
results in a 64% reduction in scope 1 and 2 emissions vs.
our longer-term ambition to achieve net-zero GHG emissions
2020 baseline, achieving our SBT.
by 2050. These efforts build off our long-standing efforts to
reduce GHG and energy impacts within our manufacturing • 13% reduction in scope 3 emissions from category 1,
and operations. We have published a Climate Action Plan that purchased goods and services, and category 11, use of sold
outlines our approach to realizing our scope 3 SBTs. products (direct) vs. 2020 baseline, the scope 3 categories
included in our SBT.
See FY24 Integrated Annual Report; Principles 7-8 in UNGC Communication on Progress; Clorox website: Taking Climate Action;
Clorox Climate Action Plan
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 52
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
ESG ENDNOTES
THROUGHOUT REPORT
D5 Percentage that is recyclable, reusable and/or compostable:
Data has been calculated using the Ellen MacArthur
Reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP. Refer to pages 33-37 for the Foundation’s recyclability assessment tool and Recycling
Review Report and exhibit A: The Clorox Company Schedule Rate Survey. Overall methodology was informed by the
of Selected Quantitative Performance Indicators for the Year Association of Plastic Recyclers Design Guide for Plastics
Ended December 31, 2023, or June 30, 2024. Recyclability. Recyclability reporting is based on CY23 U.S.
and LATAM sales data and is estimated to reflect global
IGNITE ESG goal
results for this metric.
HEALTHY LIVES
D6 Zero waste to landfill: Where infrastructure allows. Clorox’s
criteria includes:
D1 Recordable incident rate: Based on industry benchmarking
by Clorox, we set a goal for RIR of 1.0 or less. Our FY24 RIR of 1) Have a zero-waste approach to minimizing all
0.47 means that for every 100 full-time-equivalent Clorox waste streams;
employees globally we averaged less than one reportable 2) Have processes to reduce, reuse, recycle, compost or
incident during the past year. According to the latest send waste to energy recovery, and;
available data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics,
the average RIR for goods-producing manufacturing 3) Pass a corporate audit, following Clorox guidelines for
companies is 3.2. The criteria used to determine RIR follows our ZWtL program, which was informed by UL Standard
the U.S. Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and 2799, 3rd Edition (03/22/17).
Health Administration guidelines and is applied globally. Metric calculated as a percent to reflect both changes
The RIR does not include workers at offices with fewer than to the number of company-approved ZWtL facilities and
10 employees, but it does include remote workers. changes to the total number of facilities we operate due
D2 E mployee utilization of preventive screenings: Metric is to acquisitions, divestitures and changing facility needs
based on U.S. Clorox employees enrolled in UnitedHealthcare and vendor capabilities to support our business. Locations
medical plans, representing 82% of eligible U.S. employees. where landfill waste diversion infrastructure limits the
Metric is the weighted average across the four individual ability to achieve ZWtL are excluded from this metric unless
screening types. January–December 2023 data was the residual waste impeded by infrastructure limitations
provided by UHC and adjusted based on U.S. Preventive constitutes 5% or less of a site’s total waste. If 5% or less, and
Services Task Force age/gender-appropriate frequency the location meets all remaining ZWtL criteria, it is included
screening guidelines and applicable populations. The in this metric and counted as a ZWtL location. In cases where
consumer packaged goods benchmark of 26% is based inadvertent waste sent to landfill is less than 2% of a site’s
on UHC’s average across 21 consumer packaged goods total waste, but it meets all remaining ZWtL criteria, it is
employers. The target of 33% is based on the expectation to counted as a ZWtL location.
make reasonable, significant, yet realistic improvement over D7 G HG emissions:
actual historical results: 31%, 26%, 29% and 29% from 2019,
• Scope 2 emissions reported using the market-based
2020, 2021 and 2022, respectively.
method are calculated using various environmental
D3 C hemical footprint: Metric is the percentage of the gap attributes from renewable energy credits associated
closed between Clorox’s Chemical Footprint Project 2020 with virtual power purchase agreements, renewable
baseline survey score compared to a perfect CFP survey energy certificates purchased on the open market and
score. Scores are calculated on a calendar year basis. international RECs purchased through an energy service
provider, and RECs purchased on the open market, as
needed. In 2023, these instruments were specific to
CLEAN WORLD
facilities in the U.S., Canada and Colombia.
• Our 2030 science-based targets are focused on scope 3
D4 Packaging: Percentage reduction in virgin plastic and fiber
categories that comprise the largest share of our emissions:
packaging; percentage of packaging made from recycled
category 1, purchased goods and services, and category 11,
and/or renewable materials: Metric is global and includes
use of sold products (direct). In prior goal periods, we
both primary and secondary fiber and plastic packaging.
defined scope 3 to include category 4, U.S. finished goods
Domestic, U.S. export and Latin America packaging is based
distribution, and category 6, employee business travel.
on sales data and includes packaging for all products
Categories are defined by the World Resources Institute
we sell and produce in the U.S. and LATAM, inclusive of
and World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s
contract manufactured packaging from suppliers that
GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting
procure packaging materials on our behalf. AMEA and
and Reporting Standard.
Asia packaging is based on our purchases of packaging
for operations in these regions and excludes some data • We updated our 2020 baseline for some scope 3 categories
for packaging procured by contract manufacturers on our based on methodology enhancements, greater alignment
behalf. AMEA and Asia CY23 data is estimated based on with updated Science Based Target initiative criteria, and
CY18 purchases of packaging, adjusted to account for sales data refinements. The changes will improve the comparability
growth in CY23. to 2023 emissions data and allow for more accurate
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 53
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
reporting against progress toward our SBTs. Intervening authentic self at work. Engagement is defined as the extent
year data were not updated. The 2020 baseline may to which employees have pride in the company, intend to
require future updates, if there are significant structural stay, get intrinsic motivation from their work and would
changes, changes to our methodology, data or guidance, recommend the company as a good place to work. Inclusion
or errors or emissions. index and employee engagement data were measured
through an FY24 experience survey administered by Perceptyx
D8 Energy: Through our first VPPA and other market purchases
between February and March 2024, and 7,451 employees
of RECs, Clorox met our 100% renewable electricity goal
participated. Perceptyx’s Fortune 500 benchmark is comprised
beginning in January 2021, four years ahead of the original
of 99 companies and 8.1 million survey responses from
target date. Our first VPPA for 70 megawatts was executed in
Fortune magazine’s annual Fortune Global 500 list. The
2019 and began producing renewable energy for Clorox
Perceptyx CPG benchmark comprises employee survey
in January 2021. Our second VPPA for 47 MW was executed
results from organizations that produce consumer goods,
in 2022 and began producing renewable energy for Clorox
including results from 80 companies and 2.6 million survey
in January 2023. The two VPPAs are estimated to deliver
responses. Employee inclusion and engagement is based
Clorox’s 100% renewable electricity goal for U.S. and Canadian
upon employees’ self-reporting. To the extent that employees
operations annually, under current VPPA operating scenarios
do not respond to the survey, the data would not be included
and electricity consumption levels.
in the employee engagement calculation.
D12 Product donations: U.S. product donations refer to those
THRIVING COMMUNITIES donations used to aid in disaster relief or to support schools,
food banks and other nonprofit organizations. The value
D9 Pay equity: There are no statistically significant differences is derived from the current-year fair market value of the
(at a confidence level of 95%) in pay by gender globally and products donated. U.S. product donations include donations
race/ethnicity in the U.S., accounting for relevant factors made by the company’s U.S. divisions and are for the fiscal
such as grade level, location and experience. year ended June 30, 2024.
D10 W orkforce representation: Management defines people D13 Spending with diverse suppliers: Metric reflects spending
of color as any race that is not white (Asian, Black, Latino, with diverse suppliers, including minority, women, service-
Native American, Native Hawaiian, or two or more races). disabled and veteran-owned business enterprises as well as
Gender and ethnicity information is provided by employees gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender business owners in
on a voluntary, self-identification basis. To the extent that the U.S. and Puerto Rico.
the employees do not voluntarily report, the data would D14 Employee volunteerism: Calculated on a calendar year
not be included in the diversity calculation. Management’s basis and based on an annual employee volunteer survey
breakdown of job categories and demographic information conducted in January 2024, value is the financial equivalent
provided is as follows: “Senior Executive” is defined as an of number of logged volunteer hours multiplied by the
employee at Grade 32 and above. “Manager” is defined as value of volunteer time in current year, determined by
an employee at grade 26 to 31 for U.S. employees and grade IndependentSector.org.
25 to 31 for international employees. “Other Nonproduction
Employee” is defined as an employee who works at an office
location and is at grade 25 and below for U.S. employees ESG REPORTS
and grade 24 and below for International employees.
“Production Employee” is defined as an employee who works
D15 Global manufacturing plants where we have greater than
at a production location and is at grade 19 or below. Grade
50% operational control.
levels are defined by Clorox’s compensation structure
D16 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board standards used:
D11 I nclusion index and employee engagement: Inclusion index
In addition to reporting against Consumer Goods Sector:
data is expressed as a percentage of employees experiencing
Household and Personal Products Standard, to provide
Clorox as an inclusive workplace. Questions about inclusion
greater transparency to our stakeholders we have included
measured the extent to which employees believe that all
select metrics from other SASB industry standards to align
employees have the opportunity to be successful at Clorox
with the issues that we consider to be priorities to us, based
regardless of diversity characteristics, that their manager
on a 2021 materiality assessment [Food & Beverage:
practices allyship and encourages diverse perspectives, that
Agricultural Products Standards; Consumer Goods:
senior leadership visibly demonstrates that having a diverse
Building Products & Furnishings and Technology and
and inclusive workforce is important for Clorox’s business
Communications industry standards].
success, and that employees believe they can be their
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 54
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
ABOUT THIS REPORT
CURRENT PRIORITIES THIRD-PARTY ESG FRAMEWORKS
The Clorox Company’s integrated annual report This year’s report has been developed in alignment
highlights our financial and ESG performance. Unless with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s
otherwise noted, fiscal year financial performance is Household and Personal Products standard and the Task
presented in accordance with GAAP in the U.S., which Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures framework.
include principles for determining materiality related We also disclose how our priority ESG initiatives support
to financial reporting. For any non-GAAP financial the U.N. Sustainable Development Goals.
information, we have provided reconciliations to the
• SASB’s industry-specific standards aim to help
most comparable GAAP measure starting on page 23.
businesses around the world identify, manage and
The ESG information focuses on performance related
report on the sustainability topics that matter most
to the company’s identified ESG priorities. For purposes
to their investors.
of this reporting, prioritization is based on how much
a topic influences our business success, including • TCFD, assumed by the International Sustainability
alignment with our corporate strategy and purpose; Standard Board, develops consistent climate-related
potential impact on our operations, consumers, financial risks and opportunities disclosures for
business partners and other stakeholders; potential companies to provide information to investors
ESG impacts; and the importance of the topic to our and other stakeholders. The International Financial
stakeholders. Key ESG priorities may include, but are not Reporting Standards Sustainability Disclosure Standards
limited to, topics that could have a significant financial build upon the recommendations of the TCFD.
impact on our company. • The U.N. SDGs, adopted by all U.N. member nations, are
REVIEW OF NONFINANCIAL INFORMATION an ambitious set of 17 interlinked global goals designed
to be a “blueprint to achieve a better and more
We believe voluntary assurance strengthens our sustainable future for all” by 2030.
reporting process and enhances the credibility of our
While Clorox used the ESG reporting frameworks outlined
nonfinancial information. As in past years, we engaged
above for this fiscal year, we continue to evaluate the
a third party to review the following nonfinancial key
evolution of nonfinancial data disclosures.
performance indicators, selected based on their priority
REPORTING PERIOD AND BOUNDARY
to Clorox: certain GHG emissions, renewable electricity
consumption, energy consumption, water consumption,
Most data in this report covers wholly and majority owned
recordable incident rate, employee engagement,
operations for fiscal year July 1, 2023, through June 30,
diverse representation across the company and
2024. Data in this report for environmental sustainability
among senior leadership, U.S. product donations
— excluding ZWtL metrics — and other metrics, as noted,
and percentage of renewable electricity in the U.S.
is for the calendar year period of January 1, 2023, through
and Canada. Items that underwent assurance are
December 31, 2023.
indicated with an throughout the report.
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 55
CEO Purpose & IGNITE Corporate Financial ESG
Message Strategy Progress Governance Performance Reporting
SHAREHOLDER
INFORMATION
STOCK LISTING AND NUMBER OF RECORD HOLDERS
Condition and Results of Operations” sections in the company’s
The Clorox Company’s common stock is listed on the New York annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30,
Stock Exchange, identified by the symbol CLX. As of July 23, 2024, 2024, and subsequent SEC filings for factors that could affect the
the number of record holders of Clorox’s common stock was 8,435. company’s performance and cause results to differ materially from
management’s expectations. The information in this report reflected
management’s estimates, assumptions and projections as of
TRANSFER AGENT, REGISTRAR AND DIVIDEND DISBURSING AGENT
August 8, 2024. Clorox has not made updates since then and makes
Inquiries relating to shareholder records, change of ownership, no representation, express or implied, that the information is still
change of address and the dividend reinvestment/direct stock current or complete. The company is under no obligation to update
purchase plan should be sent to: any part of this document.
COMPUTERSHARE
COMPARATIVE STOCK PERFORMANCE
P.O. Box 43078
Providence, RI 02940-3078 The graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder
return of the Common Stock for the last five fiscal years with
Overnight correspondence should be sent to: the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock
Index and a composite index composed of the Standard & Poor’s
COMPUTERSHARE Household Products Index and the Standard & Poor’s Housewares
& Specialties Index (referred to below as the Peer Group) for a five-
150 Royall Street, Suite 101
year period ending June 30, 2024. The composite index is weighted
Canton, MA 02021
based on market capitalization as of the end of each quarter
877-373-6374 or 781-575-2726
during each of the last five years. The graph lines merely connect
TDD 800-952-9245 or 312-588-4110 the prices on the dates indicated and do not reflect fluctuations
for the hearing impaired between those dates.
computershare.com/investor
COMPARISON OF FIVE-YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SERVICE Among The Clorox Company, the S&P 500 Index and Peer Group
The latest company news is available at TheCloroxCompany.com.
$200
DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT/DIRECT STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
Clorox has authorized Computershare to offer a dividend
reinvestment/direct stock purchase plan. Registered shareholders
can purchase additional shares. Nonshareholders may join the plan $150
with an initial investment, lump sum or bank debit. Most fees are
paid by Clorox.
For more information or plan materials, visit thecloroxcompany. $100
com>Investors>Investor Resources>Direct Stock Purchase Plan or
contact Computershare.
$50
MANAGEMENT REPORT ON INTERNAL 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
Clorox management, under the supervision and with the participation The Clorox Company S&P 500 Peer Group
of the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, has assessed
the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of June 30, 2024, and concluded that it is effective. For * $100 invested on 6/30/19 in stock or index, including reinvestment of
more information, see Item 9.A. of the company’s Form 10-K for the dividends. Fiscal year ending June 30.
fiscal year ended June 30, 2024. © 2024 Standard & Poor’s, a division of S&P Global. All rights reserved.
2024 FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Full financial statements are provided in the company’s 2024 proxy
statements and annual report on Form 10-K. The company’s proxy 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
statements and annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
The Clorox
ended June 30, 2024, are available at TheCloroxCompany.com 100.00 147.02 123.12 99.22 115.57 102.56
Company
and through the SEC’s EDGAR database.
S&P 500 100.00 107.51 151.36 135.29 161.80 201.54
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Peer Group 100.00 111.91 125.72 132.55 140.80 157.02
Except for historical information, matters discussed in the
annual report are forward-looking statements and are based The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily
on management’s estimates, assumptions and projections. indicative of future stock price performance.
Actual results could vary materially. Please review the “Risk
Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
CLOROX 2024 Integrated Annual Report 56
1221 Broadway, Oakland, CA 94612
TheCloroxCompany.com
