2 0 2 3 E S G R E P O R T
WORKFORCE SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITY CORPORATE
EMPOWERMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT STEWARDSHIP
TABLE OF CONTENTS
03 04 07 15 21 30 39
MESSAGE FROM ABOUT WORKFORCE SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITY CORPORATE APPENDIX
OUR CHAIRMAN CME GROUP EMPOWERMENT SOLUTIONS COMMITMENT STEWARDSHIP
& CHIEF
SASB Index
EXECUTIVE
Employee Global Sustainable CME Group Corporate
OFFICER
Engagement and Products Foundation Governance GHG Emissions
Development Summary
Industry Partner Corporate Giving Risk Management
Global Diversity and Collaboration
Inclusion Markets Education Business Ethics and
CME Group Integrity
Innovation Lab
Data Privacy and
Sustainable Security
Operations
Public Policy and
Partnership
MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN & CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 03
MESSAGE FROM OUR CHAIRMAN & CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
As the world’s leading derivatives marketplace, CME Group plays a significant role in
2023 FACTS & FIGURES
the global economy. In fact, 2023 marked the strongest year in our history. Our high
standing means we have an important responsibility to support our clients, employees and
Message From 3,565 200 24.4M
communities around the world.
Our Chairman
& Chief Executive
Officer It is through this lens that we approach our commitments to developing sustainable
EMPLOYEES COUNTRIES & CONTRACTS
solutions, empowering our workforce, making a philanthropic impact and governing our
TERRITORIES in overall average
About CME Group business. In the pages of this report, you’ll find a snapshot of our efforts throughout 2023, where CME Group daily volume reached
futures and options – a company record1
with a particular focus on highlighting key metrics.
contracts are traded
Workforce
Empowerment We are proud of our achievements to date and believe that advancing these initiatives will
6.8M $5.6B
continue to make us a stronger company and help steer our organization for the future.
Sustainable
Solutions
CONTRACTS IN REVENUE
in international
Community average daily volume
Commitment
TERRENCE A. DUFFY
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Corporate 1 Market statistics, including average daily volume by asset class and product are available in greater
Stewardship detail at https://www.cmegroup.com/investor-relations/volume-reports.html.
Appendix
ABOUT CME GROUP 04
ABOUT CME GROUP
CME Group enables clients to trade CME GROUP OFFICE LOCATIONS
futures, options, cash and OTC products,
OTHER COMPANY
optimize portfolios and analyze data
AWARDS
Message From – empowering market participants
Our Chairman
worldwide to efficiently manage risk
& Chief Executive
Officer and capture opportunities. CME Group Americas Derivatives Clearing House
exchanges offer the widest range of of the Year
global benchmark products across all Global Capital
About CME Group
major asset classes based on interest
rates, equity indexes, foreign exchange Best Exchange Data Provider
Workforce
(FX), energy, agricultural products and Waters Technology
Empowerment
metals.
Best Exchange for FX
Sustainable CME Group provides primary price
Solutions FX Markets
discovery and referential pricing
information through its market data
Best FX Trading Technology Provider
Community in a variety of formats, including real
Commitment Euromoney
time, historical and derived data for NORTH & SOUTH AMERICA: EMEA: APAC:
customers in both listed and cash Chicago Mexico City London Paris Singapore Seoul
Corporate products. CME Group also offers Calgary New York Amsterdam Zurich Bangalore Sydney Blockchain 50
Stewardship Forbes
Champaign São Paulo Belfast Beijing Tokyo
industry-leading research and analytics
Houston Washington, DC Luxembourg Hong Kong
tools to provide customers with market
Appendix Exchange of the Year
education resources. In addition, its
Asia Capital Markets
clearing house operates one of the
KEY 2023 ACCOLADES
world's leading central counterparty
Top 500 Brands in the U.S.
clearing providers.
Exchange of Global World’s Most Brand Finance
the Year Derivatives Valuable
Risk Magazine Exchange Exchange Brand
of the Year Brand Finance For a complete list of our company
Global Capital awards, see here.
ABOUT CME GROUP 05
About this report
Our annual Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) report details the oversight and execution of our
strategic framework that guides and tracks how we empower our workforce, develop sustainable solutions,
give back to our communities and govern our business. Importantly, this framework is designed to support
our growth strategy by enabling us to be more adaptive to the ever-evolving business environment in which
we operate. We are mindful of our stakeholders' priorities2 and remain resolute in our commitment to engaging
with them to better understand their diverse needs so that we may adapt our approach accordingly.
Message From
Our Chairman
Our strategy is focused on four key pillars:
& Chief Executive
Officer
About CME Group
Workforce
Empowerment Workforce Sustainable
Empowerment Solutions
Sustainable
Solutions
Community
Commitment
Corporate
Stewardship
Community Corporate
Commitment Stewardship
Appendix
2 For our most recent materiality assessment, see our 2022 ESG Report.
ABOUT CME GROUP 06
ESG oversight & accountability
Our ESG Working Group comprises senior leaders representing key functions across our global organization and directs the design, development
and execution of our ESG strategy and initiatives. Members of the Working Group meet regularly to evaluate the efficacy of our strategic
framework, monitor how global developments might impact our approach and implement refinements.
The Working Group co-leads report to our Chairman & Chief Executive Officer and Board of Directors' Executive Committee to ensure alignment
and support at the highest levels. The full Board maintains oversight of ESG-related risks within our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Program
and other committees of our Board oversee specific elements of our ESG program.
Message From
Our Chairman
& Chief Executive
Officer
About CME Group EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE | CME GROUP BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Workforce
Empowerment
Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
TERRY DUFFY
Sustainable
Solutions
Co-Leads
ANITA LISKEY, Senior Managing Director, Global Brand Marketing and Communications
Community JONATHAN MARCUS, Senior Managing Director, General Counsel
Commitment
SUPPORT
Corporate
Stewardship
Finance/Investor Relations Information Security Facilities Client Development & Research
LYNNE FITZPATRICK DAN MANLEY KEVIN LENNON OWAIN JOHNSON
Appendix
ADAM MINICK JULIE WINKLER
Human Resources Strategy Government Relations Products & Services
HILDA HARRIS PIELL DAVID WONG GAVIN PARKE PETER KEAVEY
FRANCIE SISUL LINDA RICH DEREK SAMMANN
Operational Resilience Communications/ Compliance/Governance
BETHANY NETZEL Charitable Giving CARRIE DI SANTO
KRISTIN WOOD MEG WRIGHT
Message From Our Chairman & Chief Executive Officer | About CME Group | Workforce Empowerment | Sustainable Solutions | Community Commitment | Corporate Stewardship | Appendix | 07
WORKFORCE EMPOWERMENT
CME Group employees embody the essence of our
company’s commitment to excellence and innovation,
and they are the driving force behind our success. We
2023 Highlights
invest in our employees by fostering a workplace that
not only nurtures their professional development, but
Launched an interactive Employee Orientation Program that helps new employees in all of
also provides opportunities to advance within their
our offices across the globe to onboard quickly and perform effectively in their first 90 days.
roles and careers.
Announced a new, market-leading and inclusive family building benefit during 2023 U.S.
Benefits Open Enrollment for the 2024 plan year.
Continued to invest in our 10-year partnership with Google Cloud to provide cloud
technology training and certification programs for employees.
87% 5.6% 38% $1M
OF EMPLOYEES VOLUNTARY OF EMPLOYEES SPENT
feel they have access to TURNOVER belong to an Employee on cloud technology
the resources needed to down nearly 50% from Resource Group (ERG) training and
IN THIS SECTION
do their jobs effectively 2022 certifications
› Employee Engagement and
WORKPLACE AWARDS
Development
› Global Diversity and Inclusion
Computerworld’s CME Group earned a perfect American Heart CME Group's India
Best Places to score in The Human Rights Association’s office was Great
Work in IT Campaign Foundation Workforce Well- Place to Work
Corporate Equality Index Being Platinum CertifiedTM
(CEI), making us an Equality Recognition
100 winner
See more about our employee value proposition on our Careers website.
WORKFORCE EMPOWERMENT 08
WORKFORCE EMPOWERMENT
Employee Engagement and Development
Employee feedback is a critical input into the evolution of our employee development
GAUGING THE EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCE:
programs and resources. We regularly assess the employee experience through engagement
Message From
Our Chairman surveys and onboarding and exit interviews to better understand employee perspectives and
& Chief Executive
improve our processes and offerings. Tracking our performance metrics allows us to identify
Officer
what we are doing well and where we need to focus our efforts on continuous improvement.
FEEL THEY HAVE ACCESS TO
87% THE RESOURCES NEEDED TO
About CME Group DO THEIR JOBS EFFECTIVELY
MEASURING KEY CORPORATE METRICS
Workforce
Empowerment
5.6% 30.4% 17.1%
Sustainable
Solutions 76% FEEL VALUED
VOLUNTARY OPEN ROLES FILLED EMPLOYEES
TURNOVER WITH INTERNAL PROMOTED
Community (10.2% in 2022) CANDIDATES (21.5% in 2022)
Commitment
(43.7% in 2022)
Corporate
Stewardship CAN MAINTAIN A HEALTHY
Listening to our employees 76% BALANCE BETWEEN THEIR
WORK AND PERSONAL LIVES
Appendix In 2023, we administered a pulse employee experience survey. This shortened survey was
designed to check in on key engagement measures from the comprehensive survey conducted
in 2022. With a 73% participation rate, our 2023 pulse engagement survey showed an overall
engagement score of 70% and indicated employees feel positively about a number of factors
– notably that 87% feel they have access to the resources needed to do their jobs effectively FEEL THEY ARE APPROPRIATELY
73% INVOLVED IN THE DECISIONS
and 76% feel valued.
THAT AFFECT THEIR WORK
Detailed division and department breakdowns of the survey results are shared with the
appropriate leaders to explore and identify key areas to address with assistance from Human
Resources. We also share the findings with our workforce and proactively develop solutions for
areas that received lower levels of engagement or satisfaction.
WORKFORCE EMPOWERMENT 09
Developing our workforce
Creating an environment that supports our employees’ professional development is vital The Essentials for
to our success. We encourage the pursuit of continued education, intentional goal-setting
New People Managers
and constructive feedback, providing on-the-job training and resources to support these
Program was
endeavors.
challenging, practical
Examples of our professional and leadership development offerings include:
and hands-on. It was a
Message From
Our Chairman
real education for the
& Chief Executive
Officer Enhanced Employee Orientation Program that is globally consistent and
job we do as people
interactive to help new employees onboard quickly and perform effectively
in their first 90 days. managers. I was
About CME Group
encouraged to lean in
Workforce and participate, which
Empowerment Onsite and virtual-led professional development training courses and
seminars. was refreshing!
Sustainable
Solutions
JAN BODEY
More than 10,000 online educational courses focused on leadership and Director, Software Engineering, London
Community
technical skills.
Commitment
Corporate
Stewardship The Essentials for New People Managers Program—designed to help
first-time managers at CME Group gain the confidence and skills necessary
to succeed in their new roles.
Appendix
Tuition assistance for continuing education.
WORKFORCE EMPOWERMENT 10
Unlocking opportunities with Google Cloud
In 2023, we continued to invest in our 10-year partnership with Google Cloud to transition our $1M
technology infrastructure and markets to the cloud.
To support an effective migration, we are focused on providing skills development training for
SPENT
our employees. CME Group invested approximately $1 million in cloud technology training and
on cloud technology
certifications in 2023. Specific Google Cloud upskilling initiatives included: training and certifications
Message From
Our Chairman
& Chief Executive
Officer
Learning Tracks: Developed 15 different learning tracks for Google Cloud training. 233
About CME Group
EMPLOYEES
Virtual Instructor-Led Workshops: Focused on building technical skills to support across six Cloud Hero
Workforce
challenges
Empowerment cloud transformation efforts.
Sustainable
Solutions
Cloud Hero Challenges: Provided gamified learning experiences where employees
256
practice their skills in a competitive environment.
Community
Commitment
EMPLOYEES
completed a Google Cloud
Professional Certifications: Offered the educational opportunities to obtain Google
Corporate virtual, instructor-led
Stewardship Cloud professional certificates. workshop
Appendix
Cloud is a whole new world to many of us. As we migrate hundreds of applications and
innovate with new technologies, the Cloud Digital Leader certification enables us to think about
our business use cases and how cloud solutions support our enterprise.
KEVIN KRANZ
Director, FinOps, Chicago
WORKFORCE EMPOWERMENT 11
Global Diversity and Inclusion Building community through our
Employee Resource Groups (ERGs)
11
We embrace the exchange of ideas driven by the rich diversity of our people, cultures and
Our ERGs play a crucial role in advancing
experiences. In doing so, we aim to drive innovation and foster an inclusive culture where
a more diverse and inclusive culture.
everyone feels valued and respected. When our employees bring their authentic selves to work GLOBAL ERGS
In addition to creating communities of
each day, it makes our business and our culture much stronger. Leveraging the collective mix
colleagues with shared backgrounds and
of perspectives and insights that our individual backgrounds bring, we can continually provide
interests, our ERGs also lend their skills,
our global clients with innovative products and solutions, advance our business and best serve 38%
Message From insights and experiences to improve our
Our Chairman the communities in which we live and work.
& Chief Executive hiring, retention and development efforts.
Officer Our cross-functional Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Council is responsible for driving our Each of our 11 ERGs is focused on specific
OF EMPLOYEES
corporate D&I strategy and ensuring we have the right resources in place to support and grow belong to at least community associations or identifications
About CME Group our diverse employee population. The D&I Council comprises members of our Management one ERG and membership is open to all employees
Team in addition to employees from across the organization representing a wide variety of globally. In 2023, we implemented a
backgrounds and perspectives. Leading the D&I Council are our Chief Human Resources standardized ERG board structure and
Workforce
Empowerment Officer (CHRO) and our Director of D&I, who oversee the Council’s efforts. Our CHRO also provided training and resources for our ERG
provides senior management and the Board with regular updates on D&I progress. leaders to further support them in making a
Sustainable positive impact.
Solutions
Our employees continued to engage with
our ERGs in 2023, and we actively
Community
Commitment promoted social and networking ERG
events on matters of importance
throughout the year, including Black History
Corporate
Stewardship Month, International Women’s Day, Earth
Day, Asian American and Pacific Island
Heritage Month, Pride Month and more.
Appendix
To learn more about our ERG communities,
visit our website.
WORKFORCE EMPOWERMENT 12
2023 D&I accomplishments
Recruiting talent: Mentoring and coaching:
Continued to broaden our Continued to support the
candidate pool through outreach development of our colleagues
and other recruiting tools that through our six-month D&I
enabled us to be more intentional Mentoring Program that included
about attracting all qualified thoughtful in-house matching
Message From
Our Chairman applicants, including those support, mentee-mentor orientation
& Chief Executive
from underrepresented groups. sessions and curated resources and
Officer
Launched a new interview trainings.
scorecard to create consistent
About CME Group Supporting diverse suppliers:
evaluation categories and reduce
bias in the recruitment process. Increased diverse supplier
Workforce participation in our request for
Empowerment Provided potential candidates
proposal process.
visibility into our company culture
by sharing employee testimonials, Continued to raise awareness of
Sustainable
Solutions hosting ERG meet and greets our Supplier Diversity Program
and rolling out our ERG landing throughout the organization and
page on our external careers site with prospective supplier partners.
Community
that highlights how these groups
Commitment
Worked to align our Supplier
advance a more diverse and
Diversity Program with our
inclusive workplace.
corporate D&I Council strategy.
Corporate
Stewardship
Appendix
$16.2M 1.6% 64
CME GROUP DIVERSE OF TOTAL NUMBER OF
SUPPLIER SPEND CME GROUP CME GROUP
($18.5M in 2022) SUPPLIER SPEND DIVERSE SUPPLIERS
(2% in 2022) (57 in 2022)
WORKFORCE EMPOWERMENT 13
Benchmarking our global workforce
TOTAL EMPLOYEES U.S. ETHNICITY 2023 2022 2021
American Indian or Native Alaskan 0.1% 0.1% 0.1%
Asian 25.1% 23.7% 22.8%
3,565 3,460 3,480
Black or African American 5.5% 5.9% 6.4%
Message From Hispanic or Latino 6.4% 6.3% 6.2%
Our Chairman
& Chief Executive Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander 0.1% 0.1% 0.1%
2023 2022 2021
Officer
Two or More Races 1.7% 1.6% 1.5%
White 52.9% 54.7% 55.9%
About CME Group
Not Reported 8.0% 7.6% 7.0%
Workforce
Empowerment
Sustainable TOTAL WORKFORCE PEOPLE MANAGERS SENIOR MANAGING DIRECTORS AND ABOVE
Solutions
32% 30% 54%
2023 2023 2023
Community
68% 70% 46%
Commitment
32% 30% 44%
2022 2022 2022
68% 70% 56%
Corporate
Stewardship
31% 29% 43%
2021 2021 2021
69% 71% 57%
Appendix
Female Male
To further enhance our transparency, we have published our Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO-1) data for the U.S. here..
WORKFORCE EMPOWERMENT 14
Employee health and well-being
We want to set our employees up for success both in and out of the workplace and in every
stage of their lives and careers. To do so, we provide a total rewards program that is market
competitive, emphasizes performance and helps us attract and retain the industry’s highest
achievers. Our programs and initiatives encourage a culture of care focused on mental,
physical and financial well-being.
Examples of 2023 efforts include:
Message From
Our Chairman
& Chief Executive
Officer
Supporting inclusive family building: During 2023 Benefits Open Enrollment,
we announced a new inclusive family building benefit in the U.S. for the 2024
About CME Group
plan year. Through this unique program, employees can receive medical
benefits related to infertility in a holistic manner with access to state-of-the-
art medical testing and without annual limits on medications. Additionally,
Workforce
Empowerment we added surrogacy coverage for the first time and enhanced our adoption
and parental leave benefits. Our ERGs are instrumental in helping us enhance the
Sustainable
employee experience and improve our hiring, retention
Solutions
Providing access to mental well-being benefits: We continued our partnership
and workforce development. For example, after
with a nationally recognized mental health provider, offering 12 free sessions
Community per year for our employees worldwide and their dependents. Throughout conversations with our Women's Initiative Network,
Commitment
the year, we also leveraged the partnership to conduct several educational
Women in Technology and PRIDE ERGs, we extended our
sessions, such as a workshop for managers to help them recognize and
Corporate respond to mental crises. family building benefits, creating a more inclusive
Stewardship
offering. Year after year, we remain committed
to ensuring that our benefits offerings effectively cater to
Appendix
Championing young girls’ mental health: As part of the programming for
the diverse needs of our employees.
our fourth annual global Employee Well-being Week, we hosted a panel
discussion between local experts on the mental health challenges young girls
face, moderated by Eva Giglio, Executive Director, CME Group Foundation.
HILDA HARRIS PIELL
For more information on our efforts to support young girls’ mental health, see Community
Commitment. Chief Human Resources Officer, Chicago
For additional information on our benefits, see our Careers website.
Message From Our Chairman & Chief Executive Officer | About CME Group | Workforce Empowerment | Sustainable Solutions | Community Commitment | Corporate Stewardship | Appendix | 15
SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS
At CME Group, we provide risk management tools in
every investable asset class. That includes a suite of
environmental products to help clients manage risk
and capture opportunities to best meet their business 2023 Highlights
and sustainability goals. As the global marketplace
evolves, we are engaging with market participants
190% 18 79%
to ensure we adapt our offerings to best meet their
changing needs.
GROWTH NUMBER OF CITIES OF OUR OCCUPIED
Beyond our products and services, we also support
in battery metals trading covered by our weather OFFICE SPACE
sustainability throughout our operations. We mitigate volumes from 2022 futures and options across in buildings with LEED,
the U.S., Europe and Asia BREEAM or other similar
our environmental footprint and deploy sustainable
green credentials
practices throughout our owned and leased spaces.
SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS SUITE
Bioenergy – biodiesel, ethanol, used Renewable Feedstocks – corn,
cooking oil and used cooking oil oilseeds and used cooking oil
IN THIS SECTION methyl ester contracts contracts
Voluntary Carbon and Emissions –
› Global Sustainable Products Battery and Recycled Metals – cobalt,
nature-based and technology-based
lithium and scrap steel contracts
› Industry Partner Collaboration offset contracts
› CME Group Innovation Lab
ESG Indices – S&P 500 ESG and S&P
Weather – temperature-based index
› Sustainable Operations Europe 350 ESG3
futures and options
See more about our sustainable products and solutions.
3 Formally E-Mini S&P 500 ESG Index and E-Mini S&P Europe 350 ESG Index respectively.
SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS 16
SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS
Global Sustainable Products
As more market participants consider sustainability factors in their trading strategies, we are
developing tools to provide greater access, price discovery and risk management in this area.
Message From
Market participants
Our Chairman
& Chief Executive In 2023, we continued to expand our sustainable products and provide new offerings:
continue to seek
Officer
solutions that help
About CME Group
better manage evolving
Experienced strong growth across our battery metals suite. Open interest
across our product complex grew 170% year-over-year. Trading volume also risks that emerge as
Workforce
grew more than 190%, largely driven by the need to manage price risks
Empowerment global businesses and
associated with global demand for electric vehicles.
economies transition
Sustainable
Solutions toward new technologies
and alternative sources
Expanded our battery metals and niche metals products by launching Cobalt
Community
Hydroxide futures, Lithium Carbonate futures, Cobalt Metal options, Lithium of energy. CME Group
Commitment
Hydroxide options and Molybdenum Oxide futures.
is committed to helping
Corporate
them capture the
Stewardship
opportunities this
To enable businesses to hedge the risk they face from atypical weather
Appendix transition presents.
conditions – particularly as the onset of climate change precipitates extreme
weather events – CME Group offers weather futures and options geared to
average seasonal and monthly weather in 18 cities around the world – 13 in
PETER
the U.S., four in Europe and one in Asia.
KEAVEY
Managing Director,
Energy and
Environmental
Products, New York
SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS 17
Industry Partner Collaboration
CME Group participates in many global industry initiatives focused on developing market-based solutions
that can collectively advance sustainable markets. Notably, we are a founding member of the derivatives
Building more sustainable markets can’t
network of the United Nations (UN) initiative Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE).
be achieved by any one firm on their own.
At the 2023 UN Climate Change Conference (COP28) in Dubai, our Managing Director of Research and
That’s why spaces where we can convene
Product Development, participated in an SSE panel discussion focused on the role of exchanges in climate
Message From innovation and the transition of markets toward net zero. with and learn from other industry players
Our Chairman
& Chief Executive
In addition to the SSE, our representatives actively participate in the following working groups, committees are so crucial.
Officer
and taskforces:
About CME Group OWAIN JOHNSON
The World Federation of Exchanges’ Sustainability Working Group and its ESG Definitions Managing Director, Research and Product Development, London
Subgroup
Workforce
Empowerment
Sustainable The International Regulatory Strategy Group ESG Workstream
Solutions
Community
Commitment The Taskforce on Scaling Voluntary Carbon Markets
Corporate
Stewardship
The International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) Affiliate Members
Advisory Committee and its Sustainability Taskforce
Appendix
Futures Industry Association U.S. Commodities Climate Risk Working Group
Owain Johnson participating in an SSE panel discussion at COP28.
For more information on our industry participation, see Corporate Stewardship.
SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS 18
CME Group Innovation Lab
Our Employee Innovation Program
CME Group has long pioneered groundbreaking solutions for the derivatives marketplace. The CME Group Innovation Lab engages colleagues
recognizes colleagues by providing
across all levels, departments and functions of our organization, and fosters collaborative and inventive thinking to create additional value for
cash incentives to those who apply
our clients and our business. Since 2014, the CME Group Innovation Lab has helped our company to keep a pulse on market needs and innovate
for and are issued patents. In 2023,
new solutions to respond accordingly.
CME Group employees received
a total of 84 new patents with With our continued focus on innovation, we have made progress through our partnership with Google Cloud in leveraging cloud and cloud-
Message From awards totaling nearly $200,000. based analytics in ways that benefit our clients.
Our Chairman
& Chief Executive
Some examples of key activities in 2023 include:
Officer
84
About CME Group
Historical Market Data Access: We enabled clients to access our market data from 2014 to the present day via Google
NEW PATENTS
Analytics Hub. This allows them to efficiently query and share data between teams in a reliable and cost-efficient manner.
Workforce in 2023 (75 in the U.S. and 9
Empowerment internationally)
Referential Data Warehouse: We moved our referential data warehouse application to Google Cloud, which enables our
Sustainable clients to obtain historical product specification information through Google BigQuery. Clients can now run in-depth historical
Solutions
analyses without the cost and burden of storing historical reference data, freeing their resources to focus on growing their
businesses.
845
Community
Commitment
Margin Services: On the clearing side, we deployed our Risk Calculator in Google Cloud. The Risk Calculator helps clients
PATENTS
calculate and model margin requirements for their portfolios – and moving this to the cloud allows them to run several
Corporate
Stewardship overall scenarios at the same time and with a faster output. The calculator was extended to allow historical and intraday risk runs
by using the scale of the cloud.
Appendix
GenAI: Our Google Cloud partnership also provides industry-leading insights on generative artificial intelligence (GenAI). Our
$4.1M key focus is on delivering actionable insights to clients faster and at scale. With dedicated resources in place, we continue to
explore new possibilities and develop initial use cases.
AWARDED
to employees overall
SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS 19
Sustainable Operations
GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS4 (MT COe)
2
Across our operations, we promote environmentally sustainable practices, measure
key environmental impacts in our owned and leased spaces and implement
systems and solutions, where feasible, to help mitigate our carbon footprint. 180,000
162,216
Even though CME Group has relatively small greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 160,000
compared with other companies, we analyze climate risk exposure and assess our
140,000
Message From business resilience to anticipate, prepare for and respond to climate events that
Our Chairman 120,000
could impact our markets or our company.
& Chief Executive
Officer 100,000 91,479
We continue to track and manage our energy usage, implementing a software tool 143,120
80,000
to more efficiently track our emissions data and other key metrics, while also better
About CME Group
identifying opportunities for future emissions reduction efforts. 60,000
80,753
40,000
Our year-over-year inventories inform our emissions reduction strategy and
Workforce
Empowerment are conducted in accordance with the GHG Protocol and U.K. SECR mandated 20,000
18,962 134 309
reporting. We measured all relevant Scope 1, 2 and 3 categories and, consistent 10,417
0
with best practice, we reported both location-based and market-based methods.
Sustainable
2022 2023
Solutions
For our full year-over-year GHG Emissions Inventory, see the performance data
table here. Scope 1 Scope 2 (market-based) Scope 3 (market-based)
Community
Commitment
4 A s a result of exiting from certain premises in 2023 and changes to the way
some landlords report data, we have updated our emissions methodology for
Corporate 2023. Consequently, CME Group’s Scope 2 and 3 market-based emissions have
Stewardship
reduced by some margin.
Appendix
SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS 20
2023 SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS (MARKET-BASED) ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION BY SCOPE5 (MWh)
Scope 3 emissions are the result of activities from assets CME Group
50,000,000 47,115
does not own or control, but indirectly impact our value chain.
Message From 45,000,000
Our Chairman
40,000,000
& Chief Executive
Officer 2% 35,000,000
1%
1%
3% 30,000,000 27,510
4% 0%
About CME Group 25,000,000 46,419
Purchased Goods 20,000,000
and Services
15,000,000
26,120
Workforce
Capital Goods
10,000,000
Empowerment
20% Waste
5,000,000 696 1,390
Business Travel (Air Flights)
0
69%
Sustainable
Employee Commuting 2022 2023
Solutions
Fuel and Energy Related
Upstream Leased Assets
Scope 1 Scope 2
Community
Downstream Leased Assets
Commitment
5 Scope 1 includes natural gas and diesel; Scope 2 includes purchased electricity.
Corporate
Stewardship
Appendix
FACILITIES
We carefully manage our environmental impact
OF OUR OCCUPIED OFFICE OF OUR OCCUPIED OFFICE SPACE HAS
in owned spaces and work with site owners to 79% SPACE IN BUILDINGS HAS 84% COMPOSTING PROGRAMS, IN ADDITION
LEED, BREEAM OR OTHER TO OUR ONGOING RECYCLING EFFORTS
manage and reduce our environmental impact in
SIMILAR GREEN CREDENTIALS ACROSS OUR LOCATIONS
leased locations.
Message From Our Chairman & Chief Executive Officer | About CME Group | Workforce Empowerment | Sustainable Solutions | Community Commitment | Corporate Stewardship | Appendix | 21
COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
Engaging with and investing in the communities where
CME Group operates and where our team members live is
one way we aim to positively impact society. We have a
two-pronged approach to community engagement:
• The CME Group Foundation is a 501(c)(3) organization 2023 Highlights
that provides funding and resources to empower
future generations through education, equipping
Extended the CME Group Tour
today’s students for tomorrow’s challenges. Invested $6.2 million in 135
Championship with the Ladies
CME Group Foundation grantee partners
• Our Corporate Giving Program provides employees Professional Golf Association (LPGA)
through 2025, increasing the purse to
with an opportunity to support causes they Awarded $625,000 in scholarships
$11 million and continuing to celebrate
through the CME Group Foundation
value through matching gifts. Notably, it includes
women’s sports and women in business
Scholars Program
our annual charitable support of St. Jude Children’s
Research Hospital through the CME Group Tour Expanded the Futures Fundamentals
Contributed nearly $240,000 in matching
learning initiative with new digital lessons
Championship.
gifts to charities around the world
and the launch of a trading simulator
platform
IN THIS SECTION
$8M $745K $240K 428
› CME Group Foundation
› Corporate Giving IN TOTAL GIVING IN TOTAL IN MATCHING GIFTS PAID DAYS OFF
SCHOLARSHIPS utilized by employees for
› Markets Education
volunteering
COMMUNITY COMMITMENT 22
COMMUNITY COMMITMENT
CME Group Foundation
The CME Group Foundation aims to contribute to the workforce of the future by equipping
students with the skills and support needed to meet tomorrow’s global challenges.
Message From
Our Chairman
& Chief Executive Specifically, the CME Group Foundation is focused on the following priorities:
Officer
About CME Group
Helping students from low-income backgrounds succeed in college and their
careers.
2023 CME GROUP FOUNDATION GRANTS
Workforce
Empowerment
$1.8M $2.4M $1.7M
Sustainable
Providing equity of access to programs and resources for K-12 students who
Solutions
are typically underrepresented in computer science and financial education. GRANTED GRANTED GRANTED
to higher education, to K-12 education to early childhood
Community college and career education
Commitment success
Corporate A
Supporting families and early learners who are preparing for kindergarten.
Stewardship B C
Appendix
Supporting the mental health needs of girls and young women in middle and
high school.
COMMUNITY COMMITMENT 23
Since 2008, the CME Group Foundation has contributed to local nonprofits that support students of all ages. The following is a snapshot of one-time and multi-year grants
made by the Foundation in 2023.
Grant Grant Grant
Program Grant Impact Program Grant Impact Program Grant Impact
amount amount amount
Early Childhood Education K-12 Education College and Career Success
Message From Multi-year Grant Multi-year Grant Multi-year Grant
Our Chairman
& Chief Executive Working on Womanhood, a Supporting student success
Officer Bridging Academic and
Carole culturally responsive, trauma- Hope coaches in high schools with
Social Emotional Supports in Youth $150,000
Robertson $500,000 informed counseling and clinical Chicago the process of preparing for
$200,000 Kindergarten initiative and Guidance
About CME Group Center for the development of innovative mentoring program for girls and postsecondary success
Learning young women
program models
Providing individualized
Workforce Computer academic, personal, financial
Empowering Illinois and
Empowerment Science
The Early Learning & School and career counseling to
$100,000 Chicago computer science
Chicago
Teachers
Readiness Initiative, which Bottom Line $100,000 empower first-generation
teachers
Public
Association
$200,000 delivers early learning students from low-income
Sustainable Library
Solutions programming and supports backgrounds to enroll in and
Foundation Mind + Body Health initiative,
families through the library succeed through college.
which provides culturally
Girls Inc. of appropriate, trauma-informed
Community $100,000 Supporting students from 11th
Commitment Latino Chicago prevention and positive youth
Promoting equity in early and 12th grades through their
Policy $200,000 development interventions to
education for English learners One Goal $100,000 first year of a postsecondary
Forum address girls’ mental health
program to close the degree
Corporate
Stewardship Partnerships with high school divide
Mental health clinician and Illinois and middle school students with
Something
family support specialist roles Science and companies to solve industry
Appendix Good in $150,000 $100,000 Services for community
for the Little Angels Learning Technology issues related to STEM through One Million
Englewood $100,000 college students to launch
Center Institute The STEM Challenge and the Degrees
economically mobile careers
6x3 Project Series
Council for One Year Grant One Year Grant
a Strong Raising the voices of civic
Study examining the mental
America: $50,000 leaders for kindergarten Sinai Urban Annual funding of the
health and well-being of Scholarship
Ready readiness Health $200,000 $625,000 CME Group Foundation
middle- and high school-aged America
Nation Institute Scholars Program
girls in Chicago
The complete list can be found at cmegroupfoundation.org.
COMMUNITY COMMITMENT 24
Investing in mental health initiatives
As an extension of our violence reduction and The [Foundation]
intervention strategy introduced in 2022, the
scholarship means more
CME Group Foundation launched an initial
than just a financial
two-year $2 million grantmaking initiative
in 2023 to support the mental health of girls award...it not only feels
and young women impacted by trauma and
like a special reward for
Message From violence in Chicago. This new initiative aims
Our Chairman
& Chief Executive to reduce the impact of adverse childhood my hard work and efforts,
Officer
experiences by expanding the reach of
but it also feels like a
mentors and mental health service providers
reminder...that even
About CME Group to young women and girls, promoting
innovation in trauma responsiveness and though women like
social-emotional learning and driving
Workforce me are still highly
Empowerment awareness and collaboration across
underrepresented in the
Chicago's public and private sectors.
Sustainable finance industry, there
The CME Group Foundation deployed the
Solutions
are still vast opportunities. Since 2019, the
first $1 million in 2023 to support various $3.1M
Chicago-based organizations focused on direct
CME Group Foundation
Community
Commitment and systems-level support for girls and young AZIZAT BALOGYN
Scholars Program has
IN SCHOLARSHIPS
women. Grantees in this new portfolio include:
CME Group Foundation Scholar, University
to 87 students
of Illinois-Chicago, Class of ’23 awarded:
Corporate
Stewardship Children’s Research Triangle
Focus Fairies
Appendix
Enhancing representation through the CME Group Foundation Scholars Program
Girls Inc. of Chicago
The CME Group Foundation Scholars Program works to financially support students from low-income and historically underrepresented
Juvenile Protective Association
communities who are pursuing four-year degrees in finance, information technology, computer science or applied mathematics. Students in
Ladies of Virtue
grades 10-12 at eligible partner schools, as well as master’s in finance candidates, can be awarded $20,000 in scholarships per year. In 2023, the
program awarded scholarships to 18 students, resulting in the total number of students empowered by the Scholars Program expanding to 33 for
Polished Pebbles
the 2023-24 academic year.
Union League Boys and Girls Club
Participating scholars also receive access to fellowship and internship opportunities and are encouraged to apply for full-time jobs at
Youth Guidance
CME Group upon graduation. We are pleased to count several Foundation Scholar alumni among our colleagues.
COMMUNITY COMMITMENT 25
Corporate Giving
Our Corporate Giving Program is multifaceted and expands the reach of our community
efforts by empowering our workforce to contribute to programs and causes that are
meaningful to them. It also encompasses our longstanding relationship with the LPGA
I really appreciate the
and St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, as well as the Chicago Star Scholars Program.
Matching Gift Program,
Engaging employees through impact
Message From as it demonstrates tangible
Our Chairman
& Chief Executive Part of what it means to offer a rich In addition to our Matching Gift Program, and direct support of
Officer
employee experience includes providing each of our 11 ERGs is allocated $5,000
CME Group employees
our people with opportunities to give annually to donate to eligible nonprofit
About CME Group back to their communities – both organizations that align with their interests. and the causes that are
monetarily and through volunteering. Select recipient organizations from 2023
important to them. The
Workforce Our Matching Gift Program matches included:
Empowerment program is very easy to
employee donations to eligible charitable
Attention Deficit Disorder Association
organizations of $25 or more, up to use and only takes a few
Sustainable $1,500 per calendar year per employee. Beyond the Battlefield
Solutions minutes to double your
In 2023, we contributed nearly $240,000
Code Your Dreams
in matching gifts across the global impact.
Muscle Help Foundation
Community communities where we live
Commitment
and work. Openlands
DAN ROEMER
Trevor Project
Director, Global Assurance, Chicago
Corporate
Stewardship UNICEF
Appendix
COMMUNITY COMMITMENT 26
Our colleagues also come together to support diverse community endeavors that benefit
those in need worldwide. Below are some examples of how our global colleagues supported
their local communities throughout 2023:
Bangalore: Continued advancing our relationship with Akshaya Patra
Foundation, a group that strives to eliminate classroom hunger by providing
fresh and nutritious lunches.
Message From
Our Chairman
& Chief Executive
Officer
Belfast: Partnered with Simon Community to support people experiencing or
About CME Group
at risk of homelessness in Northern Ireland.
Workforce
Empowerment
Chicago: Hosted a holiday party and gift drive for the Pre-K and kindergarten
Sustainable
classes from Washington Irving Elementary.
Solutions
London employees volunteering with the Lower Regents Coalition.
Community
Commitment
London: Organized a canal clean-up event through our SEED ERG and Arriving at the canal with litter surrounding you and
London Community Relations Committee in partnership with Lower Regents
Corporate leaving it spotless was a great feeling. The event was a
Coalition, an organization that aims to preserve London’s waterways.
Stewardship
great way to meet new colleagues and get involved in
Appendix supporting the CME Group culture and our local
community!
Singapore: Volunteered with Walk for our Children, a 2km walk event to
raise funds for Children’s Society, an organization focused on protecting and
nurturing children and youth in need, providing a wide spectrum of offerings
CHARLIE SALISBURY
from family services to research and advocacy.
Charlie Salisbury, Senior Sales Associate, Client Development and Sales-EMEA, London
COMMUNITY COMMITMENT 27
Empowering the next generation of talent
In addition to the work the CME Group Foundation leads to invest in educational
opportunities for the next generation of talent, we partner with a number of organizations to
offer scholarship, fellowship and internship opportunities to high-achieving students. Examples
of these company-sponsored initiatives include:
Message From
The Chicago Star Scholars Program, which helps make attaining a bachelor's
Our Chairman
& Chief Executive degree more affordable by awarding high-achieving students from Chicago
Officer
City Colleges with scholarships to help them continue their education at a
four-year college or university. In 2023, 32 Star Scholars received the CME
About CME Group Group Star Partnership Mayoral Award, which provides $5,000 over two years
to each recipient.
Workforce
Empowerment
The CME Group Technology Fellowship Program, which serves as a strong
Sustainable
Solutions pipeline for identifying and developing young talent for internships and full-
time opportunities. The Fellowship offers a hands-on approach to developing
technical skills and focuses on promoting learning and career development.
Community
Throughout 2023, we partnered with organizations like the Posse Foundation
Commitment
and Genesys Works to continue building an inclusive talent pipeline.
Corporate
Stewardship
Hosted a Tech Talk series at schools throughout Illinois to provide students
Appendix
visibility into CME Group internship opportunities. In 2023, attendees included
the Latinx Organization for Growth in Computing and Academics, Women in
Computer Science and Girls Who Code.
COMMUNITY COMMITMENT 28
Spotlight:
Contributing to St. Jude Children's Research Hospital
Since 2011, we have hosted the annual CME Group Tour Championship to celebrate the culmination of the LPGA season. As in years past, the 2023
event supported St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital – advancing its mission to ensure no family ever receives a bill for treatment, housing or
Message From travel when caring for a sick child. From the season-long Score 1 for St. Jude program – where CME Group contributed $20,000 for each hole-in-one
Our Chairman
& Chief Executive scored – to our annual benefit concert, we donated a total of $1.3 million to St. Jude in 2023.
Officer
The 2023 event marked a historic milestone as CME Group extended its sponsorship agreement with the LPGA through 2025. Beginning in 2024, the
Tour Championship will offer an enhanced total purse of $11 million. In addition, the winner will take home a record $4 million first-place prize – the largest
About CME Group
single prize in women's sports. Moreover, every competitor who qualifies will be awarded at least $55,000, which is a first for a women's tournament.
We are proud to continue our steadfast support for women in business and sports, at the same time we honor St. Jude for their invaluable
Workforce
Empowerment contributions to saving lives and ensuring brighter futures.
Sustainable
Solutions
CME Group has been pushing
the LPGA forward at every step
Community
Commitment of our evolution since 2011, and
with this extension, they are once
again helping take the LPGA and
Corporate
Stewardship women's sports to unprecedented
heights. We are also inspired and
proud of the company's support
Appendix
of St. Jude Children's Research
Hospital throughout the season
and at the CME Group Tour
Championship.
MOLLIE MARCOUX SAMAAN
LPGA Commissioner
CME Group Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Terry Duffy, attending our annual CME Group Tour Championship
event for St. Jude.
COMMUNITY COMMITMENT 29
Markets Education
Being a leader in our industry and a fierce advocate of education, we understand the importance of providing our stakeholders with resources to
improve collective understanding of our industry and offerings. Through the CME Institute and our industry-wide initiative Futures Fundamentals,
FUTURES FUNDAMENTALS
we are providing valuable educational opportunities to individuals at all stages of learning – from experienced traders to those building their
ENGAGEMENT THROUGH THE
foundation of markets knowledge.
ECON ESSENTIALS PROGRAM:
Exploring the futures market with CME Institute Elevating derivatives education with
Message From
Futures Fundamentals
Our Chairman
The CME Institute is a comprehensive education platform
& Chief Executive 2.3M
Officer designed for traders at every level of expertise. By offering a Future Fundamentals is a 501(c)(3) organization that was launched
range of courses, trading simulations, webinars and insights on by CME Group alongside industry partners to provide web-based
market trends, we are empowering traders and others interested in interactive tools and content for derivatives education. Designed to STUDENTS
About CME Group
learning about the futures and options markets to better navigate simplify and explain complex market topics, Futures Fundamentals reached to date
and excel in the dynamic trading landscape. aims to make financial education an engaging experience for anyone,
Workforce
Empowerment regardless of how well versed they are in finance.
Highlights from 2023 include:
Sustainable
Solutions 212K
Launched two new mini-digital lessons focusing on futures education through
Community
STUDENTS
Commitment the Econ Essentials Program, a collaboration between Futures Fundamentals
reached in 2023
and Discovery Education that provides teachers with resources to explain
basic economic principles through real-world applications. The two lessons,
Corporate
Stewardship titled “Futures and Risk Management” and “Trading Futures,” were promoted in
connection with back-to-school programs throughout August and September.
Appendix
2.3K
Finalized the development of an updated trading simulator platform that
ACTIVITIES
enables private trading challenges for up to 500 participants. Participants are
DOWNLOADED
now able to trade on real-time data as well as access products beyond the
by educators
existing CME Group suite. In September 2023, we supported a four-day pilot
trading challenge with Future Fundamentals, which included participants across
CME Group, the Futures Industry Association, the Institute of Financial Markets
Learn more at
and National Futures Association.
futuresfundamentals.org.
Message From Our Chairman & Chief Executive Officer | About CME Group | Workforce Empowerment | Sustainable Solutions | Community Commitment | Corporate Stewardship | Appendix | 30
CORPORATE STEWARDSHIP
Our strong governance practices and culture of
compliance, ethics and accountability drive how we
conduct business and serve our clients every day.
Guided by five key values and aligned with industry
best practices, we have established deep-rooted
trust with our clients, employees and shareholders 2023 Highlights
over the years.
100% 87% 67
OF OUR BOARD OF OUR BOARD EMPLOYEES
MEMBERS MEMBERS recognized as Compliance
have experience in ethics and are independent Champions
integrity
OUR VALUES
IN THIS SECTION
› Corporate Governance
Lead with conviction and integrity Build lasting relationships
› Risk Management
› Business Ethics and Integrity
Advance the global economy Act with ingenuity every day
› Data Privacy and Security
› Public Policy and Partnership
Embrace the exchange of ideas
CORPORATE STEWARDSHIP 31
CORPORATE STEWARDSHIP
Corporate Governance
Our Board of Directors is tasked with establishing and implementing Corporate Governance In 2023, our Board was specifically focused on:
Principles that provide a framework for our effective governance. We prioritize matters that
Message From
Our Chairman are top of mind for our company, clients, employees and investors to develop new policies and
Continuing to oversee the company's risk and compliance functions, including
& Chief Executive
programs, and evolve existing ones, to make CME Group a better company. By aligning our
Officer the Global Information Security Program.
governance approach with best practices, our company strengthens board and management
accountability, promotes long-term shareholder value and sustains continued success.
About CME Group
Positioning CME Group to deliver long-term revenue growth by strengthening
client engagement and delivering effective risk management solutions and
Workforce innovative products and services.
Empowerment
Sustainable
Proactively engaging with policymaking bodies and expressing our views on
Solutions
issues important to our company, market participants and the industry.
Community
Commitment
Overseeing the completion of the key technical design and security elements
of our instance of the Google Cloud Platform and migrating more than 150
Corporate
applications to a production-ready state.
Stewardship
Appendix
Innovating and offering market participants meaningful capital and
operational efficiencies across a diverse and globally relevant product set.
Fostering a culture rooted in diversity, inclusion, well-being and ongoing
development for all employees across the globe.
Continuing to deliver value to our shareholders.
CORPORATE STEWARDSHIP 32
Welcoming diverse perspectives on our Board
We believe diversity on our Board is critical to the success of CME Group and our ability to create long-term value for our shareholders. In 2023, we continued our multi-year approach to board
refreshment and succession planning. This process aims to optimize the Board’s ability to effectively oversee and govern the company based on all business needs.
In 2023, we welcomed Kathryn Benesh and Harold Ford Jr. to our Board, bringing gender and racial diversity, as well as relevant and extensive experience across industries.
Message From
Our Chairman OUR BOARD AT A GLANCE BOARD QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERIENCES
& Chief Executive
I was thrilled to join
Officer
the CME Group Board
11
About CME Group and collaborate with
WOMEN (EQUITY
29% 100% ETHICS AND 39% CORPORATE
DIRECTORS) such esteemed
INTEGRITY GOVERNANCE
Workforce GENDER
YEARS
Empowerment DIVERSITY individuals, prioritizing
average tenure
diverse voices and
Sustainable
Solutions 65 positioning CME Group
WOMEN
TECHNOLOGY AND GLOBAL
26% (OVERALL) 43% INFORMATION 26% PERSPECTIVE, for long-term growth
GENDER
SECURITY INTERNATIONAL
Community DIVERSITY
YEARS
Commitment and success.
average age
Corporate FRESH KAY BENESH
Stewardship PERSPECTIVE
RACIAL/
13% 43% (TENURE LESS CME Group
ETHNIC
THAN FIVE Director and
DIVERSITY
Appendix YEARS) Member of the
Audit and Market
Regulation
Oversight
Committees
See our 2024 Proxy Statement for additional information on the attributes and qualifications of our Board members, including
detailed biographies and diversity statistics.
For information on our governance policies, see the following resources:
Board of Directors Code of Ethics | Board of Directors Committee Charters | Board of Directors Conflict of Interest | Corporate Governance Principles
CORPORATE STEWARDSHIP 33
Risk Management
As a company that provides risk management tools and Each of the Board’s eight committees has dedicated risk- Furthermore, our ERM Program is designed to ensure
services to our global clients, we approach our own risk related responsibilities,6 with the Risk Committee tasked appropriate visibility and reporting of the full range of our
management practices, protocols and programs with with reviewing, assessing and providing oversight of our risk key enterprise risks aggregated on a quarterly basis. Our
the same level of rigor. Our approach to managing risks management practices, including approving the ERM Managing Director, Chief Enterprise Risk Management
focuses on preserving and protecting our enterprise value framework and risk universe. Board committees meet with and Compliance Officer is responsible for our ERM and
and maintaining and enhancing our reputation. Our Board leaders of key control functions, providing direct access to Compliance programs and reports internally to our
Message From
Our Chairman has ultimate oversight responsibility for the company’s risk Board members and ensuring the independent operations General Counsel and externally to the Risk Committee. We
& Chief Executive
management activities, including our ERM, Operational of such functions. Committee chairs then provide regular organize our enterprise risks into six categories: clearing
Officer
Resilience and Global Information Security (GIS) programs. reports to the full Board regarding matters reviewed by their house, compliance, financial, operational, reputational and
Senior management is responsible for managing day- respective committees at the Board’s regular business strategic and commercial. The profile of this risk universe
About CME Group
to-day risk and regularly engaging with our Board. The meetings. and our associated responses are reported to the Board and
Board holds management accountable for maintaining an senior management quarterly.
Workforce
effective risk management program and operating it within
Empowerment
the acceptable risk appetites that have been recommended
by the Risk Committee and approved by the Board.
Sustainable
Solutions
6 See our 2024 Proxy Statement for a summary of risk-related responsibilities by Board committee.
Community
Commitment
Corporate
Stewardship
Appendix
CORPORATE STEWARDSHIP 34
Managing risks related to third parties
2023 RISK UNIVERSE
Our Third-Party Risk Management (TPRM) Program is designed to identify, assess and
manage potential risks relating to the engagement of certain third parties. TPRM establishes
CLEARING HOUSE COMPLIANCE FINANCIAL
due diligence standards and procedures to help ensure that the purchase of goods, services
• Clearing House • Corporate Compliance • Accounting and the engagement of certain third parties (e.g., agents, affiliates, vendors/suppliers,
Financial and Financial consultants, etc.) are appropriately reviewed, negotiated, risk-assessed, authorized and
• Regulatory
Resources Information documented. Effective TPRM allows CME Group to manage potential exposures to risks within
Message From • Government Relations: acceptable levels – especially those that relate to critical processes and activities – and to
• Clearing House • Credit, Market
Our Chairman
Political, Legislative
& Chief Executive Operations and Industry optimize for maximum achievable benefits from that relationship or engagement.
Officer and Regulatory
• Legal Managing succession planning
About CME Group
Providing effective continuity of leadership is vital to the success of our company and central
to our long-term strategy. The entire Board is responsible for succession planning for the
Workforce OPERATIONAL REPUTATIONAL
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, as well as other critical senior leadership roles, with
Empowerment
• Sourcing and • Operational Resilience • Brand the Nominating and Governance Committee overseeing the process. The Compensation
Third Party Committee is responsible for ensuring we have appropriate compensation strategies and
Sustainable • Information Technology
programs in support of retention and recruitment. To provide the Board with opportunities
Solutions
• Information Security
STRATEGIC &
• Planning and Execution to familiarize themselves with our executive talent, all members of our Management Team
COMMERCIAL
• Physical Security attend regular board and committee meetings based on their roles and responsibilities. We
Community • Trading Operations
• Growth also prepare senior leaders who are potential successors to the role of Chief Executive Officer
Commitment
• Human Resources
by providing development opportunities, including engagement with and exposure to key
• Commercial
stakeholders, regulators, investors and clients.
Corporate Offerings
Stewardship
CME Group tracks impacts from climate and sustainability risk within the
Appendix
foregoing risk universe categories as applicable, based on the potential impact to
its operations, strategy and reputation.
CORPORATE STEWARDSHIP 35
Business Ethics and Integrity
At CME Group, we are committed to operating honestly, fairly, transparently and in accordance with applicable regulations.
We strive to cultivate an ethical business culture through our Compliance and Ethics Program, which underpins our success and
Despite a lot of
mitigates the risk of misconduct and illegal activity. Our Managing Director, Chief Enterprise Risk Management and Compliance
Officer leads this program, which is overseen by the Risk Committee and supported by a cross-functional team of senior leaders. change this year, this
External compliance and legal experts are also regularly consulted.
group continued to go
Message From
In 2023, we surveyed employees to better understand how they view our Compliance and Ethics Program. The results indicated
Our Chairman above and beyond their
& Chief Executive that the program is operating effectively, and employees understand the behaviors expected of them to uphold the integrity of our
Officer regular duties and stay
operations. Following the survey, we took the opportunity to communicate the results to our employees and to provide them with
enhanced transparency with respect to the program’s allegation intake and investigation and disciplinary processes in support of
focused on leading with
About CME Group our speak up culture.
conviction and integrity
Upholding a culture of integrity
and have earned
Workforce
Empowerment
Integral to our Compliance and Ethics Program is our global Regardless of whether the report is raised anonymously or not,
their recognition as
Code of Conduct, which outlines our expectations for our we make every effort to protect the confidentiality of anyone
Compliance Champions.
Sustainable employees, internal consultants and temporary personnel who raises a concern in good faith. All reported matters are
Solutions
resources to act with honesty, thoughtfulness and integrity to taken seriously and investigated as necessary. To demonstrate
protect CME Group’s reputation. These CME Group colleagues appropriate oversight and accountability, aggregated
SUNIL
Community must certify the Code of Conduct and its related policies information regarding allegations received and the nature
Commitment CUTINHO
annually. We also developed a guide to Conducting Business of any remedial action taken by the company are reported
Chief Information
for Third Parties of CME Group to help our third parties to senior management and at the Board level. Substantiated
Officer, Chicago
Corporate
understand our standards for business conduct. The guide violations result in corrective action or discipline, as
Stewardship
covers compliance topics similar to those covered in our Code appropriate, up to and including termination.
of Conduct.
Appendix We marked the 10th year of our Compliance Champions
Additionally, providing resources and the ability to raise any initiative in 2023, recognizing 67 employees who best
instances of misconduct or violation of law is another key demonstrate CME Group’s business principle of leading with
element of our Compliance and Ethics Program. Our Speak conviction and integrity and embodying the philosophy of our
Up and Escalation Policy details the responsibilities of all Speak Up and Escalation Policy.
CME Group colleagues to report and escalate issues of
concerning behavior or misconduct. There are multiple
channels through which to raise concerns, including the
CME Group Helpline, where anonymous reports may be
made where locally permitted.
CORPORATE STEWARDSHIP 36
Reinforcing compliance education
In addition to our Code of Conduct, CME Group expects our employees and third parties to
act ethically and in line with our core values, as well as to uphold the other policies that are
part of our Compliance and Ethics Program. Throughout 2023, we sought to provide effective
communications and risk-based training on various aspects of our Compliance and Ethics
Program related to:
Message From
Our Chairman
Awareness of our Information Security Program, including how to identify
& Chief Executive
Officer phishing attempts
About CME Group
How to protect our confidential and proprietary information
Workforce
Empowerment
The importance of participating fairly in the marketplace and complying with
Sustainable
Solutions our policies to prevent insider trading
Community
Commitment
How to comply with our global anti-money laundering and economic
sanction policies and our anti-corruption and anti-bribery policies
Corporate
Stewardship
How to use GenAI responsibly and in accordance with CME Group policies
Appendix
See our 2022 ESG Report for highlights on our various compliance policies that support our
Code of Conduct.
CORPORATE STEWARDSHIP 37
Data Privacy and Security
The secure storage and transmission of our employees’ and clients’ data and the ability to continuously transact on our electronic trading platform are critical elements
of our business and operational resiliency. Led by our Chief Information Security Officer (CISO), our GIS Program is dedicated to mitigating risks to our information
systems. We employ a range of safeguards to ensure our data's confidentiality, integrity and availability – including technical, physical and administrative measures.
Our Board and Risk Committee are regularly In addition to our cybersecurity efforts, the
briefed on the activities and effectiveness of our CME Group Privacy Center enhances transparency
Message From
Our Chairman GIS Program, including reports on incident response and accessibility regarding our data privacy
& Chief Executive
plan testing exercises and results of compliance and practices. Moreover, our Data Privacy team plays a
Officer
third-party evaluations. The CISO reports to the Chief vital role in advising on the responsible collection
Information Officer, a member of the CME Group and use of personal data. Our Privacy Program
About CME Group
Management Team, and provides quarterly reports undergoes periodic internal audits and external
to and meets annually in a private session with the assessments to ensure its effectiveness and
Workforce
the Risk Committee. The GIS Program is overseen by compliance. It is also designed to ensure adherence
Empowerment
the Risk Committee, with additional insights provided to relevant regulations, such as the European
by a cybersecurity consulting firm to ensure robust General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and
Sustainable
governance and oversight. we are transparent about our policies regarding
Solutions
personal data rights. Our Privacy Center also
As part of our GIS Program, CME Group operates
provides information on our cookies policy and
Community a cutting-edge Cyber Defense Center. The center
subscription management.
Commitment
is connected virtually 24/7 to our international
operational cybersecurity teams and serves as For further details on our cybersecurity and
Corporate a global hub for various activities such as log data privacy initiatives, please refer to our
Stewardship
collection, event monitoring, threat detection and Proxy Statement and Confidentiality and
incident response, vulnerability management, Data Protection Policy.
Appendix
resiliency, operations and the proactive collection
and processing of both open source and proprietary
threat and intelligence feeds. This enables us
to efficiently manage, investigate and respond
to cybersecurity events. The GIS team works
collaboratively to prevent, detect and respond
to systemic events that may pose a threat to our
industry or the economy.
CORPORATE STEWARDSHIP 38
Public Policy and Partnership
Advocating for smart public policy Joining industry organizations
Active engagement in shaping public policy is integral to our operations and serves the best We extend stewardship principles beyond our internal operations through our participation
interests of our shareholders, employees and clients. It is also a tenet of good corporate in industry associations. These engagements help propel the global economy forward and
citizenship. At CME Group, we advocate for policy objectives with transparency, integrity and foster the exchange of knowledge in support of collective efforts that advance our industry.
adherence to legal frameworks. Our involvement encompasses financial regulations globally, These industry-based organizations include:
Message From
Our Chairman economic growth and stability and is in support of robust capital markets. For detailed insights
& Chief Executive
into our policy engagement stance, refer to our Policy Engagement Statement.
Officer
Analysis and Resilience Center International Swaps and Derivatives
Our Government Relations team operates on multiple fronts, engaging policymakers at federal, Association (ISDA)
About CME Group state, city, regulatory and international levels, including Congress, the Commodity Futures Clearing House and Exchange Forum
Trading Commission (CFTC), the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Treasury, the Managed Funds Association (MFA)
Federal Reserve, the Illinois General Assembly and multiple international regulatory bodies and Commodity Markets Council (CMC)
Workforce
Empowerment standard setters. Overseas Security Advisory Council
Electronic Debt Markets Association Europe
The Government Relations team also plays a critical role in engaging with and keeping industry
Sustainable Securities Industry Financial Markets
stakeholders and our colleagues across business lines and operations informed of critical policy
Solutions Financial Services Sector Coordinating Association (SIFMA)
developments that affect our industry so that we may continue to act in our clients’ best interests.
Council
Community Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE)
Commitment
Futures Commission Merchant Council Initiative
Corporate Futures Industry Association (FIA) SWIFT Information Sharing and
Stewardship
Analysis Centre
Global Association of Central
Appendix Counterparties Trisector Coordination (Electrical,
Communication and Financial Sector)
Global Financial Markets Institute
World Federation of Exchanges (WFE)
International Organization of Securities
Commission’s Affiliate Members
Consultative Committee (IOSCO)
For additional information on our industry participation related to our products and solutions,
see Sustainable Solutions.
APPENDIX 39
APPENDIX
CME GROUP SASB INDEX
Security & Commodity Exchanges
Message From
Our Chairman
SASB broadly defines “sustainability” as the corporate activities that maintain or enhance the ability of the company to create value over the long term. SASB standards are intended for use in
& Chief Executive
Officer communications to investors regarding sustainability issues that are likely to impact corporate ability to create value over the long term. Use of SASB standards is voluntary. The following disclosure
is based on SASB’s “Security and Commodity Exchanges” industry-specific standard. While not all disclosure topics within the “Security & Commodity Exchanges” industry-specific standard may be
relevant to CME Group’s “sustainability” (as defined by SASB), in the interest of transparency, the below table provides requested information on a best efforts basis for 2023.
About CME Group
SASB Code Description CME Group Response
Workforce
Empowerment Promoting Transparent & Efficient Capital Markets
FN-EX-410a.1 (1) Number and (2) As a derivatives marketplace (not an equity marketplace), CME Group’s markets do not include equities of listed companies and, therefore, CME Group does not (and is not required to)
Sustainable average duration halt its markets based on the public release of information. CME Group has several measures in place on its CME Globex electronic trading platform (CME Globex) that are designed
Solutions of (a) halts related to operate its markets in an efficient and orderly manner during volatile market conditions, including the following:
to public release of
• Daily Price Limits: Price limits represent the maximum price range permitted for a futures contract in each trading session. If a price limit is hit, the market remains open; however, it
information and (b)
cannot trade above/below that price range.
Community
pauses related to
Commitment • Circuit Breakers: A series of price limits that, when reached, pause a market for a particular period of time to allow markets to reset.
volatility
• Velocity Logic: CME Globex monitors for potentially significant price movements in extremely small time increments. Velocity logic works in conjunction with price banding to address
market prices that move too far, too fast. If a velocity logic violation occurs, the applicable futures market is automatically temporarily suspended, as are all associated options markets.
Corporate
Stewardship • Market-Wide Circuit Breakers: A control in CME Group equity products that suspends trading upon the activation of a market-wide regulatory halt pursuant to New York Stock
Exchange Rule 7.12 or Nasdaq Stock Market Rule 4121.
During 2023, 285 circuit breakers were triggered and approximately 820 velocity logic events occurred. The duration of the pause or suspension is based on the applicable contract
Appendix
and activity in the market. During 2023, there were no market-wide circuit breakers.
FN-EX-410a.2 Percentage of trades The primary venue for trading CME Group futures and options is CME Globex, a resilient open access platform that provides global connectivity to CME Group markets.
generated from
CME Group employs many policies, procedures and controls that assist in the mitigation of risks associated with any type of electronic trading on CME Globex, including robust
automated trading
protocols for risk management, operational and technological resiliency, market surveillance and cybersecurity. A highly granular and precise audit trail of all CME Globex activity
systems allows us to identify and monitor the trading activity of participants on CME Globex both on a real-time and post-trade basis.
The audit trail also allows us to identify activity originating from automated trading systems. Automated trading systems are used by nearly every type of participant, from farmers to market
makers. Automated systems allow these participants to provide deep liquidity with narrow bid-ask spreads, reduce price and execution risk, minimize market impact and reduce costs.
We believe that open interest—the total number of open futures and options contracts held by market participants at the end of each day—is a reliable measure of the sustainability
of our markets. Open interest is a measure of market liquidity and the ability of a participant to efficiently initiate or offset a futures or options position. These metrics are available in
the Daily Bulletin—Exchange Overall Volume and Open Interest on our Investor Relations page under Financial and Other Reports—Volume Reports.
The notional volume traded and market depth data published daily for our cash markets businesses are also reliable measures of the sustainability of our cash Treasury and FX
markets. These metrics are available in the UST Market Profile and FX Market Profile tools on the CME Group website.
APPENDIX 40
SASB Code Description CME Group Response
FN-EX-410a.3 Description of alert As a derivatives marketplace (not an equity marketplace), CME Group’s markets do not include equities of listed companies and, therefore, CME Group does not (and is not required
policy regarding to) have an alert policy relating to listed companies’ public release of information or company developments that may affect a stock price (positively or negatively).
timing and nature
of public release of
information
Message From
Our Chairman
FN-EX-410a.4 Description of As a derivatives marketplace (not an equity marketplace), CME Group’s markets do not include equities of listed companies and, therefore, CME Group does not (and is not required
& Chief Executive
policy to encourage to) have such a disclosure policy.
Officer
or require listed
Our focus is on developing products and services for our clients’ evolving risk management needs, including the increasing focus on ESG information and services. As a global
companies to
business operating in a complex environment, we understand the importance of developing both innovative and sustainable business solutions.
About CME Group publicly disclose
environmental, social Our ESG-related contracts and services are designed to help global customers manage price risk in today’s energy, metals and agricultural ecosystems as they develop new
and governance technologies and other initiatives to meet market movement towards alternative sources of cleaner energy and sustainable agriculture. We are continuously in conversations with
Workforce
(ESG) information our clients regarding our products and services. As the market evolves, our products and services will evolve to reflect changing client needs. Specifically, we continue to develop
Empowerment
and enhance products that can help our clients manage risks associated with renewable energies and environmental change. ESG is a key priority in our product and services
development.
Sustainable
See the Sustainable Solutions section of this report on pages 15 to 20 and our website for more information on our suite of environmental products.
Solutions
Our leaders participate in and share their expertise with a number of high-profile initiatives and industry-led working groups, committees and taskforces designed to develop
market-wide approaches to advancing more sustainable financial markets.
Community
Commitment
Managing Conflicts of Interest
FN-EX-510a.1 Total amount of In accordance with applicable securities laws and regulations, CME Group includes a description of material legal proceedings (including of the type, if any, described in FN-
Corporate
monetary losses EX510a.1) in our annual and quarterly filings on Forms 10-K and Form 10-Q, respectively.
Stewardship
as a result of
During 2023, the only legal and regulatory matter disclosed by CME Group in such filings was the putative class action complaint filed January 15, 2014 in the Circuit Court of Cook
legal proceedings
County, Chancery Division, against CME Group and the Board of Trade of the City of Chicago, Inc. The plaintiffs, certain Class B shareholders of CME Group and Class B members
associated with
Appendix
of CBOT, allege breach of contract and breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing for violations of their core rights granted in the defendants’ respective Certificate
fraud, insider
of Incorporation. Based on investigation to date, the company believes that it has strong factual and legal defenses to the claims.
trading, anti-trust,
anti-competitive
behavior, market
manipulation,
malpractice, or other
related financial
industry laws or
regulations
APPENDIX 41
SASB Code Description CME Group Response
Managing Conflicts of Interest
FN-EX-510a.2 Discussion of CME Group has adopted a Code of Conduct that applies to its employees, internal consultants and temporary personnel resources. The Code of Conduct builds on CME Group’s
processes for business principle of “leading with conviction and integrity” by setting the tone for a culture of compliance, ethical conduct and accountability, and providing greater detail about the
identifying and behavior expected from our colleagues.
assessing conflicts
Message From The Code of Conduct is supplemented by a more detailed, separate Conflicts of Interest Policy, which sets forth the process for identifying, monitoring and managing actual and
of interest
Our Chairman
potential conflicts of interest. CME Group seeks to ensure that a conflict of interest does not adversely affect the interests of its organization, its clients, its shareholders or other
& Chief Executive
stakeholders. CME Group employees, internal consultants and temporary personnel resources are required to disclose potential conflicts of interest, including but not limited to, those
Officer
relating to personal relationships, outside business activities, financial interests and opportunities. These disclosures are reviewed and approved by the Compliance Department and
management, as appropriate. In addition, CME Group colleagues must certify to the Code of Conduct and the Conflicts of Interest Policy on an annual basis. CME Group Board
About CME Group members are subject to the Board of Directors Code of Ethics, which requires that Board members avoid any circumstance that creates or appears to create a conflict between a
Board member’s own interests and the interests of the company. The Nominating and Governance Committee is responsible for compliance with the Board of Directors Code of Ethics.
Board members must certify to this Code of Ethics on an annual basis.
Workforce
Empowerment When identifying a situation where an actual or potential conflict of interest cannot be avoided, Compliance recommends appropriate actions to manage, document and, as
applicable, report the situation.
Sustainable CME Group’s program to address conflicts of interest includes:
Solutions
• Written policies (CME Group Code of Conduct, CME Group Conflicts of Interest Policy, Board of Directors Code of Ethics, Confidentiality and Data Protection Policy, Personal Trading
Policy, Anti-Financial Crime Policy)
Community
• Disclosure obligations to identify, assess and manage potential conflicts of interest
Commitment
• Regular, ongoing reviews of disclosures under our Conflicts of Interest Policy by Compliance
Corporate • Regular and ad hoc awareness raising measures, including as required based on our operation of regulated businesses
Stewardship
• Separate supervision and segregation of functions
• Confidentiality and information barriers
Appendix
• Checks, controls, monitoring and escalation in the case of non-compliance
• Documentation and reporting to management and on an aggregated basis at the Board committee level
• Reporting avenues, including a third-party operated helpline with anonymous reporting in all permitted locations
APPENDIX 42
SASB Code Description CME Group Response
Managing Business Continuity & Technology Risks
FN-EX-550a.1 (1) Number of During 2023, CME Group’s markets did not have any significant market disruptions.
significant market
disruptions and
(2) duration of
Message From
downtime
Our Chairman
& Chief Executive
Officer FN-EX-550a.2 (1) Number of No material data breaches that required reporting under data privacy laws occurred during 2023.
data breaches,
(2) percentage
About CME Group
involving personally
identifiable
information (PII),
Workforce
Empowerment (3) number of
customers affected
Sustainable
FN-EX-550a.3 Description of CME Group has robust programs, policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent technology incidents, security breaches and market disruptions.
Solutions
efforts to prevent
TECHNOLOGY
technology errors,
CME Group maintains policies, standards, procedures and other documentation regarding its secure software development lifecycle, change management, availability management
security breaches
Community and capacity planning, among others, which contribute to the prevention of technology incidents.
Commitment and market
disruptions INFORMATION SECURITY
Our Global Information Security Program is designed and operated to mitigate information security risks and threats to the company. Its intent is to safeguard the confidentiality,
Corporate integrity and availability of CME Group’s information and services. The program is designed to strengthen the integrity of the global markets we support, protect CME Group’s
Stewardship
information assets, maintain client and employee trust, support our pursuit of strategic objectives, contribute to shareholder value and preserve our reputation and brand. The program
deploys a defense-in-depth strategy, acknowledging the importance of people, process and technology in upholding information security. The strategy incorporates multiple layers
of controls, including, for example, monitoring, vulnerability management, identity and access management, multi-factor authentication and security assessments. The program
Appendix
implements and maintains technical, physical and administrative safeguards to protect the confidential and sensitive information of our clients, employees and other information in
CME Group’s stewardship. To achieve our objectives, we have chosen to base our Information Security Program on accepted industry frameworks. The NIST Cybersecurity Framework
and other technical standards/frameworks (e.g., COBIT, FFIEC and ISO) are leveraged to incorporate best practices for managing information security on platforms relevant to
the business. As part of the Global Information Security Program, valuable external partnerships are established and maintained in order to gain more timely, comprehensive and
actionable threat information across geographies and industries, and to facilitate the exchange of best practices and security techniques. These relationships and partnerships allow
for a high degree of collaboration and cooperation with local, state, federal and international law enforcement and intelligence agencies, industry groups and other private sector
chief information security officers.
APPENDIX 43
SASB Code Description CME Group Response
Managing Business Continuity & Technology Risks
FN-EX-550a.3 Description of The program includes ongoing cyclical management of vulnerabilities, including coordination of identification, classification, remediation, mitigation and metrics. Internal systems and
(continued) efforts to prevent third party contracted organizations are engaged in order to execute internal and external penetration tests and vulnerability assessments. The program also includes solutions and
technology processes that strengthen our security posture related to the provisioning, deprovisioning and access to our systems based on the principles that information should be limited to those
errors, security with a need for access subject to strong authentication.
Message From
breaches, and
Our Chairman
As part of the Global Information Security Program, CME Group operates a state-of-the-art Cyber Defense Center that links virtually to its dedicated 24/7 international operational
& Chief Executive market disruptions
cybersecurity teams and serves as a global hub for activities including log collection, event monitoring, threat detection and incident response, resiliency, operations, vulnerability
Officer (continued)
management and the proactive collection and processing of both open source and proprietary threat and intelligence feeds allowing the company to efficiently manage, quickly
investigate and respond to cybersecurity events. CME Group’s Global Information Security team conducts analysis and aims to prevent, detect and respond to systemic events that
About CME Group might threaten our company, industry or the economy.
The Information Security Program is led by CME Group’s Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) who reports to our Chief Information Officer, a member of our Management Team.
The program is overseen by the Risk Committee of the CME Group Board of Directors and the CISO has an indirect reporting line to the committee.
Workforce
Empowerment
MARKET REGULATION DEPARTMENT
The CME Group Market Regulation Department is responsible for monitoring our markets to identify and prevent potential rule violations, including disruptive trading practices. The
department utilizes sophisticated regulatory systems to conduct market and trade practice surveillance. A key element of our Regulation Program is educating our market participants
Sustainable
about the requirements and expectations detailed in our rulebooks and trading advisories. When violations are identified and disciplinary action may be warranted, enforcement
Solutions
proceedings are conducted before a disciplinary panel, and appropriate disciplinary actions are taken.
OPERATIONAL RESILIENCE PROGRAM
Community
The CME Group Operational Resilience (OpRes) Program serves to mitigate potential impacts to our markets, clients, assets and employees and to safeguard the effective availability
Commitment
of critical products and services. The OpRes Program is designed to ensure that CME Group can respond appropriately to incidents while protecting the interests of its stakeholders,
ensuring the safety of employees and protecting its reputation and brand.
Corporate
Our OpRes team continually identifies new and changing business risks to our operations across all CME Group locations through internal monitoring and planning, industry and
Stewardship
agency partnerships and various information sharing organizations across the globe. The OpRes team works with departments and employees across the company to assess risks at
varying levels of severity. We have developed a framework for mitigating these risks designed to ensure our business and our markets continue to operate effectively through various
Appendix resiliency strategies.
Key aspects of the OpRes Program include:
• System Resilience (Disaster Recovery): helps ensure CME Group can recover its systems following an event that impacts the delivery of technology services through production
environments or deployments. This is done by establishing requirements, approving system design and testing that systems can meet their requirements – including their ability to
recover with their applicable recovery time objectives as identified within the Business Resilience BIAs and/or by applicable regulatory mandate. As part of the System Resilience
Program, CME Group holds various and ongoing system resilience exercises, which include full failover exercises, response and recovery documentation and the maintenance of
various resiliency strategies. OpRes’ testing strategy includes failing over all applications that reside in CME Group data centers and cloud providers.
• The Business Resilience Program: designed to help ensure CME Group can rapidly adapt and respond to internal or external changes – demands, disruptions or threats – while
prioritizing essential business operations and safeguarding people and assets.
• Crisis Analysis and Response: monitors and prepares for unique, high-risk events and potential market threats and ensures the appropriate expertise is gathered from across the
enterprise to evaluate, plan for and manage any incidents that may impact markets, customers and brand.
Efforts have been taken to align the OpRes Program with industry-best practices classified in NIST and other applicable U.S. and international standards stemming from our
categorization as a systemically important market utility and systemically important derivatives clearing organization.
APPENDIX 44
SASB Code Description CME Group Response
Managing Business Continuity & Technology Risks
FN-EX-550a.3 Description of INFORMATION GOVERNANCE AND DATA PRIVACY
(continued) efforts to prevent CME Group is committed to protecting its proprietary, confidential and personal data, including information relating to its business, customers, vendors, strategic partners, employees
technology and other third parties. We have an established Information Governance and Privacy Program which is designed to support our company in managing our data and corporate
errors, security information in compliance with applicable laws and regulations and reducing risk associated with our data.
Message From
breaches, and
Our Chairman
THIRD-PARTY RISK MANAGEMENT
& Chief Executive market disruptions
CME Group maintains a Third-Party Risk Management (TPRM) Program designed to identify, assess and manage potential risks relating to the engagement of certain third parties
Officer (continued)
that support CME Group in delivering its business strategy, including the operation of its markets. TPRM monitors third parties who present moderate to critical risk throughout their
engagement lifecycle. The TPRM Program coordinates with Procurement, Legal, Information Security, Information Governance/Privacy and OpRes teams, allowing our contracts
About CME Group and vendor renewals to align to our risk management posture, provide adequate assurance and meet regulatory requirements. The OpRes team works with TPRM to help provide
assurances that third-party vendors impacting our critical operations have business continuity and disaster recovery plans to minimize service interruptions and control issues,
whenever unforeseen disturbances arise involving a third party’s operation.
Workforce
Empowerment INSURANCE
We maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy and payment of significant deductibles, cover certain aspects of cybersecurity issues.
MONITORING, TESTING AND AUDIT
Sustainable
Solutions We have adopted a risk-based approach to our monitoring, testing and auditing practices, which is consistent with our overall Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Program and
the levels of acceptable appetite for managing key risks associated with our business and strategy as approved by the Board of Directors. Through the ERM Program, we provide a
comprehensive review of our risk management practices and endeavor, in an ongoing manner, to provide assurances that enterprise risks, including those relating to technology errors,
Community security breaches and market disruptions, are identified, assessed, measured, prioritized and reported by management responsible for the respective risks.
Commitment
The CME Group Internal Audit function and our IT Controls and Compliance team conduct independent testing and monitoring utilizing various methods to verify compliance with
written policies and procedures, validate control effectiveness and assess risk exposure from identified control weaknesses or gaps. In addition, our regulated businesses are subject to
Corporate examinations from multiple regulatory bodies, including the CFTC. We conduct internal security audits and vulnerability assessments as well as internal and external penetration tests,
Stewardship
tests of our cyber security incident response protocols and regulatory IT control testing.
CME Group has obtained the ISO27001 information security certification, an international standard signifying that CME Group manages information security with processes that
Appendix preserve the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information.
Our Data Privacy Program is subject to periodic internal audits and external assessments.
APPENDIX 45
SASB Code Description CME Group Response
Activity Measures
FN-EX-000.A Average daily number FUTURES AND OPTIONS ON FUTURES CONTRACTS (in thousands)
of trades executed by CME Group reports trading activity in its futures contracts by volume. Volume is calculated by counting the number of contracts that have been bought and sold over a given time.
product or asset class The following summarizes average daily contract volume for 2023.
Message From Aggregate Average Daily Volume: 24,394
Our Chairman
& Chief Executive Average Daily Volume by Product Line:
Officer
Interest rates: 12,517
Equity indexes: 6,698
Foreign exchange: 954
About CME Group
Agricultural commodities: 1,508
Energy: 2,118
Workforce Metals: 599
Empowerment
Average Daily Volume by Venue:
CME Globex: 22,353
Sustainable Open outcry: 1,145
Solutions Privately negotiated: 896
CASH MARKETS BUSINESS (in billions)
CME Group reports trading activity in its cash markets business by notional value. Notional value is calculated by multiplying the contract unit by the contract’s price. The
Community
Commitment following summarizes related average daily notional value for 2023:
European Repo (in euros) $326.5
U.S. Treasury: $106.1
Corporate
Stewardship Spot FX: $56.7
We report these market statistics in our periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission and they are also available on our website at http://investor.cmegroup.
com/volume, including greater detail on average daily volume.
Appendix
FN-EX-000.B Average daily volume See the information provided above under FN-EX-000.A.
traded, by product or
asset class
NOTES:
This report is limited to operations controlled by CME Group Inc. All amounts regarding contract volume are for CME Group's listed futures and options on futures contracts unless otherwise noted. Total contract volume includes contracts that are traded on our exchange(s) and cleared
through our clearing house and certain cleared-only contracts. Volume is measured in round turns, which is considered a completed transaction that involves a purchase and an offsetting sale of a contract.
APPENDIX 46
2023 GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS SUMMARY
The table below shows 2023 total GHG emissions by Scope and Category7
Emissions % of Total Emissions % of Total
Scope Units Total Usage
(MT COe) – Location (Scopes 1 + 2 + 3) (MT COe) – Market (Scopes 1 + 2 + 3)
2 2
Message From
Our Chairman 1 Direct Emissions from Owned or Controlled Sources 309 0.3% 309 0.3%
& Chief Executive
Officer 1 Natural Gas MWh 669 121 0.1% 121 0.1%
1 Diesel MWh 721 181 0.2% 181 0.2%
About CME Group
1 Mobile Combustion miles 33,382 7 0.0% 7 0.0%
2 Indirect Emissions from Purchased Energy 10,448 8.7% 10,417 11.4%
Workforce
Empowerment 2 Electricity MWh 26,120 9,564 8.0% 9,533 10.4%
2 District Cooling (Chilled Water) Ton-hours 1,389,189 884 0.7% 884 1.0%
Sustainable 3 All Other Indirect Emissions 108,793 91.0% 80,753 88.3%
Solutions
3 Fuel and Energy Related var. - 580 0.5% 580 0.6%
3 Business Travel (Air Flights) miles 13,675,991 2,119 1.8% 2,119 2.3%
Community
Commitment
3 Employee Commuting var. - 1,380 1.2% 1,380 1.5%
3 Purchased Goods + Services USD 56,013 56,013 46.9% 56,013 61.2%
Corporate
Stewardship 3 Capital Goods USD 16,365 16,365 13.7% 16,365 17.9%
3 Upstream Leased Assets MWh 37,217 15,361 12.9% 790 0.9%
Appendix
3 Downstream Leased Assets MWh 30,579 13,743 11.5% 274 0.3%
3 Water ML - - - - -
3 Waste MT 487 3,232 2.7% 3,232 3.5%
Total 119,550 91,479
7 Percentages may not add up to 100% due to rounding.
About CME Group
As the world's leading derivatives marketplace, CME Group (www.cmegroup.com) enables clients to trade futures, options, cash and OTC markets, optimize portfolios, and analyze data – empowering
market participants worldwide to efficiently manage risk and capture opportunities. CME Group exchanges offer the widest range of global benchmark products across all major asset classes based
on interest rates, equity indexes, foreign exchange, energy, agricultural products and metals. The company offers futures and options on futures trading through the CME Globex® platform, fixed
income trading via BrokerTec and foreign exchange trading on the EBS platform. In addition, it operates one of the world's leading central counterparty clearing providers, CME Clearing.
Questions?
To learn more about CME Group’s ESG strategy & initiatives, please contact us at esg@cmegroup.com
CME Group Inc. makes every effort to use reliable, comprehensive information, but we make no guarantee that it is accurate or complete. We have Calculations and reporting have been done in accordance with the GHG Protocol and also with U.K. SECR mandated reporting with the
no obligation to tell you when opinions or information in this report change. This report is intended to highlight some of the work of CME Group in the assistance of an external firm with expertise in this area. Scope 1 GHG emissions are direct emissions from sources that are owned or controlled
areas of environmental, social and governance; it is not comprehensive or necessarily representative of all our activities in those areas. by the company. Scope 2 GHG emissions are indirect emissions from sources that are not owned or controlled by the company. Scope 1 and
Scope 2 operational emissions were calculated using real whole building and prorated data within each building location. For locations where
Details on our financial performance can be found on our corporate website and in our public filings available through the U.S. Securities and
this information could not be obtained, a value per square foot of office space was used. As a result of exiting from certain premises in 2023 and
Exchange Commission (SEC). Our ESG reporting describes those topics which we consider to be the most important to stakeholders when evaluating
changes to the way some landlords report data, we have updated our emissions methodology for 2023. Consequently, CME Group’s Scope 2 and 3
environmental, social and governance issues at CME Group. Therefore, materiality and its relevant definition as used in this report and our ESG
market-based emissions have reduced by some margin. Scope 3 GHG emissions are the result of activities from assets not owned or controlled by
materiality review process is different than the definition used in the context of filings with the SEC and under the long-standing U.S. Supreme Court
CME Group, but that CME Group indirectly impacts in its value chain. Assumptions for Scope 3 emissions are inherently more common than those
definition of that term. Issues deemed material or relevant for purposes of this ESG report and for purposes of determining our ESG strategies may not
for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. Where actual activity-based data was available, it was used for Scope 3 emissions calculations. The majority of
be considered material for SEC reporting purposes.
Scope 3 emissions were calculated using the GHG Protocol’s spend-based method.
This report contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform
In order to better align with our operational reporting boundary, to conform with evolving industry best practices and based on better information
Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but instead represent only the company’s beliefs regarding future events, many
from landlords and data center providers, we made a number of improvements to our reporting, including some notable landlords or data center
of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside of the company’s control. It is possible that the company’s actual results may differ,
providers consider certain portions of emissions (particularly with respect to cooling) as their Scopes 1 or 2 emissions. In those cases, we report those
possibly materially, from the anticipated goals and targets indicated in these forward-looking statements. For information about some of the risks and
emissions in our Scope 3 Upstream Lease Assets category so as to avoid double counting of emissions.
important factors that could affect the company’s future results, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 2023 and “Risk Factors” in Part II, Item 1A of the company’s subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. CME Group Due to the limited amount of operational control, emissions related to third party subtenants who sublease from CME Group are either excluded
does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements. from our emissions or considered to be within our Scope 3 Downstream Leased Asset emissions depending on the circumstances and industry best
practices.
Unless otherwise noted, this report covers initiatives and performance metrics associated with our global operations from January 1 through
December 31, 2023. Our past reports are available on our website. Emissions related to colocation customers in our largest data center located in Aurora, Illinois is particularly complicated. Because CME Group
has limited operational control or influence over procurement of data center equipment in these spaces nor control over how the equipment is
All figures regarding contract volume are for CME Group’s listed futures and options on futures contracts unless otherwise noted. Total contract
operated, emissions related to powering this equipment is reported as Scope 3 downstream emissions for CME Group. Our environmental disclosure
volume includes contracts that are traded on our exchange(s) and cleared through our clearing house and certain cleared-only contracts. Volume is
initiatives will continue to evolve and new strategies will be developed and implemented and discussed in our future ESG reports.
measured in round turns, which is considered a completed transaction that involves a purchase and an offsetting sale of a contract.
CME Group, the Globe logo, CME, Chicago Mercantile Exchange, Globex, and, E-mini are trademarks of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. CBOT
Third parties, including charities, mentioned within this report are not affiliated with CME Group, unless otherwise disclosed. The CME Group Foundation
and Chicago Board of Trade are trademarks of Board of Trade of the City of Chicago, Inc. NYMEX, New York Mercantile Exchange and ClearPort
is separate from the CME Group Inc. organization. Any mention of the third parties should in no way be considered to be a solicitation or endorsement
are trademarks of New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc. COMEX is a trademark of Commodity Exchange, Inc. BrokerTec and EBS are trademarks of
by CME Group on behalf of the third parties named.
BrokerTec Europe LTD and EBS Group LTD, respectively. Dow Jones, Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500 and S&P are service and/or trademarks
Improving the quality, timeliness and availability of data is a key component to properly measure emissions and monitor progress over time. There are of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC, Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC and S&P/Dow Jones Indices LLC, as the case may be, and have
well-known challenges with the quality and reliability of emissions data in many sectors. This means we sometimes rely on estimated versus directly been licensed for use by Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
measured emissions data. Over the years we have made a number of improvements to our reporting. The metrics provided in this report reflect our
commitment to transparency and progress but are not suitable for immutable year-over-year comparisons at this time.
