cognizant®
intuition engineered
ESG Report
2022
Message from our
Chief Executive Officer
Dear Stakeholders,
I had the privilege of joining Cognizant as CEO in careers. Our efforts include offering sustainability
January 2023. In the months since becoming part of and climate training to our associates to gain the
the Cognizant team, I have been excited to see both important skills needed to help enable a
the progress the company has already made on its lower-c͏ arbon economy.
journey towards becoming a more sustainable
We also consider how to build an effective pipeline
enterprise and, more importantly, our ongoing efforts
from which we will draw tomorrow’s talent. That
to achieve even better outcomes. We are
means facilitating volunteer opportunities for our
continuously expanding our thinking, uncovering more
associates to provide in-demand tech skills training
opportunities to improve the way we operate and
and digital services in those underserved communities
finding more connections between what we do and
where our clients and we do business, increasing
the larger world, all of which help us fulfill our
inclusion in technology careers, which can open
responsibility of creating value for all our stakeholders.
pathways to prosperity. This circle of activity helps
This holistic view is expressed in Cognizant’s purpose: enable us to attract top talent and help our people
we engineer modern businesses to improve everyday reach their full potential while resonating with global
life. I believe in this purpose. Together with my more clients who we believe expect our workforce to mirror
than 355,000 colleagues around the world, I’m the diversity of their workforces and customers.
committed to Cognizant’s role in creating positive
The ESG journey is one we approach with humility.
change – economically, environmentally, socially
While we’ve made progress in improving Cognizant’s
and technologically.
diversity, we believe there is more to do. Accordingly,
In recent years, we’ve seen even more clearly how we’ve developed programs and initiatives to help
ESG (environmental, social, governance) drive progress, such as including a metric within
considerations are interwoven with our business and Executive Committee compensation that’s focused on
how deeply they affect our associates, clients, gender diversity globally and on developing and
investors, communities and other stakeholders. That’s retaining talent.
why I’m excited to guide our company as it continues
In keeping with our purpose, we believe a modern
its sustainability journey, with a sharp focus on the
business is a sustainable one that understands the
ESG issues we anticipate having the greatest
wellbeing of its associates and operates with a value
relevance to our business model and outcomes.
chain connected to sustainably healthy ecosystems.
We emphasize a systems approach to our business. In keeping with our systems approach to
For example, in managing talent, we think about how sustainability, our focus is on managing our climate
best to attract, retain and engage talent, which we risks and opportunities in the larger context of our
believe means fostering a diverse and inclusive associates, our network of suppliers and other
workplace, providing opportunities for people to partners and the communities in which we operate.
expand their knowledge and develop rewarding
2 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
In 2022, we achieved significant progress in several
areas, such as:
• Setting public, measurable goals for reducing
greenhouse gas emissions and committing to net
zero emissions
• Enhancing our professional development programs,
leading to 25 million hours of learning completed by
our associates
• Doubling the number of internships provided in our
India operations, with plans to double this number
again in 2023
I firmly believe talent is universally distributed across
countries and communities. In 2023, I announced that
Cognizant is simplifying our business operations,
including rationalizing our workspaces. Part of this
shift includes realigning our physical workplace to a
post-pandemic era of hybrid and redistributed work.
My hope is that this new rationalization and hybrid
model will allow more talent to work from a wider
range of locations and help Cognizant multiply the
places where our associates can engage in
meaningful work.
Our company continues to evolve to cater to the
needs of our diverse stakeholders and adapt to our
changing world. I am deeply grateful for your support
and trust in Cognizant, and I invite you to join us on
our journey.
Best regards,
Ravi Kumar
Chief Executive Officer
3
Table of contents
Forward-looking statements 6
Introduction 8 Governance 62
Commitments and actions 10 Our ESG governance strategy 64
Strategy: Creating sustainable value 14 ESG oversight and governance 65
Approach: Organize around our stakeholders 66
Social 16 Enterprise Risk Management 68
Ethics and compliance 68
Being Cognizant: Our people strategy 18
Associate health and safety 70
Arriving at Cognizant: From recruitment 19
through retention Supply chain 71
Data security 72
Working at Cognizant: Supporting our people 23
Data privacy 75
Beyond Cognizant: Community engagement 32
and philanthropy Public policy and political activity 76
Next: Skilling associates with 37
sustainability training
Appendix 78
About this Report 78
Environment 3 8
GRI index 80
Cognizant in the context of climate change 40
SASB index 90
Climate risk and opportunity 41
TCFD index 94
Net zero goal: Metrics and targets 52
GHG methodologies and verification 96
Water stewardship 58
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste 59
Biodiversity and nature 59
Client Sustainability Solutions 60
4 Cognizant ESG Report 2022

Forward-looking statements
This report includes statements which may constitute recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, as updated by our
forward-looking statements made pursuant to the most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and other
safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities filings with the US Securities and Exchange
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the accuracy of which Commission (“SEC”). Further, these statements may
are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties and be based on standards for measuring progress that
assumptions as to future events that may not prove to are still developing and on assumptions that are
be accurate. The forward-looking statements in this subject to change in the future. Forward-looking
report and the materials or websites cross-referenced statements are also aspirational and not guarantees
include, but are not limited to, express or implied or promises that goals or targets will be met.
forward-looking statements relating to our Cognizant undertakes no obligation to update or
expectations regarding our vision, strategy, goals, revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a
initiatives, commitments, risks and opportunities, result of new information, future events, or otherwise,
including with respect to our governance, except as may be required under applicable securities
sustainability, environmental impact, procurement, law. The information included in, and any issues
philanthropy, data privacy and cybersecurity, the identified as material for purposes of, this document
impact of our ESG targets and climate efforts and may not be considered material for SEC reporting
offerings on our business, our future financial results, purposes. In the context of this Report, the term
our clients, our associates and our communities. “material” is distinct from, and should not be confused
These statements are neither promises nor with, such term as defined for SEC reporting purposes.
guarantees, but are subject to a variety of risks and Website references and hyperlinks throughout this
uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, report are provided for convenience only, and the
which could cause actual results to differ materially content on the referenced websites is not
from those contemplated in these forward-looking incorporated by reference into this Report, nor does it
statements. Existing and prospective investors are constitute a part of this Report.
cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
Basis of presentation
forward-looking statements, which are based on the
current and reasonable expectations of our Numerical figures included in this report have been
management, but are inherently subject to subject to rounding adjustments. Accordingly,
uncertainties and changes in circumstances and their numerical figures shown as totals in various tables
potential effects and speak only as of the date hereof. may not be arithmetic aggregations of the figures
Factors that could cause actual results to differ that precede them. In addition, we round certain
materially from those expressed or implied include percentages presented in this Report to the nearest
general economic conditions, changes in the whole number. As a result, figures expressed as
regulatory environment, including with respect to percentages in the text may not total 100% or, as
climate matters, immigration and taxes, legal, applicable, when aggregated may not be the
reputational and financial risks resulting from arithmetic aggregation of the percentages that
cyberattacks, the effectiveness of business continuity precede them. Unless specified otherwise, (i) amounts
plans, energy prices, lack of technological in this Report are presented in United States dollars
innovations, climate-related conditions and weather and (ii) figures are provided as of December 31, 2022.
events, and the other factors discussed in our most
6 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
About our business
We engineer modern businesses to improve everyday life.
2022 Company snapshot
Our global footprint
$19.4 355,300
B
Revenue1
Employees
UK
Continental Europe
North $1.8 Rest of world
B
America $1.8
Revenue B $1.4 B
$14.4 B Revenue
9,200 Revenue
Revenue 18,200 India
Employees 28,300
41,100 Employees 258,500
Employees
Employees Employees
Our business segments
Financial Health Products Communications,
services sciences and resources media and technology
31% 29% 24% 16%
Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue
1 Revenues attributed to geographic regions based upon client location, which is the client’s billing address.
7
Introduction
Our year-round focus is on meeting client, investor and talent
expectations by creating meaningful change at scale.
Sophia Mendelsohn
Global Head of ESG
and Chief Sustainability Officer
8 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
9
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Commitments and actions Strategy: Creating sustainable value
Commitments and actions
2021 Commitments 2022 Actions
Diversity Progress: Implemented an Executive Committee
Continue our commitment to compensation metric focused on gender diversity
increasing associate diversity globally (See Recruiting diverse talent for more
through inclusive hiring practices details)
Social and a welcoming environment
In 2022, our gender diversity rate at the senior
Continue the use of a goal for manager and above level grew to 17.2%
directors and above to hire and
Progress: As of December 31, 2022, women accounted
retain women at the senior
for 38.3% of our workforce globally and 39.3% within
management level and above, as
India; the number of women working at Cognizant
set in 2020
grew by more than 11,000
Progress: Expanded domestic partner coverage, life
insurance, mental health support, access to
telehealth and support for gender transition for
associates
Talent management Progress: Trained approximately 150,000 associates
Continue to address the skills gap (over 25 million learning hours) across a variety of
between what people can do digital skills
today versus expectations for the
Progress: Invested over $23.5M globally in
jobs of tomorrow through both
organizations advancing digital skills, local
internal associate training as well
community support and disaster response around the
as facilitating volunteer
world
opportunities for our associates to
provide technology skills training Progress: 47,000 associates put their knowledge to
to others in underrepresented work outside of Cognizant in 150,000 volunteer hours
communities
10 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Commitments and actions Strategy: Creating sustainable value
2021 Commitments 2022 Actions
Emissions reduction: Reduce Progress: By greening our IT, we have reduced
absolute emissions by 50% from emissions associated with our IT infrastructure by
the company’s global operations 60% since 2019
and supply chain by 2030 and
Environmental 90% by 2040 with plans to negate
remaining emissions for both 2030
and 2040 goals using carbon
offsets
Renewable energy: Source 100% Progress: 44% of electricity consumption in offices
of electricity needs for offices and and facilities in India, covering the majority of our
facilities from renewable global energy consumption, came from renewable
electricity sources, like solar and sources in 2022
wind, by the end of 2026
Supplier climate engagement: Progress: 18% of our top 150 suppliers had set an
Engage top 150 suppliers emissions reduction target by the end of 2022
(covering nearly 60% of spend) to
help them set net zero emissions Target: At least 90% of our top 150 suppliers will
reduction targets2 set an emissions reduction target by 2026
Progress: Offered net zero training to our top 150
suppliers. In 2023, we plan to include emissions
reduction requirements in new supplier contracts
Circularity: Save 80,000 Progress: Kept over 62,000 computers out of landfills,
computers from landfills by the we remain focused on meeting our goal in 2023
end of 2022
Stakeholder expectations: Strive Progress: Annually disclose ESG-related information
to meet our clients’ expectations through several platforms including client-preferred
on major ESG rankings and ones like CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project)
ratings and Ecovadis and regularly engage with clients on our
scores
2 By spend as of December 31, 2022. Suppliers are their own entities and data are accurate as of report publication.
11
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Commitments and actions Strategy: Creating sustainable value
2021 Commitments 2022 Actions
Ethics and Compliance Progress: Updated Global Trade Compliance Policy
Continuously update governance- and Environmental Health and Safety Policy
related policies based on
Recognition: Received recognition from Gartner in
consideration of best practices
2022 for risk assessment framework and use of
Governance analytics
Supply chain: Environment Progress: Formalized risk-based assessment criteria to
Expand tools and outreach to identify suppliers most at risk and subject to modern
engage more suppliers in setting slavery due diligence process
ESG standards and best practices
Progress: Organized emissions reduction workshops
for top 150 suppliers
Progress: Worked with our top 150 suppliers to set
science-based emissions reduction targets and
submit annual climate data to CDP
Supply chain: Supplier diversity Progress: Added a requirement that every
In 2021, we launched our formal competitive sourcing event in the US that exceeds
Supplier Diversity Program in the $150,000 include a diverse supplier
United States to increase the
Progress: 18% increase in total domestic spend in the
diversity of our suppliers through
US with diverse suppliers
engagement and spend targets
Target: Aspire to reach $1 billion of annual spend
in the US with diverse suppliers
Target: Each procurement category lead to
aspire to add two African American–owned and one
veteran–owned supplier each quarter from Q4 2022
through the end of 2023
Data security and Data privacy Progress: Began preparations for compliance with the
Continuously improve policies and ISO 27011:2022 standard
practices to stay current with
regulations, trends and best
practices
12 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Commitments and actions Strategy: Creating sustainable value
2022 ESG-related awards
Brandon Hall Accelerating a diverse
leadership pipeline
India Workplace Equality Index
Gold employer
Best Place to Work for
LGBTQ+ Equality
Human Rights Campaign
Corporate Governance
Professional of the Year
Innovation Excellence
ESG Metrics & Reporting
Sustainability Magazine’s
Top 100 Leaders of 2022
Tech for Good
Top 25 Sustainability Leaders in
Consulting of 2022
Women in IT 2022 Award for
Social Mobility Project
Smart Nation Ambassador
Digital for Life
Champions for impact
in supporting inclusion in tech
Microsoft Partner Awards
CTS Won Award for Microsoft’s “APAC
Region Social Impact - Inclusion
Changemaker”
Champions of Good 2022
13
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Commitments and actions Strategy: Creating sustainable value
Strategy: Creating sustainable value
Where we focus and why
A business lens A wider lens
In 2021, we worked with a third party to gauge which Companies operate within a larger context than their
ESG issues various stakeholders thought were most immediate operations. As a global company and
relevant to our business. In 2022, we built on this work Participant of the United Nations Global Compact
internally by reviewing client questions and requests in (UNGC), our approach to ESG supports a number of
order to continue focusing on the topics that we the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
believe are most impactful and relevant to our (UN SDGs), as shown below. We believe that, because
business: of our size, we have the ability to create positive
economic impact through our business model.
• Environment with an emphasis on reducing
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions through
technology, our culture and internal change-
management
• Social with an emphasis on engaging, training and
hiring diverse talent in our workforce from our
communities
• Governance with an emphasis on ESG oversight
and transparency, including supply chain
management, health and safety, ethics, data
privacy and security
14 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Commitments and actions Strategy: Creating sustainable value
UN Sustainable
Development Goal Cognizant alignment
Proliferating STEM education and filling the technology skills gap by
investing in training for talented individuals from underserved and
underrepresented communities.
Our diversity and inclusion efforts extend from our associates to our
suppliers, including better understanding how we can support the various
needs of our associates.
Our climate platform seeks to reduce our emissions and help our clients
reduce theirs through lower-carbon technology and skilling.
Our strategic technology partnerships make social impact.
For example, with AWS we work to equip youth with cloud skills and
mentor them in building solutions to help their communities.
We employ 355,000 people around the globe and seek to
improve everyday life through our and our clients’
businesses.
15
Social
We believe our workforce of more than 355,000 talented associates enables us to be
a global force for skilling, training and long-term workforce development. We focus on
doing this at scale, including for underrepresented talent and communities.
We consider diversity and inclusion throughout our work. In this section, learn about:
Being Cognizant: u Arriving at u Working at Cognizant: u Beyond Cognizant: u Next: Preparing for
Our people strategy Cognizant: From Supporting our Community the skills of the future
with sustainability
recruitment through associates engagement and training
retention philanthropy
From years of experience, I have seen how diversity improves business
decisions. As Chair of the Board of Directors, I am engaging with
management on improving the gender diversity of the leaders at the
company. I see our efforts around gender diversity as an important part of
Cognizant’s ongoing transformation.
Steve Rohleder
Chair of the Board of Directors, Cognizant
16 Cognizant ESG Report 2022

Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Being Cognizant: Our people strategy Arriving at Cognizant: From recruitment through retention Working at Cognizant: Supporting our people
Beyond Cognizant: Community engagement and philanthropy Next: Skilling associates with sustainability training
Being Cognizant:
Our people strategy
Our strategy focuses on attracting, retaining and fully For the first time, in 2022, our Executive Committee
engaging talent to benefit our associate wellbeing compensation included a metric focused on gender
and client outcomes. To do so, we have embedded diversity globally and on developing and retaining
diversity and inclusion in our employee value talent. In addition, every leader at the level of director
proposition. We put our approach into action across and above has a goal relative to their business area
pre-employment training, recruiting, professional for hiring and retaining women at the senior manager
development and future leadership mentoring. level and above. In 2022, our gender diversity rate at
the senior manager level and above grew to 17.2%.
Our Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) program –
“Completely Cognizant” – aligns with our In line with our Equal Employment Opportunity Policy
commitment to creating a diverse and inclusive in the US, we are committed to providing a work
workforce with a culture of belonging and environment free from discrimination, harassment
engagement. and retaliation. All of our associates are entitled to fair
wages and hours and reasonable accommodations
For us, diversity includes gender, generation, race,
consistent with applicable laws and regulations.
geography, ability, belief, religion, sexual orientation
and veteran status. We strengthen our business,
culture and ability to serve our clients and At Cognizant, central to our values and culture is
communities by bringing together unique fostering an environment for everyone to thrive.
perspectives, experiences and understanding.
To achieve this, our programs address inclusion,
We build a culture of inclusion through: wellbeing and the diverse needs of our
associates to feel a sense of belonging.
• Leadership tone at the top
• Recruiting diverse talent
• Supporting associate needs with wellbeing efforts, Shameka Young
training and professional development, as well as Global Head of Diversity
engagement opportunities and Inclusion
Through our people programs, we seek to:
• Recruit diverse talent
• Create an inclusive environment through a welcoming corporate culture, benefits and rewards,
education and engagement opportunities
• Support associate needs, improving retention and fostering career growth
• Grow our diverse talent pipeline long-term by providing in-demand tech skills training and digital services
to underrepresented communities and organizations through volunteering and philanthropy
In 2022, Cognizant hired over 132,000 people, including over 50,000 women.3
3 Please see our 2022 Form 10-K for information about hiring and attrition.
18 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Being Cognizant: Our people strategy Arriving at Cognizant: From recruitment through retention Working at Cognizant: Supporting our people
Beyond Cognizant: Community engagement and philanthropy Next: Skilling associates with sustainability training
Arriving at Cognizant:
From recruitment through retention
Our more than 355,000 associates come from many walks of life and parts of the globe. Their diverse
perspectives and creativity inform our ability to meet our clients’ needs.
Global gender diversity4 Generational demographics
Number of women5 Number of women grew by
134,158 11,000+
1.0% Baby Boomers
10.3% Gen X
Gender split6 58.2% Gen Y
30.5% Gen Z
New female hires
38.3% Women
37.8%
61.7% Men
US associates racial / ethnic group representation7
Gender representation of associates
58.1% Asian
Senior Vice President+ Senior Manager+ 28.5% White
11.1% Women 17.2% Women 6.7% Black
88.9% Men 82.8% Men 4.3% Hispanic
2.1% Two or more races
0.17% Native American
0.07% Pacific Islander
We have detailed our efforts to improve the diversity of our associate body. We are proud of all our talented
associates and seek to continue to give opportunities to talented individuals from underrepresented groups.
4 Gender diversity metrics are as of December 31, 2022 and calculated on the basis of those employees who responded as female or male.
5 Our Workforce Insights team tracks the hiring, development and retention of women. Data on the progress is then shared with Cognizant’s
Board as part of quarterly and annual reporting on talent.
6 We disclose binary gender information to provide the most complete data available at time of publication. In 2022, we began offering
associates the option to self-identify as non-binary. For Cognizant’s larger efforts to support the LGBTQ+ community, see p. 29-31.
7 Outside the US, our ability to collect racial and ethnic information is limited by local laws and regulations.
19
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Being Cognizant: Our people strategy Arriving at Cognizant: From recruitment through retention Working at Cognizant: Supporting our people
Beyond Cognizant: Community engagement and philanthropy Next: Skilling associates with sustainability training
Recruiting diverse talent
Recruiting Board directors
Our diversity-oriented hiring practices start at the top
We are focused on recruiting diverse talent to
with our director recruitment efforts. Our Board of
innovate for our clients and meet many of their stated
Directors (the Board) has committed to include
expectations. The Diverse Candidate Pipeline initiative
women and persons with ethnically or racially diverse
promotes diversity in candidates, interviewers and
backgrounds in each pool of candidates from which
perspectives. We apply our Diverse Candidate
we select new director nominees. Our Board
Pipeline initiative at every seniority level.
membership increased from one woman in 2019 to
Our Diverse Candidate Pipeline has three pillars: four women in 2022.
1. Training - Training for hiring managers focused on
The Board evaluates the effectiveness of its director
understanding unconscious bias
diversity efforts through its annual self-evaluation
2. Representation - Enabling diversity within our process and on an ongoing basis through its director
interview hiring panels candidate search processes.
3. Removing bias - Writing gender-neutral job
descriptions
Board diversity matrix (as of April 21, 2023)
Total Number of Directors: 14
Part 1: Gender Identity8 Female Male
Directors 59 9
Part 2: Demographic Background8 Female Male
African American or Black - 1
Alaskan Native or American Indian - -
Asian (including South Asian) 2 1
Hispanic or Latinx - -
Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander - -
White 3 6
Two or More Races or Ethnicities - 18
Did Not Disclose Demographic Background - -
LGBTQ+ - -
Military Veterans - 1
8 Information was voluntarily provided by directors and reflects self-identified attributes. The director who self-identified as two or more races
or ethnicities did not disclose the specific races or ethnicities.
9 Includes Maureen Breakiron-Evans who is retiring from the Board and not standing for reelection at our 2023 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
20 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Being Cognizant: Our people strategy Arriving at Cognizant: From recruitment through retention Working at Cognizant: Supporting our people
Beyond Cognizant: Community engagement and philanthropy Next: Skilling associates with sustainability training
Recruiting college talent in India In the United Kingdom (UK), we joined the Business
Disability Forum, a not-for-profit membership
Attracting, engaging and hiring the best college talent
organization that exists to transform the life chances
requires sourcing and upskilling ambitious young
of disabled people by working through and with
professionals early in their career journeys. Our
business to create a disability-smart world.
comprehensive campus hiring program in India, our
Membership benefits include access to expert advice
largest campus hiring effort globally, focuses on:
and support, a knowledge hub as well as events and
• Professional behavior development webinars focused on disability inclusion.
• Technical skills Recruiting Black, Indigenous and People
• Assessing alignment of professional of Color (BIPOC)
aspirations with personal interests
To diversify our talent pipeline and associate body,
Internal and external facilitators support the learning we’ve implemented BIPOC programs in our hiring
journey of these associates, and mentors from each initiatives, and deepened our partnerships with
business unit connect with cohorts throughout their organizations like the National Black MBA Association.
first year to help them start on a strong and (See our D&I section p. 29-31 for more information
successful path at Cognizant. Our interns work about engagement with BIPOC.)
alongside experienced associates on complex and
Recruiting returners
emerging technology solutions for our clients.
In 2021, we launched the Cognizant Returnship
Program for technology professionals looking to
Intern hiring highlights restart their careers. Participants with at least five
years of relevant experience who have taken an
77% extended career break of at least two years are
supported as they transition back into the technology
of those who completed an internship accepted
workforce. This 12-week paid experience includes real
and joined Cognizant full-time in 2022
project work with immersive training, mentorship,
coaching and a community to support their success.
Doubled the number of intern offers (compared to
At the conclusion of the program, participants are
2021)
considered for full-time positions at Cognizant. Our
Nearly 21,000 interns joined Cognizant full-time placement rate is 95%. We see this model as a
following offers in 2022 template and hope to expand it in the future.
Recruiting veterans
Recruiting people with disabilities
We offer career advancement opportunities,
To continue to improve our hiring efforts of persons technology advancement boot camps and mentoring
with disabilities, in 2022 we launched awareness and scholarships for veterans as part of our skilling
campaigns and accessibility norms across our programs. We focus on creating a pathway for
facilities in India. In addition, we continued our transferable skills from military to civilian careers. (See
engagement with the National Association of our D&I section p. 29-31 and our Global philanthropy
Software and Services Companies and National section p. 32 for more information about engagement
Human Resource Development, India’s largest with veterans.)
network for HR professionals, with respect to diversity
and inclusion.
21
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Being Cognizant: Our people strategy Arriving at Cognizant: From recruitment through retention Working at Cognizant: Supporting our people
Beyond Cognizant: Community engagement and philanthropy Next: Skilling associates with sustainability training
Recruiting women
Since 2020, every leader at the director and above
level has had a target, relative to their business area,
for hiring and retaining women at and above the
senior manager level. (See our D&I section p. 29-31 for
more information about engagement with women.)
As of December 31, 2022, women accounted for 38.3%
of our workforce globally and 39.3% within India; 37.8%
of all new hires globally were female.
We’ve continued our sponsorship of MAKERS, an
organization focused on improving gender equality
within the industry. In 2022, nearly 200 women
completed Propel, our leadership program for women.
More than 1,200 women have completed Propel since
the program first started in 2018.
Pre-employment training
and apprenticeship
To further tackle the technology skills gap, we provide
pre-employment training and apprenticeship
opportunities for untapped talent pools. These
programs focus on high-demand skills that could lead
to job opportunities with Cognizant. In the last four
years, we have recruited more than 2,000 people
through these programs, with more than 600 hires in
2022. We further expanded our pre-employment
training program outside the US with pilot training
cohorts in Latin America and Canada. We are
planning similar programs in the UK.
In 2022, we launched Cognizant Skills Accelerator, a
new train-to-hire initiative for people seeking to
kick-s͏ tart a technology career in the US. In the fast
growing, rapidly changing technology industry, this
program aims to increase the pool of diverse, high
potential candidates. In 2022, we sponsored training
for over 2,000 individuals from underrepresented
talent pools.
22 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Being Cognizant: Our people strategy Arriving at Cognizant: From recruitment through retention Working at Cognizant: Supporting our people
Beyond Cognizant: Community engagement and philanthropy Next: Skilling associates with sustainability training
Working at Cognizant:
Supporting our people
Our goal is to help our associates bring their best
selves to work. Once recruits become associates, we 2022 people-related awards
provide technical resources and people support to
help retain them as colleagues. We focus on all
India Workplace Equality Index
aspects of their Cognizant experience:
recognized Cognizant with its Gold
• Ongoing development: Learning that advances award for LGBT+ inclusion
careers in line with our business strategy
Financial Times recognizes
• Associate wellbeing: Benefits and rewards that
Cognizant as a Diversity Leader
foster wellbeing
• Employee engagement: Opportunities for associates
Healthcare (Small) Category of the
to be heard and feel supported
8th CSR Impact Awards
Talent management
Investing in our current associates and future talent pipeline is critical to career growth and our overall business
growth. Through our talent programs, we hire new talent; develop and retain top talent through training and
career progression; and expand access to a skilled, global workforce through associate engagement in
mentoring and volunteering.
Talent management highlights
Hiring Development Career and rewards Engagement
• Diverse candidate • Technical upskilling • Performance processes • Global affinity groups
pipeline for all levels
• Leadership • Outreach program
• Internship program development • Internal Job Moves (See p. 32)
program
• Pre-employment training • Mentorship programs
and apprenticeships • Performance-based
• D&I training
rewards
• Cognizant Returnship
• Partner learning
program • Global mobility program
programs
• GenC graduate program
Accordingly, we focus on the two main pillars of talent development to optimize our efforts:
• Investing in people and technical skills
• Investing outside of our current associates to grow our talent pipeline
23
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Being Cognizant: Our people strategy Arriving at Cognizant: From recruitment through retention Working at Cognizant: Supporting our people
Beyond Cognizant: Community engagement and philanthropy Next: Skilling associates with sustainability training
Investing in people and technical skills • Leading: Ongoing and regular process of
assessment and development for future leaders
Our skilling ecosystem offers growth for our
workforce at all levels. We provide a continuum of In 2022, we created our milestone programs, which
professional development by role to foster are structured learning paths for development of
advancement: talent from one career stage to the next.
• Entry-level: Specific skills and general training for
non-leadership roles
• Ongoing: Tools, platforms and learning
environments for associates
Milestone programs overview
As we accelerate to deliver on our priorities, supercharging our talent continues to be our key priority. These
milestone programs enable our leadership transitions as we elevate roles - upwards, sidewards or
diagonally.
These programs offer experience, exposure and education through assessments, customized e-learning
modules, practical scenarios, simulations and reference tools.
Program focus area
24 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Being Cognizant: Our people strategy Arriving at Cognizant: From recruitment through retention Working at Cognizant: Supporting our people
Beyond Cognizant: Community engagement and philanthropy Next: Skilling associates with sustainability training
Other development interventions for associates and future leaders included:
Associate development Leadership development
150,000+ 19,300+
associates trained across digital skills programmer to senior director level leaders participated
in leadership milestone programs to help them
transition from one career stage to the next
25 million learning hours 300+
logged by our associates via our leaders from senior manager to senior director levels
on-demand learning platforms, the participated in our accelerated development program,
equivalent of nearly 3,000 years LEAD@Cognizant, that was developed in partnership
with Harvard Business School
420+
assistant vice president level+ were offered targeted
development opportunities on key development needs
25
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Being Cognizant: Our people strategy Arriving at Cognizant: From recruitment through retention Working at Cognizant: Supporting our people
Beyond Cognizant: Community engagement and philanthropy Next: Skilling associates with sustainability training
Partners
We partner with world-class vendors and institutions to offer unparalleled development experiences for
our associates.
We partner with Harvard Business School (HBS) for the design and roll out of our flagship
programs like LEAD and Propel. We also invite speakers from HBS to facilitate webinars/
Harvard Business case study discussions as part of our quarterly senior manager+ offerings.
School
We collaborate with Emeritus to invite industry and subject matter experts for programs
launched as part of our senior manager+ calendar offerings and also involve them to curate
Emeritus custom solutions for our business units.
Recognitions
Brandon Hall Group Human Association of Talent
Capital Management Awards Development Awards
25 8 9 5
gold medals silver medals bronze medals Excellence in Practice Awards
The awards showcase various learning and leadership We were rewarded for several career development,
programs Cognizant has designed for associates to hiring and talent management programs
grow their skills and careers
26 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Being Cognizant: Our people strategy Arriving at Cognizant: From recruitment through retention Working at Cognizant: Supporting our people
Beyond Cognizant: Community engagement and philanthropy Next: Skilling associates with sustainability training
Mentorship program
We are particularly proud of our mentorship program for the role it plays in associates’ lives. The program helps
associates develop their skills, capabilities and network across the organization. In 2022, 150,000 associates
participated in the mentorship program. In 2023, we plan to expand the program to include not only full-time
associates from the US and India, but all full-time associates globally. Associates up to and including senior
directors may participate.
Associate wellbeing
We believe associates do their best work when they feel motivated, healthy and that they are part of an
organization that cares for their wellbeing. This understanding informs our people wellbeing strategy—Be
Cognizant, Be Well.
Our Be Cognizant, Be Well program offers a portfolio of benefits and rewards across physical, mental and
financial wellbeing, as well as life-work balance.
Physical Financial
• Expanded domestic partner coverage in select • Extended life insurance to all associates
countries (where permitted by and in accordance
• Partnered with banks to provide discounted and
with local law)
improved rates and financial education
• Increased access to care in select Asia Pacific
• Developed voluntary programs with more flexibility
(APAC) geographies through telehealth
to provide greater choice in benefits to meet
• Launched support for gender transition services in varying associate needs
select geographies including US, UK & Ireland and
India
• Held regional health and fitness “challenges” in
which 27,000 associates and 2,500+ family
members participated
Mental health Life & work
• Extended access to mental health support to all • Expanded work flexibility options, including
associates, including 24/7 on-demand behavior introducing Work Flex in the UK and formalizing
health coaching, therapy, psychiatry and self-care Flex Friday in the US. Other geographies benefit
resources accessible from the privacy of a from our formal Global Remote Work policy that
smartphone supports work flexibility
• Expanded support resources for subjects • Launched global wellbeing champions network
stigmatized in multiple cultural contexts like with representation in all regions. With this
menopause, mental health and suicide prevention network, we facilitate engagement and awareness
• Provided access to online mindfulness classes and • Launched manager training on leadership’s role in
support to reduce stress and boost overall cultivating and building a culture of wellbeing
wellbeing
27
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Being Cognizant: Our people strategy Arriving at Cognizant: From recruitment through retention Working at Cognizant: Supporting our people
Beyond Cognizant: Community engagement and philanthropy Next: Skilling associates with sustainability training
Employee engagement
We believe high levels of employee engagement help
us retain talent by fostering loyalty. When employees
feel heard and supported, their work performance
improves. As a result, so too does our organizational
performance.
Employee engagement is also a critical component of
how we enact our diversity and inclusion principles,
including how we maintain our inclusive and
welcoming corporate culture. (See Arriving at
Cognizant: Our people strategy.)
We engage our associates through:
• Reviewing their feedback via an annual survey
• Providing year-round D&I support via internal
training, affinity groups and outside partnerships
and sponsorships
• Community, volunteer and mentoring engagement
programs
In 2022, top leadership continued to host small group
listening sessions to connect with associates, get
feedback and address questions.
People Engagement Survey
We measure engagement through our yearly
Cognizant People Engagement Survey and
communicate the results to all associates.
People Engagement Survey highlights
210,000+
associate responses (2022)
We take associate comments seriously.
9,000
people managers with access to survey results
to consider and recommend actions
We saw meaningful increases in our employee
engagement results, including scores above
benchmark across multiple categories
28 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Being Cognizant: Our people strategy Arriving at Cognizant: From recruitment through retention Working at Cognizant: Supporting our people
Beyond Cognizant: Community engagement and philanthropy Next: Skilling associates with sustainability training
Diversity and inclusion (D&I)
Our D&I Program—“Completely Cognizant”—helps us build a diverse and inclusive workforce and promote a
culture of belonging. Through the program we engage our associates in understanding and then helping us
enact our D&I principles via training, affinity groups, events and outside partnerships.
Celebrating diversity all year round
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2022 2022 2022 2022
Black Women’s World Autism IDAHOBIT Hispanic Heritage Month Native Veteran’s Day (US)
History Month History Month Awareness American
Day Pride Month Heritage International Disability
Awareness Day
Month
Internal diversity training This mandatory training is supplemented with
inclusive leadership training focused on topics such as
We offer a range of courses designed to help our
allyship, psychological safety, inter-cultural
associates build intercultural competencies, identify
communication and intelligence, and
unconscious bias and lead with conscious inclusion.
microaggressions.
Our associates complete several mandatory annual
training modules, including: In 2022, 13,000 associates completed voluntary
inclusive leadership training.
• Cognizant’s Code of Ethics Training, which includes
a module on diversity and preventing discrimination
and harassment
• Preventing Harassment and Discrimination
Training, which associates in the US, India and Latin
America must complete each year
29
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Being Cognizant: Our people strategy Arriving at Cognizant: From recruitment through retention Working at Cognizant: Supporting our people
Beyond Cognizant: Community engagement and philanthropy Next: Skilling associates with sustainability training
Affinity groups
Our dedicated affinity groups promote a sense of I’m a firm believer that diversity of thought and
belonging by attracting and welcoming diverse diversity of cultural and professional experiences
candidates when they join Cognizant, and engaging accelerates innovation. We want to celebrate
with associates as their careers grow. The groups also
the diversity of ideas, the diversity of
organize events, conversations and training
backgrounds, the diversity of experiences, for a
opportunities throughout the year, often partnering
better business outcome.
with clients and strategic partners. Each affinity group
is open to all associates. Membership in affinity
groups has more than doubled from 2021 to 2022
year-end. Jan Siegmund
Chief Financial Officer and Executive
• Black, Latinx, and Indigenous Group (BLING)
Sponsor of Embrace Affinity Group
• Embrace (LGBTQ+)
• Pan-Asian Group
• Race Equality Network (enables local countries to
support their ethnic minority groups)
• Unite (people with disabilities and caregivers)
• Veterans Network
• Women Empowered
• Working Families
Each affinity group has an Executive Committee
sponsor who champions its work. They participate in
conversations and represent affinity groups to
leadership.
30 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Being Cognizant: Our people strategy Arriving at Cognizant: From recruitment through retention Working at Cognizant: Supporting our people
Beyond Cognizant: Community engagement and philanthropy Next: Skilling associates with sustainability training
Resources and Partnership Support for Our Diverse Associates
Resources Partnerships
Black, Latinx and • BLING affinity group • National Black MBA Association
indigenous
• Race Equality Network • Steven Skinner Scholarship Award
(chapters in the United
• Hispanic Technology Executive Council
Kingdom, Ireland and Brazil)
Diverse Abilities • Accessibility Concierge • Business Disability Forum
Services in India, an exclusive
• National Association of Software and Services
phone line and live chat with
Companies
trained responders for
• National Human Resources Development, India
associates with disabilities
• National Organization on Disability
• Unite affinity group
• Valuable 500
LGBTQ+ Embrace affinity group Cycle for the Cause
Pan-Asian Group Pan-Asian Group affinity group Stop Asian Hate Campaign
Veterans Veterans Network affinity group Corporate Gray
Women • Propel, our global leadership • Forté
development program
• Ladies Professional Golf Association, including the
designed to help women thrive
women’s Cognizant Founders Cup
in the digital age
• MAKERS
• Women Empowered affinity
• Women in Technology Network
group
31
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Being Cognizant: Our people strategy Arriving at Cognizant: From recruitment through retention Working at Cognizant: Supporting our people
Beyond Cognizant: Community engagement and philanthropy Next: Skilling associates with sustainability training
Beyond Cognizant: Community
engagement and philanthropy
Digital expertise is vital across a growing spectrum of support historically disadvantaged groups through
jobs. While companies have spent heavily on digital technological training and other resources, we believe
skilling, the talent gap remains in many communities we can help mitigate the evolving IT skills gap. At the
and geographies – impacting our talent pipeline. At same time, we strive to lift communities through
the same time, many of the non-governmental access to education and skilled work.
organizations (NGOs) designed to address the issues
We know these programs also deliver business
of underserved communities lack access to digital
benefits. Between 2018 and 2022, the average annual
services and technical skills.
attrition rate of our full-time associates who engaged
Skilling and upskilling are key to both addressing our in Outreach activities was 13% lower than the average
business needs and unleashing prosperity in annual attrition rate of non-Outreach full-time
underserved communities where Cognizant and our associates. And our outreach and philanthropy have
clients do business. We believe Cognizant has an also provided additional sources for potential
opportunity to lead in this space – especially in associates in certain hiring initiatives. (See At
partnership with clients – through our Outreach Cognizant: From recruitment through retention.)
program and philanthropy.
Outreach: Meaningful and
Our associate volunteering, mentorship and
philanthropy are often through projects with NGOs on thematic community
the ground. By leveraging our reach to
engagement
Cognizant is committed to our people. We Cognizant’s Outreach program focuses on two major
engage with policymakers, Corporate Social themes: increasing inclusion in technology and using
Responsibility partners, our clients and the technology for good.
broader business community to invest in and
Increasing inclusion in tech
advocate for responsible policies that contribute
We increase inclusion in the technology industry by
to growing our skilled workforce, supporting
helping provide underrepresented populations with
sustainability in the communities we serve and
the skills and knowledge needed for technology
promoting economic growth for all.
careers. Our trained associates volunteer their
expertise to teach business, software and technology
skills. Overall, 47,000 volunteers devoted over 150,000
Tobi Young hours to this type of volunteering in 2022.
SVP, Legal, Regulatory and
For example, in 2022 we continued our collaboration
Corporate Affairs
set in 2021 with Microsoft, Salesforce and Amazon
Web Services (AWS) to support inclusion and
community impact goals:
32 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Being Cognizant: Our people strategy Arriving at Cognizant: From recruitment through retention Working at Cognizant: Supporting our people
Beyond Cognizant: Community engagement and philanthropy Next: Skilling associates with sustainability training
Microsoft
• Equipped over 7,500 associates with digital I was invited to Cognizant to learn coding. I was
accessibility skills through multiple training
coached by wonderful volunteers from
programs in partnership with Microsoft
Cognizant and also a US bank who helped me to
• Provided almost 20 participants with improved learn and showed me how to keep improving
awareness and understanding of Microsoft
further. I am confident of continuing my learning
customer relationship management (CRM) for non-
even after I return home.
profits
• Continued our partnership with NetHope to Female high school student from
enhance the data and analytics skills of staff from a Chennai public school
NetHope member organizations. Through 1:1 clinics
and advanced excel and Microsoft Power BI
trainings, Cognizant trained almost 1,000 staff (with
In 2022, in support of the International Day for Persons
the majority trained in 2022) from nearly 30
with Disabilities, nearly 900 volunteers from 16
NetHope member organizations. Additionally, we
countries analyzed eye images of children to enable
conducted trainings to improve productivity and
AI-driven early detection and prevention of childhood
work efficiency for the staff of nearly 140 charities
blindness.
across a dozen countries
• Collaborated with Microsoft to improve the
adoption of Microsoft Power BI in the public sector
by training over 60 public officers
We are proud of our partnership on the Microsoft
AWS
APAC Enabler program with Cognizant, who
• Worked with AWS to skill hundreds of students and
have shared our commitment to improve
senior citizens in Singapore and Australia on AWS
workplace disability inclusion by developing
Cloud computing
accessible solutions and building an inclusive
Salesforce
culture through record levels of voluntary
• Partnered with Salesforce to improve awareness of trainings, volunteering and mentorships.
CRM for over 30 of our charity partners
Pratima Amonkar
I love volunteering through Cognizant Outreach Head Strategy, Microsoft
because it gives me a strong sense of purpose
and helps me connect deeper with the
communities that we ultimately serve through
our clients. I take great pride in volunteering with
my employer.
Cognizant Outreach volunteer
33
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Being Cognizant: Our people strategy Arriving at Cognizant: From recruitment through retention Working at Cognizant: Supporting our people
Beyond Cognizant: Community engagement and philanthropy Next: Skilling associates with sustainability training
Using technology for good
NGOs and other charitable organizations improve It was a sheer delight to see my mentee’s
communities yet are frequently under-resourced, continued progress. This program has also
especially digitally. Our volunteers provide these helped me hone my mentoring and guiding skills,
organizations with technology skills and software
which is making me a better and more
solutions to enhance their operations, amplifying their
empathetic manager.
work.
Asia Pacific Volunteer for Singapore 1:1
Digital Skills Mentoring program
Cognizant Outreach Philippines
engaged nearly 30% of our associates in
volunteer work that supported students
and youth with education and skills.
The 1:1 nature of the mentoring program helps
Similarly, Cognizant Outreach
effectively address participating women’s unique
Singapore worked with the National
skills and needs. We loved seeing women’s
Youth Council to provide 185 youth with
confidence navigating technology.
real life work experience that provided
12 social service agencies with digital
transformation services.
Brendan Seah
Partnerships & Operations Manager,
Daughters of Tomorrow
Africa
In partnership with one of our key Life
Sciences clients, GSK, Cognizant
Outreach collaborated with Africa’s
leading health charity AMREF Health
Africa to develop an application that
Volunteering in 2022
helps users connect patients with health
professionals. Cognizant Outreach delivers tech-centric,
impactful volunteering programs implemented
in a nuanced local context
It was wonderful to partner with Cognizant to
Value
improve cloud skills in local community colleges.
This program not only supported our SDG goals 47,000 150,000
to improve quality education and promote
volunteers devoted hours to volunteering
decent economic growth, but importantly also
resulted in nurturing trust and collaboration
Training
within our project teams as they came together
over a larger shared purpose. nearly 7,500
associates took voluntary training on creating
Client, Financial Services accessible design
34 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Being Cognizant: Our people strategy Arriving at Cognizant: From recruitment through retention Working at Cognizant: Supporting our people
Beyond Cognizant: Community engagement and philanthropy Next: Skilling associates with sustainability training
Global philanthropy
We work alongside employers, educators, nonprofits Cognizant’s support to the BIT Academy, which
and thought leaders to unlock economic opportunity
delivers industry-relevant technical skills training
and support investments in sustainable skilling to help
and credentialing to blind and visually impaired
improve the lives of people around the world,
job seekers, was critical to expanding training to
particularly in the US, UK, Canada, Australia,
a Salesforce Platform App Builder Class and
Germany and India.
Salesforce Advanced Administrator Class.
Since 2018, within North America, Australia and
Europe alone, we have awarded approximately $65
Mike Hess
million to support numerous organizations working to
Founder and CEO, Blind Institute
inspire, educate and prepare people of all ages to
of Technology
succeed in the workforce of today and tomorrow.
Cognizant also continued its commitment to
advancing opportunity in the field of trust and safety
and developing a pipeline of scholars by encouraging
students to pursue academic programs and research
in this field.
In 2022, we awarded over $23.5 million in grants and gifts to 115 organizations around the world, furthering our
mission to improve economic mobility and community resilience through strategic programmatic giving, local
community support and disaster response.
Examples of the grants given in 2022 include:
Support industry relevant technical skills training and credentialing to blind and visually
impaired job seekers who want to increase their wage potential and find meaningful careers
Blind Institute of
Technology in tech-related roles.
Support the research, publication and dissemination efforts for Code.org’s annual State of
Computer Science report and policy briefs to increase access to and participation in K-12
computer science.
Code.org
Support capacity building of the TechVets program by improving its reach, tracking and
The Forces engagement into training and employment, to more effectively support the military
Employment
community to find work in information technology.
Charity
Support the expansion of the digital marketing programs in London and Manchester and
launch the Get Started Program in London to enable digital skills training and wraparound
support.
The Prince’s Trust
Support the Raspberry Pi Computing Education Research Centre (in partnership with
Cambridge University) to clearly identify how to teach computer science to primary and
Raspberry Pi secondary school students along with practical resources for educators. Further support the
Foundation
expansion of Code Club and CoderDojo programs in the UK.
35
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Being Cognizant: Our people strategy Arriving at Cognizant: From recruitment through retention Working at Cognizant: Supporting our people
Beyond Cognizant: Community engagement and philanthropy Next: Skilling associates with sustainability training
Cognizant In 2022, Cognizant Foundation India supported nearly
90 projects with over 30 not-for-profit organizations
Foundation India reaching hundreds of thousands of individual
beneficiaries. Examples of philanthropy in 2022
Since 2005, the Cognizant Foundation India has include:
partnered with non-profit organizations across the
• Partnering with local organizations to train persons
subcontinent. In 2022, the Foundation strengthened
with disabilities, and women, through our flagship
its portfolio —historically focused on healthcare,
skilling program, Tech4All. Tech4All was launched
education and livelihood— and sharpened its focus
in 2021 to train persons with disabilities, and
areas along two thematic areas:
women, for careers in technology and tech-enabled
1. Improving access to quality healthcare services. The Foundation has lined up projects that
will seek to train hundreds of persons with
2. Building an equitable society through education
disabilities and thousands of women in basic and
and skilling
advanced IT skills to place them in tech-related jobs
Our projects are now increasingly focused on
• Collaborating with Vision Empower Trust to launch
inclusion and technology and include scholarships
a pilot for inclusive education in math and
and opportunities for digital learning, STEM and
computation. The pilot was implemented in a dozen
vocational training and promoting health
schools in Tamil Nadu, India that cater to visually
interventions for women, children and those at risk for
impaired students, and nearly 400 students were
blindness.
trained
Our programs
Our focus
Empowering persons with Holistic child development Gender equality
disabilities
Programs
Leveraging technology and collaboration for greater impact
Program theme Program theme
Improving access to Building an equitable society
quality healthcare through education and skilling
• Preventing avoidable blindness • Accelerating access to higher education
• Promoting women and child health • Skilling for employability and vocational
education
• Interventions for persons with disabilities
• Promoting digital, STEM and inclusive education
36 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Being Cognizant: Our people strategy Arriving at Cognizant: From recruitment through retention Working at Cognizant: Supporting our people
Beyond Cognizant: Community engagement and philanthropy Next: Skilling associates with sustainability training
Next: Skilling associates
with sustainability training
Cognizant deals in knowledge. Our clients increasingly expect us to incorporate sustainability knowledge into
traditional industry-specific technology outcomes. Our clients’ interest is matched by that of our associates, who
have and are taking sustainability training at scale with us.
Goal for 2024 100,000 associates participating in voluntary sustainability and climate training to gain the
skills to help deliver the future lower-carbon economy
Sustainability By the end of 2022, 35,000 associates had taken voluntary zero waste training
Training in 2022
15,000 associates from 44 countries pledged and developed their own emissions-reduction
goals, beating our internal goal of 10,000
Clients Associates
Our clients have made significant financial Of growing interest, especially among the junior talent
commitments to transition to a lower-carbon Cognizant seeks to attract and retain, are the
economy. They expect Cognizant to have an subjects of climate and sustainability. In addition to
informed view on how digital tools can meet their tens of thousands of associates participating in
sustainability goals. Throughout 2022 and into 2023, sustainability training, 15,000+ associates participated
Cognizant provided various sustainability trainings to through an application associated with the United
associates. Such training helps pair client digital Nations. Through this application, associates can
transformation needs with an industry-specific access video lectures about a variety of topics,
sustainability platform. including the basics of climate change, the water
cycle and the global food system.
37
Environment
We believe a modern business is a sustainable one—one that understands the health
of its communities and the health of its value chain is connected to sustainable,
healthy ecosystems. Technology can be a tool that supports sustainability efforts, and
we think that makes it a business opportunity.
As an active member of the international community, we know that climate change is a
global concern and presents an urgent call for business leadership where a company has
its most impact and opportunity. As a result, we are focused on reducing greenhouse gas
(GHG) emissions and putting our technology and talent to work helping our clients meet
their own resource reduction goals.
In this section, learn about:
Climate Risk and Reducing our Biodiversity and Water: Why Circularity: Next: Preparing for
Opportunity: What greenhouse gas nature: The role we are working How we seek to understanding our
our climate risks and emissions: How we can play in towards upcycle and nature-related risks
opportunities may be we strive to lower nurturing healthy managing our manage waste and opportunities
and how we consider our emissions ecosystems water footprint
them
38 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
39
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Cognizant in the context of climate change Climate risk and opportunity Net zero goal: metrics and targets Water stewardship
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste Biodiversity and Nature Client Sustainability Solutions
Cognizant in the context
of climate change
More extreme weather events and resource scarcity To execute our climate strategy, we have
can impact communities and clients around the four main pillars:
world. Our focus is on managing our climate risks and
opportunities in the context of our associates, our 1 Mitigate: our climate risks by identifying
network of suppliers and other partners and the high-risk areas (page 41)
communities in which we operate.
Our climate strategy is designed to transition 2 Reduce: our emissions with a net zero goal
Cognizant to a lower-carbon, sustainable company (page 52)
by considering how climate impacts our value chain.
Our climate strategy starts with and centers on our
3 Expand: integrate our climate initiatives with
most important assets— people and their knowledge
those in water (page 58), circularity (page 59)
— leveraged through the IT services we sell. We are
and biodiversity (page 59) for a larger
giving special focus to how climate may impact our
associates where they live and work. We also assess positive impact
the possible impacts of climate change on our
vendors and clients.
4 Solve: support our clients in their climate-
related engagements (page 60)
Please see our 2022 Form 10-K for information about
Cognizant carefully assesses data on
the risk factors that affect or may affect our business.
our business landscape, determines the
environmental risks and looks to seize the
opportunities to use our scale and our
technology expertise to help mitigate
climate change.
Dr. Stuart Poore
Global Environmental Lead
40 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Cognizant in the context of climate change Climate risk and opportunity Net zero goal: metrics and targets Water stewardship
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste Biodiversity and Nature Client Sustainability Solutions
Climate risk and opportunity
In line with the recommendations of the Task Force on program, part of how we respond to extreme
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), we weather, including weather events made more
share climate-related details on: likely by climate change
Governance by management
Governance
Cognizant has dedicated resources to governance at
Scenario analysis10
the leadership and operational levels. At the executive
Risk framework and management11 level, our CEO has overall responsibility for addressing
climate risk and facilitating climate-related
Opportunity opportunity. Day-to-day responsibility sits with our
Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), who works closely
Metrics and targets
with the CEO and reports to the General Counsel and
Chief Corporate Affairs Officer. The CSO and ESG
Governance
team are responsible for embedding climate
considerations throughout Cognizant’s business,
Cognizant seeks to govern our exposure to climate including orchestrating the execution of our ambitious
change through multiple forms and bodies. emissions reduction targets. To accomplish this
objective, the CSO works cross-functionally with many
Governance by Board of Directors
leaders including the Chief Audit Executive (Internal
The Board considers how climate change may impact Audit) and Enterprise Risk Management (ERM), the
our business. Through its committees, our Board Chief Security Officer and the Chief
discharges its oversight responsibilities as follows: Administrative Officer.
• Governance and Sustainability Committee: At the operational level, dedicated leaders oversee
Responsible for overseeing Cognizant’s approach Cognizant’s approach to managing environmental
to broad ESG matters. In 2022, members of the risks and opportunities and strengthening client
Governance and Sustainability Committee met to engagement and raising Cognizant’s ESG
review ESG strategy and performance, including performance and transparency.
our net zero goal, physical climate risk and ESG
reporting. The Governance and Sustainability
Committee also occasionally engages in related
Board education Our commitment to ESG performance is realized
by strengthening our company’s institutional
• Audit Committee: Responsible for overseeing the
capability and pairing that with rigorous and
company’s enterprise risk assessment and
management framework, including the company’s relevant transparency.
processes for identifying, assessing, monitoring and
mitigating key business risks, including ESG risk. In
addition, the Audit Committee monitors M. Aya Kiy-Morrocco, Esq.
Cognizant’s Global Business Resiliency (GBR) Head of ESG Governance
and Reporting
10 TCFD refers to scenario analysis as Strategy.
11 TCFD refers to this as Risk Management and includes both risks and opportunities.
41
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Cognizant in the context of climate change Climate risk and opportunity Net zero goal: metrics and targets Water stewardship
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste Biodiversity and Nature Client Sustainability Solutions
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) GBR work in tandem. Country risk dashboards,
developed by ERM, help us understand and illustrate
We believe climate risk is not a standalone
the risk exposure of doing business in countries with
environmental risk but has a potential multiplier effect
higher risk exposure to natural disasters and climate
across other existing business risks. As such, our
related regulatory regime changes, among
governance of this risk is incorporated into
other insights.
Cognizant’s larger global ERM program. ERM enables
the periodic measurement, monitoring, reporting and GBR also manages our incident response planning,
oversight of the organization’s most significant which is designed to increase confidence in and the
risk areas. resiliency of infrastructure. GBR’s controls are
designed to predict and prepare the business for
Our ERM process includes:
acute and chronic physical shocks, including:
• Identifying and prioritizing the top risk focus areas
for the organization on a periodic basis hurricanes heatwaves
• Assessing (measuring and monitoring) risk levels of
the top risk focus areas
floods drought
• Facilitating risk mitigation actions, by working with
business and functional risk owners GBR’s tools ideally enable us to assess specific
• Reporting top risks to management and the Audit regional risks, such as unusual monsoons, which is
Committee of the Board valuable to our regional leads in locations such
as India.
In addition to physical risk, our ERM program also
strives to monitor possible legal, monetary, market
and other transition risks associated with climate We follow ISO standard 22301, globally
recognized as a tool to aid business
change. For example, we seek to monitor our third
continuity management during
party ESG indices to track the organization’s external
unexpected disasters.
perception with respect to ESG. We consider
appropriate responses and program adjustments to
We have achieved certification for our India, North
address any perception-related issues and actively
America (US & Canada), Latin America, European
engage with clients and investors who may
Union and Asia-Pacific regions covering our Global /
have questions.
Regional Delivery Center operations.
Global Business Resilience (GBR)
Our risk prioritization and
GBR’s primary objective is protecting continuous scenario planning
operations while keeping our people safe. On a
location-based level, our GBR department monitors One of our overarching goals is to determine how
many risks, including physical climate risk. GBR reports climate change will affect our associates and our
to our Chief Security Officer. GBR runs a global risk clients, including through the lens of our property and
assessment process that identifies, assesses and supply chain. We also seek to understand the impact
prioritizes physical risks. As we deepen and expand physical climate risk will have on the availability of
our footprint across existing and new geographies, we talent across our locations and the support that our
become exposed to multiple country-specific climate associates will need in the event of extreme
risks. Our system is designed to help ESG, ERM and weather events.
42 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Cognizant in the context of climate change Climate risk and opportunity Net zero goal: metrics and targets Water stewardship
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste Biodiversity and Nature Client Sustainability Solutions
In 2021 and 2022, we conducted a scenario analysis of For each time frame, we considered possible impacts
potential climate-related risks and opportunities that to Cognizant under varying degrees of heating and
might occur between 2021 and 2050. In this analysis, the global responses to the impacts of that heating.
we considered the significance of identified climate
• Orderly transition to net zero 2050 (1.5°C): a high
risks and opportunities and prioritized them based on
degree of policy ambition and implementation of
risk likelihood, impact and velocity. This allowed us to
the Paris Agreement
put structure to a range of possible future states
under various degrees of climate disruption, with the • Disorderly and delayed transition (1.8°C): rapid,
objective of integrating these considerations into the disruptive transition over a short time horizon
realm of potential risks we consider and analyze. • Hothouse World’ (3°C): limited or no action taken to
transition, thereby presenting the greatest stress
In this Cognizant-specific scenario analysis, we
test of physical climate risks
catalogued risk and opportunity time frames:
We then identified potential areas of high climate risk
• Short term (up to 5 years)
that were critical to our business at the regional,
• Medium term (6-15 years)
country or geographic level.
• Long term (16-30 years)
43
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Cognizant in the context of climate change Climate risk and opportunity Net zero goal: metrics and targets Water stewardship
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste Biodiversity and Nature Client Sustainability Solutions
Scenario analysis of potential climate-related risks and opportunities
1 Identify and prioritize risk through extensive internal workshops and external research.
Identification Prioritization
Research and consultation to identify risk Prioritize using Enterprise Risk
Management framework
2 Employ ERM framework to identify our most significant physical and transition climate risks to take
through scenario planning.
Physical Risks
Acute Extreme weather events causing damage to property that render it unusable
Acute/Chronic Extreme weather events and trends affecting delivery capability
Chronic Rising sea levels leading to disruption in operations
Transition Risks
Technology Power outages leading to disruption in operations
Increased costs of transitioning to lower-emission technology
Market Changing client behavior demanding greater commitment to climate strategy
Increasing energy costs
Reputation Poor sustainability reputation leading to inability to attract/retain talent
Failure to meet climate commitments leading to negative media coverage and reputational damage
Opportunities
Services New and increasing client demand for climate solutions
Use of new climate technologies
Resource Efficiency More efficient facilities
3 Assess how these risks will change over time based on increased heating.
To allow Cognizant to consider the evolution of risk over time, we bucketed how likely and how severe a risk
might be:
Short term Medium term Long term
0-5 years 6-15 years 16-30 years
with current levels of heating with increasing heating with more heating
Please see our 2022 Form 10-K for information about the risk factors that affect or may affect our business.
44 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Cognizant in the context of climate change Climate risk and opportunity Net zero goal: metrics and targets Water stewardship
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste Biodiversity and Nature Client Sustainability Solutions
In 2022, we furthered our prior climate scenario Property
analysis by considering risk at a city-level and in the
As climate change could affect our buildings and
context of the size of our associate population by city.
data centers, and therefore our business, we seek to
We leveraged proprietary data sets from engineering
understand the physical climate risk profile of
companies and climate risk software to explore
our properties.
possible risks at a city level. Around the world, the
cities where we have the most associates living are Based on this understanding, we then consider
most prone to: targeted actions to address the specific risks
identified, including seeking to keep properties dry
1. Flooding generated by extreme rainfall and
and adequately supplied with power.
storm surges
2. Prolonged and combined heat and humidity Monitoring
India has already been impacted by climate change. To integrate climate risk into property management
In 2022, India experienced extreme weather like heavy decisions and investments, we use site-specific
rains and heat. We documented and recorded no climate data in our Facility Risk Assessment Profiling
material financial losses from these individual events. (FRAP), which scores the risk profile of each individual
Cognizant facility. We have designed warnings and
Other risks explored but found to be less immediately
processes to respond to weather events at facilities. In
relevant due to smaller concentrations of associates
2022, we included data on seven physical climate risk
were drought, wildfire and hurricanes. (See the
factors in our FRAP scoring (see below). We used this
Governance Management section for more
to identify appropriate resilience plans, which are
information about our ERM process and
reviewed annually.
GBR program.)
Risk framework
and management
In 2022, we looked across the Cognizant value chain
and organized our thinking about how physical and
transitional climate risks might manifest through the
business. We focused on these risks and the
geographies in which our associates live and work,
with particular attention on the following major areas:
Property
Procurement
People
45
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Cognizant in the context of climate change Climate risk and opportunity Net zero goal: metrics and targets Water stewardship
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste Biodiversity and Nature Client Sustainability Solutions
Three-part Facility Risk Assessment Profiling (FRAP)
Potential operational risk Business criticality Chronic climate trends
8 threats considered: Sensitivity to delivery: Trend line 7 physical risks:
1. Natural calamities 1. Projects with high headcount 1. Temperature extremes
2. Accidents 2. Single location projects 2. Coastal flooding
3. Engineering 3. Projects with return to 3. Drought
operation <= 24 hours
4. Infrastructure 4. Wildfire
5. Network 5. Tropical cyclones
6. Cyber 6. Water stress
7. Continuity ability 7. River flooding
8. Geo-political
46 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Cognizant in the context of climate change Climate risk and opportunity Net zero goal: metrics and targets Water stewardship
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste Biodiversity and Nature Client Sustainability Solutions
Case study
Eventuated (2020-2022) Actions
In September 2021, a lake flooded our Bangalore In 2022, the property owner completed flood wall
office after heavy rains. 700 associates were sent and drainage, the effectiveness of which we are
from office to home and impact was limited due to monitoring through our FRAP.
high remote work and leased nature of building.
Chennai properties experienced heavy flooding in An office in Chennai to be connected with an
2015. Since then we have consistently prioritized external storm water drain in 2023.
the improvement of storm water drainage.
Stress from weather-related events exacerbates • Water storage capacity more than doubled
existing infrastructure challenges: in Chennai
• In 2019, Chennai ran out of water and the city • As of July 2022, diesel storage in Chennai
and Cognizant had to purchase and truck secured for long-running outages (including
in water for data centers)
• Inadequate diesel storage given increased
likelihood of outages from floods
Impact:
• Through robust business continuity planning, Cognizant has maintained service delivery even during
extreme weather events.
• Cognizant plans to use climate data, among other data points, to shape decision-making around its real
estate and consider the concentration of teams in certain locations to minimize impacts on delivery.
47
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Cognizant in the context of climate change Climate risk and opportunity Net zero goal: metrics and targets Water stewardship
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste Biodiversity and Nature Client Sustainability Solutions
Mitigation
In addition to FRAP-driven actions, over the last five years, we have implemented a series of mitigation measures
at certain offices and data centers in India to attempt to combat the effects and risks of increasing frequency
and intensity of extreme weather to our business operations.
Flooding, drought Extreme temperatures Power outages
• Locating equipment on high • Air conditioning for suitable • Installing diesel-powered
floors internal environment back-up generators
• Regularly checking and • Installing tinted windows to • Increasing diesel storage
cleaning extensive drainage minimize heat from sunlight capacity at site for power
systems generators
• Connecting offices to external
storm water drains
• De-watering pumps to
discharge excessive rainfall
during a storm
Alongside these measures, we have incident-response plans in place that undergo annual resiliency testing.
Please see the Emissions Reduction section for more information on emissions from our data centers.
Cognizant Data Center in Chennai, India
48 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Cognizant in the context of climate change Climate risk and opportunity Net zero goal: metrics and targets Water stewardship
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste Biodiversity and Nature Client Sustainability Solutions
Procurement
Our suppliers’ climate readiness may impact the resilience and continuity of their services and our ability to meet
our own net zero goal. We recognize that our suppliers possess varying levels of understanding and preparedness
in relation to climate risk. Our supplier dialogue is designed to help us learn from those with mature risk-
management strategies and support those that are less advanced.
Please see the Emissions Reduction section for more information on emissions from suppliers.
Supplier engagement
Commission support from:
buildings resilience experts
Level of climate change Learn from:
Climate risk criticality
preparedness climate action leaders
Educate & support: suppliers new to
considering climate
Procurement: We are asking our most critical suppliers to prepare themselves for climate risk.
Need Process Outcome
• Attempt to insulate Cognizant Focus on limited key suppliers • Moves us toward goal to
from climate risk by asking our rather than the full supply chain address physical climate risk
most critical suppliers to know
• Moves us on from asking
their climate risks and work to 1 Identify business critical
suppliers for carbon data to
suppliers
mitigate them
also asking them about the
• Engage top suppliers to 2 Send suppliers our climate more immediate risk of flooding
ascertain level of risk assessment etc., as our own clients do
understanding and
3 Engage with suppliers that
preparedness
lack proper mitigation
49
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Cognizant in the context of climate change Climate risk and opportunity Net zero goal: metrics and targets Water stewardship
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste Biodiversity and Nature Client Sustainability Solutions
Monitoring and mitigation Monitoring
In 2023, we plan to engage suppliers we identified as The COVID-19 pandemic proved that we could
high risk. These engagements will produce a supplier continue to produce high-quality work from home.
profile and plan that will include: When dealing with climate change, however, sending
people home is not a long-term solution to avoiding
• Risk profile: Type and scale of risks that could
the impacts of physical climate risk at our properties.
impact Cognizant and adequacy of current plan
An associate’s ability to work outside of a Cognizant
• Prioritization: Most critical physical climate risks property is also dependent on their access to dry work
requiring mitigation with timelines for delivery and locations with alternate power supplies when needed.
KPIs for monitoring progress
In 2023, we began assessing whether any associates
• Resolution: Agreement based on level of risk
were moving to new homes because of climate
change. We also began exploring what they might
need in order to work from home during floods and
power disruptions.
We expect our suppliers to be proactively
Mitigation
addressing and adapting to climate change.
We believe part of helping people deal with climate
Collective effort is needed to build resilience that
change is helping them understand it. We want our
we can all benefit from.
people to feel grounded, personally and
professionally, in the topic. We made available to all
associates the use of an application that includes
Melanie Temkin
actions people can take to lower their carbon
AVP, Procurement Sourcing
footprint. Over 15,000 associates are using this
application.
People
When considering risk, we consider our ability to serve
clients and also realize how important the impacts of
climate change on associate communities are to that
ability.
Thus, our ongoing objective is to understand how
climate may affect where associates want to live and
how employer expectations may differ in a hotter and
wetter environment. This requires combining available
predictions about heat and flooding with an
understanding of how associates will respond to
climate change.
50 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Cognizant in the context of climate change Climate risk and opportunity Net zero goal: metrics and targets Water stewardship
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste Biodiversity and Nature Client Sustainability Solutions
Opportunity
We believe addressing questions of sustainability can
improve a traditional business model.
Clients appreciate when we take a leadership role in
addressing sustainability, including transparent
reporting and regular direct communication. As client
interest in our sustainability and ESG work has
increased, we have also increased our one-on-one
engagement with clients on the topic through our ESG
team, to clearly communicate our relevant programs
and progress, which can help create further client
engagement opportunities.
We don’t stop the conversation there, though. By
using our capacity to transform businesses with data
and technology strategies, we believe we can help our
clients work toward sustainable business models.
Climate opportunities available to Cognizant include:
• Reducing our emissions: Meeting client
expectations by cutting our own carbon footprint
including through energy-efficient practices and
the use of renewable energy sources (See
information on our Green IT.)
• Reducing client emissions: Helping clients reduce
their own carbon footprints through the
implementation of technology solutions such as
cloud computing and virtualization (See
information on our Carbon Calculator Tool.)
• Offering sustainable services: Incorporating
sustainability into the development and
deployment of new products and services (See
information on our Sustainability Solutions.)
• Continually engaging on sustainability: Proactively
communicating with clients about Cognizant’s
commitment to sustainability and the steps we are
taking to address it
51
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Cognizant in the context of climate change Climate risk and opportunity Net zero goal: metrics and targets Water stewardship
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste Biodiversity and Nature Client Sustainability Solutions
Net zero goal: Metrics and targets
We are working to ensure practical and Cognizant’s clients and investors have repeatedly
steady progress: expressed strong interest in a net zero goal from us.
Because we are part of the value chain that
2020
generates their emissions, they rely on us to create
sustained, long-term emissions reductions in view of
Publicly commit to making a net zero goal
their supply chain footprint.
2021 In 2021, we made a commitment to reduce emissions
from our global operations and supply chain by 50%
Establish a public, time-bound net zero goal by 2030, and by 90% by 2040, in each case compared
commitment and ambition along with a six lever plan to
to our 2019 emissions baseline. Where absolute
achieve it
emissions reductions are not physically or financially
viable, we plan to use carbon offsets. We call this our
2022 ‘net zero goal.’ We chose 2019 as our baseline year
because it was the last year before the COVID-19
• Validate near-term science-based emissions pandemic that altered our operations and therefore
reduction target for our planned action through 2030 best represents the expected annual pace of our
by the Science-Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) emissions.
• Create emissions footprint and commission an
external third party to perform attestation
procedures
• Design and deliver a roadmap to reach goals
• Build robust process for automation with strong data
controls
2023 and beyond
• Validate long-term science-based emissions
reduction target for our planned action through 2040
by the SBTi
• Regularly review and report progress on delivery of
our net zero goal
52 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Cognizant in the context of climate change Climate risk and opportunity Net zero goal: metrics and targets Water stewardship
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste Biodiversity and Nature Client Sustainability Solutions
Science Based Targets Key elements of our net zero goal
initiative (SBTi) validation • Focuses on absolute emissions reductions through
operational efficiencies and renewable energy use,
before the use of carbon offsets
We are proud of the rigor and analysis we strive to put
behind our net zero goal, which will result in emissions • Measures reductions from a recent, pre-COVID-19
reductions for ourselves and our clients. Our goal has emissions baseline (2019)
been validated by the SBTi, a global partnership • Includes a near-term renewable electricity target
working with institutions on robust emissions reduction
• Includes often-hidden emissions, from travel to supply
efforts. SBTi has validated our net zero goal in two
chain to associate commuting, in Scope 3
phases: near term and long term.
• Aligns with the need to keep global average
In 2022, the SBTi released updated guidance on temperature increases to 1.5 degrees Celsius
setting corporate net zero standards. Our science-
based target for achieving a 90% reduction in total
emissions by 2040 is aligned with this standard. We plan to achieve our net zero goal
through six main levers:
2026
1
100% Green IT
renewable electricity goal 2 Energy
At least 3 Supply chain
90%
4
Travel reduction
of our top 150 suppliers by emissions
have set a science-based target to
5
Use of offsets
reduce emissions
2030 6 Training
Reduce absolute emissions by
50%
in our global operations and supply
chain, offsetting the rest
2040
Reduce absolute emissions by
90%
in our global operations and supply
chain, offsetting the remaining,
unavoidable emissions
53
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Cognizant in the context of climate change Climate risk and opportunity Net zero goal: metrics and targets Water stewardship
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste Biodiversity and Nature Client Sustainability Solutions
Green IT Energy
We seek to optimize energy consumption across our Renewable energy and energy efficiency create
IT infrastructure globally, implementing smart and absolute emissions reductions in our operations. By
efficient strategies to manage our energy demands obtaining renewable energy, including electricity
and lower emissions from our operations. Significant from renewable sources directly and indirectly, we
improvements have been made since 2019 in: seek to create new demand and stimulate green
market growth.
• Data centers: We have reduced the total footprint
of our data centers by 17% over the course of 2021 Renewable electricity
and 2022 and improved our Power Usage Efficiency
by 9%. We have also accelerated our hyper
In April 2022, we announced our objective to
convergence of servers while optimizing physical by
source 100% of our electricity needs for our offices and
13% and virtual by 20%. Cloud migration is a priority:
facilities from renewable sources, like solar and wind,
80% of our software applications now reside in
by the end of 2026.
the cloud
• Collaboration: By focusing on the use and benefit
of online collaboration tools we reduced the need We increased our global sourcing of renewable
for associate travel. We estimate that our electricity to 30% - a 3% increase from 2021.
associates have devoted nearly 400 hours per
We are working with renewable energy developers to
associate to virtual conversations since mid-2019.
continue or enter into group captive power purchase
Our focus has been on consolidating our meeting
agreements (PPAs) for solar and wind projects for our
platforms, and we have reduced the use of Internet
electricity needs in India. We plan to use renewable
Protocol phones by 37%
energy certificates where our electricity demand is
• End user computing: Energy consumed through insufficient to warrant use of a PPA. As the scope of
office IT equipment represents a significant source our real estate holdings evolve, Cognizant will
of emissions. Our initiatives to reduce our footprint leverage both direct and indirect renewable electricity
include i) reducing sleep time for associate laptops; purchasing. For example, in 2023 Cognizant
ii) upgrading operating systems remotely instead encouraged a sustained hybrid and redistributed
of using on-premise infrastructure; iii) scaling work model. This model may not reach sufficient
down office printers; and iv) switching associates concentrated energy demand required for PPAs.
from desktops to laptops, thereby achieving an Instead, we may focus more on IT energy usage and
80% reduction in power needed for renewable energy certificates. See below.
associates’ computing
Energy efficiency program
• Network: We have significantly improved the
Energy efficiency is a also a priority. We focus most of
energy efficiency of our network with new
our energy efficiency work in our owned buildings in
hardware such as routers using 30% less power
India. These buildings are the largest source of our
than existing equipment
energy use and we have the most flexibility and ability
to determine and influence demand.
By greening our IT, we have
reduced emissions associated Equipment upgrades: We upgrade aging HVAC
equipment in our owned buildings, using modular
with our IT infrastructure by 60%
uninterruptible power supply (UPS) systems in place of
since 2019. conventional units and adopting LED lighting in our
facilities to enhance our energy efficiency.
54 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Cognizant in the context of climate change Climate risk and opportunity Net zero goal: metrics and targets Water stewardship
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste Biodiversity and Nature Client Sustainability Solutions
• Consolidating UPS systems and re-engineering dependence on carbon offsets. We engage with our
chilled water distribution: both of these efforts suppliers and request that they:
reduce energy consumption and lower energy costs
• Gather and report (to us) GHG emissions data
• LED retrofit: replace existing compact fluorescent
• Set their own net zero targets
lights with LED and optimize lighting requirements
Please see the Supplier net zero goal section for more
We estimate that these projects have an energy
information.
saving potential of up to 4.7 million kWh. In 2023, we
will continue to replace or upgrade HVAC equipment Our most significant development is the introduction
and UPS units in our owned buildings to improve of a new target that addresses the Scope 3 emissions
operational efficiency. relating to our suppliers.
Looking ahead, we are setting up a centralized Percentage of Cognizant suppliers with a
enterprise building management system platform in documented goal to reduce their greenhouse gas
India to integrate all facilities and organize energy use emissions to net zero over time12
data from multiple sites into a single, easily accessible
2022
online repository. Real-time information access will
10 - 15%
improve data analysis and facilitate data-driven
decision-making. Additionally, it can provide a flexible
and reliable database that can help us to interface
2023
with analytical tools on cloud spaces for fine-tuning,
global benchmarking and making positive changes 15 - 20%
throughout our built environment.
We offer similar services for our clients to help End of 2026
them use data, automation and IOT to improve the
At least 90%
energy efficiency of their buildings. See Client
Sustainability Services.
Supply chain
At the 23rd Energy Excellence Summit organized
by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
10 of our facilities In 2022, Cognizant set a bold goal
were recognized for contributions toward that at least 90% of our top 150
energy optimization.
suppliers by spend will have set their
own emissions reduction targets by
We are helping our suppliers reduce their emissions as
the end of 2026.
they represent 63% of our overall carbon footprint. We
believe addressing emissions from our suppliers is
critical to reducing our Scope 3 emissions and future Please see our Supply chain section under our
Governance pillar for more information.
12 Suppliers are their own entities and data are accurate as of report publication.
55
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Cognizant in the context of climate change Climate risk and opportunity Net zero goal: metrics and targets Water stewardship
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste Biodiversity and Nature Client Sustainability Solutions
Travel reduction Culture and training
Our travel philosophy is based on ensuring efficient Reaching our net zero goal will take commitment and
movement to support business goals. Our travel a cultural shift from within. Large companies like ours
emissions have been reduced by 72% since 2019, the have the power to help mobilize and educate
baseline of our net zero goal. The COVID-19 pandemic hundreds of thousands of associates to contribute to
is responsible for most of that reduction, but we also our net zero goal actions. This is one of the reasons
work to maintain this trend by: we are prioritizing the provision of climate training.
• Setting limits on travel expenses and therefore In addition, business solutions to climate change
emissions require digital transformation; as digital
transformation experts, Cognizant will lead our clients
• Requiring pre-travel approval and delivering
in this space. To do so, we are taking steps towards
information to associates on the carbon footprint
developing a climate-competent workforce, a part of
of travel
meeting climate goals.
• Building on reports from the airlines we use to
identify wasteful trends For more information on how we engage clients, see
the Sustainability Solutions section of this Report.
• Improving the insights we provide associates on the
emissions impact of air travel through the company Our actions:
travel booking system
• We began our education efforts in 2021 when we
Use of carbon offsets trained 28,000+ associates on zero waste efforts
• In 2022, we gave associates access to an
We strive to prioritize absolute emissions reductions
application which is a platform for individual action
before the purchase of carbon offsets. As much as we
on climate change and sustainability. More than
desire and strive for absolute reductions, we also
15,000 associates took more than 1 million actions
recognize the physical and economic barriers to a
near-term zero-carbon economy. • In 2023, we launched a robust climate education
program and set a goal to provide 100,000
Our goal is rapid decarbonization that allows for the
associates with climate training by the end of 2024
continued growth and prosperity of our associates,
communities and clients. To achieve this, we believe For more information, see our section on Skilling
quality offsets have a place in the global transition to associates with sustainability training.
a lower-carbon economy, and we plan to use them
where absolute emissions reductions are not
physically or financially viable.
3 By spend as of December 31, 2022.
56 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Cognizant in the context of climate change Climate risk and opportunity Net zero goal: metrics and targets Water stewardship
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste Biodiversity and Nature Client Sustainability Solutions
Based on our current processes, we have calculated our emissions as follows:
Carbon dioxide equivalent (metric tons) reporting year 2022
Scope 1
Scope 1 9,999 13
Scope 2
Location-based 101,402 13
Market-based 66,624 13
Scope 2 (referencing market-based) 66,624 13
Scope 3
Purchased goods and services 666,279 13
Capital goods 141,113 13
Fuel and energy related activities (FERA) 40,498 13
Business travel 83,807 13
Employee commuting 14,635 13
Upstream leased assets 24,491 13
Upstream transportation and distribution 806 13
Waste generated in operations 232 13
Investments 1,068 13
Scope 1, 2 (referencing market-based) and 3 1,049,552
Outside of scopes (R22 refrigerant) 1,045
Energy consumption in gigajoules (for Scope 1 and 2 activities) 623,351 13
% electricity from renewable sources (India) 44% 13
13 We commissioned an external third party to perform attestation procedures with respect to this metric for the year ended
December 31, 2022. Full details and data methodology are available in the Report of Independent Accountants.
57
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Cognizant in the context of climate change Climate risk and opportunity Net zero goal: metrics and targets Water stewardship
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste Biodiversity and Nature Client Sustainability Solutions
Water stewardship
We aim to consume water responsibly. Our long-term contributed to a reduction in water consumption. In
water stewardship plan is aimed at reusing and 2022, we harvested 16,838 kiloliters (4.4 million gallons)
recycling water. of rainwater through groundwater harvesting pumps,
meeting around 9% of total water consumption needs
In 2022, we added risk prioritization to our global
in owned facilities. Additionally, recovering
water risk management efforts, which sets the stage
condensate from air handling units added another 1%
for engagement plans in high-risk areas. Through our
to total water recovery for a total of 2,674 kiloliters
FRAP, we identify overall environmental risks, including
(706,396 gallons).
those focused on water like inundation and scarcity.
These risks are tracked and tackled at the facility Reusing treated water for horticulture, toilets and
level. cooling towers in certain facilities reduces freshwater
usage and enables us to lower water costs.
Our efforts in rainwater harvesting and condensate
recovery in our owned buildings in India have
58 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Cognizant in the context of climate change Climate risk and opportunity Net zero goal: metrics and targets Water stewardship
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste Biodiversity and Nature Client Sustainability Solutions
Circularity:
Upcycling and reducing waste
We use the principles of circularity as a guide for our scraps into manure, which were used as a natural
waste management efforts. fertilizer for landscaping.
In 2022, Cognizant associates in the Philippines
Our focus for e-waste management is to maximize volunteered and collected nearly 240 pounds of
the reuse of our computers. In 2021, we committed to waste such as plastics, rubber and trash bottles. The
keeping 80,000 computers out of landfill. By the end Department of Environment and Natural Resources
of 2022, we kept over 62,000 computers out of recognized our efforts toward the conservation and
landfills and remain focused on meeting this rehabilitation of natural resources and the promotion
commitment in 2023. of environmental protection and sustainability.
Our facility operations in India recycled 76 metric tons
of paper and packaging materials from our facility
operations. Organic waste converters converted food
Biodiversity and nature
Clients are increasingly interested in the role we play
in managing biodiversity and nurturing healthy In 2022, a number of Cognizant Outreach projects
ecosystems in their value chain. This is because there continued their work in support of protecting
is an increasing recognition in the business biodiversity. Since 2022, Cognizant Outreach in the
community we serve that companies may need to Philippines has supported mangrove and tree
look beyond climate to waste, water and biodiversity plantations on a large scale. Our team periodically
to understand the interwoven nature of their value visits the mangroves to maintain them. Volunteers in
chain and the environment. Manila and Cebu planted over 2,000 mangrove
saplings and hundreds of Narra tree saplings.
We acknowledge the positive role we could play over
time through client and community support, supplier
partnerships and associate volunteering to support
nature restoration, conservation, regenerative
agriculture and invasive species removal. See the
Client Sustainability Solutions section for more
information.
59
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Cognizant in the context of climate change Climate risk and opportunity Net zero goal: metrics and targets Water stewardship
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste Biodiversity and Nature Client Sustainability Solutions
Client Sustainability Solutions
Seizing the sustainability opportunity requires new Examples of our work with clients in 2022 include:
operating models, supported by new data flows and
• Helping a client efficiently collect, register and
information systems that make it possible to
analyze data from 36,000 suppliers, allowing the
accelerate meaningful change. To help our clients
client to set appropriate Scope 3 GHG emissions
expand their sustainability efforts, in 2022 we
performance indicators
launched our new Solving for Sustainability Services.
• Creating a suite of hardware, software and cloud
We have five core offerings:
solutions that allowed a large retail chain to better
predict and monitor refrigeration system controls,
1
Net zero pathways preventing food waste
• Building a Geographic Information Systems early
2 Sustainability and ESG reporting warning and emergency action system that
collates various types of agricultural data (like crop
diseases, adverse weather, ground conditions and
3
Sustainable products and circular economy more) to provide warnings to local farmer
communities in locations like Malaysia and Sub-
Saharan Africa, helping them become more
4
Sustainable manufacturing and operations
resilient in the face of climate change
• Helping an equipment manufacturer redesign its
5 Sustainable supply chains HVAC controller products used in the building
automation industry, resulting in a 10-15% reduction
in power consumption, a 5-10% reduction in product
cost and cost of ownership, a reduction in
components thrown away due to a modular design
and a reduction in components involving
hazardous substances
60 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Cognizant in the context of climate change Climate risk and opportunity Net zero goal: metrics and targets Water stewardship
Circularity: Upcycling and reducing waste Biodiversity and Nature Client Sustainability Solutions
Project-level carbon footprint
Clients are increasingly interested in
calculator14
understanding the energy needs of our work
Developed in-house, our proprietary carbon with them. To address this demand, we have
footprint calculator provides an estimate of the incorporated a proprietary carbon calculator
GHG emissions generated by Cognizant into our Delivery Center of Excellence.
operations when delivering projects and services
to our clients. Estimated emissions can then be
tracked through the actual engagement lifecycle Nisha Deshpande
of a project to understand estimate accuracy and Delivery - Carbon Footprint,
derive actions to control, improve and/or sustain Center of Excellence
emissions. We hope that sharing the emissions
estimate with the client allows them to access the
GHG impact of the project in their own GHG
emissions inventory. We plan to review our
methodology annually.
14 A project includes the activities necessary to deliver a combination of professional services and/or information, communication, data and
computing technology to a client. Project delivery activities also include Cognizant’s organizational resources and supporting services that
make project activity possible. The calculator seeks to include both emissions from resources directly involved in a specific project delivery as
well as from supporting services provided through Cognizant’s corporate structure.
61
Governance
We believe good governance includes strong oversight from our Board and its
committees, combined with robust ethics and compliance policies and programs.
We govern ESG issues identified by our priority assessments, stakeholder engagement
and enterprise risk management processes.
In this section, learn about:
Our ESG Enterprise Risk Ethics and Associate Supply chain Data security Data privacy Public policy
governance Management compliance health and and political
strategy safety activity
62 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
63
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Our ESG governance strategy ESG Oversight and Governance Approach: Organize around our stakeholders
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Ethics and compliance Associate health and safety Supply chain Data security Data privacy
Public policy and political activity
Our ESG governance strategy
Our ESG governance strategy focuses on • Considering scientific research and using
transparency and accountability. We practice these stakeholder feedback and industry best practices
principles by: to identify our most important ESG focus areas and
connect them to our business purpose. This helps us
• Performing regular internal audits of the controls
calibrate in a fast-changing world
functions we use to validate ESG-related data
• Having strong Board oversight of our ESG strategy
and reporting
2021 Commitments 2022 Actions
Supply chain: Expand tools and outreach to engage Organized emissions reduction workshops for top 150
more suppliers in setting and meeting ESG standards suppliers and worked with the top 20 of this group to
and best practices help them understand their impact on our Scope 3
emissions
Worked with remaining top 130 suppliers to focus on
their use of science-based targets and their annual
submission of information to CDP
Formalized risk-based assessment criteria to identify
suppliers most at risk and subject to modern slavery
due diligence process
Supply chain: Continue to engage with diverse Target: Aspire to reach $1 billion of annual spend in
suppliers in our supply chain the US with diverse suppliers
Target: Each Category Sourcing Head on our
Procurement team will have specific spending goals
Target: Aspire to add two African American–owned
and one veteran–owned supplier each quarter from Q4
2022 through the end of 2023
Ethics and compliance: Update governance-related Updated Global Trade Compliance Policy and
policies to align with best practices Environmental Health and Safety Policy
Every Executive Leadership Team member’s 2022
performance profile included a metric on conveying
tone at the top messaging
Risk management: Put data to work improving risk Received recognition from Gartner for risk assessment
management around ESG topics framework and use of analytics
64 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Our ESG governance strategy ESG Oversight and Governance Approach: Organize around our stakeholders
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Ethics and compliance Associate health and safety Supply chain Data security Data privacy
Public policy and political activity
ESG oversight and governance
Our Chief Sustainability Officer leads the Cognizant ESG program, which is reviewed by the Board through its
committees.
Board of Directors
Audit Compensation and Human Governance and
Committee Capital Committee Sustainability Committee
Oversight of Enterprise Risk Oversight of human capital Oversight of ESG program
Management program management issues, including
diversity and inclusion; general
talent management; retention;
and development and training
CEO and Executive Committee
Head of Diversity and Inclusion Chief Sustainability Officer
Executive and Senior Leadership Teams integral to related change management
Our stakeholders
Associates Clients Investors Suppliers Communities
65
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Our ESG governance strategy ESG Oversight and Governance Approach: Organize around our stakeholders
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Ethics and compliance Associate health and safety Supply chain Data security Data privacy
Public policy and political activity
Approach: Organize around
our stakeholders
Integrating ESG considerations into our business strategy helps us meet client, investor and other stakeholder
expectations and achieve our stated purpose—to engineer modern businesses to improve everyday life.
Responsible operations and transparency around environmental and social efforts are increasingly important to
our stakeholders. This is why our ESG program is designed to support the expectations of our stakeholders,
surface new value and identify and mitigate risk. (See Strategy: Create sustainable value to see how input from
our stakeholders informed our prioritization of ESG issues and their integration into our business strategy.)
Stakeholder Our approach Engagement in 2022
We strive to enable our clients to create more sustainable See Client Sustainability
business outcomes and help them meet their own ESG Solutions
commitments
Clients
Our associate commitments and social impact programs See Employee engagement
aim to engage associates, contribute to our company See Next: Preparing for the skills
culture and help associates amplify their personal impact of the future with sustainability
in the world training
Associates
We seek to actively demonstrate how ESG can be Ongoing investor ESG
integrated to support our business and will seek to engagement
address their expectations, for example with diversity
progress and time-bound climate commitments
Investors
We partner with suppliers to set ESG expectations and See Supply chain: Supplier
encourage progress across our supply chain diversity program in the US and
Human rights
See Supply chain: net zero goal
Suppliers
We aspire to leverage our technology expertise and local See Beyond Cognizant:
partnership programs to help strengthen the Community engagement and
communities in which we operate philanthropy
Communities
66 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Our ESG governance strategy ESG Oversight and Governance Approach: Organize around our stakeholders
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Ethics and compliance Associate health and safety Supply chain Data security Data privacy
Public policy and political activity
Cognizant governance policies
Anti-Corruption Policy
Code of Ethics
Environmental Health & Safety
Human Rights Policy
Modern Slavery Statement for Supply chain
Public Policy Engagement
Supplier Diversity Policy
Supplier Standards of Conduct
Whistleblower and Non-Retaliation Policy
67
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Our ESG governance strategy ESG Oversight and Governance Approach: Organize around our stakeholders
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Ethics and compliance Associate health and safety Supply chain Data security Data privacy
Public policy and political activity
Enterprise Risk Management
Our ERM program seeks to ensure that our company In 2022, our cross-functional steering committee
is prioritizing on key risks, by: continued to address our third party risk management
process. ERM continued reporting risk deep dives to
Identifying the Audit Committee.
Assessing
Our ERM program received recognition in the
Facilitating form of a case-study from Gartner in 2022 for the
use of a structured risk framework for data
This includes facilitating the management of our most analytics adoption.
significant risks, including ESG-related risks such as:
climate change and business resiliency, ethics and
compliance, data and cybersecurity and data
privacy. See our section on TCFD for how we manage
our climate risks and opportunities.
Ethics and compliance
We seek to distinguish ourselves in the market by Tone at the top
maintaining the highest standards of integrity.
Cognizant’s Board, CEO, Executive Committee and
Governance
Executive Leadership Team (ELT) support a culture of
ethics and compliance by setting the tone at the top.
Our Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, responsible
An ethical tone at the top requires us to provide
for the operation of the Ethics and Compliance
associates with clear statements of our values,
organization, reports to our General Counsel, and is
policies and processes. The ELT promulgates the tone
under the direct oversight of our Audit Committee.
at the top by sharing required ethics and compliance
Our Global Compliance and Ethics Committee works
messaging with their respective teams.
across operating segments to support the compliance
program. Cognizant leaders are responsible for
driving ethical behavior and we expect our associates Every executive leader’s performance
to uphold high standards of ethical conduct. measurement included a metric around tone
at the top in 2022.
68 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Our ESG governance strategy ESG Oversight and Governance Approach: Organize around our stakeholders
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Ethics and compliance Associate health and safety Supply chain Data security Data privacy
Public policy and political activity
Ethics and compliance encouraged to follow our “Cognizant Agenda,” which
articulates a set of values that promote a culture of
(E&C) risk management integrity, collaboration and inclusion and reinforce
relevant expectations and standards.
model
Cognizant’s Code of Ethics training course, which
must be completed annually by all associates,
The E&C team uses policies and processes designed
includes a module on diversity and preventing
to require and support ethical behavior throughout
discrimination and harassment. This training is
our business. (See E&C risk management model.)
supplemented with other diversity-focused training
and leadership-development initiatives, such as
7 pillars: E&C risk management model
country-specific training, inclusive leadership training,
Prevent mentoring and sponsorship programs. Additionally,
Cognizant associates in the US, India and Latin
Standards & Procedures
America must complete our Preventing Harassment
and Discrimination Training each year. This training
Training & Education
covers protected categories, gender identity and
Oversight & Governance expression, accommodations and other significant
topics related to harassment and discrimination. Our
Detect goal is 100% timely completion of mandatory ethics
and compliance training for all associates. In addition
Monitoring & Auditing
to tenured associates, all new associates are required
to complete our Code of Ethics course within 30 days
Reporting
of joining.
Respond
To further our culture of integrity, in 2022 we
Internal Enforcement & Discipline developed and piloted a scenario-based workshop
designed to enhance ethical leadership and
Remediation, Response and Prevention awareness among associates in middle management
roles through discussion, case studies based on
Code of ethics investigation activity and common situations, and
communication of trends, observations and
developments in the regulatory environment. This
Our Code of Ethics sets forth our guiding principles
program will be a focal point of our ongoing initiative
and values that establish a standard of conduct
to supplement tone at the top with tone from culture
everyone in our organization is expected to uphold.
setters in the middle of the organization.
The Code integrates Q&A scenarios and includes an
interactive format aligned with Cognizant’s focus on
digital. Our corporate policies, refreshed on a triennial
Working for a company with strong ethics is an
basis with an emphasis on continuous simplification
integral part of our value proposition to our
and learning from observations from the preceding
associates, our clients and partners, and the
three years, reinforce that standard. Among the
policies refreshed in 2022 was our Global Trade Policy, communities in which we operate.
with updates reflecting changes in the global
sanctions landscape and risk environment. In addition
to our Code and policies, all associates are Marc Levin
Chief Ethics and
Compliance Officer
69
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Our ESG governance strategy ESG Oversight and Governance Approach: Organize around our stakeholders
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Ethics and compliance Associate health and safety Supply chain Data security Data privacy
Public policy and political activity
Anti-corruption Cognizant has publicly available methods for
associates to report concerns or ask questions about
our ethics and policies. Among them is our
Our zero-tolerance approach to bribery and
Compliance Helpline, available to all of our
corruption in all of its forms is outlined in our Anti-
associates, vendors, clients and others, to
Corruption Policy. The policy is accessible on our
anonymously report suspected violations of the law,
corporate website and available in eight languages.
our Code of Ethics or other policies. The Helpline is
The document details our commitment to operating
accessible via telephone, our intranet and online.
ethically and in compliance with relevant anti-
Reports of suspected improper or unethical activity
corruption laws in the areas in which we operate.
are investigated and treated with confidentiality in
Whistleblower compliance with local laws.
For the third consecutive year, the ethics and
and non-retaliation
compliance driver scored best in our annual
Engagement Survey, increasing to its highest level yet
In line with our mission to cultivate a culture in which it
– a reflection of our associates feeling comfortable
is safe to speak up, our Whistleblower and Non-
speaking up and their confidence in the ethical
Retaliation Policy encourages associates to report
behavior of management.
concerns or questions, without fear of retaliation,
whenever they observe potential instances of
unethical behavior in our operations.
Associate health and safety
We integrate the principles and practices of our As of 2022, 92% of our workspace was covered by ISO
environmental, health and safety (EHS) management 45001:2018 Occupational Health and Safety
system across our organization to ensure a healthy Management System and 90% was covered by ISO
and safe working environment for everyone, including 14001:2015 Environmental Management System. We
associates, contractors, business associates, vendors now track and report this metric based on workspace
and the community at large. (e.g., offices) rather than associate count in a
workspace. This allows us to accommodate the
We revised our global EHS Policy in 2022 and
realities of hybrid work.
expanded facilities covered by our EHS management
system. New EHS e-learning courses were rolled out
Workspace coverage 2022
on our EHS intranet page, and we implemented a
Hazard and Aspect Identification and Assessment of
ISO 45001:2018 Occupational Health
Risk and Opportunity program. 92%
and Safety Management System
ISO 14001:2015 Environmental
90%
Management System
70 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Our ESG governance strategy ESG Oversight and Governance Approach: Organize around our stakeholders
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Ethics and compliance Associate health and safety Supply chain Data security Data privacy
Public policy and political activity
Supply chain
We extend our ESG focus across our supply chain In 2023, we aim to continue incremental increases in
ecosystem. Suppliers must abide by our Supplier our spend in the US with diverse suppliers by
Standards of Conduct, Code of Ethics and Anti- increasing the participation of African American,
Corruption Policy. We collaborate with our suppliers Native American and veteran-owned suppliers in our
on due diligence, transparency and continuous program. In addition, we strive to achieve following
improvement. Our suppliers can then in turn extend goals during 2023:
these principles to their own suppliers.
• Modify our Request for Tender templates to
Supplier diversity specifically address diversity questions for suppliers
• Aspire to add an additional Native American-owned
In 2021, we launched a Supplier Diversity Program in supplier by the end of 2023
the US, and in 2022 we made significant progress. We
• Implement a Tier- 2 supplier diversity program by
increased our annual spend with diverse suppliers by
the end of 2023
18%, year-over-year. In addition, we:
• Expand our supplier diversity program outside of
• Established a Steering Committee of Procurement, the US, starting with the UK and Canada
Diversity and Inclusion, Delivery Operations, Human
Resources, Training and Development and
Environmental, Social and Governance experts
• Convened a working group of Supplier Diversity
Champions throughout the company to help us
design and implement growth strategies We continue to develop relationships with
diverse suppliers and set targets to increase our
• Mandated the inclusion of diverse suppliers in all
large sourcing engagements spend with them. We believe this will enhance
our ability to meet the needs of our clients.
• Began to provide diverse spend targets to our
Procurement Category Heads
Spend targets 2021 2022
Michael Krinick
AVP, Procurement Services
% of domestic spend on
32% 36%
diverse suppliers
Increase in annual run
+33% +18%
rate of spend with diverse
suppliers
71
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Our ESG governance strategy ESG Oversight and Governance Approach: Organize around our stakeholders
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Ethics and compliance Associate health and safety Supply chain Data security Data privacy
Public policy and political activity
Human rights During 2022, we began a process of proactively
reassessing our high-risk suppliers.
There is no place in our supply chain for human
Supplier net zero goals
trafficking in any form. We do not make use of child
labor or forced labor, and we seek to never work with
We engaged with our suppliers to help them reduce
third parties that engage in such practices.
their emissions as part of our net zero goals.
We have implemented new risk-based Modern
In 2022:
Slavery assessment criteria to ensure that our
partners share our values and standards. These • We organized workshops for our top 150 suppliers
criteria help us identify which suppliers present the that contribute the most to our emissions
highest levels of risk of exposing Cognizant and our • In this group of 150 we worked with the top 20 to
supply chain to slavery-related practices and help them understand their impact on our Scope 3
therefore will be subject to our modern slavery due emissions. We specifically focused on the
diligence process. Suppliers can specify which importance of committing to science-based targets
international human rights standards they follow and and annual submission of data and information to
provide information on relevant topics such as health help track progress
and safety, freedom of association and collective
bargaining, child labor and modern slavery, and
standards for vulnerable populations.
Data security
Our Corporate Security team is committed to
delivering world-class security and risk-management
With an ever-changing threat landscape and
capabilities to protect and enable our trusted global
increased sophistication of cyber threats, we
business while creating client value and competitive
strive for operational excellence in our core
differentiation.
cyber capabilities while continuing to mature
5 elements of data security management and enhance our systems. Continuous vigilance,
improvement and learning is the mantra I
Identification challenge our Corporate Security organization
to live by.
Prevention
Detection
Anil Cheriyan
Response EVP, Strategy and Technology
Recovery
72 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Our ESG governance strategy ESG Oversight and Governance Approach: Organize around our stakeholders
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Ethics and compliance Associate health and safety Supply chain Data security Data privacy
Public policy and political activity
Our approach adheres to third party standards, Culture and training
including the National Institute of Standards and
Training is part of creating a security aware culture.
Technology’s (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework and
Mandatory security training for all associates is
other applicable regulatory and client control
conducted annually, and new hires must complete
standards requirements. In 2022, we began
the training within 30 days of hire. Our Business
preparations for compliance with the ISO 27011:2022
Information Security team also works with clients to
standard. We have maintained our certificates for
conduct security training.
information security management systems such as
ISO27001 certification since 2002 and are currently
Our 2022 training highlights include:
ISO27001:2013 certified through 2024.
Governance of Created a Secure Software Development
Lifecycle Center of Excellence to manage
data security mandatory training for our software
developers
Our Corporate Security team reports to the Board
with security presentations and cyber metrics. In
Incorporated insider threat training into
addition, quarterly updates are presented to the Audit
all mandatory training
Committee on risk remediation, modernization
programs and metrics.
The Security and Technology Risk Committee (S&T) is
composed of management and meets regularly and Expanded awareness and phishing
includes S&T senior executives as well as relevant training to certain role-based populations
partners from ERM, Internal Audit, Legal, Privacy and and are now initiating supplementary
Procurement. The S&T’s focus areas include cyber role-based training for higher-risk
threat trends, insider threat concerns, security control populations, including software
testing results and key modernization activities. developers, privileged administrators,
senior executives and third party
Security policies and procedures
vendor sponsors
Our Global Security and Acceptable Use Policies set
out the responsibility of our associates to follow
security controls and requirements. These policies and
standards are reviewed and updated as required but
at a minimum on an annual cadence.
We continue to refine our risk assessment and
management processes to support our ongoing
security modernization and maturity enhancement
efforts across the enterprise under the governance of
our Security Integrated Risk Management group.
73
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Our ESG governance strategy ESG Oversight and Governance Approach: Organize around our stakeholders
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Ethics and compliance Associate health and safety Supply chain Data security Data privacy
Public policy and political activity
2022 data security highlights and 2023 focus areas
2023 Focus areas
Our task is never done and our focus for 2023 is to continue to build on our 2022 achievements and security
maturity journey to date. Key focus areas include:
2022 Achievements 2023 Focus areas
Conducted an external NIST CSF maturity Continued enhancement of our governance and risk
assessment across Corporate Security and IT and management capabilities and reviewing strategy to
working to close observed high priority gaps align our NIST processes to the MITRE ATT&CK
and opportunities framework
Expanded ongoing data collection and metric Continued enhancement and expansion of program
generation processes to track alignment of our operational excellence via automation and improved
activities with key performance indicators operational metrics
Reduced identified vulnerabilities and security gaps Ongoing modernization of our cybersecurity and
while continuing to modernize our infrastructure and operations (e.g., firewall modernization and Identity
processes across all our security domains and Access Management) and initiation of our Zero
Trust journey
Enhanced security maturity in: Further enhancement of our security culture through
expanded security training of our general and higher-
• Asset management
risk populations including software developers and
• Endpoint protection functional high-risk areas such as accounts payable
• Vulnerability management and sensitive general counsel activities
• Global cyber intelligence and operations
• Disaster recovery and business continuity
Increased our investment in deterring insider threat Accelerated integration of our acquired entities into our
cyber-counterintelligence and counterespionage via interim essential controls and transitioning to our
the establishment of an Insider Threat Office standard Cognizant security model
74 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Our ESG governance strategy ESG Oversight and Governance Approach: Organize around our stakeholders
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Ethics and compliance Associate health and safety Supply chain Data security Data privacy
Public policy and political activity
Data privacy
At Cognizant, we seek to handle personal information ethically and lawfully. Our Global Privacy leadership
periodically reports to our Board, CEO, Executive Committee and Executive Leadership Team on risk mitigation
and progress.
to participate in industry groups such as the
Information Technology Industry Council, the
Jurisdictions around the world have data privacy
Information Accountability Foundation and the Data
regulations. Our robust program is designed to
Security Council of India.
protect our clients, associates and key
To effectively manage our privacy obligations, we
stakeholders, and enables us to support our
deliver continuous training, including on critical topics
clients globally in an evolving regulatory
like Privacy By Design and Privacy Impact
landscape.
Assessments. We also continued to build out our
support of our company-wide Privacy Champion
Network by hosting Privacy Champion Summits and
Stephanie Higgins
Privacy Office hours.
Chief Privacy & Data Ethics Officer
In 2022, we enhanced corporate compliance
processes through automation, including processes
for managing new regulatory requirements. In
Working with partners across the business, our Global response to new requirements around data transfers
Privacy Team assesses risks, defines standards, following the European Court of Justice ‘Schrems II’
supports the implementation of privacy policies and decision, we have continued to evaluate the relevant
compliance programs, and provides guidance across European Union legislation, alongside our internal
the company. Further, our Internal Audit team policies and controls, to ensure we are able to meet
supports compliance and risk management through our contractual obligations.
regular assessments of our privacy program.
In 2023, we will continue to review internal controls
National privacy policies and regulations impact our and security measures to help address privacy
and our clients’ business. It can be critical for us to requirements and enhance company-wide privacy
understand the political landscape in which they awareness by further integrating privacy modules into
are made, and to know how to navigate these existing training programs.
requirements. Therefore, in 2022 we have continued
75
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Our ESG governance strategy ESG Oversight and Governance Approach: Organize around our stakeholders
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Ethics and compliance Associate health and safety Supply chain Data security Data privacy
Public policy and political activity
Public policy and political activity
At Cognizant, we understand that the biggest issues
Skilled immigration for a diverse and global
facing our world require collaboration between state
talent pipeline
and federal policymakers, industries, organizations
and individuals. Cognizant believes that by working Studies show that creating jobs for high-skilled
alongside these stakeholders, we can find policy foreign workers increases employment
solutions that benefit our communities, our associates opportunities and wages for US workers, in
and our clients. addition to harnessing innovation and
entrepreneurship for the country. Building a
Cognizant, like others in our industry, actively engages
diverse, global talent pipeline allows us to
in public policy advocacy on issues that are important
continue to innovate and drive growth for our
to our business operations, customers and
clients and shareholders. This is especially a
communities. These issues include skilled immigration,
priority at a time when immigration to the US
privacy, trade, tax and research and development.
has fallen, exacerbating current workforce
In the US, Cognizant’s Political Action Committee shortages15. Therefore, we maintain and rely on
strives to donate equally to major political parties.
fair immigration to continue addressing the skills
gap and meeting the needs of our clients.
We are determined to recruit and develop a
global workforce that fills skill gaps in the US
and beyond.
15US Chamber of Commerce. (February 28, 2023). “America Works Data Center.”
76 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
Our ESG governance strategy ESG Oversight and Governance Approach: Organize around our stakeholders
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Ethics and compliance Associate health and safety Supply chain Data security Data privacy
Public policy and political activity
77
Appendix
About this Report
The information in this Report covers Cognizant’s Fiscal Year 2022 (January 1 through December 31, 2022) unless
stated otherwise. It also covers our facilities and associates globally unless stated otherwise.
We have reported the information cited in this Report and GRI content index for the period of our Fiscal Year 2022
with reference to the 2021 GRI Standards. In addition, we have used the Sustainability Accounting Standards
Board (SASB) Software and IT Services standard and followed the recommendations of the Task Force on
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
To hold our ESG reporting to high standards, we:
• Commission an external third party to perform attestation procedures over our GHG emissions
• Leverage the COSO16 Framework to support our goal of transparent, accurate and complete reporting
Topics addressed and terms used in this Report may be different from those terms as used in the context of filings
with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Issues deemed relevant for the purpose of this Report or
our ESG stakeholder assessment may not be deemed material for SEC filings.
16The COSO Framework is a globally recognized system businesses use to establish internal controls to promote data accuracy and
completeness. (COSO, as it is most commonly known, or the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations, was developed to help companies
ensure accurate public financial reporting.)
78 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
79
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
About This Report GRI index SASB index TCFD index GHG methodologies and verification
GRI index
Statement of use Cognizant has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period
January 1 through December 31, 2022 with reference to the GRI Standards.
GRI 1 used GRI 1: Foundation 2021
GRI Standard Disclosure Location
2-1 Organizational details Name of the organization: Cognizant Technology
Solutions Corporation
Ownership and legal form: 2022 Form 10-K
Location of headquarters: Teaneck, New Jersey,
United States
Location of operations:
About our business, page 7
2022 Form 10-K, page 24
2023 Proxy Statement, page 5
2-2 Entities included in the About our business, page 7
organization’s sustainability
2022 Form 10-K, pages 5-7
reporting
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and Reporting period: Fiscal Year 2022 (January 1 through
contact point December 31, 2022)
Reporting cycle: Annual
GRI 2: General Publication date: June 5, 2023
Disclosures 2021
Contact: sustainability@cognizant.com
2-4 Restatements of information The following were restated to confirm our ongoing
commitment:
• Sustainable Development Goals, page 15
• Affinity groups, page 30
• Climate-related risks and opportunities, pages
43-44
• Science-based targets, page 53
• Levers, pages 53-56
2-5 External assurance Commissioned an external third party to perform
attestation procedures over our GHG emissions (see
Report of Independent Accountants).
2-6 Activities, value chain and other 2022 ESG Report, page 7; page 55; pages 71-72
business relationships
2022 Form 10-K, pages 5-8
2023 Proxy Statement, page 5
80 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
About This Report GRI index SASB index TCFD index GHG methodologies and verification
GRI Standard Disclosure Location
2-7 Employees Total number of employees: 355,300 as of December
31, 2022
2022 ESG Report, page 7
2022 Form 10-K, pages 9 - 11
We do not track gender in all regions by law
Methodologies and assumptions: Applies to all
Cognizant directors, officers, and employees
worldwide as well as all Cognizant business units,
subsidiaries, and joint ventures over which Cognizant
has operational control (collectively “associates”).
Significant fluctuations in the number of employees:
High attrition in industry
2-9 Governance structure and 2022 ESG Report, page 65
composition
2023 Proxy Statement, pages 7-8, 15-16, 17-33
2-10 Nomination and selection of the 2023 Proxy Statement, page 14
highest governance body
2-11 Chair of the highest Mr. Stephen J. Rohleder has served as independent
governance body Chairman of the Board since January 12, 2023.
2-12 Role of the highest governance 2022 ESG Report, page 65
body in overseeing the management
GRI 2: General 2023 Proxy Statement, pages 32-33
of impacts
Disclosures 2021
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for 2022 ESG Report, page 41
managing impacts
2023 Proxy Statement, pages 35-38
2-14 Role of the highest governance Our Governance and Sustainability Committee
body in sustainability reporting formally reviews and approves our sustainability
report.
2-15 Conflicts of interest Board of Director qualification standards
2023 Proxy Statement, page 40
2-16 Communication of 2023 Proxy Statement, page 98
critical concerns
2-17 Collective knowledge of the 2023 Proxy Statement, pages 15-16
highest governance body
Corporate Governance Guidelines, page 8
2-18 Evaluation of the performance 2023 Proxy Statement, pages 14, 44
of the highest governance body
Corporate Governance Guidelines, page 7-8; page 10
2-20 Process to 2023 Proxy Statement, pages 44-47
determine remuneration
Corporate Governance Guidelines, pages 7-8
2-21 Annual total 2023 Proxy Statement, pages 14, 44
compensation ratio
Corporate Governance Guidelines, page 7-8; page
10
81
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
About This Report GRI index SASB index TCFD index GHG methodologies and verification
GRI Standard Disclosure Location
2-22 Statement on sustainable 2022 ESG Report, pages 2-3
development strategy
2-23 Policy commitments 2022 ESG Report, pages 68-72
2023 Proxy Statement, page 37
Code of Ethics
Supplier Standards of Conduct
Human Rights Policy
Anti-Corruption Policy
Environmental, Health and Safety Policy
Equal Employment Opportunity Policy Statement
Global Diversity and Inclusion Policy
Global Harassment, Discrimination & Workplace
Bullying Prevention Policy
Political Activity Policy
GRI 2: General Whistleblower and Non-Retaliation Policy
Disclosures 2021 2-24 Embedding policy 2022 ESG Report, pages 68-72
commitments
2023 Proxy Statement, page 37
Code of Ethics
Global Diversity and Inclusion Policy
Equal Employment Opportunity Policy Statement
Political Activity Policy
2-25 Processes to remediate 2022 ESG Report, pages 40-59; pages 68-70
negative impacts
Reports of suspected improper or unethical activity
are investigated and treated with confidentiality in
compliance with local laws.
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice 2022 ESG Report, page 70
and raising concerns
Code of Ethics
Supplier Standards of Conduct
Whistleblower and Non-Retaliation Policy
Cognizant’s Ethic & Compliance Helpline
82 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
About This Report GRI index SASB index TCFD index GHG methodologies and verification
GRI Standard Disclosure Location
2-27 Compliance with laws 2022 Form 10-K, page 22
and regulations
We commit significant financial and managerial
resources to comply with our internal control over
financial reporting requirements, but we have in the
past identified and may in the future identify material
weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal
control over financial reporting that cause us to incur
GRI 2: General incremental remediation costs in order to maintain
Disclosures 2021 adequate controls.
2-28 Membership associations United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)
2-29 Approach to 2022 ESG Report, pages 28, 66
stakeholder engagement
2-30 Collective We are not party to any significant collective
bargaining agreements bargaining agreements.
2022 Form 10-K, page 9
3-1 Process to determine 2022 ESG Report, page 14
material topics
In 2021, we worked with a third party to gauge which
ESG issues various stakeholders thought were most
relevant to our business. In 2022 we built on this work
internally by reviewing client questions and requests
in order to continue focusing on the topics that we
believe are most impactful and relevant to our
business.
3-2 List of material topics 2022 ESG Report, page 14
GRI 3: Material
1. Social with an emphasis on engaging, training and
Topics 2021
hiring diverse talent in our workforce from our
communities
2. Environment with an emphasis on reducing GHG
emissions through technology, our culture and
internal change-management
3. Governance with an emphasis on ESG oversight
and transparency, including supply chain
management, health and safety, ethics, data privacy
and security
83
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
About This Report GRI index SASB index TCFD index GHG methodologies and verification
GRI Standard Disclosure Location
3-3 Management of material topics 2022 ESG Report
• Social, pages 16-37
• Environment, pages 38- 61
• Governance, pages 62-76
2023 Proxy Statement, pages 35-38
2022 Form 10-K, pages 10-12
In 2022, we looked across the Cognizant value chain
and organized our thinking about how physical and
transitional climate risks might manifest through the
business. We focused on these risks and the
geographies in which our associates live and work,
with particular attention on the following major
areas: property procurement and people.
GRI 3: Material
We believe addressing questions of sustainability
Topics 2021
can improve a traditional business model. Climate
opportunities available to Cognizant include:
reducing our emissions, reducing client emissions,
offering sustainable services and continually
engaging on sustainability.
Other policies and reports such as:
Code of Ethics
Supplier Standards of Conduct
Whistleblower and Non-Retaliation Policy
Environmental, Health and Safety Policy
Global Diversity and Inclusion Policy
Global Harassment, Discrimination & Workplace
Bullying Prevention Policy
201-1 Direct economic value Revenues: $19.4B
generated and distributed
2022 ESG Report, page 7
2023 Proxy Statement, page 5
201-2 Financial implications and 2022 ESG Report, pages 42-51
other risks and opportunities due to
2022 Form 10-K, pages 15-21
GRI 201: Economic climate change
Performance 2016
201-3 Defined benefit plan 2022 Form 10-K, page F-36
obligations and other
Under the plans, employees contribute up to 12.0% of
retirement plans
their eligible compensation, which is matched by an
equal contribution by the Company 2023.
201-4 Financial assistance received 2022 Form 10-K, pages F-25 to F-28
from government
84 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
About This Report GRI index SASB index TCFD index GHG methodologies and verification
GRI Standard Disclosure Location
203-1 Infrastructure investments and 2022 ESG Report, pages 32-36
services supported
In 2022, we awarded over $23.5 million in grants and
gifts to 115 organizations around the world, furthering
our mission to improve economic mobility and
community resilience through strategic
programmatic giving, local community support and
GRI 203: Indirect
disaster response.
Economic Impacts 2016
Grants and gifts through philanthropy as well as pro
bono engagement through our Outreach volunteer
program.
203-2 Significant indirect economic 2022 ESG Report, pages 32-36
impacts
2023 Proxy Statement, page 38
206-1 Legal actions for anti- We comply with antitrust and competition laws of
GRI 206: Anti-competitive
competitive behavior, anti-trust, and every country where we do business.
Behavior 2016
monopoly practices
302-1 Energy consumption within the 2022 ESG Report, page 57
organization
2021 ESG Report, page 90
GRI 302: Energy 2016 UK Government GHG Conversion factors for
Company Reporting (2021)
Energy consumption disclosures, page 98
303-1 Interactions with water as a 2022 ESG Report, page 58
shared resource
303-2 Management of water 2022 ESG Report, page 58
discharge-related impacts
In 2022, we added risk prioritization to our global
water risk management efforts, which sets the stage
for engagement plans in high-risk areas.
GRI 303: Water and 303-3 Water withdrawal 2022 ESG Report, page 58
Effluents 2018 In 2022, we harvested 16,838 kiloliters (4.4 million
gallons) of rainwater through groundwater
harvesting pumps, meeting around 9% of total water
consumption needs in owned facilities.
303-5 Water consumption 2022 ESG Report, page 58
In 2022, water storage capacity more than doubled
in Chennai, India.
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 2022 ESG Report, page 57
GHG emissions disclosures, pages 96-100
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 2022 ESG Report, page 57
emissions
GHG emissions disclosures, pages 96-100
GRI 305: Emissions
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG 2022 ESG Report, page 57
2016
emissions
GHG emissions disclosures, pages 96-100
305-4 GHG emissions intensity We do not directly disclose our intensity ratio.
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions We do not directly disclose our year-over-year
reductions.
85
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
About This Report GRI index SASB index TCFD index GHG methodologies and verification
GRI Standard Disclosure Location
306-1 Waste generation and 2022 ESG Report, page 59
significant waste-related impacts
Our focus for e-waste management is to maximize
the reuse of our computers. In 2021, we committed to
keeping 80,000 computers out of landfill. By the end
of 2022, we kept over 62,000 computers out of
landfills and remain focused on meeting this
commitment in 2023.
GRI 306: Waste
Our efforts apply to our own e-waste.
2020
306-2 Management of significant 2022 ESG Report, page 59
waste-related impacts
306-3 Waste generated Cognizant is a services provider with a knowledge-
based supply chain. We are not a large consumer of
raw materials, nor do we produce a product or any
related packaging.
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal 2022 ESG Report, page 59
401-1 New employee hires and 2022 ESG Report, page 19
employee turnover
2022 Form 10-K, page 10
For the three months ended December 31, 2022 and
2021, our annualized attrition rate, including both
voluntary and involuntary, was 25.3% and 34.6%,
GRI 401: respectively. Our attrition rate for the years ended
Employment 2016 December 31, 2022 and 2021, including both
voluntary and involuntary, was 31.7% and 30.8%,
respectively.
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time 2022 ESG Report, page 27
employees that are not provided to
2022 Form 10-K, page 12
temporary or part-time employees
2023 Proxy Statement, page 35
403-1 Occupational health and 2022 ESG Report, page 70
safety management system
Environmental, Health and Safety Policy
403-2 Hazard identification, risk Environmental, Health and Safety Policy
assessment, and incident
Meet all applicable environmental, health and safety
GRI 403: investigation
laws and regulation requirements. The Global EHS
Occupational
Center of Excellence team will evaluate EHS
Health and Safety
performance by monitoring ongoing performance
2018
results outlined in EHS objectives and targets
framework documents and through periodic
management reviews with key business leadership,
including the CEO, CFO and CAO
403-3 Occupational health services 2022 ESG Report, page 70
86 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
About This Report GRI index SASB index TCFD index GHG methodologies and verification
GRI Standard Disclosure Location
403-4 Worker participation, 2022 ESG Report, page 70
consultation, and communication on
Communicate environmental, health and safety
occupational health and safety
programs to Cognizant Associates and encourage
them to report any environmental, health or safety
GRI 403: concerns.
Occupational
403-5 Worker training on New EHS e-learning courses were rolled out on our
Health and Safety
occupational health and safety EHS intranet page, and we implemented a Hazard
2018
and Aspect Identification and Assessment of Risk
and Opportunity program.
403-6 Promotion of worker health 2022 ESG Report, page 27
2023 Proxy Statement, page 35
403-8 Workers covered by an 2022 ESG Report, page 70
occupational health and safety
As of 2022, 92% of our workspace was covered by
management system
ISO 45001:2018 Occupational Health and Safety
Management System and 90% was covered by ISO
GRI 403:
14001:2015 Environmental Management System.
Occupational
We now track and report this metric based on
Health and Safety
workspace (e.g., offices) rather than associate count
2018
in a workspace. This allows us to accommodate the
realities of hybrid work.
403-9 Work-related injuries We do not disclose this information.
403-10 Work-related ill health We do not disclose this information.
404-1 Average hours of training per 25 M learning hours / 355,300 associates = average
year per employee of >70hrs/FTE
404-2 Programs for upgrading In 2021, we launched the Cognizant Returnship
employee skills and transition Program for technology professionals looking to
assistance programs restart their careers. Participants with at least five
years of relevant experience who have taken an
extended career break of at least two years are
supported as they transition back into the
GRI 404: Training technology workforce.
and Education
2022 ESG Report, pages 21, 24-27, 37, 56
2016
2022 Form 10-K, page 11
2023 Proxy Statement, page 35
404-3 Percentage of employees Periodic talent processes such as talent reviews aim
receiving regular performance and to help individuals develop in role and prepare for the
career development reviews future, while strengthening our leadership pipeline
overall.
2022 Form 10-K, page 11
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies 2022 ESG Report, page 19-20
GRI 405: Diversity
and employees
and Equal 2023 Proxy Statement, pages 7-8; page 36
Opportunity 2016
2022 Form 10-K, page 10
87
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
About This Report GRI index SASB index TCFD index GHG methodologies and verification
GRI Standard Disclosure Location
GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at Our Company does not make use of child labor (i.e.,
significant risk for incidents of child a person under the minimum age provisions of
labor applicable laws and regulations) or forced labor (i.e.,
prison labor, indentured labor, bonded labor, military
labor, slave labor), does not condone any form of
human trafficking, and will not work with third parties
who engage in such practices.
GRI 409: Forced or 409-1 Operations and suppliers at Our Company does not make use of child labor (i.e.,
Compulsory Labor 2016 significant risk for incidents of forced a person under the minimum age provisions of
or compulsory labor applicable laws and regulations) or forced labor (i.e.,
prison labor, indentured labor, bonded labor, military
labor, slave labor), does not condone any form of
human trafficking, and will not work with third parties
who engage in such practices.
Following a risk assessment we undertook across all
aspects of our business and supply chain, we have
updated our process to include targeted modern
slavery due diligence within our global supply chain.
Cognizant’s main focus has been ensuring that its
standards and expectations are clearly
communicated to existing and prospective suppliers.
High risk suppliers are required to provide details of
their own practices and their supply chain in relation
to modern slavery. These suppliers are required to
provide evidence that they have implemented
modern slavery prevention mechanisms. See Modern
Slavery Statement
414-1 New suppliers that were 2022 ESG Report, page 71-72
screened using social criteria
We have implemented new risk-based Modern
Slavery assessment criteria to ensure that our
partners share our values and standards. These
criteria help us identify which suppliers present the
highest levels of risk of exposing Cognizant and our
supply chain to slavery-related practices and
GRI 414: Supplier Social therefore will be subject to our modern slavery due
Assessment 2016 diligence process. Suppliers can specify which
international human rights standards they follow and
provide information on relevant topics such as health
and safety, freedom of association and collective
bargaining, child labor and modern slavery, and
standards for vulnerable populations. During 2022,
we began a process of proactively reassessing our
high-risk suppliers.
GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions 2022 Annual Political Spend Report
2016
GRI 418: Customer 418-1 Substantiated complaints We do not disclose this information.
Privacy 2016 concerning breaches of customer
privacy and losses of customer data
88 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
About This Report GRI index SASB index TCFD index GHG methodologies and verification
SASB index
Industry: Software and IT Services
Table 1. Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accounting Metrics
Unit of
Topic Accounting Metric Category Measure Code Response Location
(1) Total energy Quantitative Gigajoules (GJ), TC-SI- (1) Total energy 2022 ESG Report,
consumed, Percentage (%) 130a.1 consumption (for page 57
(2) percentage grid Scope 1 and 2
electricity, activities): 622,378
(3) percentage
(3) Percentage
renewable
renewable (India geo-
only): 44%
(1) Total water Quantitative Thousand cubic TC-SI- In 2022, we harvested 2022 ESG Report,
withdrawn, (2) total meters (m³), 130a.2 16,838 kiloliters (4.4 page 58
water consumed, Percentage (%) million gallons) of
percentage of each rainwater through
in regions with High groundwater
or Extremely High harvesting pumps,
Baseline Water meeting around 9% of
Stress total water
Environmental
consumption needs in
Footprint of
Hardware owned facilities.
Infrastructure Additionally,
recovering
condensate from air
handling units added
another 1% to total
water recovery for a
total of 2,674 kiloliters
(706,396 gallons).
Discussion of the Discussion n/a TC-SI- Integration of 2022 ESG Report,
integration of and Analysis 130a.3 environmental pages 42-57
environmental considerations into
considerations into strategic planning for
strategic planning data center needs is
for data center discussed in the
needs “Environment”
section.
89
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
About This Report GRI index SASB index TCFD index GHG methodologies and verification
Table 1. Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accounting Metrics
Description of Discussion n/a TC-SI- Description of policies 2022 ESG Report,
policies and and Analysis 220a.1 and practices page 75
practices relating to relating to behavioral
behavioral advertising and user
advertising and user privacy is discussed
privacy under “Data privacy”
on page 75.
Number of users Quantitative Number TC-SI- We do not disclose
whose information is 220a.2 this information.
used for secondary
purposes
Total amount of Quantitative Reporting TC-SI- We do not disclose
monetary losses as currency 220a.3 this information.
a result of legal
proceedings
associated with user
privacy
Data Privacy
& Freedom of (1) Number of law Quantitative Number, TC-SI- We do not disclose
Expression enforcement Percentage (%) 220a.4 this information.
requests for user
information,
(2) number of users
whose information
was requested,
(3) percentage
resulting in
disclosure
List of countries Discussion n/a TC-SI- We do not disclose
where core and Analysis 220a.5 this information.
products or services
are subject to
government-
required monitoring,
blocking, content
filtering, or
censoring
90 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
About This Report GRI index SASB index TCFD index GHG methodologies and verification
Table 1. Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accounting Metrics
(1) Number of data Quantitative Number, TC-SI- We do not disclose
breaches, Percentage (%) 220a.5 this information.
(2) percentage
involving personally
identifiable
information (PII),
(3) number of users
affected
Data Security Description of Discussion n/a TC-SI- Disclosures can be 2022 ESG Report,
approach to and Analysis 230a.2 found under “Data pages 72-74
identifying and security” on pages
addressing data 72-74 of the ESG
security risks, report.
including use of
third-party
cybersecurity
standards
Percentage of Quantitative Percentage (%) TC-SI- We do not disclose 2022 Form 10-K,
employees that are 330a.1 this information. page 9
(1) foreign nationals
and (2) located
offshore
Employee Quantitative Percentage (%) TC-SI- Our 2022 Cognizant 2022 ESG Report,
engagement as a 330a.2 People Engagement page 28
Recruiting & percentage Survey, conducted
Managing a via third party
Global, platform, had a
Diverse & nearly 60%
Skilled participation rate.
Workforce
Percentage of Quantitative Percentage (%) TC-SI- 2022 ESG Report,
gender and racial/ 330a.3 page 19
ethnic group
representation for
(1) management, (2)
technical staff, and
(3) all other
employees
91
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
About This Report GRI index SASB index TCFD index GHG methodologies and verification
Table 1. Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accounting Metrics
Intellectual Total amount of Quantitative Reporting TC-SI- We do not disclose
Property monetary losses as currency 520a.1 this information.
Protection & a result of legal
Competitive proceedings
Behavior associated with
anticompetitive
behavior regulations
Number of (1) Quantitative Number, Days TC-SI- We do not disclose
performance issues 550a.1 this information.
and (2) service
Managing
disruptions; (3) total
Systemic Risks
customer downtime
from
Description of Discussion n/a TC-SI- Different risks are 2022 ESG Report,
Technology
business continuity and Analysis 550a.2 discussed in the pages 42-51
Disruptions
risks related to “Environment” section
2022 Form 10-K,
disruptions of of the ESG report and
pages 15-21
operations in the Form 10-K.
Table 2. Activity Metrics
Unit of
Activity Metric Category Measure Code Response Location
(1) Number of licenses or Quantitative Number, TC-SI-000.A We do not disclose
subscriptions, Percentage this information.
(2) percentage cloud-based (%)
(1) Data processing capacity, Quantitative See note TC-SI-000.B We do not disclose
(2) percentage outsourced this information.
(1) Amount of data storage, Quantitative Petabytes, TC-SI-000.C We do not disclose
(2) percentage outsourced Percentage this information.
(%)
92 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
About This Report GRI index SASB index TCFD index GHG methodologies and verification
TCFD index
Topic Recommended Disclosure Response or location
Governance: Disclose the a. Describe the board’s oversight of 2022 ESG Report: Environment, page 41
organization’s climate-related risks and
governance around opportunities.
climate-related risks and b. Describe management’s role in 2022 ESG Report: Environment, page 41
opportunities. assessing and managing climate-
related risks and opportunities.
Strategy: Disclose the a. Describe the climate-related risks 2022 ESG Report, pages 42-51
actual and potential and opportunities the organization
impacts of climate- has identified over the short,
related risks and medium, and long term.
opportunities on the
b. Describe the impact of climate- 2022 ESG Report, pages 42-51
organization’s
related risks and opportunities on
businesses, strategy, and 2022 Form 10-K, pages 15-21
the organization’s businesses,
financial planning where
strategy, and financial planning.
such information is
c. Describe the resilience of the 2022 ESG Report: Environment, page 42-45
material.
organization’s strategy, taking into
In 2021 and 2022, we conducted a scenario analysis
consideration different climate-
of potential climate-related risks and opportunities
related scenarios, including a 2°C or
that might occur between 2021 and 2050. In this
lower scenario.
analysis, we considered the significance of identified
climate risks and opportunities and prioritized them
based on risk likelihood, impact and velocity. This
allowed us to put structure to a range of possible
future states under various degrees of climate
disruption, with the objective of integrating these
considerations into the realm of potential risks we
consider and analyze.
In this Cognizant-specific scenario analysis, we
cataloged risk and opportunity time frames: short
term (up to 5 years), medium term (6-15 years) and
long term (16-30 years).
For each time frame, we considered possible impacts
to Cognizant under varying degrees of heating and
the global responses to the impacts of that heating,
including and up to a “Hothouse World” at 3°C.
93
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
About This Report GRI index SASB index TCFD index GHG methodologies and verification
Topic Recommended Disclosure Response or location
Risk Management: a. Describe the organization’s 2022 ESG Report: Environment, pages 42-45
Disclose how the processes for identifying and
organization identifies, assessing climate-related risks.
assesses, and manages b. Describe the organization’s 2022 ESG Report: Environment, pages 42-50
climate-related risks. processes for managing climate-
related risks.
c. Describe how processes for 2022 ESG Report: Environment, pages 42-45
identifying, assessing, and
managing climate-related risks are
integrated into the organization’s
overall risk management.
Metrics and Targets: a. Disclose the metrics used by the 2022 ESG Report, pages 52-57
Disclose the metrics and organization to assess climate-
targets used to assess related risks and opportunities in line
and manage relevant with its strategy and risk
climate-related risks and management process.
opportunities where such
b. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if 2022 ESG Report, page 57
information is material.
appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse
gas (GHG) emissions, and the
related risks.
c. Describe the targets used by the 2022 ESG Report, pages 52-57
organization to manage climate-
2022 Form 10-K, page 12
related risks and opportunities and
performance against targets. 2023 Proxy Statement, page 37
94 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
About This Report GRI index SASB index TCFD index GHG methodologies and verification
GHG methodologies and verification
GHG emissions disclosures emissions. Environmental and energy use data used
in GHG emissions calculations are subject to inherent
1. Cognizant considers the principles and guidance of
limitations, given the nature and the methods used
the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World
for measuring such data. The selection by
Business Council for Sustainable Development’s
management of different but acceptable
(WBCSD) The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate
measurement techniques could have resulted in
Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised and the
materially different amounts or metrics being
Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and
reported.
Reporting Standard (together the “GHG Protocol”), to
guide the criteria to assess, calculate and report GHG 6. MTCO e = Metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent,
2
emissions, including energy consumption. GJ = Gigajoules.
2. Organizational boundary relates to Cognizant’s sites 7. Related to Scope 1 GHG emissions:
over which it had operational control during the
• Scope 1 stationary fuels include diesel fuel used for
reporting year.
backup generators, liquid petroleum gas, and
3. Emissions associated with the following sites are not natural gas used by Cognizant sites.
included: those under construction, not operational,
– Diesel powered backup generators are in use at
on short-term leases, co-working sites, or non-
certain sites in Brazil, France, Hungary, India,
integrated companies (those in process of being or
Ireland, Lithuania, the Philippines, Poland, and
recently acquired).
the United States (U.S.). Diesel consumption
4. Carbon dioxide equivalents (CO e) emissions are (volume) was obtained from third-party invoices
2
inclusive of carbon dioxide (CO ), nitrous oxide (N O), or property owners’ reports. Stationary diesel is
2 2
methane (CH ), and industrial gasses, which include adjusted for stockpiling for sites in India. Where
4
hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). The other GHGs of sulfur diesel consumption was not available,
hexafluoride (SF ), perfluorocarbons (PFCs) and Cognizant estimated diesel consumption using
6
nitrogen trifluoride (NF ) are not emitted by the intensity method (liters/square foot) based
3
Cognizant’s sites. Emissions data by individual gas is on comparable Cognizant sites for facilities that
not disclosed as a majority of CO e relates to CO . did not report actual data in 2022, but had diesel
2 2
These CO e emissions utilize Global Warming generator(s) in service in 2021.
2
Potentials (GWPs) defined by the Intergovernmental
– Food vendors on-site at fully leased or owned
Panel on Climate Change’s (IPCC) Fourth Assessment
sites in India consume liquid petroleum gas.
Report (AR4 - 100 year), unless a different Assessment
Actual consumption data was obtained from
Report is already embedded in the emission factor
third-party invoices or vendors’ reports. No
source. CO e emissions are calculated by multiplying
2 estimates were made.
actual or estimated energy, fuel and refrigerant
usage by relevant emission factors and GWP. All – U.S. and Canadian sites, and certain European
emission factors are updated annually where sites consume natural gas. Natural gas
applicable. consumption was obtained from third-party
invoices or property owners’ reports. For sites
5. GHG emissions quantification is subject to significant
where consumption data was not available for
inherent measurement uncertainty because of such
certain months, an average monthly
things as GHG emissions factors that are used in
consumption was calculated based on the
mathematical models to calculate GHG emissions,
invoices received for that site. For sites where
and the inability of these models, due to incomplete
consumption data was available for less than six
scientific knowledge and other factors, to accurately
months of the year, Cognizant estimated natural
measure under all circumstances the relationship
gas consumption for the missing period using
between various inputs and the resultant GHG
the 2018 Commercial Buildings Energy
95
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
About This Report GRI index SASB index TCFD index GHG methodologies and verification
Consumption Survey (CBECS) intensity factors – Cognizant captured actual electricity usage
for United States offices for sites in the U.S. or from the grid, including renewable power, from
Canada, or based on comparable sites for third-party invoices or property owners’ reports.
locations outside of the U.S. or Canada. For sites where consumption data was not
available for certain months, an average
• Scope 1 mobile fuels include diesel or gasoline fuels
monthly consumption was calculated based on
used for the Cognizant vehicle fleet in Belgium,
the invoices received for that site. For all other
Brazil, Germany, Hungary, India, Portugal, and the
sites (except the U.S. and Canada) where
Netherlands.
electricity consumption was not available,
– Cognizant used third-party invoices or vendors’ Cognizant estimated electricity usage using the
reports where available to measure mobile fuel intensity method (kWh/square foot) based on
consumption. For vehicle fleets where mobile comparable Cognizant sites. For sites in the U.S.
fuel consumption data was not available for and Canada, Cognizant used the 2018 CBECs
certain months, an average consumption was intensity factors for U.S. offices.
calculated based on the invoices received for
– Electricity purchased from a property owner and
that vehicle fleet.
generated through captive diesel generators in
– Where invoice data was not available, India is based on invoice data and categorized
Cognizant estimated mobile fuel consumption under Scope 2 as purchased electricity.
using the intensity method which was based on
– In certain countries, Cognizant has sites that
the annual average liters from other Cognizant
house on-site data centers or Cognizant
vehicles.
operated (infra-managed) data centers.
• Scope 1 emissions from refrigerants apply to Kyoto Electricity used by these data centers is included
Protocol refrigerants used in the operation of sites in Scope 2. Consumption was obtained from
in India and the Philippines. All other refrigerant third-party invoices or vendors’ reports. When
emissions are outside of Cognizant’s operational consumption data was not available, Cognizant
control and are excluded from reporting. calculated its data center electricity use based
Refrigerant top ups were obtained from third-party on contracted power, the share of power
invoices. utilization provided by the partner data centers
and operating hours per year. Data centers
• Energy associated with on-site solar panels (not
operate 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, 365
connected to a third-party grid) is generated and
days per year. Where information was not
consumed on-site at sites in India. Cognizant
available, previous year consumption data was
categorized emissions from on-site solar panels
used as a proxy.
within its Scope 1 GHG emissions with zero
emissions. • Scope 2 district heating and cooling is used for one
site in Hungary. Consumption was obtained from
• Emission factors:
third-party invoices or for months where data was
– United Kingdom (UK) Government GHG not available, an average monthly consumption
Conversion factors for Company Reporting was calculated based on the invoices received for
(2022). that site.
• Estimated emissions from the sources above • Scope 2 electricity consumption by electric vehicles
account for approximately 14% of the reported charged off site for Cognizant’s vehicle fleet in
Scope 1 GHG emissions. Belgium and the Netherlands. Consumption data
was obtained from third-party invoices or vendors’
8. Related to Scope 2 GHG emissions:
reports. No estimates were made.
• Scope 2 purchased electricity applies to electricity
• Emission factors: Location-based:
used at Cognizant sites and purchased a) from the
grid, or b) from the property-owner for Cognizant's – Grid electricity and electric vehicles charged off-
direct use on-site. site:
96 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
About This Report GRI index SASB index TCFD index GHG methodologies and verification
• India: Government of India Ministry of Power goods, and category 4: upstream transportation and
Central Electricity Authority CO baseline distribution:
2
database for the Indian Power Sector (2022).
• Calculated based on annual spend data obtained
• U.S.: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency from Cognizant’s Enterprise Resource Planning
(EPA) Emissions & Generated Resource (ERP) system.
Integrated Database (eGrid) 2021 factors by
• Emission factors:
sub-region (2023).
– For forty-three (43) of Cognizant’s top suppliers
• All other countries: International Energy
by emissions in 2022 (calculated using 2016
Agency (IEA) CO equivalent emissions – total
2 Quantis emission factors), Cognizant used
for electricity and heat (2022).
publicly available data as most recently reported
– Electricity purchased from property owners: to CDP Climate Change (as of May 2023) or
sustainability (or equivalent) and corresponding
• UK Government GHG Conversion factors for
Annual Report, to create supplier-specific
Company Reporting (2022) for 100% mineral
emission factors.
diesel.
– For all other suppliers and spend categories,
– District heating and cooling: UK Government
Cognizant applied the 2016 Quantis emission
GHG Conversion factors for Company Reporting
factors available from the GHG Protocol Scope 3
(2022).
evaluator tool (cited May 2023).
• Emission factors: Market-based:
10. Related to GHG emissions from Scope 3, category 3:
– Grid electricity: fuel- and energy-related activities:
• Solar and wind energy purchased through • Calculated based on activity data (diesel, district
power purchase agreements (PPAs) or energy heating and cooling, electricity, electric vehicles
contracts or through the property owner: charged off site, gasoline, LPG, and natural gas
Treated as zero emissions. consumption) from Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
• After application of solar and wind energy • Emission factors:
purchases:
– WTT for diesel, district heating and cooling,
– European sites: Association of Issuing gasoline, liquid petroleum gas, and natural gas:
Bodies (AIB) European Residual Mix 2021 v1.0 UK Government GHG Conversion factors for
(last updated 2022). Company Reporting (2022).
– All other countries: Same as location-based – WTT for electricity:
factors.
• UK: UK Government GHG Conversion factors
– Electricity purchased from property owners, for Company Reporting (2022).
district heating and cooling, and electric vehicles
• All other countries: The UK government
charged offsite:
stopped publishing WTT electricity emission
• Same as location-based factors. factors for geographies outside of the UK in
2021. Using UK Government GHG Conversion
• Estimated emissions from the sources above
factors for Company Reporting (2021) as a
account for approximately 3% of reported
proxy.
Scope 2 GHG emissions (location-based) and
approximately 5% of reported Scope 2 GHG • T&D losses for electricity: IEA T&D Losses
emissions (market-based and referencing market- Emission Factors 2022.
based).
11. Related to GHG emissions from Scope 3, category 5:
9. Related to GHG emissions from Scope 3, category 1: waste generated in operations:
purchased goods and services, category 2: capital
• Calculated using an average intensity factor
estimated based on publicly available data as
97
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
About This Report GRI index SASB index TCFD index GHG methodologies and verification
reported in their most recent sustainability (or consumption of all other data center sites where
equivalent) report (as of May 2023), for Infosys and this information was available.
WiPro, as peer benchmarks and the number of
• Common areas: Actual common area share of
employees obtained from the HR system as of
electricity and captive diesel generators usage
December 31, 2022.
obtained from landlords for certain sites in India.
12. Related to GHG emissions from Scope 3, category 6: Cognizant used the India data to develop an
business travel: average intensity benchmark for the common
areas for all other sites, which was then multiplied
• Air and rail travel: The data used in the calculation
by the site’s floor area.
is obtained from reports provided by a third-party
commercial travel manager, which includes total • Emission factors:
distance per trip for business travel booked:
– Electricity:
– Air travel covers domestic and international
• India: Government of India Ministry of Power
travel by Cognizant employees globally.
Central Electricity Authority CO baseline
2
– Rail travel covers commuter train, national rail database for the Indian Power (2022).
and international by Cognizant employees
• U.S.: U.S. EPA eGrid 2021 factors by sub-region
globally.
(2023).
• Other business travel categories: Calculated based
• All other countries: IEA CO equivalent
on annual spend data (accommodation, car lease, 2
emissions – total for electricity and heat
relocation services, transportation, travel
(2022).
management, and visa & immigration services)
obtained from Cognizant’s ERP system. – T&D losses for electricity: IEA Emission Factors
2022.
• Emission factors:
– WTT for electricity:
– UK Government GHG Conversion factors for
Company Reporting (2022). • UK: UK Government GHG Conversion factors
for Company Reporting (2022).
13. Related to GHG emissions from Scope 3, category 7:
employee commuting: • All other countries: The UK government
stopped publishing WTT electricity emission
• Calculated using an average intensity factor
factors for geographies outside of the UK in
estimated based on publicly available data as
2021. Using UK Government GHG Conversion
reported in their most recent sustainability (or
factors for Company Reporting (2021) as a
equivalent) report (as of May 2023), for IBM, Infosys,
proxy.
WiPro, as peer benchmarks and the number of
employees obtained from the HR system as of 15. Related to GHG emissions from Scope 3, category 15:
December 31, 2022. investments:
14. Related to GHG emissions from Scope 3, category 8: • Includes all minority investments where Cognizant
upstream leased assets: has (1) less than 50% of ownership, and (2) either
have voting rights or a seat on the board (that is
• Third party data centers: Consumption was
not merely an observer position), but (3) does not
obtained from third-party invoices or vendors’
have operational control of the entity.
reports. When consumption data was not
available, calculated energy use based on • As investment portfolios are dynamic and change
contracted power, its share of power utilization frequently throughout the reporting year,
provided by the partner data centers and Cognizant uses December 31 as the fixed point in
operating hours per year. Data centers operate 24 the reporting year to determine which investments
hours per day, 7 days per week, 365 days per year. to include in its emissions for the reporting year (i.e.,
For data centers where information was not minority investments owned as of December 31 are
available, usage was estimated using the average included in reporting). In the event that an
98 Cognizant ESG Report 2022
Introduction Social Environment Governance Appendix
About This Report GRI index SASB index TCFD index GHG methodologies and verification
investment was acquired or divested during the 19. Estimated energy consumption from the sources
year, a pro rata share for the year has been above account for approximately 10% of the reported
applied. energy consumption for Scope 1 and 2 activities.
• Subsequent to the end of the year and during Q1
2023 on February 13, 2023, Cognizant divested
from an investment representing approximately
94% of the GHG emissions from investments.
• Calculated using a GHG emissions factor by dollar
estimated based on peer benchmarks, the revenue
of the minority investment, and Cognizant’s
percentage ownership as of December 31, 2022.
• Emission factors:
– Dollar invested intensity emission factor
calculated from an average emissions per dollar
of revenue for IT & software development
companies most recently reported to CDP
Climate Change (as of May 2023). Cognizant
collected the 2022 Scope 1, 2 (market-based,
where available) and 3 emissions for twenty-
three (23) companies in the IT & software
services industry, divided by the 2022 revenue
for these companies to form the average
emissions factor per dollar of revenue.
Energy consumption disclosures
16. Direct and indirect energy include gigajoules of direct
on-site renewable energy consumption, direct energy
purchased, which is comprised of diesel, gasoline,
liquid petroleum gas, and natural gas, and indirect
energy purchased which is comprised of purchased
electricity, district heating and cooling generated
offsite, as well as electricity consumption by electric
vehicles charged off site, as applicable.
17. The preparation of the energy consumption metric
requires management to establish the criteria, make
determinations as to the relevancy of information to
be included, and make assumptions that affect
reported information. The selection by management
of different but acceptable measurement techniques
could have resulted in a materially different amount
or metric being reported.
18. Renewable electricity includes solar and wind
purchases made by Cognizant for use at sites in
India.
99

