2024
Table of Contents
01
A Message From Brian L. Roberts & Dalila Wilson-Scott
Project UP
 02

Connectivity and Adoption
 03

Skills and Creativity
 11

Entrepreneurialism
 17

Volunteerism
 20
DE&I
 22

Employees
 23

Culture
 26

Content
 32

Diversity Data 37
Environment
 44

Progress
 45

Operations
 49

Network
 55

Our Voice
 58
NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Impact Report includes estimates, projections and statements regarding environmental, social and governance-
related plans, objectives and goals that are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). Forward-looking statements may appear throughout this report. These forward-looking
statements generally are identified by the words “believe,” “project,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,”
“potential,” “strategy,” “future,” “opportunity,” “commit,” “plan,” “goal,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “will,” “continue,”
“will likely result” and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and
assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially. In
evaluating these statements, you should consider various factors, including the risks and uncertainties we describe in
the “Risk Factors” sections of our Forms 10-K and 10-Q and other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”). The inclusion of forward-looking and other statements in this Impact Report is not an indication
that they are necessarily material to investors or required to be disclosed in our filings with the SEC. Such statements
may contain estimates, make assumptions based on developing standards that may change and provide aspirations
and commitments that are not intended to be promises or guarantees. Readers are cautioned not to place undue
reliance on forward-looking statements and such other statements, which speak only as of the date they are made.
We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking or such other statements, whether
because of new information, future events or otherwise.
Comcast employees in Philadelphia
Cover: CodePath students in Atlanta
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 01
A Message from Brian L. Roberts & Dalila Wilson-Scott
As we mark Comcast’s 60th anniversary, our commitment to
working within communities and to building a more equitable,
inclusive, and sustainable world has never been sharper.
We’ve accelerated our efforts to close the digital An inclusive workplace where everyone feels valued
divide and open doors to economic mobility and empowered to contribute remains a top
through Project UP, our $1 billion initiative to priority. Initiatives such as Mental Health
connect people to the Internet and create Week, DE&I Day, and our DE&I Speaker Series help
opportunities for the next generation. to foster understanding, awareness, and allyship —
and strengthen our dynamic culture of belonging.

In 2023, we advanced our longstanding
Brian L. Roberts

commitment to help more people get and stay At the same time, we are diligently looking for ways
online by supporting national and local nonprofits to reduce our carbon footprint and address climate
Chairman & Chief Executive
that provide training and career development for change — driving energy efficiency across our Officer, Comcast Corporation
learners at all levels. With nearly all jobs today network and implementing sustainable practices in
requiring a digital skill, these programs are critical our operations. One highlight is the launch of
to creating pathways to economic success.
 our GreenerLight Program, which incorporates
sustainability throughout the filmmaking process,
We are proud of how our platforms and resources from script to screen.

help drive impact, from piloting American Sign
Language in our retail stores to curating We are deeply grateful to our dedicated
multicultural content collections. Through Sky Up teammates and partners for their ongoing work
Academy and NBCU Academy, we’ve helped within our communities to shape and imagine an
thousands of young people gain essential skills in extraordinary future.
Dalila Wilson-Scott

media literacy and storytelling. And Comcast
Executive Vice President & Chief
RISE has supported the growth of 13,500 small
Diversity Officer, Comcast
businesses since it launched three years ago.
Corporation; President, Comcast
NBCUniversal Foundation
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 02
We’re helping to build a future of unlimited possibilities.
Backed by a $1 billion commitment, Project UP deepens
the impact of our efforts to connect people to the Internet,
deliver digital skills, create new career pathways in media
and technology, and support entrepreneurs.
PROJECT UP
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 03
Connectivity and Adoption
Our commitment to connecting more people to the Internet is longstanding and unwavering.
Through our initiatives, partnerships, and investments, we work to help create a more equitable world.
SERJobs Digital Navigator Michael Frazier and Kenneth Harvey in Houston
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 04
Beyond the Build
We are committed to getting
more Americans connected. One
Broderick Johnson,
Executive Vice President,
way we do this is by building
Public Policy & Executive
broadband infrastructure and
Vice President, Digital
investing in local community
Equity, Comcast Corporation
organizations. This builds on the
work Comcast has done for many “Deep investments in
years to collaborate with state
broadband infrastructure,
and local governments, elected
local communities, and
officials, and community leaders
digital equity partnerships
toward our shared goal of Internet
adoption and closing geographic
are removing barriers to
gaps in broadband coverage.


connectivity for everyone.”
Over the past five years, Comcast
has achieved the following:
20B
$
invested to evolve and
grow our network
15M
homes and businesses
serviced with multi-gig
speeds in more than
55 markets
Biola Community Services District in Biola, Calif.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 05
Building Impact Around the Country
We are actively engaging in public-private partnerships that support widespread deployment and adoption of the
Internet, especially in under-resourced areas. Here are just a few examples:
Chattaroy, WA
Estacada, OR
Corcoran, MN
Sharon, CT
Charlotte, MI
Leo Cedarville, IN Dauphin County, PA
Baltimore County, MD
Sussex County, DE
Eagle Mountain City, UT
St. Mary’s County, MD
Gypsum, CO
Spring Hill, KS
Strasburg, VA
Biola, CA
Parrottsville, TN
Las Vegas, NM
Hampton County, SC
Twin City, GA
Crescent City, FL
Waller County, TX
Cape Coral, FL
Featured: Biola, Calif.
Beyond the build:
 What it means:
 Community partnerships:

Comcast invested $1 million to bring
Donated 250 laptops to students and Provided Biola residential and Supported local organizations — Fresno
high-speed broadband services to
families and opened three new Lift business customers with access to State Parent University and Reading
Biola, a rural farming community in the
Zones, which provide free WiFi access, high-speed Internet, all Xfinity and Beyond — to increase digital
Central Valley that is one of the most
in the Central Valley region. services, and the full suite of Comcast literacy and work readiness skills.
under-resourced regions in the state.
Business products and services.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 06
Expanding the
National Digital
Navigator Network
Digital Navigators are trusted
community members who help
people sign up for Internet services
and gain digital skills. Here are some
of the ways we are supporting these
networks around the country.
13.6M
$
Garland Coleman is a Digital Navigator who assists Ms. Jo Ethel Campbell, a 72-year-old from Houston,
in grants for connectivity
visitors at one of the Chicago Public Library received help from Digital Navigator Fernando
and adoption
branches with tasks like how to scan a document or Pérez to schedule and attend telehealth
look for a job online. He helps members of the appointments. “Now I feel very comfortable about
258
community feel confident using the Internet to doing it on my own,” she says.
enhance their lives.
organizations supported
In 2023, we deepened our connections with our partners, such as:
Community College of United Way chapters of Southwestern LGBT Technology
Baltimore County (CCBC) Pennsylvania and of Greater Philadelphia Institute launched a
trained and hired students and Southern New Jersey expanded the Digital Navigator program
as Digital Navigators. Digital Navigator network from one that serves the LGBTQ+
county to nine across Pennsylvania. population nationally.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 07
Partner Organizations Focus on Broadband Adoption
We support local and national organizations that promote digital equity.
The Southeast Asian Mutual Assistance Combined Arms offers resources that enhance The Chinese American Service League in
Association Coalition in Philadelphia offers the quality of life for veterans and military- Chicago provides social services support for
services for immigrants, refugees, and other connected individuals. Since partnering in the entire family, from child care services and
historically marginalized communities. With 2021, Comcast has supported its digital equity workforce development to in-home senior
our support, they performed outreach to efforts by launching a Lift Zone in their care. With our support, they secured new
immigrants and refugees focused on downtown Houston location, volunteering laptops for English-as-a-second-language
increasing broadband awareness. through Team UP, and providing grant funding and citizenship test training, and renovated
for their Connectivity and Support program. their adult day services program.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 08
Increasing Access to WiFi
Lift Zones offer free Internet access and many also In Europe, Sky expanded its Sky Up Hubs, which
offer essential digital services in neighborhood provide community access to the Internet, from the
locations like community centers and recreation United Kingdom to Italy and Ireland. In 2023, 25% of
facilities. By the end of 2023, Comcast had installed beneficiaries came to the Hubs because they didn't
more than 1,250 Lift Zones around the country. have WiFi at home.
Fiona Ball,
Group Director, Bigger
Picture & Sustainability, Sky
“We’re passionate about
using our innovation and
creativity to help people
fulfill their potential by
creating opportunities
and boosting digital
equity throughout
our communities.”
Boston Centers for Youth & Families, Hyde Park, Mass.
 Sky Up Hub, Milan, Italy

This center houses one of Comcast’s 36 Lift Zones throughout the Sky opened its first Hub in Milan in partnership with the
area, supporting senior citizens and multigenerational populations. Center for Helping Minors and Families in Crisis.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 09
Hispanic Heritage Foundation partnered with
Comcast NBCUniversal and Telemundo to
advance digital equity and build skills within
Latino communities across the country. Since
2020, we have donated a total of 10,000
laptops to Latino youth and community
organizations through this partnership.
“At Telemundo, we take 
immense pride in our community,
fostering connectivity and seeking
to create possibilities for the
families we serve.”
Christina Kolbjornsen, 
Senior Vice President, Corporate &
External Affairs, NBCUniversal
Telemundo Enterprises
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 10
Expanding Public-Private Partnerships
Comcast is working to support the growth of a Throughout 2023, Sky continued to partner
digital equity national service through the American with the local government in England, alongside
Connection Corps (ACC), which is an AmeriCorps social impact agency Spectra, to provide career
program. ACC places individuals in digitally support to young people who have been in foster
disconnected communities, including many rural care. This support included career and well-being
areas, where they serve as active collaborators to events with working professionals and
advance digital skills. keynote speakers.
Dalila Wilson-Scott, 
Executive Vice President
& Chief Diversity Officer,
Comcast Corporation;
President, Comcast
NBCUniversal Foundation
“It’s never been clearer how
interconnected our efforts
are to close the digital
divide and help more people
excel in an increasingly
digital world.”
Universal Orlando has partnered with
Wendover Housing Partners and
Orange County for a major affordable
housing project in Florida. Universal
has also donated 20 acres of land for
Catchlight Crossings, an affordable
housing community.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 11
Skills and Creativity
We are committed to supporting pathways to training and resources that will enable all people to use
digital tools to build a rewarding career, express their creativity, and thrive in today’s connected world.
CodePath aims to create an inclusive pipeline of engineers, chief technology officers, and founders through its courses and career support.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 12
Partners Making a Difference
In 2023, Comcast Corporation awarded more than $25 million to
hundreds of community organizations nationwide to specifically
support digital skills programs and partnerships working to build a
more equitable workforce.
For instance, as part of our partnership with Per Scholas, which
provides tech training to adult learners, we are helping to scale
the organization in 15 markets. Since 2021, our support has helped
5,686 learners get jobs and created $320 million in economic
impact. We support CodePath, which provides advanced
computer skills and mentorship to young adults to extend their
network of postgraduation support. Comcast supported the
launch of Hispanic Federation’s Latino Digital Equity Centers
Initiative. Over the past year, more than 5,000 individuals have
completed digital skills training, and nearly 2,000 of them have
received either a salary increase or job placement.
Closing the Digital Divide Through Partnerships

Today, 92% of jobs available require digital skills — yet nearly one-
third of U.S. workers lack the opportunities to build these skills,
according to a report from the National Skills Coalition (NSC).
Comcast has partnered with the NSC to educate local, state, and
national decision-makers about the benefits of investments that
aim to help close the divide.
Instructor and Per Scholas alumnus Bolaji Saibu is now Vice
President of Product & Tech Development for the organization.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 13
Kevin Butler:
Connection Matters
Wafi Ishmam:
From Intern to Employee
Kevin Butler was drawn to computers
since he was a child. Without Internet
access at home, he went to a local
library to get online. There he
discovered Internet Essentials, which
connected him to affordable, high-
speed broadband. This led him to
The Hidden Genius Project, a Wafi Ishmam was an intern
with America On Tech, a
partner that trains and mentors
partner that helps those from
Black male youth in technology and
underserved communities build
entrepreneurship. Today, Kevin leads
their technology skills, when

his own digital marketing business,
he heard about NBCUniversal’s
TechZen, to help fund his bachelor’s
Media Tech Internship Program.
degree in computer science.
He immediately applied and
was accepted as an intern,
which led him to a full-time job
as a Media Tech Associate at
NBCUniversal.


“America On Tech’s data
science fellowship gave me a
foundational understanding of
data science and analytics and
the NBCUniversal internship
gave me the exposure to
projects in data analytics that
made me see data engineering
as a long-term career path,”
he says.
Kevin Butler, Alumnus, The Hidden Genius Project
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 14
Shining a Light on Leaders
The 2023 Project UP Summit brought together 250 nonprofit and community leaders to discuss opportunities
to advance digital equity. The Summit, which focused on the power of community, helped attendees deepen
their relationships with each other, discover new ways to collaborate, and gain insights.
Jokim Bryant, Alumnus, The Hidden Genius Project Jaime Gloshay, Co-Founder, Native Women Lead
Michael Smith, CEO, AmeriCorps, and Benya Beacom,
Co-Founder, Lead for America Diego Mariscal, CEO, 2Gether-International
2
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 15
Creative Impact Lab’s Unique Approach
The Creative Impact Lab provides grants to nonprofit creative agencies that employ
apprentices from underrepresented communities and commissions them to create
marketing assets for nonprofits that seek to better tell their stories. Along the way,
NBCUniversal employees provide creative guidance and feedback to the apprentices, with the final assets
amplified across the Comcast NBCUniversal portfolio. The Lab will continue to expand internationally,
extending this volunteer opportunity to NBCUniversal creative employees in the United Kingdom.
7M
+
$
Gameheads, Oakland, Calif. Summer House Institute, Philadelphia, Pa.
in media inventory donated
Empowers undergraduates of color with affinity-based
Uses video game design, development, DevOps, and
learning and early exposure to diversify underrepresented
mixed media to engage, prepare, and train low-
66
fields like education, increasing representation of Black,
income youth and youth of color ages 15-25 for careers
Indigenous, and people of color in the creative and
in the tech, gaming, and entertainment industries.

tech pipelines.

Creative agency: Venice Arts
apprentices engaged
Creative agency: PhillyCAM
20
nonprofits served
“By being able to recruit and retain female and
genderqueer students in the game development
youth program, more of these students will be
equipped with the skill sets and resources to
diversify the game development and tech-
related industries.”


Damon Packwood 
Gameheads and Venice Arts
Creator & Executive Director, Gameheads
MMEESSSSAAGGEE PPRROOJJEECCTT UUPP DDEE&&II EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 16
Youth Learning About Careers in Media
We continue to bring new voices into the journalism, media, and film industries.
NBCU Academy — our free, award-winning NBCU Academy and NBC News Studios’ As part of Sky Up Academy Studios, students
program that trains the next generation Original Voices program have launched the go behind the scenes in a TV studio to develop
of journalists — celebrated its third anniversary Original Voices Accelerator, a six-month their digital storytelling and gain insight into a
by introducing new programs that complement intensive fellowship for U.S.-based student media career. Another Sky program is The
its flagship initiatives. In early 2024 it launched filmmakers and critics. The program pairs Edit, delivered in partnership with Adobe,
The Storytellers Program, which pairs early- college students with an experienced mentor which gives students the tools to complete a
career journalists with an NBC News reporter, and grants funds to support the development digital storytelling challenge. In 2023, nearly
correspondent, or executive.
 of their projects. 44,000 students registered.

MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 17
Entrepreneurialism
Small businesses create the fabric of our communities and power the engines of our economy, and
startups are at the forefront of exploring emerging technologies. Through our programs and partners,
we support ways for entrepreneurs to access tools and resources that help them thrive.
In 2023, LIFT Labs, which connects founders with leaders and experts across Comcast to explore
long-term partnerships, added 18 enterprise-ready artificial intelligence (AI) startups to their
portfolio through two theme-based accelerators focused on Generative AI and AI for the enterprise.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 18
Expanding Access to Small-Business Ownership
Comcast RISE was created in 2020 to help small businesses hardest hit by the pandemic recover and
thrive. Using learnings from our first phase, we proudly brought Comcast RISE back in an expanded
form in 2023 to focus on growth as small businesses transitioned from pandemic recovery. Comcast
continues its efforts and helps an even broader range of small businesses, while continuing to focus
on diversity, inclusion, and community investment.
13,500
entrepreneurs supported
125M
$ +
in monetary, marketing,
and technology grants
awarded to recipients
Bertony Faustin, Portland, Ore.
 Grace Hsia Haberl, Ann Arbor, Mich.
 Benn Roe, Philadelphia, Pa.

Abbey Creek Vineyard is a winery Warmilu has developed nonelectric Redcap’s Corner is a tabletop
where people gather to drink recyclable infant warming blankets gaming mecca committed to
wine, listen to hip hop, and make made from nontoxic and non- serving the LGBTQ+ and women’s
new friends. hazardous materials. gaming communities.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 19
Investing in Entrepreneurs of Tomorrow
We support organizations that help current and future entrepreneurs build the skills they need to achieve long-term growth.
With our support, BUILD.org has recently We partner with Prospera, a nonprofit that We support 2Gether-International, which
launched the FamBiz CEO Simulation Game. specializes in providing bilingual assistance to offers programs for disabled founders of early-
This educator-led, free entrepreneurship Hispanic entrepreneurs working to establish stage, high-growth tech startups.
game has reached over 40,000 students in or expand their businesses in Florida.
just two months.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 20
Volunteerism
We aim to create long-lasting change in our communities, and each year, our volunteerism programs continue to gain
momentum and create impact. Whether teaching digital skills to seniors or stocking a food pantry, our teammates feel
impassioned about supporting people and partners in our communities.
Through Team UP, and in partnership with Easterseals, Comcast employees volunteered with a Philadelphia
high school to adapt a dancing Minion toy to make it more accessible for children with disabilities.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 21
Embracing Community Service
Volunteerism doesn’t just positively impact our communities; it provides a chance for
teammates to step up as leaders in our company, and in the world.
As part of Comcast’s Team UP Leader
The NBCUnites Ambassador Program allows
Network, employees will serve two-year terms
employees to become service leaders within their
working within their departments, teams, and
businesses by coordinating at least one volunteer
employee resource groups to bring volunteer
project annually for a local nonprofit.
events and projects to life.
25K
+
employees volunteered
220K
+
Team UP leader Marie Lanzalotti NBCUnites at Hour Children Community
with a Per Scholas learner Food Pantry in Queens, NY
hours volunteered
6M
$
In 2023, Sky celebrated the
success of its Sky Up program
with an event in Manchester,
donated through
United Kingdom. This brought
the Comcast NBCUniversal
together volunteers and
leaders from Sky along with
Matching Gift Program
the local community being
supported through the Hubs
and Academy programs.
Sky Up panel in Manchester on creating opportunities for young people
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 22
DE&I
We are proud to reaffirm our longstanding
commitment to embracing diversity of background,
culture, experience, and skills to create opportunities
for all throughout our business.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 23
Employees
The innovation created by an inclusive, diverse, and engaged workforce is limitless. Whether in
the office or behind the camera, we continue to evaluate what works and find new ways to
create a sense of belonging and provide pathways for personal and professional growth for all.
As part of the Comcast campaign Designed With Lo, thousands of Comcast
technologists create innovative products that put connecting people at the center.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 24
Learning and
Development
Our rotating national Employee
Advisory Council opens the lines of
Loren Hudson,
communication, enabling
Senior Vice President &
teammates to provide input and
Chief Diversity Officer,
create stronger engagement. Comcast
“Together we are
fostering a more
Talent Catalyst provides
inclusive workplace and
teammates with resources to help
ensuring that everyone
them increase exposure to different
can contribute and
business areas and creates
connect in a meaningful,
opportunities for career growth.
authentic way.”
Through a partnership with
SpeakHaus, Comcast leaders
can hone their communications
skills with their teams and
external audiences.
EXCEL, a leadership development
program, brings leaders from
across the corporation together to
share experiences and learn.
CoachDiversity helps directors
and above across our U.S.-based
connectivity and platforms
businesses get access to
executive coaching earlier in their
EXCEL’s Leadership Summit
career journey.
highlights leaders creating change.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 25
Inclusive Leadership in Action
Learning from others who have taken a similar path can be transformative. Across our businesses, External
Diversity Advisory Councils provide a forum where company leaders and outside experts come together to
support our diversity, equity, and inclusion (DE&I) work. We offer employees opportunities to participate in a
broad range of external programming:
At the Ascend leadership training,
Mona Dexter, 
led by Ascend National Board
Hiring Our Heroes Fellows

Vice President, Military &
Member Kristin Yoshida, we brought
Comcast partners with Hiring Our Heroes, a professional
Veteran Affairs, Comcast
together Asian American and Native
development program that connects service members, veterans, and
“At Comcast, we value
Hawaiian/Pacific Islander (AANHPI)
military spouses with fellowships, which often lead to employment. In
leaders and allies to connect, grow, 2023, we welcomed our 11th cohort of fellows.
the incredible diversity
and network.
and undeniable talent of
the military community
that helps propel our
In partnership with the learning
organization Emeritus, more than
company forward.”
100 leaders across Comcast
NBCUniversal and Universal Parks &
Resorts participated in the 12-week
Jennifer Bass
 Edgar Feliciano
 Abigail Tassa

Emeritus Women in Leadership
U.S. Army U.S. Army U.S. Army
program.
Any midcareer professional with a
desire to learn skills that drive
higher work performance had a
chance to attend the Latino
James Cabarrus
 Jeanine Benjamin

Leadership Intensive led by Dr.
U.S. Marine Corps U.S. Navy
Robert Rodriguez and Angel Gomez.
We have been named a 5-Star Employer in the 2023 VETS
Indexes Employer Awards, Best for Vets Employer by Military
Times, and a Top 10 Military Friendly® Brand by Victory Media.
As of 2023, we have hired 21,000 military-connected employees.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 26
Culture
We bring our shared DE&I values to life by engaging in meaningful dialogue and celebrating the
unique contributions of all experiences and skills. We recognize that differences can make us
stronger as a business and as a society — and this is clearly reflected in how we operate.
The Women’s Network employee resource group (ERG) in California, as part of Team UP, partnered with
volunteers from Women Build and Habitat for Humanity to make an impact in their community.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 27
Learning From Each Other
We harness our resources to advance programs and initiatives
that put fostering an inclusive workplace at center stage.
Employee resource groups (ERGs) are a vital part of our
organization. Across our businesses, members volunteer, attend
educational events, participate in thought-provoking
conversations, and foster a sense of community.
The cross-enterprise Mental Health Week features events
hosted by Comcast NBCUniversal's MyAbilities and Sky's Body &
Mind ERGs that promote awareness and provide tools for
building resilience and understanding. The Be Inclusive Learning
Toolkit gives teammates tips for practicing inclusion and
spotlights educational opportunities.

Operation Old Glory

Founded by a Veterans Network ERG leader, Operation Old
Glory is a national program where employees and other
volunteers work together to replace worn or damaged flags
hanging outside homes or businesses.
Our second ERG National Leadership Summit brought together
more than 500 ERG leaders, champions, and partners.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 28
Promoting Education
Across our businesses, we are purposeful about creating ways to reflect and recommit to fostering a more inclusive world.
DE&I Speaker Series

Our internal DE&I Speaker Series educates our
teammates and provides space for meaningful
dialogue. Here are a few highlights from the 11 virtual
and two in-person Speaker Series events in 2023:
Craig Robinson,
Opal Lee

Executive Vice President
& Chief Diversity Officer,
Known as the “Grandmother of
NBCUniversal
Juneteenth,” activist Opal Lee
talked about how she helped
“As a leading media and
preserve African American
Each year, we come together to celebrate our commitment entertainment company,
history and established
in action. Comcast’s DE&I Day and NBCUniversal’s Meet
Juneteenth as a federal holiday.
we have the privilege —
the Moment provide a day of learning, where thousands
of teammates deepen their understanding and learn from and responsibility — to
experts on a wide variety of DE&I topics.
educate our audiences
Tammy Smith

and local communities on
Major General Tammy Smith
timely topics, and
discussed her 35 years in
military service, including her
highlight authentic
experience and impact as the
perspectives across our
first LGBTQ+ General/Flag
Officer in the U.S. military.
programs and platforms.”
Haben Girma

Human rights lawyer and
disability justice advocate Haben
Kick It Out promotes inclusion and tackles discrimination
Girma explored how disability
in sports. In 2023, Sky extended its partnership with Kick It
creates opportunities for
Out with an extra £1 million supporting additional
innovation and the importance
educational content for clubs and fans, and developed
of actively choosing inclusion.
research on issues related to diversity, discrimination, and
inclusion in sports.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 29
The Power of Convening
In 2023, we came together to collaborate,
stretch our thinking, and deepen our impact.
Here are a few examples of the many events
that left participants changed.
Pride Summit

Approximately 300 LGBTQ+ employees and
allies gathered for the inaugural Pride
Summit, which was led by the Out ERG and
included dynamic conversations that
explored authenticity, allyship, and identity.
TPX DE&I Showcase

The annual Technology, Product, and
Experience (TPX) DE&I Showcase featured
DE&I councils from across Comcast’s TPX
team. Technologists highlighted qualities that
make our products and services more
accessible and inclusive.
Women Who Move Mountains

Led by the employee group Multiculture at
Sky, Women Who Move Mountains celebrated
Black women who have made significant
contributions to the science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics fields.
Sky Pride celebration event
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 30
Developing Inclusive Pathways
We continue to support organizations that provide avenues for more people to realize their talent and potential.
A Sky partnership with Mission NBCUniversal partners with The Universal Composers In 2023, NBC Sports developed
44 supports efforts to scale up IllumiNative, a Native American Initiative finds artists from a partnership with Making
small- to medium-sized women-led organization focused traditional as well as non- Space, an organization that
organizations focused on on amplifying contemporary conventional backgrounds. creates pathways to
preventing the disproportionate Native voices, stories, and issues To date, its talent has scored employment for disabled and
exclusion of Black, African, to advance justice, equity, and feature films, TV/streaming overlooked communities.
Caribbean, Romani, and other self-determination. projects, live-action and
children from schools. animated shorts, and public
service announcement spots.
Claudia Osei-Nsafoah,
Chief People Officer
UK&I, Group Talent and
D&I, Sky
“At Sky, we’re working hard
to champion an inclusive
culture and support diverse
talent with a range of skills,
backgrounds, experiences,
and perspectives.”
Sky and Mission 44 Careers Experience Day
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 31
Supplier Diversity
Comcast NBCUniversal’s supplier diversity and inclusion program is designed to create an inclusive supply chain process, in which
businesses that have historically played a smaller role in our supply chain — including small and diverse suppliers — have an opportunity
to participate. Currently, we have more than 3,000 companies in our small and diverse supplier network across our businesses.
Martin Rocha,
CEO & Founder, CUI Telecommunications
After Martin Rocha left the military, he found a job
doing cable installation. Rocha, the son of Mexican
immigrants, worked at the company for about eight
months. But he wanted control of his own destiny.


In August 1994, he launched his own business, CUI
Telecommunications. “It was difficult,” he says, “but I was driven
and a little naïve — and that was a great combination,” he says.
He started with two employees. Today, his Birmingham, Alabama,
company has over 700 employees and over $100 million in
revenues, and takes on work beyond installation to include
construction, drop buries, and multidwelling units.


He started out working as a Comcast supplier in 2000. Today, the
veteran-owned company’s work with Comcast represents about
60% of his total business.

“With other companies, you take the work and leave,” he says.
“But with Comcast, all of these markets grew because of
relationships that we have built and the delivery of promises that
we’ve made and kept.”
Comcast was named a Supply Chain Diversity Leader
by Supplier.io for our activity with diverse and small businesses.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 32
Content
Our platforms help highlight authentic stories, voices, and perspectives
on the screen, behind the scenes, and in the content we distribute.
The Xfinity Large Button Voice Remote enables customers with vision, mobility, and
dexterity impairments to enjoy their Xfinity home entertainment experience more fully.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 33
Creating Curated Collections
Offering one of the most comprehensive destinations for multicultural entertainment available, we feature curated
programming selections for Martin Luther King Jr. Day, Lunar New Year, Black History Month, AANHPI Heritage
Month, LGBTQ+ Pride Month, Hispanic Heritage Month, Diwali, Native American Heritage Month, and more.
During Xfinity’s Hispanic Heritage Month,
“Be the Next Story Told” (“El Futuro lo Escribes
Tú”), a multiplatform bilingual campaign led by
Telemundo, as well as the mitúTV streaming app,
were both launched.
As part of Free This Week, X1, Flex, and Xfinity
Internet customers can unlock free content,
depending on their plan. In 2023, roughly half of
the partners in the collection were community
partners, such as OUTtv, Kids Street en Español,
and the Anime Network.
The Black Experience, a first-of-its-kind destination
of Black entertainment, premiered a new original
three-part music docuseries, “In Our DNA: Hip
House,” as well as “Black Girls,” a documentary that
traces advocacy among Black women.
MSNBC produced and aired
“The Culture Is: Indigenous “The More You Know,” NBCUniversal’s iconic, award-winning public
service announcement campaign, has brought timely issues to the
Women,” part of a series
forefront of Americans’ minds for over 30 years. In 2023, the
highlighting communities of
campaign launched new content to inspire dialogue and invite action
women, which featured
on topics such as media literacy, food insecurity, mentorship,
Crystal Echo Hawk, founder
supporting veterans, reading, and staying physically active.
and CEO of IllumiNative.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 34
10 Years of ‘Voices of the
Civil Rights Movement’
For 10 years, Comcast NBCUniversal’s Voices
of the Civil Rights Movement platform has
connected global, multigenerational
audiences to historical moments and
inspiring firsthand accounts from the heroes
of the Civil Rights Movement.

In 2023, we continued to expand this
collection and debuted 11 first-person video
interviews on topics ranging from the
Freedom Rides and historically Black colleges
and universities to trailblazers in sports and
entertainment. The Voices collection — winner
of two Webby Awards in 2023 — is now home
to more than 250 historical moments and
interviews and is available on Black
Experience on Xfinity, in select museums, and
free to everyone at CivRightsVoices.com and
@CivRightsVoices on social media.
40M+
Voices of the Civil Rights Movement
video views by global audiences
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 35
Reflecting Our Diverse World
We are dedicated to cultivating inclusion, both in front of and behind the camera.
Here are a few highlights from 2023:
Jonathan Licht,
Five scripted original dramas that NBCUniversal The New Focus Fund is a Sky Sports initiative that
Managing Director,
premiered in the fall are led by actors who are was created to unlock opportunities in sports
Sky Sports
Black, Indigenous, or people of color, such as production for a wider talent pool and bring new
Shanola Hampton who stars in “Found.” perspectives across Sky Sports channels.
“We know we have a critical
role to play in representing
diverse voices and raising
awareness of different
perspectives across the
entire sports industry.”
Telemundo and Billboard teamed up for Latin Focus Features released “Champions,” a film
Women in Music, a new music franchise focused about a basketball team of players with
on the impact of women in the music industry. intellectual disabilities.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 36
Advancing Accessibility
We’re proud of the work we do to advance disability inclusion.
At Universal Destinations & Experiences, attractions
In 2023, our Xfinity retail stores in
include sensory-friendly shows, closed captioning
Greater Philadelphia rolled out a
options, and Braille menus. Nearly 70% of the
pilot program that provides
attractions and rides at Universal Orlando Resort,
American Sign Language for
including Universal Studios Florida and Islands of
customers, marking a significant
Adventure, have been designed to enable guests to
step toward creating a more
either remain in their own wheelchair or seamlessly
inclusive retail environment for deaf
transfer into a modified-ride vehicle.
and hard of hearing customers.
Sky Kids launched a new channel
featuring 100% subtitled content
and more than 20% audio
description. For those in the
United Kingdom, Sky Q
customers now have access to a
touch-screen digital remote
control that adapts to their
needs, either with larger font,
color contrast, or a screen reader.
Home Screen Default View Large Button High Contrast
Sky Q Digital Remote Control
For the fifth consecutive year, Comcast NBCUniversal has been named a Leading
!
Disability Employer by the National Organization on Disability.
Universal Studios Florida
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 37
Diversity Data
Workforce Diversity Data
 38

Governance
 40

Supplier Diversity
 40

Community Impact
 40


NBCUniversal Programming
 41
Employee Resource Groups
 42

Diversity Awards and Recognition

 43

MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 38
Workforce Diversity Data*
Total Workforce
2021 2022 2023
36.4% 37.1% 37.1%
Women
45.0% 45.7% 46.3%
People of Color
Black/African American 18.3% 17.2% 16.4%
Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander 7.5% 8.1% 8.5%
Hispanic/Latino/a/x 15.4% 16.6% 17.4%
Indigenous and Native American 0.4% 0.4% 0.4%
2+ Races 3.4% 3.4% 3.6%
* The workforce diversity data incorporated in this report is for
women and people of color at Comcast NBCUniversal only. The
included metrics are reflective of our U.S. full-time employees.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 39
Workforce Diversity Data*
Executive Leadership Team*** Directors
2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023
Women 35.8% 37.5% 37.8% Women 43.5% 44.2% 44.5%
People of Color 19.3% 21.1% 23.1% People of Color** 29.4% 30.9% 32.0%
Black/African American 7.0% 7.5% 8.2% Black/African American 6.8% 6.6% 6.7%
Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander 6.4% 7.3% 7.8% Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander 12.1% 12.7% 13.2%
Hispanic/Latino/a/x 4.6% 5.0% 5.3% Hispanic/Latino/a/x 7.8% 8.8% 9.2%
Indigenous and Native American 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% Indigenous and Native American 0.3% 0.2% 0.3%
2+ Races 1.1% 1.1% 1.6% 2+ Races 2.5% 2.5% 2.6%
Vice Presidents (VPs) and Above Managers
2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023
Women 41.8% 43.7% 45.3% Women 43.2% 43.9% 43.7%
People of Color 23.8% 25.3% 26.2% People of Color** 36.1% 37.8% 38.4%
Black/African American 5.8% 6.0% 6.1% Black/African American 9.1% 8.7% 8.5%
Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander 8.3% 8.8% 9.5% Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander 10.6% 11.6% 11.9%
Hispanic/Latino/a/x 7.6% 8.4% 8.4% Hispanic/Latino/a/x 13.1% 14.4% 14.8%
Indigenous and Native American 0.2% 0.1% 0.1% Indigenous and Native American 0.3% 0.2% 0.2%
2+ Races 1.9% 2.0% 2.1% 2+ Races 3.0% 2.9% 3.1%
* The workforce diversity data incorporated in this report is for ** Ethnic diversity *** Our Executive Leadership Team includes Comcast’s Senior Vice Presidents
women and people of color at Comcast NBCUniversal only. The numbers may not sum and above, as well as NBCUniversal’s Executive and Management
included metrics are reflective of our U.S. full-time employees. to total due to rounding. Committees. These metrics reflect a subset of the VP+ metrics.

MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 40
Governance Supplier Diversity
Our Board of Directors is 60% diverse racially/ethnically We seek to broaden and diversify our supplier base by creating an
and by gender. inclusive corporate supply chain process where all businesses have
an opportunity to participate.
Board of Directors
2022 2023 June 2024
Procurement*
2021 2022 2023
Tier 1 Diverse Spend $4.3B $5.0B $4.7B
Total 9 11 10
Tier 2 Diverse Spend $390M $484M $630M
Total Diverse 4 6 6
Women 2 3 3
Community Impact
People of Color 3 4 4
We are committed to bringing together diverse communities and
inspiring our customers, audiences, and employees to make a
positive social impact.
Black/African American 1 2 3
Total Cash/In-Kind Donations
Invested in Our Communities
1 1 1 2021 2022 2023
Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander
1 1 0
Hispanic/Latino/a/x
Total Giving $503M $488M $463M
0 0 0
Indigenous and Native American
0 0 0
2+ Races
* As noted by Tier 1 (direct purchases)
and Tier 2 (direct and indirect
subcontracting spend) suppliers.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 41
NBCUniversal Programming
On Screen/On Air Behind the Camera
FILM
2021 2022 2023 FILM 2021 2022 2023
Women 40.0% 42.4% 37.9% Women 27.6% 27.7% 23.9%
People of Color
People of Color 36.4% 31.9% 43.3% 17.2% 12.3% 14.2%
NEWS ASSETS* 2021 2022 2023 NEWS ASSETS* 2021 2022 2023
Women 53.1% 54.1% 55.0% Women 45.6% 48.6% 51.2%
People of Color 47.6% 50.5% 52.0% People of Color 35.1% 36.8% 38.6%
NBC PRIMETIME SCRIPTED** 2021 2022 2023 NBC PRIMETIME SCRIPTED** 2021 2022 2023
Women -- 40.9% 40.0% Women -- 47.1% 40.1%
People of Color -- 41.1% 44.9% People of Color -- 33.3% 31.5%
* News assets include NBC News, MSNBC, CNBC, ** Data not available for the 2021
and NBC-owned stations, but do not include scripted season.
Telemundo Network News or Telemundo stations.

MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 42
Employee Resource Groups
(ERGs)*
FPO
9
Total ERGs
Asian Pacific Americans Black Employee Network Indigenous
250+
Total Chapters
36K
Total Members
MMyyAAbbiilliittiieess NNeettwwoorrkk Out Unidos
VVeetteerraannss NNeettwwoorrkk Women’s Network Young Professionals Network
* ERGs data represents Comcast and NBCUniversal only.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 43
Diversity Awards and Recognition
100 100 5
Score on the Human Rights Campaign’s Score earned on Disability:IN’s Company recognized in the 2023 Hispanic
2023 Corporate Equality Index for 2023 Disability Equality Index for Association on Corporate Responsibility
the tenth year the ninth consecutive year Corporate Inclusion Index
#13 #9 #2
DiversityInc’s* Top 50 list as one of Great Places to Work® and Fortune 100 Best Overall employer in the “Best for Vets”
the nation’s most inclusive companies Companies to Work For® 2023 ranking by Military Times
* Changed name to Fair360 in 2023.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 44
We work diligently to minimize our carbon
footprint today and invest in the strategies
and technologies that will drive further
progress tomorrow.
ENVIRONMENT
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 45
Progress
We are continuing on the path toward our goal to be carbon neutral for Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2035. This includes
taking action to reduce emissions from our operations, boosting the energy efficiency of our growing network, incorporating
sustainability into our productions from script to screen, and increasing employee education and engagement.
On-site solar at the Universal Studios Lot in Los Angeles
e2OCtm
noilliM
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 46
Decarbonizing
Our Business
Scope 1 & 2 Emissions Read the details in our 2024 Carbon Footprint Data Report
Since 2019, we have reduced our enterprise-
wide Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas
emissions by more than 30%. Our emissions
increased 5% from 2022 to 2023, primarily 2.3
due to reductions in clean energy usage and 2.1
the browning of the U.S. electricity grid.
1.7
1.6
1.5
However, many of our operational energy
and emissions metrics decreased year-over-
year, including total energy consumed and
emissions from our owned and operated
fleet and vehicles. We continue to make
long-term investments in network energy
efficiency and clean and renewable energy
contracts that we expect to help reduce our
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
carbon footprint as we grow our network
and business into the future.
10%
Managing the Challenges Ahead
Decarbonizing our business and value chain
Generators, purchased steam,
depends on many factors beyond our control,
cooling and heating
including political, economic, regulatory, and
geopolitical conditions, supply chain and
18%
labor issues, supplier emissions reductions,
the evolution of carbon offset markets, and
2023 Scope 1 & 2
Emissions from our owned and
investment and innovation to close gaps in
Emission Sources
operated fleet and vehicles
available technology and infrastructure.
Overcoming these challenges will require,
among other things, increased collaboration 72%
with a range of business partners, industry
peers, governments around the world, and
Purchased electricity powering facilities,
other stakeholders.
data centers, theme parks, and network
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 47
Scope 3 Emissions

Scope 3 Estimated Emissions
While our primary focus is on
sustainability in our own
operations, we have also worked
to better understand the
emissions from our full value
Sara Cronenwett, 
chain, known as Scope 3
Senior Vice President,
emissions. By joining the Science
Corporate Environmental
Based Targets initiative, Comcast
Sustainability, Comcast
has committed to set near-term
targets for Scope 1, 2, and 3 “By focusing on long-term
emissions in line with pathways
strategies and thoughtful
designed to limit global warming.
investments across the
enterprise, we are on a path
toward achieving our
sustainability goals.”
e2OCtm
noilliM
11.5
10.9 10.9
10.7
2019 2020 2021 2022
14%
Emissions related to
transportation, energy,
employees, and waste
(Categories 3-8 & 12)
40%
2022 Scope 3
Estimated
Emission Sources
Purchased goods,
services, and capital
goods (Categories 1 & 2)
46%
Use of sold and
leased products

(Categories 11 & 13)
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 48
Engaging
Our Teammates
Environmental protection is a year-round job,
and our teammates find ways to embrace
the work every day. Earth Month is a special
opportunity to gather employees in different
ways across the enterprise to learn, reflect,
and take action on sustainability. Activities
include workshops, events led by employee
groups, and volunteer opportunities.


To further operationalize sustainability across
the enterprise, our businesses have
developed training courses to equip
employees with information and resources to
help drive sustainability.
For example, a new Comcast Environmental
Sustainability training will help teammates
across the connectivity business better
understand actions they can take to support
our carbon neutral goal. NBCUniversal held
an interactive Climate Masterclass for
employees to learn more about key climate
concepts, how to communicate about
climate, and how to drive change. School of
Sky Zero is a digital training course that
supports Sky employees to create positive
climate-related behavior changes and
inspires them to play their part.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 49
Operations
Evaluating our operations from our buildings and vehicles to film sets and theme
parks allows us to prioritize actions that have the greatest impact.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 50
Sourcing Clean Energy
In 2023, we sourced approximately 1.1 million megawatt-hours (MWh) of clean and renewable energy
— approximately 25% of our total enterprise electricity load.

Our clean energy strategy incorporates a range of sourcing solutions across the regions in which we
operate, prioritizing investments that bring additional capacity to the grid. This includes long-term
direct and virtual power purchase agreements from new renewable energy projects, working with
utility companies to secure supply from new planned developments or existing green tariff and retail
products, and continuing to invest in on-site solar.
Clean Energy Usage
1.1M
~
MWh clean energy used in 2023
25%
~
Our clean energy usage decreased 12% from 2022 to 2023 as we transitioned our focus to sourcing
from new projects that can bring additional renewable energy capacity to the grid and help meet
enterprise electricity load sourced
future energy needs. In 2023 alone, we signed new wind and solar power purchase agreements that,
from carbon-free electricity in 2023
when the projects are completed, will total more than 840,000 MWh per year, bringing our contracted
total to 1.2 million MWh per year.
hWM
Peter Kiriacoulacos,

Executive Vice President & Chief
1,250,000 Procurement Officer, Comcast
“From data centers to theme
1,100,000
parks, we are shifting to new
long-term sources of clean and
777,000
renewable electricity to provide
our customers more sustainable
connectivity and experiences.”
345,000
238,000
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 51
In addition to seeking to source more clean energy, our businesses are also continuing to invest in on-
site solar. Since the start of 2023, NBCUniversal has had 2.75 MW of new on-site solar projects
completed or under construction, including installations at Universal Orlando Resort in Florida, the
Universal Studios Lot in California, Universal Studios Japan in Osaka, and local NBC and Telemundo
stations in Washington, D.C.
Audrey Vinant-Tang,

Director, Sustainability Strategy,
NBCUniversal
“Our continued investments in
on-site solar and clean energy
programs across our global
operations are helping grow
local green economies while
meeting the future energy needs
of our growing company.”
Rooftop solar at the Universal Studios Lot in California
Supporting Community Solar in Chicago

NBCUniversal is an anchor tenant subscribing to 4 MW of renewable energy from two community solar
farms to be constructed outside Chicago. Once online, the projects are anticipated to supply the NBC
Chicago and Telemundo Chicago stations with more than 6,000 MWh of renewable energy each year. In
addition to supplying power to NBCUniversal and other anchor tenants, the developer has committed to
making 20% of each solar farm’s output available for low- and moderate-income residential customers to
subscribe to renewable energy at a guaranteed discounted rate, expanding clean energy access in the
local community.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 52
Buildings That Matter
We are reimagining the design of new construction and major renovations for our buildings, parks, and
other facilities to account for the future and integrate the latest green practices and technologies.
Universal Studios Lot

New construction nearing completion at the Universal Studios
Lot in Los Angeles has been built to green building standards
to help support sustainable production and greener
operations. The project has included the Barham stages,
which are on track to receive LEED Gold certification, as well
as One Universal and The Commons, which are both being
constructed to a LEED Platinum standard.
Universal Epic Universe
In 2025, Universal Destinations & Experiences will unveil
Universal Epic Universe at Universal Orlando Resort. The
park is the latest development to integrate energy
One Universal
efficiency and sustainable construction practices starting
in the design of this exciting new destination.
CNBC International

CNBC’s new Asia-Pacific headquarters in Singapore
received a Green Mark Gold certification by implementing
sustainability measures such as sourcing renewable and
clean energy and improving the energy efficiency of
equipment and spaces.
Sky Osterley Innovation Centre

Located in West London, England, Sky’s first all-electric
building received a BREEAM Outstanding certification for its
environmental credentials and a WELL Platinum designation
The Commons
for its intentional design for occupant well-being.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 53
Reducing Vehicle Emissions
Across our fleet, we’re continuing to utilize fuel
efficiency technology and deploy hybrid and electric
vehicles (EVs) in select locations.


Part of Comcast’s commitment to keeping
customers connected includes offering more digital
support tools, which allowed us to serve more
customers remotely in 2023. Comcast has also
begun initial EV deployments in California. We’ve
saved roughly 11 million gallons of fuel compared to
2019 and avoided 95,000 metric tons of greenhouse
gas emissions.


NBCUniversal purchased 227 EVs in 2023, including
electric golf carts for Universal Orlando and the
Universal Studios Lot in Los Angeles, as well as an
electric forklift for the Telemundo Center in Miami
and an electric heavy-duty box truck to make
deliveries for Universal Studios Hollywood. In
Germany, the Sky Deutschland News Gathering
team has removed all diesel generators from its
fleet and replaced them with a lithium battery
power system for silent running.


We have also taken additional steps to enable
employees to charge their own EVs. In Hollywood,
132 electric vehicle chargers are being installed at
One Universal, and in the United Kingdom, Sky has
increased its total number of EV chargers to 210 at
its headquarters in Osterley.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 54
Greening Our Productions
For many years we’ve been integrating
environmental protocols into film and TV
productions across the world. From reusing
sets to reducing food waste, these practices
create a healthy and more sustainable
experience behind the scenes and beyond.
As part of the NBCUniversal Sustainable
Production Program, we have implemented a
variety of fuel-saving initiatives across our
sets to help reduce the carbon footprint of
productions. Examples include “Based on a
True Story,” which utilized an electric
passenger van and solar trailers, “La Brea”
and “Abigail,” which replaced diesel generators
“The Fall Guy”
with hybrid electric units, and “The Fall Guy,”
which included an electric Hummer as both a
picture vehicle and a camera rig. These efforts
and more helped our film and TV shows earn
Gold and Green Seals from the Environmental
Media Association, which annually recognizes
sustainable production and environmental
messaging in the entertainment industry.
The Sky Original film “The Portable Door” is
the first Australian feature film to adopt the
BAFTA albert seal, a certification process that
is achieved by completing a carbon action
plan and measuring the production’s carbon
footprint. The plan included reusing materials
from previous productions, reducing waste,
and implementing a composting program.
“La Brea” “The Portable Door”
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 55
Network
Our global technology platform connects people across the world, with a focus on reliability, efficiency, and
resilience. In addition to sourcing more clean energy to power our network, we are deploying new, energy-efficient
technologies with the goal of doubling network energy efficiency by 2030 — and we’re making great progress.
New virtualized network technology in Absecon, N.J.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 56
Driving Network Efficiency
Network Energy Efficiency
Our increasingly virtualized network utilizes cloud-
Elad Nafshi,
based technologies to deliver faster broadband
Executive Vice President
speeds, greater reliability, and improved energy
& Chief Network Officer,
efficiency. By moving more to the cloud, we can
Comcast
leverage common hardware to process increasing
“The power of the Xfinity
amounts of customer traffic and reduce the amount
network is how quickly it
of equipment, space, and energy needed to deliver
each byte of data. Since 2019, these efforts have
can adapt to a variety of
reduced the electricity per terabyte delivered across
performance needs,
our network by 40%.

becoming more resilient,
We’re continuing to work with business partners to
efficient, and agile than
embed energy efficiency into future generations of 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
ever before.”
technology as we transform our network to this
virtualized cable modem termination system
(vCMTS). These next-generation technologies will
further drive efficiency and reliability through real-
time performance visibility that can detect on-site
Leaner, Greener Technology
issues and self-heal. Today, roughly 60% of issues
Business partners like Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) are supporting Comcast’s network
can be resolved through self-healing.
transformation with new energy-efficient technologies that deliver more network traffic at
a fraction of the physical footprint and energy load of previous generation technologies.
Our network is simultaneously improving energy
efficiency and building safeguards for millions of
customers — better for people and the planet.
etybaret
rep
ruoh-ttawoliK
40%
18.4
15.6
13.5
12.3
11.0
Analog CMTS Gen2 vCMTS Gen3 vCMTS Gen4 vCMTS
In
Development
20 Racks Serving 1 Rack Serving 1 Rack Serving
60,000 Homes 60,000 Homes 100,000 Homes
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 57
Evolving Our Products and Packaging
Our customers may not be thinking about the environment when they are enjoying our latest
technologies, but we are.
Fraser Stirling, 
Global Chief Product
Comcast became the first Internet provider to offer residential customers a backup connectivity device
Officer, Comcast
designed to keep them connected during a storm. Storm-Ready WiFi is equipped with cellular backup
“Whether it’s reducing raw
and a four-hour rechargeable battery — more than enough power to keep customers up and running for
materials, increasing
the average power outage in the U.S. of two hours. Storm-Ready WiFi is Comcast’s first device designed
using recycled materials, with the casing made from 65% post-consumer recycled plastic.


recyclability, or cutting
a product’s carbon footprint,
The Handshake Box is our most recent sustainable packaging series for Xfinity products shipped directly
sustainable design is a
to customers, featuring a protective box made with recyclable materials and minimal ink. These boxes are
constant process of learning,
sourced from a domestic partner, eliminating overseas shipping. Between reduced shipping and the flat
pack space-saving design, this new packaging system achieved carbon reductions and cost savings in testing, and recalibrating in
transportation and warehouse storage. We also maintain our longstanding refurbishment and recycling
the pursuit of better products.”
programs that encourage device reuse until the end of a product's life.
Comcast earned a spot on Fast Company’s Most Innovative Companies 2024 list in the
rapid response category, recognizing Storm-Ready WiFi as a leading innovation designed
to mitigate extreme weather threats.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 58
Our Voice
We use the power of our platforms and the creativity of our storytellers to educate
viewers, impact culture, and inspire change in the name of protecting our planet.
Sky Kids' "Save Our Wildlife"
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 59
Content to Inspire Change
We leverage the reach of our programming in multiple ways to spotlight climate
challenges facing our world, as well as solutions for a better future.
Dana Strong, 
Group Chief Executive
Officer, Sky
“Sky is using its voice and
extraordinary reach to
inspire climate action
through storytelling. In
keeping with our Climate
During Earth Week, Peacock featured environmental Sky Sports featured sustainability stories
content on the homepage for the first time. Content during events like the U.S. Open and Cricket
Content Pledge
was organized by topics such as “Understanding World Cup, and promoted national campaigns
commitment, we are
Climate Change” and “Earth-Healing Solutions,” like Green Football Weekend and Sky Sports
working with other
curated from the Peacock library to both inform Summer of Sustainability, which urged fans to
viewers on the science behind climate change and walk, bike, ride-share, or take public
industry leaders to
offer solutions that provide hope and inspire action. transportation to sporting events.
maximize our impact.”
In TODAY Climate, Al Roker takes a deep dive into In Sky Kids’ documentary “Save Our Wildlife,” kids
climate changes, extreme weather, strategies, and report from the United Kingdom, Mexico, Australia,
solutions, helping audiences understand the role of India, Kenya, and the Arctic on the effects of
climate change in their daily lives, and what they climate change on wildlife. Sky Zero partnered with
can do about it. the World Wildlife Fund to offer an online hub of
resources and activities related to wildlife from the
documentary for families to engage.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 60
From Script to Screen
Launched in 2023, the Universal Filmed Entertainment Group’s GreenerLight Program aims to institutionalize
sustainability across the filmmaking process, from script to screen. For Universal Pictures, Focus Features,
and DreamWorks Animation titles, the studio has committed to building a sustainability plan that considers
ways to embed positive climate actions from the very beginning of the creative process. This includes script
development, locations and set needs, production, on-screen behaviors, and distribution, as well as exploring
potential collaborations with environmental organizations.
Kimberly Burnick,
Partnering With Environmental Organizations

Director, Sustainable
Beyond the script, we have the opportunity to engage audiences globally on sustainability while also amplifying the
Content & Partnerships,
work of environmental organizations through initiatives such as public service announcements (PSAs).
NBCUniversal
“Climate change is a
complex issue with
complex solutions, so we
need content and
storytellers that can
translate the science in an
engaging and inspiring
way — one that keeps us all
hopeful for the future.”
Filmmakers from DreamWorks “Migration,” a film from In celebration of DreamWorks
Animation’s “Ruby Gillman, Illumination, is about a family of Animation’s beloved action-
Teenage Kraken” teamed up with migrating ducks whose plans go comedy franchise “Kung Fu
Oceana — the world’s largest awry. Through NBCUniversal’s Panda 4,” the World Wildlife Fund
international advocacy Creative Impact Lab, the film’s and DreamWorks teamed up to
organization dedicated to ocean team worked with International raise awareness about the plight
conservation — for a PSA that Bird Rescue, a nonprofit that of the real wildlife depicted in the
supports Oceana and its rehabilitates injured aquatic film. The campaign encourages
campaigns to protect and restore birds, in developing a PSA young people to be heroes in
the world’s oceans. created by students at the their own lives, reminding them,
nonprofit Venice Arts. and us, of the power we have to
make a difference.
MESSAGE PROJECT UP DE&I ENVIRONMENT
2024 IMPACT REPORT 61
Growing the Climate
Content Pipeline
There is strength in numbers, and we
continue to support people, both within
our company and in the wider world,
dedicated to creating stories that can
inspire a better future.

Sky Studios and UK Entertainment
teams held their first internal climate
content event, Leveling Up Our Climate
Content Game. The purpose was to
Hollywood Climate Summit
support content creators to unlock
ways to more authentically reflect
sustainability through storytelling.

“We are
committed to
NBCUniversal is a sponsor of the annual
bettering our business and
Hollywood Climate Summit, where
filmmakers, activists, executives, and using our voice to protect this
artists across the entertainment and
planet that we love.”
media industries come together to
engage and take action on climate
Adam Moysey,

change. The multiday conference
Chief Financial Officer,
includes workshops, talks, and NBCUniversal Studio Group
community events. Under this
partnership, NBCUniversal hosted
Writing Climate: Pitchfest for TV and
Film at the Universal Lot for the second
time, bringing together creatives and
executives for one-on-one sessions with
the goal of elevating storytellers whose
work envisions new possibilities for
the world.
Writing Climate: Pitchfest for TV and Film
ESG REPORTING AND DISCLOSURE 2024 IMPACT REPORT 62
We provide reports on various environmental, social, and governance
(ESG) issues and initiatives that may be of interest to our
SASB Report
stakeholders. More information can be found on the ESG Reporting
page of our Investor Relations website.


TCFD Report
By supporting local communities, our teammates, and our planet, we
Carbon Footprint Data Report
can help create a world of open possibilities, so together we can build
a future that benefits generations to come.

EEO-1 Data
We thank our employees, partners, customers, and communities for
their partnership, dedication, and support. Political and Trade Association Activity
Code of Conduct
Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Business Partners
Statement on Modern Slavery and Supply Chain Values
Statement on Human Rights
2023 CDP Report
© CO M C AST CO R P O R AT I O N 2 0 24. A L L R I G H TS R E S E RVE D.
© C O M C A S T C O R P O R AT I O N 2 0 2 4 . A L L R I G H T S R E S E RVE D.
