Conagra Brands
Citizenship Report
2023
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
About Conagra Brands 3 Better Planet 27 Appendix 48
From our President Operational Sustainability 28 About this Report 49
and Chief Executive Officer 4
Environmental Management 28 2023 SASB Disclosure 51
Conagra Brands at a Glance 5
Climate Change 29 Task Force on Climate-Related
Conagra Brands Production Facilities 6 Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index 53
Manufacturing Water Conservation 30
Citizenship Philosophy and Focus Areas 7 Alignment of Conagra’s
Reducing Manufacturing Waste 31
Citizenship Topics with the
Highlights for Fiscal Year 2023 8
UN Sustainable Development Goals 54
Setting Our Citizenship Strategy 9
Stronger Communities 32 Note on Forward Looking Statements 55
Governance and Management
of our Citizenship Strategy 10 Corporate Ethics 33
Employee Health & Safety 33
Community Investment and Foundation 34
Good Food 11
Conagra Brands Total Giving
Food Safety 12
Fiscal Year 2023 35
Nutrition 14
Feeding America 36
Product Transparency 17
Nourish Our Community 38
Responsible Marketing to Children 18
Shine The Light On Hunger 40
Scholarships 40
Responsible Sourcing 19
Employee Giving 41
Supplier Risk Management 20
Month of Service 41
Regenerative Agriculture 21
Diversity & Inclusion 42
Mitigating Deforestation
How We Work to Foster
and Preserving Biodiversity 23
an Inclusive Workplace 44
Animal Welfare 25
Employee Resource Groups 46
Packaging Waste & Product Recovery 26
Community Engagement 47
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
From our President
and Chief Executive Officer 4
Conagra Brands at a Glance 5
Fall Harvest Salad with Birds Eye®
Microwave Roasters Butternut Squash
and DAVID® Pumpkin Seeds
Conagra Brands
Production Facilities 6
Citizenship Philosophy
and Focus Areas 7
Highlights for
Fiscal Year 2023 8
Setting Our
Citizenship Strategy 9
Governance and
Management of our
Citizenship Strategy 10
About Conagra Brands
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 3
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
From our President and Chief Executive Officer
At Conagra Brands, innovation is at the center of In addition to advancing our responsible sourcing
all we do. That focus extends beyond making great practices, we are actively reducing energy usage,
food, it also reflects our commitment to embracing minimizing waste, and preserving water resources
new solutions that positively impact our team, the across our production facilities. In fiscal year 2023,
communities we serve and the health of our planet. 85% of the solid waste from Conagra’s facilities was
At Conagra Brands,
Our six Timeless Values of Integrity, External Focus, diverted to more beneficial uses, including recycling,
Broad-Mindedness, Agility, Leadership and Results food donations, animal feed and soil improvement.
innovation is at the center
not only guide our efforts to deliver long-term Additionally, our Oakdale, California location became
profitable growth and strong shareholder returns, the second facility in our network to achieve TRUE
of all we do. That focus
but also shape our responsible business practices. Zero Waste certification status.
extends beyond making
In fiscal year 2023, we continued to make positive Conagra’s success is a testament to the collective
strides across our four Citizenship pillars: Good efforts of our remarkable team. Our eight Employee
great food, it also reflects
Food, Responsible Sourcing, Better Planet and Resource Groups play a central role in fostering our
Stronger Communities. This framework helps us inclusive culture. Throughout fiscal year 2023, these
our commitment to
focus our efforts on the topics that are the most groups actively engaged thousands of employees
impactful to our business and important to our in more than 100 events to cultivate a sense of
embracing new solutions
stakeholders, including our employees, customers, community, promote learning and drive positive
consumers, shareholders and communities. impact. I’ve always been humbled by our
employees’ desire to give back to their communities that positively impact our
Core to our business is making food that meets and it was evident in their more than 11,000 hours of
the evolving needs and expectations of consumers, volunteer service this year. Our longstanding team, the communities
with an unwavering focus on safety and quality partnership with Feeding America resulted in more
throughout the manufacturing process. By than 30,000,000 pounds of food donated, equivalent we serve and the health
expanding our digitally connected supply chain and to more than 25,000,000 meals.
integrating initiatives like Connected Shop Floor, we of our planet.
have put real-time data in the hands of our frontline As you read this year’s report, I hope you’ll feel
employees to help quickly address any potential the respect and gratitude for our more than 18,000
issues and improve quality and performance. It’s this employees who create our exceptional food with a
seamless integration of technology and data-driven dedication to doing the right things and doing things
insights that propels us forward. right. Thank you for joining us on this journey.
Our dedication to upholding responsible supply
chain practices extends well beyond the production
floor. It begins at the farm, where we work closely
with our growers and industry partners to advance
Sean M. Connolly
regenerative agriculture practices that conserve
President and Chief Executive Officer
water, enhance biodiversity and promote soil health.
As our food makes its journey from farm to fork,
we also prioritize thoughtful packaging design;
approximately 93% of Conagra’s packaging
materials by volume were renewable, recyclable
or compostable.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 4
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Conagra Brands at a Glance Beefless Rice Skillet with Gardein®
Plant-Based Ground Be'f, Hunt's®
Petite Diced Tomatoes and Birds Eye®
Mixed Vegetables.
Brands Include3
®
Employees1 Headquarters Revenue2 Production Facilities
18,600 Chicago $12.3 B 42
1 Approximately, as of May 28, 2023
2 Approximately, Fiscal Year 2023 Revenue
3 Visit conagrabrands.com for a full list of brands.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 5
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Conagra Brands Production Facilities & Corporate Offices
Our headquarters is located in Chicago, Illinois. We also operate general offices, shared service centers, product development facilities, distribution facilities and warehouses.
●●
Richmond
●●
Kent
CANADA
WA
●●
Boisbriand
MN
Maple Grove●● ●● Menomonie MI Mississauga●●
WI
Mankato●●●●Waseca
Imlay
City●●
Beaver Dam●● Macomb●● ●● Dresden
Lakeview●● IA ●● WatD ea rlr oie on●● ●●Fen●● nville●● ●●Quincy Milton●●
Archbold PA
HQ: Chicago
CA
●● Reno
NE LinO com lnah ●●a ●●●● ●●Co Fu tn
.
c Mil
a
B dl iu soff ns
●●
ILBrookston●● ●●Rensselae ●●r TroO
y
H Hagerst●●
own
Denver Hamburg
●●
Indianapolis●●
●●●● Macon
●●Oakdale
Aurora
Marshall●●
St Elmo ●●●●
In Id Ny Bakery MD
NV Centralia ●●
Louisville
CO
KY
MO
TN
Fayetteville ●● ●● ●●Humboldt
Jackson
●●
OK Russellville
AR
MEXICO
●●
Irapuato
LEGEND
●● Corporate Offices ●●Mexico City
●●
Production Facilities
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 6
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Citizenship Philosophy
Our Citizenship Strategy
and Focus Areas
GOOD FOOD
At Conagra, we believe that good food is much
We are dedicated to making safe, delicious and nutritious foods
more than something we offer to our customers and
that fulfill the needs of modern consumers, while providing
consumers. It is a reflection of our values, our vision
consumers with access to the information they want and need
and our culture. That is why we aim to make food
to make informed decisions about what they eat.
that is not only delicious, but also safe, nutritious,
affordable, accessible, and convenient. We also
recognize that food shapes the world we live in,
and the food we make is a reflection of our employees
and our relationships with farmers, suppliers,
customers and others. By fostering a culture of
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
collaboration and innovation among our employees,
and by building strong partnerships beyond our We approach the sourcing of ingredients and packaging materials
company, we are committed to making good food with care and consideration. We take into account the potential
for generations to come, in a way that aligns with environmental and social impacts of our products throughout
our values and aspirations as a responsible their lifecycle and seek to support circularity through regenerative
corporate citizen. agriculture practices and thoughtful packaging design.
Our approach encompasses a wide range of topics
and is guided by four focus areas: Good Food,
Responsible Sourcing, Better Planet and Stronger
Communities. These strategic pillars define what
BETTER PLANET
we aim to achieve through our Citizenship Strategy
as a leader in the food industry. We believe that responsible environmental practices are a key
ingredient for a healthy business. We are focused on lessening
See the Additional Information in the Appendix of this
the climate-related impacts of our business by reducing energy
report to learn more about our approach to certain key
use, protecting and managing water resources efficiently and
focus areas.
minimizing or diverting waste for more beneficial uses.
STRONGER COMMUNITIES
Our ambition is to be the most impactful, energized and inclusive
culture in food. Our team is driven by collaboration, innovation
and a desire to grow, and we support them with the tools they
need to succeed and thrive in their careers. We also help fight
the issue of food insecurity in the communities where we live
and work through volunteerism, product donations and
financial contributions.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 7
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Highlights for Fiscal Year 2023
GOOD FOOD BETTER PLANET
Approximately 70% of our 85% of the solid waste generated
meatless options, including those at all our production facilities
from brands like Healthy Choice,® was diverted to more beneficial
Evol,® and Gardein,® are rated A or B uses through recycling, product
by Nutri-Score, an internationally donations to bolster food supplies
recognized metric that evaluates at area food banks, use as animal
the nutrition of vegan and feed, or land applications to
vegetarian products. improve soil quality.
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING STRONGER COMMUNITIES
We collaborate with growers and industry groups to advance • We donated more than 30,000,000 pounds of food to
regenerative agriculture in their supply chains. Key achievements in the Feeding America and its network of food banks, which
fiscal 2023 include: is equivalent to more than 25,000,000 meals.
• 100% of popcorn seeds were grown using winter cover crops, • Our employees volunteered
which prevent soil erosion, retain nutrients, conserve moisture more than 11,000 hours at 190
and guard against soil compaction. unique nonprofit agencies to
combat food insecurity, improve
• In California, tomato farmers employed drip irrigation on 98%
nutrition and increase access to
of their fields, reducing water use by nearly 15% compared to
healthy foods.
traditional furrow systems.
• Our eight Employee Resource
• We partnered with suppliers to transport raw
Groups (ERGs) engaged
tomatoes to our Oakdale, California production
thousands of employees
facility via Renewable Natural Gas trucks,
in over 100 events.
avoiding over 18,000 metric tons of
CO² emissions during the 2023 fresh
pack season, when harvesting and All numbers are approximate. For more
information on how we calculate these
production occurs. estimates, please see Additional Information
in the Appendix to this report.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 8
IMPORTANT STRATEGIC CRITICAL
SREDLOHEKATS
OT
ECNACIFINGIS
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Setting Our Citizenship Strategy
Our Citizenship Strategy is rooted in a holistic view
of what topics that have the most impact on our
business stakeholders and footprint, and is influenced
by our current strategic plan as well as an annual
review of stakeholder dialogues. We periodically
conduct a priority analysis with an eye on how our
activities impact our business, stakeholders and Food Safety
global priorities such as the UN Sustainable Corporate Ethics
Development Goals. Through this analysis, we have
Health & Nutrition
Occupational Safety
identified priority topics across our four strategic Conagra Brands Priorities
Climate Change
pillars: Better Planet, Good Food, Responsible Relative priority of corporate citizenship topics Supplier Code of Conduct
Sourcing and Stronger Communities. See the
Appendix to this report for more information about Product Transparency
how our priorities align with the UN Sustainability Packaging
Development Goals.
Sustainable Sourcing
Diversity & Inclusion
Manufacturing Water Use
Manufacturing Waste
Food Policy
Deforestation Culture & Workplace
Animal Welfare Environmental Compliance
Good Food
Employee Health & Wellness Community Impacts & Philanthropy
Responsible Sourcing
Better Planet
Stronger Communities
Transportation & Logistics
SIGNIFICANCE TO CONAGRA’S BUSINESS STRATEGY AND IMPACT
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 9
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Governance and Management of our Citizenship Strategy
Corporate Governance of talent acquisition, employee safety, health and D&I Citizenship Community Investment Citizenship
wellness and our corporate culture. Our Audit/Finance Strategy Management Strategy Management
The business of Conagra Brands is managed under
Committee reviews cybersecurity, regulatory and
the oversight of our Board of Directors, which is At Conagra, management has instituted a The Conagra Brands Foundation is responsible
compliance risk from environmental matters (including
elected by our stockholders. Our Board performs its comprehensive, business-led approach to diversity for leading a significant portion of the community
climate change, greenhouse gas emissions and
responsibilities in a manner consistent with sound and inclusion. Our D&I Leadership Council is investment and philanthropic activities of Conagra
energy use) and related disclosure, in addition
governance practices. The Board has delegated comprised of our full Senior Leadership Team and Brands. Our philanthropic focus includes a strategic
to the company’s overall enterprise risk
certain aspects of its work to three standing members of our D&I team. The Council drives grantmaking program aimed at addressing food
management program.
committees, each of which is comprised solely of accountability and execution of our initiatives while insecurity in the communities where our employees
independent directors: an Audit/Finance Committee, The Chair of each standing committee reports to measuring and assessing our performance. live and work. The Foundation also facilitates an
a Human Resources Committee and a Nominating and the full Board following every meeting and the full employee giving program and empowers employees
Corporate Governance Committee. The charter for Board also receives periodic updates directly from The Council meets quarterly to evaluate progress to direct company philanthropy toward the causes
each committee can be viewed on our website, along management on many of these topics, including and collaborate with our three D&I Task Forces, they care about through both matching gifts and a
with certain of the company’s corporate governance Food Safety, oversight of which is considered a full who are represented by employees at all levels and “dollars for doers” program that enables employees to
documents, including our Code of Conduct and Board responsibility. responsible for developing multi-year strategies to direct Conagra’s giving to the nonprofit organizations
Corporate Governance Principles. nurture belonging. of their choice based on their volunteer hours. The
Sustainability Citizenship Because we believe that diversity and inclusion, in Foundation also oversees scholarships for children
Citizenship Strategy Strategy Management alignment with our business strategy, will support the of Conagra employees and an employee relief fund.
Board Oversight creation of long-term value for shareholders, the fiscal
Conagra’s Senior Leadership Team has executive-level The Conagra Brands Foundation has been established
year 2023 annual incentive plan included supporting
The Board oversees our Citizenship Strategy oversight of all topics across the four strategic pillars as an independent entity, structured as a separate
the company’s approach to diversity and inclusion as
across all four of our strategic pillars of Good Food, of our Citizenship Strategy. Our Chief Communications 501(c)(3) organization under the US federal tax code
a component of the overall performance assessment
Responsible Sourcing, Better Planet and Stronger Officer, Co-Chief Operating Officer and Chief Supply as a private foundation. Its bylaws establish the rules
process as part of the individual performance modifier
Communities, both directly and through its standing Chain Officer serve as executive sponsors of our and procedures by which the Foundation operates as
for senior leaders.
committees. The Board and its committees review our Sustainability Steering Committee, a cross-functional well as the rights and powers of its board of directors
Citizenship Strategy on a regular basis and receive team including leaders from our business units, and officers. The Foundation’s board of directors
updates from management on our initiatives, risks and functional leaders from legal, investor relations, are selected by our Chief Executive Officer and
and progress toward our goals. Our Nominating and R&D, demand science, procurement, operations and has oversight across the Foundation’s programs.
Corporate Governance Committee reviews our overall sales. The Sustainability Steering Committee meets
Citizenship Strategy. This responsibility includes biannually, with climate change, packaging waste,
oversight of significant risks that may, in the opinion agriculture, water and waste forums meeting
of the Committee, affect the company’s reputation, more frequently to drive progress on initiatives.
business and stockholder value such as supply chain The Senior Leadership Team provides regular reports
risk, environmental and climate sustainability, and to the Board and its standing committees on aspects
community engagement. Our Human Resources of our Citizenship Strategy and how we are identifying,
Committee reviews our approach to fostering a culture assessing and managing risks related to those
of diversity and inclusion, as well as our management matters.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 10
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Food Safety 12
Nutrition 14
Product Transparency 17
Responsible Marketing
to Children 18
Good Food
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 11
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Food Safety
Food Safety Culture Oversight of Supplier and
Co-Manufacturing Food Safety
Food safety is ingrained in the culture of Conagra Our food safety teams are comprised
Brands, as we recognize that making food that our of subject matter experts who Outside of the company, we work closely with our
consumers can safely enjoy is the responsibility of suppliers to maintain the high standards of food safety
provide functional leadership on
everyone at the company, from leaders to frontline and quality that we expect for our ingredients and
all matters related to food safety
teams. We encourage engagement of all employees in products. Our suppliers use an accredited certification
building a food safety culture – and strive to promote and quality, including: body to audit their compliance with GFSI standards
and demonstrate a culture of integrity and continuous annually. Approximately 95% of our direct suppliers
improvement within the entire organization and have completed GFSI-recognized certification.
beyond by fostering an environment where people • Food safety, quality and regulatory
are empowered to maintain high standards and take requirements for production and Our Supplier Quality and Co-Manufacturing
immediate action in the event of a food safety issue. distribution Quality teams manage our relationships with
suppliers and co-manufacturers to facilitate
• Supplier food safety and quality a comprehensive approach to safety and
Food Safety, Quality & Regulatory
quality. By utilizing a quality management
Affairs Teams • Consumer affairs
system, we can effectively create and
Conagra Brands has dedicated Food Safety, Quality • Sanitation manage supplier issues and audit
& Regulatory Affairs (FSQRA) teams that are focused findings. This collaborative approach
on maintaining the integrity of our food – beginning • Allergens promotes transparency and continuous
with sourcing ingredients that meet our standards improvement in the food safety practices
• Microbiology, toxicology and chemistry
all the way through preparation and delivery to of our suppliers and co-manufacturers.
our customers and consumers. In fiscal 2024, • Thermal processing
we undertook a company-wide reorganization of Food Safety Council
• Religious and other specific certification
our quality function so that the quality assurance
(Kosher, Halal, gluten free) We engage outside experts to help
managers at our facilities report directly into our
us continually improve our food
FSQRA organization. As part of this reorganization, • Engineering
safety and quality programs. For
in fiscal 2024, we added resources to our FSQRA
• Foreign material contamination example, Conagra maintains a 100
organization to help enable the reorganization and
Food Safety Council comprised of
%
enhance food safety and quality company-wide.
• Auditing
external experts who provide input
Conagra has invested in employee technical expertise, on our food safety policies and
analytical and microbiological labs, and third-party practices and advise us on new and
reviews that enhance our scientific and technical emerging food safety practices. The
Food Safety in Our
capabilities to drive continuous improvement. Council’s members are recognized
Production Facilities
in the industry and regulatory
We understand the importance of remaining current
100% of Conagra production facilities have completed community for their expertise in of Conagra production facilities have
on the latest industry and regulatory insights including
Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI)-recognized specific food safety disciplines completed Global Food Safety Initiative
market incidents, changes to food safety legislation
and regulations, new technology and analytical certification. We have dedicated teams embedded such as food science, microbiology, (GFSI)-recognized certification.
within the FSQRA organization that are each public health and public policy.
advances. This diligent monitoring increases our
responsible for a specific production platform
awareness and understanding of potential risks
to proactively audit internal facilities.
and enriches our food safety culture.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 12
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
connected supply chain infrastructure, includes training sessions. These sessions are designed to
Modernization and Technology Commitment to Timely and
increased production, line connectivity, materials educate and engage employees on critical topics
Effective Recall Procedures
We seek out innovative solutions to modernize food efficiency and performance management across our related to food safety across the company. Training
safety practices throughout our operations. Our food production facilities. This initiative includes installation topics include foreign material control and prevention, In the rare event that our food does not meet our
safety program utilizes data (e.g., KPIs, analysis, of sensors in our equipment to feed real-time data into allergen management and good production practices, high standards for regulatory compliance, quality
quality reports, internal and external audits, consumer, the cloud to drive quality and identify potential losses such as wearing the right personal protective assurance or food safety, we have defined protocols
customer and employee feedback, internal reports to reduce waste. Also as part of this initiative, we have equipment, following the correct hand washing to guide us in addressing these situations. When
and training records) to enable informed, consistent equipped many of our frontline workers with tablets procedure, and the proper operation, cleaning appropriate, we take prompt marketplace action with
decision-making and verify compliance to facilitate real-time communication on the shop and sanitizing of all machines and food handling our customers and appropriate regulatory agencies
and consistency with our food safety expectations, floor, and enabled them to leverage data analytics and equipment. In addition, Conagra is developing our to remove impacted product from commerce to
plans and operational procedures. Communication image processing tools. FSQRA Academy to continuously evolve our training protect the public. We quickly deploy resources
also plays an important role in our food safety programs that extend across the entire supply to our facilities in the event of a food safety event
program and utilize many different channels from Training and Recognition chain organization. to identify and develop corrective actions, and we
formal training, videos, and informational signage review learnings from food safety events and share
to mentoring and best practice sharing during shift Conagra requires all of its production employees and Celebrating our employees’ vigilance and commitment best practices across our facilities to facilitate
huddles and team meetings. their leaders to participate in a comprehensive food to food safety helps to mitigate hazards in the pursuit continuous improvement of our food safety programs.
safety training program that runs over the course of of continuous improvement. Conagra’s RISE (Reduce
Additionally, we take a proactive approach with our
We have continued to invest in new technologies to a year. This program was updated in fiscal 2023 to Incidents Sustain Excellence) program encourages
co-manufacturing partners and suppliers to foster
help us operate more efficiently and effectively to provide interactive content and new monthly courses, frontline workers to submit project ideas that improve
strong, supportive and collaborative relationships to
continue to deliver safe and high-quality products, with regularly updated content food safety and quality at their individual facilities.
build trust as well as a commitment to food safety.
including making technology investments in our through online and RISE recognizes the proactivity of our
production facilities by adding x-rays to mitigate instructor frontline employees and winning All of our facilities that produce and handle food
foreign material and label scanning to confirm correct lead projects are honored with conduct mock recalls for ingredients, finished goods
packaging. An additional focus has been improving awards, distributed and packaging at least once per year so that we are
our ability to access and utilize data to drive better quarterly and able to quickly and accurately identify and control
communication across our operations and supply annually. such materials in the event of a food safety issue.
chain. Our continued transition to digital records This practice allows us to challenge and improve our
will increase our data analysis capabilities to traceability procedures, so that in the event of a food
inform real-time decisions, which enhance safety incident, we are well-positioned to identify and
our product safety and quality program. control the impacted product. We also require our
Additionally, our ongoing Connected key suppliers and co-manufacturers to conduct
Shop Floor initiative, which is similar mock recalls, further strengthening
one component of our digitally our collective commitment to product
safety. For additional Food Safety
metrics, please refer to our
Conagra’s RISE (Reduce
Sustainability Accounting
Incidents Sustain
Standards Board
Excellence) program
(SASB) disclosure.
encourages frontline
workers to submit project
ideas that improve food
safety and quality at their
individual facilities.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 13
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Healthy Eating Patterns
Nutrition
Nutrition research shows that efforts to encourage
people to adopt better eating habits cannot focus
Conagra Brands innovates to deliver foods with solely on nutrients. Instead, such efforts should
nutritional benefits that meet today’s consumer promote healthier eating patterns including a variety
expectations. of food groups. We understand that many consumers
are seeking more foods that they trust to help them
achieve their health and wellness goals, and we
WITHIN OUR HOLISTIC provide options to help them meet their needs.
NUTRITION PLATFORM, WE Whole vegetables, whole grain popcorn and frozen
FOCUS ON FOUR PILLARS: meals that deliver vegetables, whole grains and quality
protein make up most of our portfolio. Brands like
Birds Eye,® with its innovative frozen vegetable options
for consumers and Healthy Choice,® the largest
healthy brand in the market, exemplify our healthy
diet patterns strategy. In particular, the Healthy Choice
Vegan Gyros with Gardein® Plant-Based Meatballs
Power Bowl® products feature modern flavors with
Healthy Eating Patterns unique nutrient-dense vegetables and whole grains. Sustainable Nutrition Supplying essential vitamins, minerals and plant
Consumed by approximately 20 million households At Conagra Brands, we believe that a sustainable food protein, Birds Eye is our biggest brand and generated
annually, Healthy Choice meals make meaningful system supports human as well as planetary health. more than $1.5 billion in retail sales in fiscal year
impacts to consumers’ eating patterns. Conagra recognizes the definition of sustainable diets 2023. Providing consumers with frozen vegetables
as an alternative to fresh vegetables allows for
endorsed by the Food and Agriculture Organization
In their most recent 2022 assessment, Access to
longer storage and may help prevent food waste by
(FAO) of the United Nations, which takes into
Nutrition Initiative (ATNI) evaluated the nutrient quality
consumers. In fiscal year 2023, Birds Eye continued
consideration nutrition and health, cultural context,
Sustainable Nutrition of our products along with the products of 10 other to innovate with new sides like Steamfresh Cheddar
and social and environmental impacts.
large US food companies using the rigorous Health
Cheese Rice & Broccoli and Zesty Marinara Rigatoni &
Star rating system. Conagra Brands ranked #1 in Encouraging a greater proportion of plant-based foods Vegetable. These dishes feature flavorful combinations
percent of sales from healthier products and remained and preventing food waste are key facets of the FAO and offer 3/4 to one cup of vegetables per serving.
#1 in the Product Profile assessment. Conagra has sustainable diets definition. Plant-based offerings
held the top ranking in the product profile assessment are a significant part of our business, and comprised We also utilize Nutri-Score, an internationally
since 2018. We are proud to provide consumers with 81% of all ingredients by volume that we procured in recognized metric, to assess the nutrition of products
Access To Healthy Food convenient choices that contribute positively fiscal year 2023. Our Gardein® brand of vegan plant- in our vegan and vegetarian portfolio. Our threshold for
to healthier eating patterns. based proteins generated more than $160 million in vegan and vegetarian meals and meat replacements
to meet our sustainable nutrition standards is a
retail sales in fiscal year 2023. Our line of Gardein
Nutri-Score A or a B, the top two preferable scores
products utilizes 100% plant-based ingredients and
on Nutri-Score’s A to E value scale which evaluates
allows vegans, vegetarians and flexitarians to enjoy
food positively for higher fruit, vegetable, fiber and
high quality protein from plant-based foods. To meet
protein content and negatively for higher simple
the needs of these consumers, in fiscal year 2023, we
Personal Health
sugars, saturated fats and salt content. Currently,
continued to innovate in this space. Gardein Ultimate
Goals approximately 70% of our vegan and vegetarian meals
Plant-Based® Saus’ge Links and Plant-Based
and meat alternatives, including options from our
Breakfast Saus’ge offer plant-based alternatives to
Healthy Choice, Evol and Gardein brands, are rated
animal-based sausage with 13-16 grams of protein per
A or B by Nutri-Score.
serving. In addition, we introduced Gardein Ultimate
Plant-Based Chick’n Spicy Filets, which include 24 1 The % Daily Value tells you how much a nutrient in a serving of food
contributes to a daily diet. 2,000 Calories a day is used for general
grams of protein per serving and offer a plant-based
nutrition advice.
alternative for the #1 in-home animal protein.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 14
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Personal
Health Goals
Roasted Tomato Marinara Sauce with
Hunt's® Stewed Tomatoes with Basil, Food has become an integral
Garlic and Oregano
part of health maintenance
for many consumers.
To support diverse health
needs, consumers adhere to
numerous personal nutrition
goals and protocols. We
are developing foods that
align to popular dietary
patterns such as keto, low
carb, vegan, vegetarian,
no added sugar and heart
health. For example, for our
Healthy Choice products,
our food design framework
includes nutrient guardrails
that our food scientists
and chefs adhere to when
creating recipes intended to
deliver the identified nutrition
attributes.
Access to Healthy Food
Promoting healthy vegetables in channels, like reduction, having previously reached a pledge for a These attributes come to life in products like Healthy
We strive to increase access to healthy food. By
discount retail, that are accessible to all income levels portfolio-wide 20% reduction by 2015. In fiscal year Choice single-serve meals that meet the regulated
working with government agencies, retailers and food
and geographies is one strategy that may increase 2023, we embarked on a new initiative, reducing definition of Healthy and provide lower carbohydrate,
service customers, we actively bring visibility to foods
vegetable consumption. Discount retail stores have sodium by an average of 15% in over 200 consumer no added sugars, gluten free and heart-healthy
that meet the criteria for federal nutrition programs,
become a primary shopping location for consumers products, including Banquet,® Marie Callender’s,® and options. Our innovative grain free, lower carbohydrate
such as Women, Infants and Children (WIC) and Child
in areas that have historically been food deserts. Hungry Man® meals, Birds Eye sauced and seasoned Healthy Choice Power Bowls are a top choice for
Nutrition Programs. By doing so, we help families have
According to the research published in the American vegetables, Vlasic® pickles, Wishbone® salad dressing, consumers seeking specific attributes through whole,
greater access to healthier foods.
Journal of Public Health, dollar stores are the fastest- and Orville Redenbacher’s® popcorn. Our intention recognizable vegetable and protein ingredients. In
WIC has been successfully improving the health growing food retailers by household expenditure share for fiscal year 2024 is to achieve a similar reduction fiscal 2023, we introduced two new seafood meals,
outcomes of low-income pregnant women and young (increasing by 89.7%), with rural growth outpacing across more than 400 additional providing a convenient way to meet the
children for more than 50 years. We work with every growth elsewhere (increasing by 102.9%).1 In fiscal consumer products in our frozen, Dietary Guidelines’ recommendation
participating state to identify WIC-eligible SKUs in our year 2023, Conagra partnered with Dollar General in snacks and staples domains. Our to eat more fish. Birds Eye products
portfolio, further improving access to healthful options a promotion that featured nutrient content claims on approach to sodium reduction, as also help consumers meet their health
like beans and vegetables. As of the end of fiscal shelf tags for our frozen vegetables, which correlated informed by science, is to gradually goals. The Birds Eye Veggies & Grains
year 2023, we have more than 350 SKUs included on to increased purchases of these nutrient dense reduce sodium in our products bowls have been designed to provide
states’ WIC-approved product lists, enabling access products by Dollar General customers. to continue to meet consumer more than 10 essential nutrients per
to eligible foods that otherwise would not be available expectations for delicious flavor. serving. These options help offer
Sodium reduction in foods remains a major public
for WIC shoppers. Birds Eye® frozen vegetables, more choices for consumers trying to
health initiative, as underscored by FDA’s 2022 1 Dollar Stores and Food Access for Rural
Hunt’s® and Rotel® tomatoes and Rosarita® beans are Households in the United States, 2008–2020 balance healthfulness with the desire for
Voluntary Sodium Reduction Guidance and the | AJPH | Vol. 113 Issue 3
just a few examples of Conagra products that provide convenience and enjoyment.
2022 White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition
nutrition and economic value to WIC participants.
and Health. Conagra has a track record of sodium
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 15
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Product Assessments
In June of 2022, we began piloting a data partnership
with HowGood, an independent research company
with one of the world’s largest ingredient sustainability
databases. Our work with HowGood focuses on select
brands in our portfolio and utilizes the HowGood platform
to assess the environmental and social impact and other
attributes of the ingredients used in Conagra products
based on data from hundreds of third-party scientific
and peer-reviewed studies. In 2023, we’ve expanded
our portfolio assessment to include 700+ products
across 18 brands.
HIGHLIGHTS FROM HOWGOOD
ASSESSMENTS1 OF CONAGRA
PRODUCTS
Blake’s® Old Fashioned Mac and Cheese qualified
for HowGood’s “Water Smart” attribute, meaning this
product’s ingredients use less water to grow than 80% of
all other food products assessed by HowGood.
Angie’s BOOMCHICKAPOP® Sweet & Salty Kettle
Corn seven ounce Popcorn achieved HowGood’s
“Climate Friendly” attribute, meaning this product is
estimated to have a lower ingredient
WHITE HOUSE CONFERENCE ON HUNGER, carbon footprint than 70% of food
NUTRITION AND HEALTH products assessed by HowGood.
Birds Eye® Steamfresh Long
On September 28, 2022, President Biden hosted the roadmap to help end hunger and improve nutrition Grain White Rice with Frozen
first White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition and by 2030. The cross-functional effort advocated Mixed Vegetables scored a “Great”
Health in over 50 years. The conference’s primary goal for possible solutions toward achieving the stated HowGood impact rating, meaning
was to unite Americans to collectively combat hunger, objective. In support of the White House’s goal of the ingredients in this product have
promote nutritious eating and encourage physical making it easier for everyone to access affordable an environmental and social impact
activity, with the aim of reducing the prevalence of food, we advocated for the inclusivity of healthful in the top 10% of food products
diet-related illnesses like diabetes, obesity and heart foods in all temperature states and forms being assessed by HowGood.
disease by 2030. These conditions currently rank available to all in need of food assistance (i.e., fresh,
1 All percentages are out of more than 280,000
among the foremost causes of mortality and disability refrigerated, frozen, dried or canned). We believe food food products assessed by HowGood. For
in the United States. in all temperature states could provide individuals and more information on HowGood’s ratings and
attributes, please visit Product Sustainability
families seeking food assistance with convenience, Rating Methodology | Water Smart Attribute |
Conagra Brands took a collaborative approach with ease of preparation, storage options, prolonged shelf Climate Friendly Attribute | Latis Help Center
teams from Community Investment, Research & (howgood.com)
life, reasonable cost, increased availability and equal
Development, and Nutrition & Health working together
nutritional value.
to submit public comments aimed at developing a
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 16
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Product Transparency
Conagra is committed to Conagra closely monitors allergen management trends
providing access to the and other food safety risks and works to minimize
information consumers want potential impacts. We follow Good Manufacturing
and need to make informed Practices (GMPs) and thoroughly clean our equipment
decisions about what they eat. after using allergen-containing ingredients.
SmartLabel Gluten-Free Products
SmartLabel leverages Our portfolio offers options for consumers looking
mobile technology to provide for gluten-free foods, including Udi’s® and Glutino®
consumers with easy access bread, snacks, pizza and baking mixes. According
to product information to FDA labeling rules, any foods bearing a “Gluten
– detailed nutritional Free” claim must contain less than 20 ppm (parts per
information, ingredient million) gluten. In compliance with the FDA’s defined
definitions, bioengineered standard for gluten content, Conagra only uses the
status, allergens, ingredient “Gluten Free” claim on a food after implementing
certifications such as comprehensive testing protocols, including
USDA organic and Non- ingredient reviews, facility suitability and overall
GMO Project Verified (a product composition.
standard promulgated by the
NonGMO Project), and many Natural Product Claims
other product attributes,
Conagra Brands has implemented an internal Natural
as well as associated
Council, which is responsible for carefully reviewing
manufacturing practices like
all proposed natural claims for Conagra’s products.
waste, energy and water
Comprised of cross-functional team members from
use reduction. Currently, we
Conagra’s Legal, Product Development, Labeling and
have approximately 6,400
Food Safety, Quality & Regulatory Affairs departments,
pages live for more than
the Natural Council verifies that all Conagra products
3,000 unique products on
featuring a natural claim meet the applicable U.S. laws
smartlabel.org.
Allergen Labeling
and regulations and the company’s requirements for
The Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer Protection such claims.1 These requirements were developed,
Genetically Modified Ingredients
Act requires food manufacturers to clearly indicate and are updated as necessary, to be consistent with
Many of our brands offer Non-GMO Project-Verified when they’ve used one of nine major allergens: milk, the USDA’s Natural Policy and the FDA’s guidelines
products, including Hunt's® tomatoes, PAM® cooking eggs, fish, crustacean shellfish, peanuts, tree nuts, for natural claims. All Conagra products with a
spray, and Alexia® frozen foods. Conagra fully wheat, sesame and soy. For any branded foods that natural claim at a minimum do not contain artificial
supports, and is in compliance with, the National contain one of these allergens, we include a plain or synthetic ingredients, artificial flavors or colors,
Bioengineered Food Disclosure Law, which requires language “Contains” statement below the ingredient and are not preserved through the use of chemical
food companies to disclose certain information about statement. For products sold outside the U.S., we preservatives.
genetically modified ingredients. label our products to meet any additional allergen 1T o the extent any Conagra Brands products bearing a natural claim
disclosure requirements, such as for mustard in are sold or distributed outside the U.S., this statement is not intended
to provide any assurances by Conagra Brands as to the compliance of
Canada. Some of our food packages might feature the natural claim with any applicable laws or regulations of the country
a precautionary “May Contain” statement. where the products will be sold or distributed.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 17
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Responsible Marketing to Children
Since 2007, Conagra has participated in the Children’s OUR CFBAI-CONFORMING
Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative (CFBAI) of
PRACTICES INCLUDE:
the Council of Better Business Bureaus (BBB). We
adhere to CFBAI’s criteria, including that advertised
• Commits that all advertising primarily directed to
foods contribute important food groups: fruits,
children under age 13 will be for foods that meet
vegetables, non/low-fat dairy, whole grains, key
CFBAI’s Category-Specific Uniform Nutrition
nutrients, or some combination of these components.
Criteria.1
CFBAI’s criteria also set standards that limit calories,
saturated fat, sodium and added sugars. • Not seeking product placements in children’s
programming.
To further enhance our practice to only market to
children responsibly, Conagra also abides by the • Not running advertising primarily directed to
guidelines established by the Children’s Advertising children under six years of age in TV, radio, print
Unit (CARU) of the BBB. CARU’s standards are or online, including websites, online games, DVDs
intended to promote child directed marketing that and other video formats, mobile apps and word of
is not deceptive, unfair or inappropriate, taking into mouth platforms.
account the unique vulnerabilities of a younger
audience. CARU’s guidelines do not allow, among • Not advertising our foods to children in elementary
other things, claims that unduly exploit a child’s schools, pre-K through 7th grade, even foods that
imagination or sales pressure techniques that create meet CFBAI’s nutrition criteria. This commitment
a sense of urgency. applies to the entire school, its facilities and
grounds, and covers the entire school day,
whenever children are under the supervision of
the school or third parties on behalf of the school.
1C FBAI has evolved over the years to
respond to changes in the children’s
advertising landscape. The most recent
update was made in May 2022 and
revised the advertising coverage of the
program from “advertising primarily
directed to children under age 12”
to “advertising primarily directed to
children under age 13.” This update was
implemented on January 1, 2023.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 18
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Supplier Risk Management 20
Regenerative Agriculture 21
Mitigating Deforestation
and Preserving Biodiversity 23
Animal Welfare 25
Packaging Waste
& Product Recovery 26
Responsible
Sourcing
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 19
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Supplier Risk Management
Conagra’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers applies and record keeping; nondiscrimination; no forced or Supplier Excellence Program –
across the board to all of our direct suppliers and compulsory labor; no child labor; immigration law Priority Ingredients and Packaging
covers legal compliance with workplace and human compliance; freedom of association; no deforestation;
Materials
rights in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles and other areas. Conagra Brands requires its suppliers
on Business and Human Rights, the International to continue to make progress to reduce environmental Conagra Brands leverages a Supplier Excellence
Bill of Human Rights and the principles concerning impacts of their operations such as deforestation, Program for additional risk management for suppliers
fundamental rights set out in the International Labour greenhouse gas emissions and waste generation; that are most significant to our Citizenship Strategy.
Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles protect water resources through restorative or
As part of our Supplier Excellence Program,
and Rights at Work. Our Code of Conduct for conservation efforts; support social needs in
Conagra assesses key suppliers at least annually
Suppliers also covers animal welfare; health, safety the communities in which they operate through
on their supply chain risk-related performance
and the environment; ethical dealings; monitoring philanthropic investment, diversity and inclusion,
and disclosure. Metrics that we review include the
human rights practices; and support sustainability and
supplier’s publicly available reporting, policies and
traceability efforts of goods and services throughout
commitments that address sustainability risks specific
their supply chains, including agriculture.
to the supplier’s industry, and initiatives addressing
Each requirement within our Code of Conduct for climate change, packaging waste, agriculture, water,
Suppliers must be met and supported by appropriate waste, diversity and inclusion and human rights. The
documentation. We maintain full rights to inspect annual sustainability assessment is supplemented by
facilities and review applicable documentation quarterly performance discussions and risk analyses,
to confirm compliance. Our Code of Conduct for and we work in partnership with our suppliers to
Suppliers also specifies that our suppliers must take address any issues or gaps. We recognize top
reasonable actions to verify that their suppliers and performing suppliers at our Supplier Excellence
subcontractors are in compliance with our Code of Summit, with awards to recognize suppliers who
Conduct for Suppliers. We provide guidance to our represent industry best practices in Sustainability
suppliers regarding subcontracting and require them and Diversity & Inclusion. Winners are chosen from
to replicate our requirements all the way down their Tier 1 Supplier Risk Management among the highest-rated suppliers according to our
supply chains. risk assessment.
Our Supplier Quality and Risk teams review all
Conagra Brands uses a rigorous due diligence materials to be purchased, where those materials
process to confirm that we have appropriate come from, the audit results from our third-party
documentation regarding new suppliers and the controversy monitoring provider, proposed final
materials we purchase from them. This includes, but use of the material and other information about the
is not limited to, spec sheets, allergen information, material or supplier. The Supplier Quality team also
conflicts of interest disclosures, third-party audits and reviews new suppliers’ conformance with specific
country of manufacture statements. expectations set forth in our Supplier Expectations
Manual. Our Risk team’s due diligence screens include
We actively monitor our direct suppliers on an ongoing global criteria related to human rights, business ethics
basis for controversies or situations that could and governance and environmental compliance.
potentially cause a supply interruption, and we have
implemented additional risk management processes Dedicated procurement staff provide on-going support
for high-volume suppliers and suppliers of priority to each direct supplier via periodic touchpoints to
ingredients and packaging materials that may present discuss any sustainability developments or other
heightened risks. Our practices include: issues that might arise.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 20
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Regenerative Agriculture
In line with our Citizenship Strategy, Conagra works with growers and industry groups to progress regenerative agriculture
in our supply chains – starting at the farm. By implementing practices that prioritize soil health, our growers work to rebuild
soil organic matter, increase water infiltration and enhance nutrient cycling. These practices can help lead to more resilient
agricultural systems that can better withstand climate impacts such as droughts, floods and extreme weather events.
Carrots, Peas, Sweet Corn and Green Beans
Conagra’s carrots, peas, sweet corn and green bean • Reduce the amount of herbicides needed by
crops are all grown in the U.S. from a network of strategically following soybeans, sweet corn,
farms. Our midwestern Birds Eye® farmers continue to alfalfa, small grain, and potatoes with sweet
implement farming practices that save water, support corn in our crop rotation, which has avoided the
biodiversity and improve soil health. We have invested need for over 8,700 gallons of post-emergence
in technology in the fields to monitor the plants’ herbicide since 2021
nutrient needs using real-time data. This allows us
• Reduce the amount of pesticides needed by
to sync harvesting with our production schedule so
strategically following potatoes with carrots in
that our vegetables are picked at peak ripeness and
our crop rotation. Since 2021, this practice has
transported directly to our plants that are ready to
avoided the need for 145,000 gallons of soil
receive, wash and freeze them within a few hours.
fumigants to be applied on fields
Regenerative agriculture is a key component in our
• Filter water runoff and preserve ecosystem
farm management plans. Our farmers complete a
biodiversity through on-farm conservation buffers
GAP survey to minimize environmental risks within
–small areas of vegetation or strips of land
Conagra’s supply chain and maximize environmental
benefits through confirmed actions such as a land use • Support healthy pollinator populations by
risk assessment, traceability to each production area accessing bee habitat data via resources such as
and a farm water quality assessment. As part of the FieldWatch, a non-profit academic collaborative
GAP program and individual farm management plans, that promotes communication between
these farmers: crop growers and beekeepers in support of
stewardship and responsible use of agricultural
• Support soil health through crop rotation,
inputs. Birds Eye growers located adjacent to
planting cover crops and minimizing tillage
rivers and lakes also plant erosion-reducing buffer
(plowing) to reduce erosion
zones with perennial crops such as clover, which
• Reduce water consumption through advanced provide food for pollinators.
irrigation techniques like in-field sensors and
recycling water where possible
• Reduce fertilizer application by implementing
the use of variable rate fertilizer application
technology and application of nitrogen as needed
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 21
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Tomatoes Popcorn Reducing Waste and Supporting
Circularity in Agriculture
Our tomato farmers in California apply pesticides In fiscal year 2023, Conagra worked with
and herbicides directly to the plant’s base through approximately 165 growers across the midwestern In addition, Conagra utilizes manufacturing processes
banded application, which reduces the amount of United States to source popcorn for our Angie’s designed to reduce water, waste and energy use
soil that receives pesticides or herbicides, and our BOOMCHICKAPOP,® ACT II,® Orville Redenbacher’s,® at our production facilities. Our Hunt’s® tomato
agricultural operation specialists estimate that this Crunch ‘n Munch,® Poppycock® and Fiddle Faddle® production facility in Oakdale, Calif. cleans and
practice reduces the volume of chemicals applied by products. To reduce their environmental impact, our recycles water used to process tomatoes into farm
approximately 75%, compared to typical broadcast contracted popcorn growers implement regenerative irrigation water, supporting conservation throughout
application practices.1 practices to improve soil health, reduce the risk of the supply chain and regeneration of local watersheds.
chemical runoff and decrease the number of fertilizers Our Birds Eye® facility in Waseca, Minn. upcycles
Our tomato farmers in California utilize drip irrigation
and pesticide applications needed in their fields. byproducts from peas, sweet corn and rice production
on 98% of their field acreage and our agricultural
These practices include: into local livestock feed or fertilizer. This facility also
experts estimate that this practice reduces overall
recycles water used to clean and process vegetables
water use by nearly 15% compared to traditional • Cover Crops: 100% of popcorn seed is grown on
back into irrigation water to grow food for animals.
furrow irrigation systems. Conagra partners with fields utilizing winter cover crops to help prevent
suppliers to transport raw tomatoes to our Oakdale, soil erosion, hold nutrients in place in the soil,
Calif. production facility in Renewable Natural Gas conserve soil moisture and protect against soil
trucks, which our supplier estimates avoided more compaction.
than 18,000 metric tons of CO² emissions in the 2023
• Crop Rotation: By rotating soybean and popcorn
fresh pack season.
crops, we estimate that our growers avoided
Through our cover crop investment program, we are applying over 350,000 lbs. of nitrogen to their
working with our tomato growers to increase cover fields in fiscal year 2023.
crop adoption in California. This agricultural practice
• Conservation Tillage: In 2023, about 35,000
aims to improve overall soil health and improve the
acres across our network implemented
resiliency of our supply. Cover crops are an integral
conservation tillage or no-till systems, meaning IN FISCAL YEAR 2023, CONAGRA
part of regenerative agriculture, as they can provide
some of the previous season’s crop residue is left
environmental benefits including protection against WORKED WITH APPROXIMATELY
on the land to prevent soil erosion and runoff.
erosion, improved water holding capacity, weed
165 POPCORN GROWERS ACROSS
suppression and nutrient recycling. In fiscal 2024, we • Routine Monitoring: Almost all growers
aim to expand the number of participating acres and conduct regular field scouting for weeds, insects THE MIDWESTERN UNITED STATES
assess the practice’s impact on soil health. and diseases as part of their integrated pest
management plans to avoid unnecessary chemical
applications.
1 When weather and field conditions don't allow for banded application,
farmers may use traditional broadcast pesticide application on rare
occasions.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 22
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Mitigating Deforestation
and Preserving Biodiversity
Deforestation-Linked Commodities
As part of our ongoing Citizenship Strategy, Conagra supplier compliance assessments. Our assessment
is dedicated to mitigating deforestation risk in our evaluates our supply based on three no deforestation
operations and supply chains for critical primary compliance criteria:
deforestation-linked commodities in line with the
Accountability Framework initiative (AFi) framework.1 TRACEABLE TO LOW-RISK
This summary outlines our efforts and progress
ORIGIN
towards achieving a no-deforestation footprint for
these commodities. Volumes traced to regions classified as low risk for
deforestation according to reputable third-party
Strategy: Conagra’s no-deforestation strategy is industry sources such as the World Wildlife Fund,
focused on beef, palm oil, soy, cocoa and timber the Global Canopy, and the Tropical Forest Alliance.
products used for product packaging, which we We utilize the material-specific country of origin
have identified as critical primary deforestation- and the country of manufacturing provided by our
linked commodities.2 Our Code of Conduct for suppliers for this analysis.
Suppliers specifies that we will not source certain
commodities from areas designated as high risk for
CERTIFICATIONS WITH NO
deforestation.3 We seek to do business with suppliers
DEFORESTATION COMPONENT
who have eliminated deforestation activities from
their operations or supply chain or who have made Volumes verified through third-party auditing under
commitments to eliminate deforestation activities certification programs utilized by our suppliers or
from their operations or supply chain by 2025, us that have no deforestation components, such
which include commitments for reforestation and as Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and Sustainable
agroforestry efforts to support biodiversity. Conagra’s Forestry Initiative Chain of Custody (SFI) for timber
no-deforestation strategy strives to achieve no- products, and Roundtable on Sustainable Palm
deforestation sourcing in alignment with AFi principles Oil (RSPO).
across these identified critical primary deforestation-
linked commodities by December 31, 2025. SUPPLIER NO-DEFORESTATION
Approach: In fiscal 2023, we took significant steps COMMITMENT
forward by implementing stricter no-deforestation
Volumes sourced from suppliers who have made
compliance criteria. These measures align our
a commitment to eliminate deforestation from their
approach closely with the AFi principles and
operations or supply chain by 2025.
provide clear guidance for achieving supply chains
in agriculture and forestry that are derived from
1 Conagra aligns with the AFi framework and its definition of deforestation:
no-deforestation areas. Additionally, we remain
loss of natural forest as a result of: 1) conversion to agriculture or other
committed to preserving other natural ecosystems non-forest land use; 2) conversion to a tree plantation; or 3) severe and
sustained degradation. Loss of natural forest that meets this definition
and upholding human rights.
is considered to be deforestation regardless of whether or not it is legal.
For more information on AFi guidance, see Accountability Framework.
We leverage resources from Proforest and Consumer 2S ee Appendix for Additional Information.
Goods Forum Forest Positive Coalition when making 3 Conagra utilizes resources such as CDP’s list of high-risk areas based on
reports by World Wildlife Fund, Forest 500 (a Global Canopy Project), and
the Tropical Forest Alliance.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 23
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Assessment Results and Fiscal Year 2023 Progress
Supporting Measures
to Prevent Overfishing
FY23 No Deforestation SOY4
Since 2020, Conagra Brands has utilized the
Compliance Assessment We recognize the impact of soy production on
internationally recognized Marine Stewardship
deforestation and are actively working to address
Council (MSC) and The Global Seafood Alliance’s Best
81% Traceable to low-risk origin
this issue in our supply chain. In fiscal 2023, 97% of
Aquaculture Practices (BAP) certification programs
our soy buy by volume was traced back to countries
15% Chain of custody certified or to bring certified responsibly-sourced seafood options
of origin identified as low-risk for deforestation.
sourced Mass Balance certified to consumers and encourage awareness of protecting
marine ecosystems. These third-party certifications
1% Supplier 2025 no deforestation PALM OIL5
recognize wild-caught and farm-raised seafood
commitment and/or reporting
suppliers for their responsible fishing practices
We understand the environmental impacts
3% Not compliant and drive improvements
associated with palm oil production, including
in the industry through
deforestation and habitat destruction. Since 2022,
education, advocacy,
100% of our palm oil buy by volume has been
97% verified by RSPO mass balance certification which and demonstration.
Deforestation includes tracing origins to the mill level for palm oil,
99% of Conagra Brands’
Free
and to the plantation level for palm kernel oil.
seafood buy by volume7 was
third-party certified, either via
COCOA6
MSC or BAP certification.
Although cocoa only represents approximately 7 Percentage based on assessed
volumes directly sourced, meaning
Commodity-Specific Highlights1 2% of our fiscal 2023 critical primary deforestation-
purchased by us for use as an
linked commodities buy by volume, we recognize ingredient for products manufactured
BEEF2 the impact of our purchasing decisions on our in our facilities. See Appendix for
Additional Information.
broader transition to a no-deforestation supply
As part of our Citizenship Strategy, we are focused
chain and, in 2023, we updated our no-deforestation
on reducing the deforestation impact of beef in our
compliance criteria for cocoa to require supplier
supply chain. In fiscal year 2023, 96% of our beef
commitments to eliminate deforestation by 2025.
buy by volume was traceable back to countries
In fiscal 2023, 61% of our cocoa buy by volume
of origin identified as low-risk for deforestation,
was traceable to suppliers that have publicly
including regions of the United States and Canada.
shared a 2025 no-deforestation commitment.
TIMBER3
1 All percentages based on assessed volumes directly sourced, meaning
Our no deforestation approach also extends to purchased by us for use as an ingredient for products manufactured
in our facilities, excluding private label and foodservice products.
the timber used in our packaging materials and
See Appendix for Additional Information.
other manufacturing processes. 100% of our 2Cattle products including fresh, frozen, cooked and Kosher.
3Timber used in primary, secondary and tertiary packaging.
timber buy by volume was traceable back to a 4 Soy includes soy, lecithin, soy flour, soybean oil, and soy protein
country of manufacturing identified as low-risk for products, excluding soy embedded in manufactured components.
5Palm, palm kernel, and all blended oils.
deforestation. Some of our suppliers also maintain 6 Cocoa powder and chocolate excluding cocoa embedded
accurate and active certifications under programs in manufactured components.
that have no deforestation components, such as
FSC and SFI.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 24
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Animal Welfare
Water Scarcity Risk
In fiscal year 2023, Conagra’s total ingredient buy Commodity-Specific Highlights2 We monitor sourcing water risks
by volume was approximately 81% plant-based, 7% through a periodic assessment
dairy and eggs and 12% animal proteins.1 We believe of the water risk level of the
in aligning our business practices to contribute to BEEF AND DAIRY3 PORK3 origins of selected ingredients
improvement of the welfare of animals in our supply using the WRI Aqueduct
In fiscal 2023, approximately 85% of our beef buy Conagra Brands supports the development of
chain. During 2023, we engaged with key stakeholders global water risk mapping
by volume was sourced from suppliers that are pregnant sow housing alternatives and eliminating
on animal welfare issues that are relevant to our tool. World Resources
members of the U.S. Roundtable on Sustainable the unnecessary use of gestation crates. As a next
supply chain. In fiscal year 2024, we adopted our Institute (WRI) is a
Beef and/or Global Roundtable for Sustainable step in our ongoing commitment, we aim to source
Animal Welfare Position Statement to outline our global nonprofit
Beef. In fiscal year 2023, Conagra Brands sourced 100% of our pork from supply chains that use only
guiding principles, strategy and practices in this organization that
dairy products primarily from the U.S., where open pen gestation systems5 by fiscal year 2026
regard. For the animal-based ingredients we source, works with leaders
major dairy suppliers adhere to the National Dairy (which ends May 2026). To reach this goal within
Conagra strives to partner with suppliers who share in government,
Farmers Assuring Responsible Management three fiscal years, we are aiming to source at least
our values and agree to standards consistent with business and civil
program that establishes dairy animal welfare 30% open pen pork by the end of fiscal year 2024,
our Animal Welfare Position Statement, specifically, society to research,
management standards for the dairy industry, and 60% by the end of fiscal year 2025. These
the five freedoms of animal welfare. design and carry out
which include animal care, facility management benchmarks, which are subject to availability of
practical solutions
Where noted below, Conagra has adopted additional and continuing education. The program utilizes supply, provide a guide for us as we move toward
that simultaneously
commodity-specific policies, goals and standards for third-party evaluators that certify that standards our goal, and we will provide updates on our
improve people’s
responsible animal housing and stewardship. To help are being followed on the farm. actual progress via our annual Citizenship Report
lives and support
us refine our approach to supporting the well-being starting with our fiscal year 2024 report.
nature. WRI updates its
of animals in our supply chain, we are forming an CAGE FREE EGGS3
As we move toward our longer-term goal of fully framework and mapping
Animal Welfare Advisory Committee (AWAC) to
In fiscal year 2023, approximately 64% of our eliminating the use of gestation crates, we will tool from time to time to
review the relevance and effectiveness of our current
egg buy by volume was sourced from cage free continue to collaborate across our value chain provide more granular data, new
commodity-specific animal welfare standards for our
systems. We expect to directly source 100% cage to help drive progress. indicators and improved tool function.
suppliers. The AWAC will consist of representatives
free eggs by the end of fiscal year 2024, earlier
from various stakeholders who will provide us
than our original goal to directly source 100% cage BROILER CHICKENS3
with external perspective on a variety of animal 1 Percentage based on assessed volumes directly sourced, meaning
free eggs by 2025. purchased by us for use as an ingredient for products manufactured
welfare matters, such as the evolving standards and 100% of our broiler chicken buy by volume was in our facilities. See Appendix for Additional Information.
regulations the care and treatment of animals and the sourced from suppliers who have committed to 2 Percentages based on assessed volumes directly sourced, meaning
purchased by us for use as an ingredient for products manufactured
availability of technology to improve welfare goals the five freedoms of animal welfare.4 in our facilities, excluding private label and foodservice products.
and objectives. More information about animal See Appendix for Additional Information.
3See Appendix for Additional Information.
welfare practices tied to our products can 4 Having engaged with our stakeholders on our broiler welfare chicken
be found in the Additional Information in standards, in 2023, we engaged with our suppliers to align on the five
freedoms for improving animal welfare in our supply chain. In 2024, we
the Appendix to this report. plan to continue to explore best practices in broiler chicken welfare,
informed by guidance from our new Animal Welfare Advisory Committee
being formed in 2024.
5 “Open pen gestation system” means that sows are kept in gestation
crates for no more than 4–6 weeks of each pregnancy and are then
moved to a pen with sufficient space to move freely.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 25
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Packaging Waste & Product Recovery
Packaging serves a critical role in maintaining both to work collectively toward scalable solutions tailored After identifying problematic or unnecessary
food freshness and safety, but waste from plastic to the unique needs and challenges within the U.S. packaging in 2021, in calendar year 2022, we
packaging is a growing concern. Conagra’s dedication landscape, through vital knowledge sharing and partnered with industry organizations like the
to innovation extends to the packaging we use and coordinated action. Association of Plastic Recyclers (APR) and utilized
we are seeking to reduce waste derived from our resources like the APR Design Guide to take crucial
By joining the U.S. Plastics pact, Conagra, with
packaging through thoughtful design and by using steps that will result in designing packaging with
industry-wide partners, is helping the industry to
renewable and more readily recyclable or compostable less material, optimizing the shape and size of our
collectively improve on four ambitious packaging
materials. Conagra’s strategy to minimize packaging products, and testing new materials utilizing recycled
material improvement and product recovery targets
waste and support product recovery is focused content that meet our performance and safety
described below.2
on improving packaging design in ways that allow standards. In the past year, we have also evaluated
consumers to recycle via various recycling systems the data quality, accuracy, and validity of our metrics
to help keep more of our packaging out of waste 1. Define a list of packaging to be and indicators, using external benchmarks and
streams and support a closed loop recovery system. verification processes. This has helped us to measure
designated as problematic or
our progress more accurately and transparently, and to Plant-based
In fiscal year 2023, approximately 93% of Conagra’s fiber bowls
unnecessary by 2021 and take identify and address any data gaps or inconsistencies. instead of
packaging materials by sourced volume met our measures to eliminate them We have also engaged with our stakeholders and plastic
renewable, recyclable or compostable by 2025
industry peers to share best practices and collaborate In fiscal year 2023,
sustainable packaging goal success metrics, equal by 2025.
on solutions for a circular economy.
to our fiscal year 2022 reported progress.1 Movement approximately
toward responsible packaging design and adoption Additionally, we’ve begun to introduce recycled %%
9933
of alternative materials as part of our efforts to meet content into more package formats within our
our 2025 goal has been impacted in part by recent portfolio. In 2022, Orville Redenbacher’s® began to roll
2. By 2025, all plastic packaging
industry-wide shortages of materials integral to out usage of approximately 15% recycled content in
is 100% reusable, recyclable
our packaging waste reduction research and our retail kernel polyethylene terneplate (PET) bottles
development program. or compostable. to help support collective industry progress on the
U.S. Plastics Pact.
U.S. Plastics Pact
Hunt’s® ketchup utilizes an oxygen barrier technology
of Conagra’s packaging
Conagra is proud to be part of the U.S. Plastic Pact, in ketchup bottles designed to protect both product
a collaborative led by The Recycling Partnership 3. By 2025, undertake ambitious freshness and the environment by reducing risk of materials by sourced
and World Wildlife Fund (WWF), launched as part contaminating the color of PET plastic recycling
actions to effectively recycle volume met our
of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s global Plastics streams. In 2022, this technology received recognition
Pact network. The U.S. Plastics Pact is an ambitious or compost 50% of plastic from the APR, an international packaging organization renewable, recyclable
initiative to unify diverse public-private stakeholders packaging. issuing recyclability guidelines that measure each
or compostable by 2025
across the plastics value chain to rethink the way we aspect of package design. After a thorough APR
design, use and reuse plastics, to create a path toward testing process, the new packaging technology was sustainable packaging
a circular economy for plastic in the United States. In awarded APR approval.
line with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s vision of a goal success metrics1
4. By 2025, the average recycled
circular economy for plastic, which unites more than
1 Percentage based on assessed volumes directly sourced, meaning
850 organizations and is underpinned by common content or responsibly sourced purchased by us for use for primary consumer and secondary packaging
material, for products manufactured in our facilities. See Appendix for
definitions and concrete targets, the U.S. Plastics Pact bio-based content in plastic Additional Information.
brings together plastic packaging producers, brands, 2 Conagra’s contributions to these industry-wide targets is reflected in the
packaging will be 30%. data we contributed to the U.S. Plastic Pact public reporting including the
retailers, recyclers, waste management companies,
“U.S. Plastics Pact 2020 Baseline Report”
policymakers and other stakeholders
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 26
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Operational Sustainability 28
Environmental
Management 28
Climate Change 29
Manufacturing
Water Conservation 30
Reducing Manufacturing
Waste 31
Better Planet
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 27
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Operational Environmental
Sustainability Management
Conagra Brands focuses our resources in key areas Our global Environment, Occupational Health and
where we can drive positive change across our value Safety Philosophy drives us towards continuous
chain. Climate change, water resources and waste are improvement in our environmental, health and
the most significant to our business and, therefore, safety (EH&S) practices, as measured by leading
key areas of focus for our sustainability programs. environmental and safety indicators and implemented
Climate change affects agricultural industries through our EH&S management approach. In addition
throughout the world and is a fundamental challenge to complying with environmental laws and regulations,
to food production. It is dramatically affecting how we provide training and educational resources to our
we source raw ingredients, and how we manage employees on: Environmental, Occupational Health
energy use in our facilities and across our value and Safety Compliance, Climate Change, Water
chain. Water resources are also essential throughout Stewardship and Resource Conservation.
our value chain. From growing our raw ingredients
Through a robust Environmental Management System,
to preparing and enjoying our food, we all depend
we proactively manage environmental issues and
upon clean water every day. Preventing waste—
share best practices among our facilities. We routinely
particularly food waste—is an important measure of
assess compliance through internal environmental
our operational efficiency and an important social
audits. When compliance issues arise, our team of
and environmental issue.
environmental professionals works closely with the
affected facility to educate and develop effective
action plans and track findings to resolution.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 28
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Climate Change1 SCOPE 1 & 2 EMISSIONS1 SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS CONAGRA’S 2030 SCIENCE-
BASED CLIMATE CHANGE
In fiscal year 2023, our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas In fiscal year 2023, we estimate that our Scope 3
emissions (CO2 e) were approximately 759,053 metric emissions decreased approximately 12.9% per metric GOALS:
Climate change affects agricultural industries tons, a decrease of approximately 8.3% from our fiscal ton of material sourced from our 2020 baseline, which
throughout the world and is a fundamental challenge year 2020 baseline. brings us approximately over half of the way to our
Reduce absolute Scope
to food production. It is dramatically affecting how we 2030 goal. In addition, we have reduced our estimated
source raw ingredients to make our food, and how In fiscal year 2023, 4.7% of our total energy consumed absolute in scope emissions approximately 11.7% 1 and 2 greenhouse gas
came from renewable sources, as defined by the
we manage energy use in our facilities and across our from our 2020 baseline. Scope 3 emissions 2030 goal
emissions 25% by 2030
United States Environmental Protection Agency.
value chain. Conagra Brands’ 2030 science-based progress has normalized from fiscal year 2021’s 9.8%
climate change goals were validated by the Science Our Science Based Target initiative will push us to intensity reduction due to post-COVID reductions of as compared to our fiscal
find new solutions to address our overall energy
Based Target initiative (SBTi), an ambitious corporate low-carbon ingredient sourcing volumes, primarily
year 2020 baseline.
usage and efficiency.
climate effort leading the way to a zero carbon tomatoes.
economy See Appendix for definitions and additional For additional Energy Management metrics please
information and our 2023 CDP Climate Change refer to our SASB disclosure. Reduce Scope 3
response for more information about our methodology
SBT Scope 3 Goal
greenhouse gas emissions
on climate change risk mitigation practices and
emissions reduction efforts. from purchased goods
Goal: 20% Intensity reduction
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (tCO2e/lb) and services by 20% per
(In metric tons)1
Reduction achieved: 12.9% Intensity basis metric tonne of material
1,000,000
FY20 sourced within that same
Progress to goal: 65%
Scope 1: 411,867
800,000 timeframe2
Scope 2: 415,963
Total: 827,830 600,000 SBT Requirement: No Increase
In Absolute Scope 3 Emissions
FY23 400,000
Scope 1: 392,471
Scope 2: 366,582 200,000 Achieved? Yes 1 Conagra annually reviews greenhouse gas emissions and baseline data
as part of third-party data verification efforts, and we may make minor
Total: 759,053 adjustments to published data as our data systems evolve, data quality
0 Change in absolute -1,127,219 tCO2e improves, or our facility footprint changes in ways that require baseline
FY20 FY23 emissions: (-11.7% absolute recalculations. Any adjustments fall within a threshold of +/ - 5% used
for independent assurance unless otherwise noted.
change)
2 Fiscal year 2023 data except for “Other Goods & Services” which
represents fiscal year 2020 data and is excluded from the boundary for
Conagra’s 2030 Science-Based Target.
3 Other Goods & Services (fiscal year 2020 data) includes, but is not
SCOPE 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas Conagra’s In-Scope Greenhouse
limited to purchases of cleaning chemicals and sanitation services, co-
Emissions by Source Gas Emissions from Purchased manufacturing, purchased pallets, water and sewer services, and travel
agency services.
Goods and Services2
50.6% Purchased electricity
and steam
87% Ingredients
Farm – 70%
43.0% Natural gas
Land Use Change – 20%
6.4% Other sources Processing – 10%
Including other fuels, 7.8% Packaging
owned transportation
and refrigerants 5.2% Other goods
and services3
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 29
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Manufacturing Water Conservation
Part of our Citizenship Strategy includes actively Conagra is focused on being a good water steward
addressing water risk that may impact our operations. in our production facilities. Overall, in fiscal year
Our water resource strategy guides how we actively WATER RISK BY CONAGRA PRODUCTION FACILITY LOCATION 2023, our production facilities reduced their water
manage water resources across our value chain, AND PERCENT OF TOTAL WATER USE intensity by nearly 6% compared to the prior year.
taking into account both water use and water quality. Potential water savings are identified as part of our
We analyze our water risk by using the WRI’s Aqueduct tool, which uses peer reviewed methods and the
Nearly 55% of our operational water comes from areas capital investment process and a key performance
best-available data to map water risk globally. WRI water risk levels are determined using 12 different
on the lower end of the World Resources Institute indicator for water treatment and sanitation vendors.
indicators including flood occurrence, access to water supplies, ecosystem impacts and other metrics.
(WRI) water risk spectrum. WRI is a global nonprofit In addition, we have prioritized water reduction
organization that works with leaders in government, efforts, such as facility enhancements, behavioral
business and civil society to research, design and Low Risk: Med-High Risk: Extremely High Risk: improvements and enhanced controls at those
carry out practical solutions that simultaneously 13 Locations; 10 Locations; 6 Locations; facilities located in high-risk areas with meaningful
improve people’s lives and support nature.1 44.2% of Water Use 11.9% of Water Use 20.5% of Water Use water usage. As a result of these efforts, in fiscal
year 2023, Conagra’s Oakdale facility achieved a
More information on water risk management practices • Archbold, Ohio • Centralia, Ill. • Aurora, Colo.
7.8% absolute water reduction compared to fiscal
is included in our 2023 CDP Water Security response. • Boisbriand, Qué • Fennville, Mich. • Denver, Colo.
year 2022. In addition, at our Irapuato facility, the
• Brookston, Ind. • Hamburg, Iowa • Fayetteville, Ark.
team has proactively addressed existing water
• Council Bluffs, Iowa • Imlay City, Mich. • Irapuato, Mex.
leaks in underground pipelines and installed control
• Dresden, Ont. • Indianapolis, Ind • Maple Grove, Minn.
devices to help manage water usage more efficiently.
WATER WITHDRAWAL SOURCE • Fort Madison, Iowa (two locations) • Oakdale, Calif.
Additional water and steam leaks have also remedied
& WASTEWATER DISCHARGE • Lakeview, Iowa • Kent, Wash. across the production area. As a result, water use
• Louisville, Ky. • Macomb, Ill.
DESTINATION2 per pound (gal/lbs.) in calendar year 2023 decreased
• Macon, Mo. • Saint Elmo, Ill.
approximately 27% as compared the prior year 2022,
Source of • Marshall, Mo. • Troy, Ohio saving 31 million gallons of water. These initiatives
• Quincy, Mass
Water Used: also contributed to a 10.8% absolute water reduction
High Risk:
• Richmond, B.C.
at our Irapuato production facility for fiscal 2023
61.8% Public supply • Russellville, Ark. 9 Locations; compared to the prior year.
12.3% of Water Use
35.3% Well water Low-Medium Risk:
In fiscal year 2023, Conagra’s facility in
• Beaver Dam, Wis.
2.9% Surface water 4 Locations; Imlay City, in partnership with a third-party
• Darien, Wis.
10.8% of Water Use assessor, analyzed and optimized its
• Hagerstown, Md.
steam traps to reduce steam and water
Destination of • Lincoln, Neb. • Humboldt, Tenn. loss within its operations, which also
• Mankato, Minn. • Jackson, Tenn.
Water Discharged: decreased carbon emissions in the
• Milton, Pa. • Menomonie, Wis.
process. The analysis identified several
• Waterloo, Iowa • Reno, Nev.
50.3% Publicly-owned steam traps with project opportunities
treatment facility • Rensselaer, Ind.
for improved efficiency. After the
• Waseca, Minn.
25.5% Direct upgrades were complete, the third-party
assessor determined that about 139,000
24.2% Land/irrigation
gallons of water would be saved each
year, and the carbon emission reductions
associated with these upgrades were
estimated to be about 78 tons per year.
1 In fiscal year 2024, WRI revised the region assignments for its water risk analysis. As a result, a greater number of Conagra Brands facilities are now
categorized at the higher end of the water risk spectrum. This shift is due to changes in WRI’s assessment criteria, not to any changes in our operations.
2Includes all Conagra Brands production facilities.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 30
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Reducing Manufacturing Waste1
We are working systematically and strategically FY23 Solid Waste Characterization America Recycles Day
to reduce the amount of waste we generate in
In celebrating America Recycles Day on November
our facilities to capture the maximum value of the
85.2% Waste materials 15, 2023, Conagra honored 21 Zero Waste Champion
raw ingredients and other materials we buy. For
diverted from landfill production facilities for diverting more than 90%
unavoidable waste, we work hard to keep it out of & incineration
of waste materials from landfill and incineration
landfills. In fiscal year 2023, 85% of the solid waste
14.8% Waste sent through proper waste separation, recycling and other
generated at all Conagra’s facilities was diverted
to landfills innovative waste-reduction measures. This year’s
to more beneficial uses through recycling, product
& incinerated honorees include frozen, snacks, international and
donations to bolster food supplies at area food banks,
grocery production facilities.
use as animal feed, or land applications to improve
soil quality. In our corporate locations, we promote waste
reduction at our offices by making composting
In 2023, our Oakdale production facility achieved
and recycling available and providing employee
TRUE Zero Waste certification status, the second Of the diverted materials, 97.9%
education. Both our Chicago and Omaha corporate
Conagra facility to receive this certification. consisted of organic materials
offices offer compost and recycling options to their
Administered by Green Business Certification Inc.
(83.4% of all solid waste from our facilities) employees as an alternative to landfill disposal. For
(GBCI), the TRUE Zero Waste certification system is a
America Recycles Day, Chicago employees led a
complement to LEED and other green rating systems. • Wastewater Sludge: 33.0%
demonstration to educate other Chicago-based
TRUE (Total Resource Use and Efficiency) strives to • Food – Animal Feed: 32.0%
employees about their waste and ways to reduce what
change the way materials flow through society so • Cardboard: 6.1%
ends up going to landfill.
that products are reused and diverted from landfill, • Food – Composting: 5.8%
incineration (waste-to-energy), and the environment. • Wood (Pallets): 3.6%
As one of the requirements of the certification, our • Mixed Organics: 0.8%
1 Includes all Conagra Brands production facilities
TRUE Zero Waste certified facilities must each • Mixed Paper: 0.7%
maintain an average annual waste diversion rate • Food – Oil/Grease: 0.6%
of at least 90% and uphold other GBCI standards • Food – Donation: 0.4%
of environmental stewardship. • Food – Energy Recovery: 0.3%
The remainder of the diverted
materials, 2.1%, consisted of
inorganic materials
(1.8% of all solid waste from our facilities)
• Mixed Plastics: 0.8%
• Mixed Recyclables: 0.5%
• Mixed Metals: 0.4%
• Aluminum: 0.1%
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 31
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Corporate Ethics 33
Employee Health & Safety 33
Community Investment
and Foundation 34
Conagra Brands Total Giving
Fiscal Year 2023 35
Feeding America 36
Nourish Our Community 38
Shine The Light On Hunger 40
Scholarships 40
Employee Giving 41
Month of Service 41
Diversity & Inclusion 42
Stronger
How We Work to Foster
an Inclusive Workplace 44
Communities Employee Resource Groups 46
Community Engagement 47
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 32
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Corporate Ethics Employee Health & Safety
The Conagra Brands Code of Conduct provides Ethical Employment Practices As we strive to minimize workplace injuries, we are We use the United Problem Solving technique, which
guideposts for how our employees, officers and focused on maintaining a strong culture of safety in includes incident scene management, prevention
Conagra prohibits the use of any forced or compulsory
directors must conduct themselves when representing which all employees commit to protecting themselves of further losses, data collection, interviewing
labor, including human trafficking and slavery, in our
Conagra both inside and outside the workplace. and their colleagues. witnesses, conduct structured root cause analysis and
operations. Any work performed by an employee or
All new employees are required to take a course dissemination of lessons learned to all facilities.
other individual that is involuntary and/or performed Our health and safety team audits each of our facilities
on our Code of Conduct as part of their onboarding
under the threat of physical harm or other penalty every two years to review compliance with Conagra’s During fiscal year 2023, our Occupational Safety &
process. We also conduct annual training courses to
is strictly prohibited. We also comply with state and Safety Management System. This audit includes Health Administration (OSHA) Incident Rate (IR) was
make employees aware of our expectations and their
federal labor and employment laws through our hiring examination of leadership, accountability, defect loss 1.75 incidents per 100 full-time workers, as compared
obligations under the Code of Conduct. We expect
policies and human resources practices. Our standard identification processes, safety regulation adherence to 1.67 incidents per 100 full-time workers in fiscal
contractors, consultants, trainees, temps/agency
entry-level wage is equal to— and often exceeds—the and compliance with corporate policies. The team year 2022 and 2.00 incidents per 100 full-time workers
workers, interns and volunteers to adhere to the
highest applicable minimum wage in locales in which documents the audit results and tracks corrective in fiscal year 2021. In fiscal year 2023, there were
ethical standards set forth in our Code of Conduct.
we operate. actions to create accountability for providing a safe no incidents of fatalities involving Conagra Brands
Other service providers and suppliers must act
work environment. Any workplace injury, illness, employees. We compare our incident rate to that of
ethically and consistently with our Supplier Code Conagra’s Human Rights Policy outlines the core
or fatality (an “incident”), including any “near miss” the average for companies in the food manufacturing
of Conduct and other contract requirements. standards and expectations we have for Conagra
or an incident with the potential to have resulted in sector, as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
employees, candidates for employment, and all other
Our Board of Directors oversees our Code of workplace injury, illness or fatality, requires a thorough In each of the last three fiscal years, our incident rate
workers over which we have management control with
Conduct and our ethics and compliance program. investigation to identify and address the root cause. has been below the industry average.
respect to the fair treatment of our employees in all
Our ethics and compliance program is administered
of our operations. This policy applies to all locations
by the company’s Legal and Government Affairs
and situations where Conagra conducts business and
department, which regularly reports to the Audit/
prohibits the use of forced labor, bonded labor, child
Finance Committee of our Board regarding the overall
labor, human trafficking and slavery-like practices.
program, training and metrics including providing
Our Code of Conduct for Suppliers sets similar human
reports on hotline complaints, investigations and
rights standards for our suppliers.
outcomes at every regularly scheduled meeting. In
addition, we require that our chief executive officer, To the extent any employee objects to their terms and/
chief financial officer and controller comply with a or conditions of employment or sees anything else of
separate Code of Ethics for Senior Corporate Officers. concern related to a suspected violation of Conagra’s
Code of Conduct or Human Rights Policy, they may
raise a complaint to their manager, a member of the
Legal and Government Affairs department and/or
through our third-party ethics hotline, 866.567.CODE
(2633), which enables anonymous reporting. Conagra
Brands takes seriously all reports made through
our ethics hotline and all reports are investigated
appropriately. We have a strict non-retaliation policy
for all reports made in good faith through all reporting
channels, including our ethics hotline.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 33
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Community Investment Conagra focuses its philanthropic support on addressing the issue
of food insecurity through the following efforts:
and Foundation
FOOD ACCESS HEALTHY NUTRITION HEALTHY URBAN
Conagra Brands and its employees strive to provide COOKING EDUCATION AND ACTIVE AGRICULTURE
Enabling access to healthy,
consumers everywhere with consistent access to
nutritious food on a LIFESTYLES
healthy food to nourish themselves and their families. Introducing people to Teaching people to make Increasing access to fresh
dependable basis, whether
This external focus extends to our community new recipes or innovative healthy choices when Encouraging people to produce grown locally
at food pantries, mobile
involvement efforts as we concentrate attention cooking methods to help planning, shopping, enjoy the activities and in communities often
pop-ups, congregate meal
and resources to addressing the significant issue them get excited about cooking and dining out. foods that help fuel busy viewed as food deserts, to
sites, or more.
of food insecurity in our society. Conagra works preparing wholesome modern lives. empower communities and
towards reducing food insecurity by leveraging cash flavorful meals. to spark interest in healthy,
contributions, product donations and employee farm-to-fork eating.
actions to positively impact the communities
where we do business. We purposefully cultivate
connections with exceptional nonprofits that run
impactful programs that serve local communities,
many of which are in historically disinvested
neighborhoods. Through our grantmaking efforts,
we support inclusive programs focused on providing
local hunger relief organizations with vital resources
that uplift, inspire and improve the lives of people
throughout the community.
Conagra has been recognized as one of The Civic 50
honorees for the fifth consecutive year, reaffirming,
acknowledging and celebrating our commitment to
community engagement and social responsibility.
The Civic 50 acknowledges the 50 most community-
minded companies in the nation. The Civic 50, an
initiative by Point of Light, which is the world’s largest
organization dedicated to volunteer service, sets a
national standard for superior corporate citizenship
and showcases how companies intentionally invest
their time, skills and resources to positively impact
their communities.
We work with nonprofit partners nationwide to support
fully inclusive programs that provide people of all
backgrounds and ages with direct access to food
and additional supportive services for themselves
and their families.
This report highlights some of the key initiatives
and nonprofit partners we support to enable
the communities where we do business to have
consistent access to healthy and nutritious food.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 34
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Conagra Brands Total Giving Fiscal Year 2023
More than $42 Million of Total Corporate
and Foundation Giving in Cash and In-kind
More than $700,000 Total Giving by Employees
More than 800 Grants Awarded
More than 11,000 Volunteer Hours
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 35
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Feeding America
Conagra Brands Foundation is pleased to continue its research initiatives. The Map the Meal Gap research During fiscal year 2023, Conagra donated
partnership with Feeding America in the fight against provides localized food insecurity estimates for
more than 30,000,000 pounds of food to
hunger. Feeding America is Conagra’s national partner specific racial and ethnic groups (Black, Latino, and
Feeding America and its network of food
in addressing food insecurity in areas where Conagra White, non-Hispanic). According to the 2023 Map the
facilities and offices are present. The partnership Meal Gap, “Food insecurity among Black or Latino banks, which is equivalent to more than
between the Conagra Brands Foundation and Feeding individuals is higher than white individuals in more
25,000,000 meals.
America encompasses various initiatives, such as than 9 out of 10 counties.” The research also provides
supporting national research to enhance our collective insight into child hunger. The 2023 Map the Meal Gap
understanding of the issue of hunger and its impact on shows, “Child food insecurity rates are higher than
diverse populations. Additionally, it involves capacity- 40% in some counties.” Additionally, the research
building efforts that increase each food bank’s documents local meal expenses and deficits in food
efforts to better serve their communities. Through budgets by utilizing data on food prices, state and
our partnership, we are committed to facilitating county sales taxes applied to groceries and national
effective outreach to the diverse individuals and survey information collected by the Census Bureau.
communities disproportionately affected by hunger.
For the second consecutive year, the Foundation
Furthermore, we aim to expand our efforts to raise
helped support the Equity Visiting Research Scholar,
genuine awareness and visibility for the critical issue
Dr. Angela Odoms-Young. Dr. Odoms-Young
of food insecurity. Conagra also contributes product
provides guidance to Feeding America food banks on
donations distributed across the Feeding America
implementing community-based solutions for enabling
network of more than 200 food banks.
fair access to the food system while emphasizing the
In fiscal year 2023, Conagra Brands Foundation integration of equity consideration into assessment
made capacity-building grants to 28 Feeding America metrics. Through her various involvements,
partner food banks that serve the communities where Dr. Odoms-Young serves as an impactful leader,
Conagra employees live and work. The grants enabled mentor, and researcher, utilizing her expertise to
food banks to prioritize efforts aimed at addressing assist food banks with essential tools and educational
and eliminating social, structural and systemic resources to enhance their understanding of food
inequities that contribute to food insecurity for insecurity and the affected populations.
individuals who have been historically disadvantaged
Every September, Conagra partners with
and adversely impacted by racial inequities. Grantees
Feeding America to participate in its nationwide
utilized their funding in many different areas including
Hunger Action Month campaign. This advocacy
obtaining and distribution culturally appropriate food,
campaign is designed to educate and mobilize the
providing culturally affirming programs, acquiring
public to act on the issue of hunger. At Conagra,
supplies, leading trainings and hosting mobile
we intentionally educate our employees on the
pantry programs.
issue of food insecurity within their communities
The Conagra Brands Foundation has been a and encourage them to take individual action to
consistent funder of Feeding America's Map the Meal combat the issue of hunger and food insecurity by
Gap project since 2012, helping to make it one of the volunteering at hunger relief agencies.
organization's most substantial and frequently cited
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 36
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Feeding America: Select highlights from the 28 capacity grants distributed across the nation
FEEDING AMERICA THE FOOD BANK FEEDING AMERICA SHARED HARVEST
EASTERN WISCONSIN OF IOWA WEST MICHIGAN FOODBANK, OHIO
The grant supported the food bank’s Food Leader The Food Bank of Iowa established a partnership Funding from Conagra helped purchase a semi- This grant provided support for monthly mass
Lab, an in-person program that brings together with a local farm, which grew different types of trailer and liftgate to support the food bank’s work drive-thru food distributions and weekend
local residents, offering them opportunities produce the food bank cannot typically obtain in rural communities. This distribution method backpack programs, providing essential food
in advocacy, policy, communications and through its regular purchasing channels. Last fall, brings food directly to supplies to low-income, at-risk individuals in
leadership to address hunger in their community. the farm harvested African Eggplant. communities with a high Darke County, OH, a rural community with
Participants in the program complete capstone need for food support so 6,190 individuals
projects, enabling them to connect and neighbors do not need to experiencing food
collaborate with individuals who share their travel far to access food. insecurity
passion, thereby enhancing the community’s
collective ability to effectively combat hunger.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 37
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Nourish Our
Select highlights of this year’s grant recipients and projects include:
Community
Every Hunger Action Month Conagra Brands
Foundation announces the recipients of its annual
“Nourish Our Community” grant program. The success
of this program relies heavily on the dedication
and involvement of our employees throughout the
business. Conagra employees nominate nonprofits
in their local communities to be considered for
grants in areas addressing food insecurity, nutritional
knowledge, healthy and active lifestyle or urban
agriculture. After the applications are extended to
and completed by the nonprofits, a cross-functional
committee of Conagra employees reviews the
applications and meets as a collective group to make
the final decisions on which community initiatives
will be awarded funding and determine the specific
grant amounts. This year’s grant recipients include
organizations working to provide healthy food and
educational services to children, individuals who are
unstably housed, students, veterans, seniors, low-
income individuals and individuals with developmental
disabilities. These grants showcase some of the
incredible programs and services that are provided by
dedicated nonprofits in our communities and reinforce
Conagra’s strong commitment to providing access to
nutritious foods for individuals throughout the country.
ALPHA COMMUNITY GROW JACKSON LIFE STYLES
CENTER (OHIO) (MICH.) (ARK.)
Project: AlphaMeals Project: Community Gardening Project: Healthy Cooking
and Meal Planning
The Alpha Community Center prepares and Grow Jackson will expand its main garden by
In the fall of 2022,
serves meals to individuals who are experiencing 50%, which will allow the organization to produce The Adult Development and Food Program
we awarded 23 grants homelessness. The nutritious meals offered help and distribute more fresh and nutritious produce assists individuals with developmental disabilities
to alleviate the stress and worry of managing to the Jackson community. Grow Jackson in improving their kitchen skills, budgeting
totaling $350,000
limited financial resources, as individuals no expects to increase its production capacity by abilities, shopping techniques, and preparation of
longer need to worry about cutting costs in other 5,000 pounds by expanding the garden. The healthier meals. The program aims to increase the
to well-established
areas in order to have food to eat. expansion will also allow for more volunteers to participants’ independence and overall health.
nonprofits across the get involved, fostering stronger connections and
authentic relationships with the community.
United States.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 38
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Select highlights of this year’s grant recipients and projects include:
MARIE WILKINSON FOOD NOURISH MEALS THE TEEN CENTER WEST SEATTLE
PANTRY (ILL.) ON WHEELS (COLO.) (NEB.) FOOD BANK (WASH.)
Project: Older Adult Huger Relief Nutrition Project: Nutritious Meal Delivery Project: After-School Cooking Program Project: Food Purchase
and Healthy U Education
Nourish Meal on Wheels provides hot meals to The Teen Center provides intentional afterschool West Seattle Food Bank distributes more than
Marie Wilkinson Food Pantry supports hunger seniors who are unable to leave their homes. and summertime programming to youth in two million pounds of food annually to families,
relief through its two community food pantries Nourish Meals on Wheels also strives to Omaha. The After-School Cooking Program seniors and children living in five underserved
serving Kane, Kendall, DuPage, Will and DeKalb address seniors’ social and emotional needs by offers students the opportunity to learn about communities of West Seattle. West Seattle Food
Counties. To increase the capacity of its pantry, engaging in meaningful personal interactions and cooking and nutrition by participating in preparing Bank provides grocery home delivery services
the Marie Wilkinson Food Pantry acquired a power conducting wellness checks. Nourish Meals on nutritious meals and snacks. making it easier for local residents to obtain food.
lift truck. This truck will be used for transporting Wheels delivers and produces 8,000 meals per
pallets of food and produce for senior citizens. month for seniors through the Nutritious Meal
Delivery Program, providing meals to those who
may not otherwise have access to meals.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 39
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Shine The Light Scholarships
“ Sixteen years of serving children,
families, seniors, and veterans
On Hunger
in the Heartland through this The Conagra Brands Foundation offers an annual
campaign is an incredible Scholarship Program to support the education of
Shine the Light on Hunger is a community-wide call milestone. Shine the Light on children of Conagra employees who are dedicated
to action to advocate, educate, engage volunteers, Hunger continues to support our to pursuing their studies in their chosen field and
collect food and raise funds to support food access succeeding in college, university or vocational-
neighbors who struggle with
programs in Nebraska and Western Iowa, where we technical schools. This year, Conagra awarded
food insecurity.”
have approximately 1,200 employees. The Conagra scholarships to 38 students, reaching children
Brands Foundation is proud to continue leading of our employees located in a variety of
– Brian Barks, President and CEO
Shine the Light on Hunger for the 16th consecutive geographical locations.
of Food Bank for the Heartland
year, particularly during a time when there is still a
THIS YEAR AWARDS WERE
high need for reliable access to nutritious food. In
fiscal year 2023, our goal was to raise the equivalent DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS:
of three million meals. To meet our goals, we
collaborated with various local partners, including “ Shine the Light on Hunger 28
10 different neighborhood cultural institutions and amplifies the compassion and FACILITY/SALES
Baker’s Supermarkets across Omaha. Additionally, generosity of this incredible
the Conagra Brands Foundation continued its annual 7
community and demonstrates
OMAHA
commitment to match donations dollar-for-dollar,
the power of our collective
up to $100,000.
efforts to do so much good 2
for people we may never MEXICO
personally know.”
1
CANADA
– Rahul Sualy, Senior Director of
Business Services for Conagra Brands
Upon receiving scholarships, recipients expressed
Thanks to the incredible
gratitude in handwritten letters. The quotes below
generosity of so many demonstrate the scholarships’ impact on
recipients’ lives.
people in the community,
we raised the equivalent “ This scholarship is not only helping
me achieve my education as a first-
of over 12.4 million meals,
generation student but also helping
surpassing the goal by
me do so at my dream school.”
413% and surpassing last
“ Without this scholarship, I truly
year’s total by over three
would not be able to continue my
million meals.
college education.”
“ My dad is fortunate to work for a
company that places a value on
education.”
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 40
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Employee Giving Month of Service
Conagra employees embody the spirit of service by
generously sharing their time and talents to support More than 1,500 Individual
organizations that hold a special place in their hearts
and local communities. Throughout fiscal year 2023, Employees Participated
Conagra employees volunteered more than 11,000
hours at more than 190 unique nonprofit agencies that
serve the communities where we do business.
More than 5,000 Volunteer
Our annual “Month of Service” initiative inspires
employees to volunteer and give back to our local
Hours Completed
communities. This program provides employees
from all our facilities with a chance to take a day off
from work and volunteer, making a positive impact
and a difference in their own backyard. For the last
two years, we have extended Month of Service to More than 85 Unique
include both April and May, allowing more employees
to participate in small-group volunteer projects. This Nonprofit Organizations
provides an excellent opportunity for employees to
learn about the capabilities of our nonprofit partners,
and in turn, increases the impact of our efforts on
the community. Conagra employees responded More than 125
enthusiastically to the call to action. Employees began
reaching out to various nonprofit organizations to Volunteer Projects
schedule service projects that aimed to tackle food
insecurity, improve nutrition and increase access to
healthy foods. Our projects included repacking fresh
fruits and vegetables at community pantries, helping
More than 350,000 lbs.
to plant and maintain community gardens, and more.
Together, we generated the equivalent of more than
of Food Packed and Sorted
315,000 meals for people facing food insecurity across
the United States, Canada, Mexico and India.
20 States and 3 International
Locations (Canada, Mexico, India)
More than 315,000 Meals
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 41
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Diversity & Inclusion
We value the power of individual experiences,
viewpoints, talents and opinions. We believe this
rich diversity of identities sparks innovation and fuels
our creative spirit. Diversity extends beyond the
boundaries of race, gender, age, sexual orientation
and disability. At Conagra, we celebrate individuality
and foster an environment where our employees can
make an impact and reach their potential.
Our commitment to cultivating an inclusive culture
is guided by five key behaviors: genuine listening,
mutual respect, healthy debate, compromise and
civility. Conagra strives to create an environment
that celebrates authenticity and where everyone
feels valued. It’s this dynamic environment that
propels our business forward.
Our dedication to cultivating an inclusive workplace
has proven instrumental in attracting, nurturing and
retaining talent from a wide array of backgrounds.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 42
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Conagra Recipe
Data for Employee by Gender, Employee by Generation and Leadership by Gender represents all Conagra Brands employees as of May 28, 2023
(the end of fiscal 2023). Data for Employee by Race and Ethnicity and Leadership by Race and Ethnicity represents U.S.-based employees only.
for Inclusion:
All gender, race and ethnicity data is based on self-identification1
1 EEO-1 data for calendar year 2022 is available here
GENUINE LISTENING
We make a conscious effort to learn new things by
listening to what others have to say and seeking to Employee by Gender Employee by Employee
understand how others think and feel. Although we Race and Ethnicity by Generation
may not always agree, we respect each other and
60% Male 54% White 37% Generation X
acknowledge the power of different points of view.
(1965–1980)
40% Female 25% Hispanic or Latino
MUTUAL RESPECT 35% Millennials
<1% Undeclared 12% Black or
(1981–1996)
African American
We cultivate a workplace where people trust and
15% Baby Boomers
respect one another, where no one feels they need to 5% Asian
(1946–1964)
bend out of shape to fit in. We always assume positive
1% Native Hawaiian or
intent and recognize that individuals have valuable 13% Generation Z
Other Pacific Islander
contributions to make. (1997 and onwards)
1% Two or More Races
<1% Silent Generation
HEALTHY DEBATE <2% Undeclared (1928–1945)
We actively encourage new ideas and ask
questions to challenge the status quo. We
accept that sometimes, the best results
Leadership by Gender Leadership by Board
evolve from rigorous debate, a bit of
Race and Ethnicity
tension and a bit of discomfort.
Management Level Management Level By Gender
COMPROMISE
64% Male 85% White 64% Male
We stay focused on our goals
36% Female 13% People of Color 36% Female
and are collectively decisive
2% Undeclared
once the input has been heard Middle-Manager Level By Race and Ethnicity
and considered.
59% Male Middle-Manager Level 64% White
CIVILITY 41% Female 83% White 36% People of Color
16% People of Color
We disagree with respect. 2 Female (1 LGBTQ+) committee Chairs
We seek common ground 1% Undeclared 73% diverse1 Board
as a starting point for
1Diversity based on gender, race and ethnicity
dialogue about differences,
listening past one’s
preconceptions and teaching
others to do the same.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 43
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
How We Foster an Inclusive Workplace
Our long-term strategy for diversity and inclusion is anchored in three fundamental pillars: recruitment, advocacy and
development. Throughout fiscal year 2023, we remained steadfast in expanding and implementing comprehensive
plans to bolster our D&I initiatives.
Recruitment Advocacy
Conagra recognizes that our employees’ unique In an effort to create community connections, as
experiences are the building blocks for our inclusive well as strengthen and sustain relationships with
culture and we have made strides to build a diverse individuals from underrepresented backgrounds,
pipeline of early talent and experienced hires. we partner with community and social justice
Through strategic partnerships, we have been able organizations, fund scholarships, cultivate
to make representation gains across various relationships with a diverse group of suppliers
dimensions of diversity. and build awareness internally and externally.
Early Talent and Experienced Hires MCKINSEY CONNECTED
LEADERS ACADEMY
• In fiscal year 2023, we partnered with Cameron-
Brooks and DOD SkillBridge to develop and Through a partnership with the McKinsey Connected
activate strategies to recruit Veteran talent, Leaders Academy, whose mission is to improve
offer training and internships and help provide a diversity of talent pipelines by investing in future
smooth transition for military professionals into leaders, more than 120 Conagra employees engaged
the civilian workforce. Conagra is expanding in a professional development experiences across
its recruiting efforts beyond veterans to include three distinct programs:
military spouses in collaboration with the Military
• Leadership Essentials: Aimed at aspiring
Spouse Employment Partnership. In addition, we
leaders, this program enhances business acumen,
launched a learning program and support network
leadership skills and self-management and offers
dedicated to empowering veterans as they
a strong peer and expert network.
transition into civilian work life.
• Management Accelerator: This program, for mid-
• We continued to make connections with students
career managers aiming for senior roles, cultivates
from diverse cultural backgrounds through
leadership traits, improves problem-solving skills
sponsorships and engagement at conferences
and aids in strategic planning and execution.
such as the National Association of Colleges
and Employers Historically Black Colleges and
• Executive Leadership Program: This program
Universities (HBCU) Summit, the National Society
focuses on building executive leadership
of Black Engineers, Out for Undergrad to attract
capabilities needed to drive transformational
LGBTQ+ talent and the Science & Engineering Fair
change within organizations and enhance the
at Texas A&M University, a designated Hispanic-
network that distinguishes successful executives
Serving Institution.
to help them achieve the next critical step in
their careers.
• Through a partnership with the Thurgood Marshall
Leadership Institute, Conagra employees made
connections with job seekers, expanding our
recruiting efforts to students from HBCUs.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 44
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
We have expanded each of these programs to be full- and positively influence those around you.
year programs, which include four months of training To date, nearly 3,500 employees have engaged
facilitated by McKinsey, followed by eight months with the training.
of practical sessions led by Conagra, including our
In addition, we launched a new Intern Manager
Executive Leadership team. This new structure allows
training program to support leaders in managing Gen
for a comprehensive learning experience connected to
Z talent, emphasizing our inclusive behaviors, building
our talent strategy.
empathy and fostering meaningful conversations.
WOMEN IN SUPPLY CHAIN
Functional D&I Strategies
(WISC)
Functional D&I strategies link Conagra’s long-term
The Women in Supply Chain (WISC) group, formed
vision and help Conagra foster an inclusive workplace.
in January of 2023, consists of approximately 120
Our Research and Development (R&D) team launched
members and aims to support D&I efforts by providing
an early identification program to identify early talent
networking opportunities and identifying development
for mentorship and internship opportunities. The
needs for women, particularly in manufacturing
“Future Foodies” program was a three-day immersive
roles. Key initiatives in fiscal year 2023 included
experience designed to educate students about
two Leadership Circles hosted by Vice Presidents
our business and potential careers in R&D. The first
at Conagra, a group Mentorship Program involving
day provided an overview of our business and R&D
40 women and four mentors, a networking event in
function, including building tours and a hands-on
Chicago, and a monthly virtual book club with around
Healthy Choice® Power Bowl® building activity. The
50 registered participants.
second day focused on corporate culture, with a
spotlight on D&I and an Employee Resource Group
SCHOLARSHIPS
(ERG) panel followed by a plant tour in Council Bluffs
We’ve continued our partnerships with the and a culinary tour in our Omaha corporate office.
Thurgood Marshall College Fund and the Hispanic The final day offered practical advice on interviewing
Scholarship Fund which have enabled us to distribute and resume building, culminating in a development
scholarships, offer mentorship and provide resources experience at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln titled
for career preparation. Our commitment to fostering “Leading with the Power of Positivity.”
community impact remains strong as Conagra
employees actively engaged with students, enhancing Advancement
their career prospects post-college. Since 2021, we
Pay equity is a core part of our D&I Strategy. Our
have proudly awarded 66 scholarships in collaboration
compensation structure and benefits package enable
with these partners.
us to recruit and retain talent, and compensate our
employees based on their background, experience
Development
and performance, without regard to gender, race or
From onboarding to career advancement, our ethnicity. We recognize that pay equity is critical to our
processes are designed to support all of our company’s success in these areas and have allocated
employees and strengthen our inclusive culture. resources to our analysis of employee pay.
We have continued to design processes to develop
our employees’ skills and advance their careers.
In fiscal year 2023, we furthered our D&I learning
journey by introducing an emotional intelligence
course, which examined how comprehending and
controlling emotions can enhance personal growth
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 45
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Employee Resource Groups
Our eight Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) play a pivotal role in fostering a diverse and inclusive culture at Conagra and in fiscal year 2023 they engaged thousands of
employees in over 100 events. These ERGs amplified employee voices, facilitated learning on cultural and business topics, and supported personal growth, professional
development and community impact. They collaborated with the Talent Acquisition team and the Conagra Brands Foundation to increase Conagra’s visibility in diverse
communities, enhance employee development programs and maximize the impact of community work and charitable giving.
Fiscal Year 2023 Highlights LGBTQ + ALLY ERG
Our LGBTQ + Ally ERG participated in the Out for
ASIAN ERG
Undergrad conferences, which aims to help LGBTQ+
Our Asian ERG cooked up excitement throughout students develop as leaders and individuals. In
fiscal year 2023, starting with Chef Bill Kim’s visit. addition, the ERG represented Conagra at the Omaha
He not only demonstrated a traditional Korean dish Heartland Pride event, where employees participated
but also provided a rich history of Korean food in the in the parade and festival, demonstrating Conagra’s WOMEN’S ERG
United States, engaging over 100 participants across support for the LGBTQ+ community while celebrating Our Women’s ERG-led events across Omaha and
Chicago and Omaha. Conagra’s own Chef Tim took our inclusive culture. Chicago to promote professional development
center stage during the Lunar New Year Celebration,
opportunities including a leadership discussion
showcasing how to create a traditional dish using
with Conagra Brands Board member and CEO of
Conagra products. Our ERG members also brought to
Abercrombie & Fitch, Fran Horowitz; panels on
life celebrations for Diwali and Holi, sharing their family DISABILITY + ALLY ERG
mentorship and leadership growth; and a “Skills
stories and traditions.
Our Disability + Ally ERG promoted inclusivity and for Success” discussion in collaboration with
mental health awareness. They advanced broader the Disability + Ally ERG. In addition, the group
understanding of Conagra’s accommodations process facilitated events supporting individuals experiencing
and provided resources to make our technology homelessness, packing 50 meals, and created
platforms more accessible for everyone. blankets and craft kits for children in local hospitals.
They also prepared over 400 school supply-filled
bookbags with Cradles to Crayons and sorted
LATINX ERG
donated clothing, setting up many children for
Our Latinx ERG kicked off the year with the Siembra success in their new school year.
ERG Internship, partnering with the Latino Center
VETERANS ERG
of the Midlands for a Career Day that introduced YOUNG PROFESSIONALS ERG
students to potential career opportunities at Conagra. Our Veterans ERG focused on advocacy and
The Latinx mentoring program, a flagship initiative, community support during fiscal year 2023. They Throughout fiscal 2023, our Young Professionals
continued to foster professional development participated in the Chicago Standdown event, a ERG actively promoted professional growth and
by pairing employees with mentors from various collaborative effort with the Department of Veterans collaboration. They hosted several events with leaders
BLACK ERG
departments across the company. During Hispanic Affairs, the Red Cross and other organizations, aimed across Conagra, providing members with valuable
During Black History Month, they highlighted the Heritage Month, they hosted a series of events that at providing care, support and resources to homeless networking opportunities and partnered with a leading
importance of HBCUs through a virtual presentation, celebrated Latinx culture and promoted inclusivity, veterans and their families. In addition, they played a financial services firm to conduct a financial wellness
featuring Dr. Paquita Yarborough from the Thurgood including a Latino food series, a lunch and learn trivia significant role in distributing food and clothing items session tailored specifically for young professionals.
Marshall College Fund and our own HBCU alumni. challenge, and a salsa cooking competition. in the communities where we live and work. As one of Conagra’s largest ERGs, the Young
They shared their experiences and discussed Professionals also demonstrated their commitment to
Conagra’s HBCU recruitment partnerships. building an inclusive culture by partnering with other
Additionally, they kicked off the month by volunteering ERGs to share in unique cultural experiences.
for Social Works’ Warmest Winter initiative in
Chicago, providing support for those experiencing
homelessness during the winter months.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 46
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Community Engagement
To have greater impact, we need to look beyond Inclusive Marketing 2023 HONORS & RECOGNITIONS
Conagra. Our community partners play a vital role in
We believe in promoting our brands in a way that We take great pride in being acknowledged for our efforts in promoting D&I at Conagra Brands.
helping us support underrepresented communities
reflects the needs and attitudes of our diverse
through financial contributions and volunteerism. As we continue to make progress in our cultural journey, our dedication to attracting, championing and
consumers. We incorporate inclusivity throughout
nurturing talent across various dimensions of diversity remains our priority. We are committed to continuing
our comprehensive marketing efforts to better reflect
United for Change to foster an environment where every voice matters, where we learn from our differences, celebrate our
the experiences of culturally-diverse communities.
accomplishments and cultivate a culture of belonging.
On Ready Set Eat,® Conagra’s website for culinary
inspiration, trends and recipes, our ERGs collaborate
with our culinary team to offer consumers culturally- Military Times
relevant recipes that represent their unique
Recognized on the 2023 Best for Vets: Employers
backgrounds. Across our brands’ social media
list by Military Times for demonstrating ongoing
channels, content is fueled by diverse food cultures,
support for veterans and active-duty service
content makers and ongoing engagement with
members, as well as their families.
underrepresented communities.
United for Change is Conagra’s annual employee
The Disability
fundraising campaign. Conagra employees are Supplier Diversity
Equality Index® (DEI)
encouraged to consider contributing to the United
At Conagra Brands, we recognize that partnering with
Way, United Way member agencies, or other non- Recognized as one of the "Best Places to Work
a diverse group of suppliers enhances the value we
profit organizations that align with the diverse interests
bring to our customers, consumers and communities.
for Disability Inclusion" by The Disability Equality
P
OINTSOFLIGHT
of Conagra employees. During the campaign, Conagra Index, which measures disability workplace
highlights the work of nonprofit organizations that We partner with a broad range of suppliers who are inclusion against competitors.
dedicate significant resources to tackling poverty, ready to innovate and grow with us, including, but
food insecurity, and social injustices, promoting not limited to, small, disadvantaged and HUBZone, The Civic 50
fairness and opportunity, and protecting civil rights in minority-owned, women-owned, veteran- and
the United States. The Conagra Brands Foundation service-disabled veteran-owned and LGBTQ+ For the fifth consecutive year, we were recognized
matched a portion of the donations made during owned businesses. as one of the 50 most community-minded
the campaign. Along with donating, the United for companies in the U.S. by The Civic 50.
Conagra’s Supplier Diversity Steering Committee
Change campaign raises awareness about the efforts
is comprised of leaders across Procurement,
being made to address the root causes of poverty, America’s Greatest Workplaces
Communications, D&I and the Conagra Brands
food insecurity and issues related to social justice. In for Diversity
Foundation and helps guide the strategic direction.
fiscal year 2023, United for Change drove meaningful
Recognized as one of America's Greatest
participation from employees at approximately 34
In addition, Conagra is a member of the Women’s
Workplaces for Diversity 2023 by Newsweek.
facilities and office locations across the United States,
Business Enterprise National Council and the National
Mexico and Canada. Donated funds are reinvested
Minority Supplier Development Council, which help
back into the communities, aiming to create long-term Diversity Lab
provide all suppliers with equal access to procurement
improvements in the communities where employees
opportunities and support the growth of Conagra’s Received Mansfield Certification from Diversity
live and work.
supplier diversity program. Lab for our Legal and Government Affairs team
During the fiscal year 2023 United for Change for adopting processes designed to increase the
campaign, Conagra employees raised over $500,000, pool of historically underrepresented lawyers to
exceeding the campaign’s fundraising goal. be considered for leadership and advancement
opportunities, both within the Company’s legal
department and our outside counsel leadership.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 47
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
About this Report 49
2023 SASB Disclosure 51
Task Force on
Climate-Related
Financial Disclosures
(TCFD) Index 53
Alignment of Conagra’s
Citizenship Topics
with the UN Sustainable
Development Goals 54
Note on Forward
Looking Statements 55
Appendix
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 48
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Additional Information
About this Report
Key Focus Area Additional Information
Thank you for your interest in Conagra Brands’ data for fiscal year 2023 in preparation of this 2023
Animal Welfare
2023 Citizenship Report. All data in this report Citizenship Report. For additional details, see
cover the company’s fiscal year 2023, which ended Additional Information below. We strive to align our business practices with improving the welfare of animals in our supply chain aligned with the five freedoms of animal welfare. Our efforts are
currently focused on products that are directly sourced, meaning purchased by us for use as an ingredient for products manufactured in our facilities, excluding private
May 28, 2023, unless otherwise specified. Also
label and foodservice products.
Other data included in the report have not been
included are some initiatives launched in fiscal
audited by a third party; however, the report does
year 2024 to provide additional recent relevant Beef and Dairy Our efforts are focused on improving animal welfare in our supply chain in accordance with the standards set by
include information available through our existing data the U.S. Roundtable on Sustainable Beef, the Global Roundtable for Sustainable Beef and the National Dairy
information to our stakeholders. Our reporting Farmers Assuring Responsible Management, as applicable.
management systems. Although our data has been
covers all company-operated facilities including,
where applicable, company-managed production internally vetted using accepted and relevant scientific Broiler Chicken Our efforts are focused continuing to explore best practices in broiler chicken welfare. We engaged with our
and technical methodologies, historical performance Conagra Brands is focused on supporting improved stakeholders on these issues in 2023 to align with our suppliers to align on the five freedoms for animal welfare. In
facilities, corporate offices in Omaha and Chicago, welfare for broiler chickens in our supply chain. 2024, we plan to continue to explore best practices in broiler chicken welfare, informed by guidance from our new
corporate jet aircraft fuel, and company-managed and data may be revised due to reasons such as new data Animal Welfare Advisory Committee being formed in 2024.
availability; industry-driven changes to methodologies;
operated warehouses. Additional information about
improvement in data collection and measuring Eggs Our efforts are focused on the transition of our use of eggs (meaning shell, processed/liquid and powdered eggs) to
our company is available in Conagra’s SEC filings Conagra Brands is focused on sourcing cage-free cage free eggs.
systems; or activities such as joint ventures, mergers, eggs and eliminating eggs in some of our products.
available at www.sec.gov and on our website, Cage-free means that egg-laying hens are able to roam vertically and horizontally in indoor houses, have access to
acquisitions or divestitures. fresh food and water, are allowed to exhibit natural behaviors, have access to enrichments (scratch areas, perches
www.conagrabrands.com.
and nests), have access to litter, have protection from predators and have the ability to move in a barn in a manner
Statements about future developments and promoting welfare.
We provide an index for the SASB Processed Foods
past occurrences are based on information and Additionally, we are pursuing a dual strategy by exploring egg alternatives and enhanced new technologies to
standard. Please see the Appendix for this additional reduce or eliminate eggs from some of our products through recipe reformulation. Based on our dual strategy,
information. assumptions available as of the date of publication. progress against our 100% cage egg free goal will be reported for our products that are not part of our
While we are committed to providing timely reformulation efforts.
The information presented, discussed, referenced updates, the company holds no obligation to update Our percentage of cage-free egg buy by volume for fiscal 2023 year reflects product mix shifts and a year-over-
year decrease in egg buy partially driven by our dual strategy.
or otherwise included in this document or made information or statements. The information provided
available on or through our website does not cover is based on the latest available data at the time of Pork Our efforts are focused on trim and fresh pork. “Open pen gestation system” means that sows are kept in
all information about our business. The inclusion of writing. However, please be aware that data quality Conagra Brands is focused on improving pork gestation crates for no more than 4-6 weeks of each pregnancy and are then moved to a pen with sufficient
animal welfare in our supply chain. space to move freely.
information or references, including the use of “key,” and accuracy may improve over time, leading to
To make progress in this area, we are aiming to source 100% of our pork from supply chains that only use open
“significant,” “material” or similar terms, should not potential updates or revisions. We continue to refer pen gestation systems by fiscal year 2026 (which ends May 2026). These benchmarks are subject to availability
be construed as a characterization regarding the to the most current and reliable sources for the most of supply and provide a guide for us as we move forward toward our goal.
materiality of such information to our financial results up-to-date information. Certain information in this
To improve animal welfare in our supply chain, we aim to follow best available science regarding animal welfare in our sourcing strategy, understanding that best
or that such information is necessarily material to report regarding the company comes from third- practices may change over time. We recognize that making improvements to animal welfare in our supply chain will require collaboration across our value chain, and
investors or other stakeholders for purposes of party sources and operations outside of our control. we will continue to collaborate with, and encourage our suppliers to make continual improvements in animal welfare while preserving consumer access to quality,
affordable food.
U.S. federal securities laws. We believe such information has been accurately
Our ability to meet our animal welfare goals depends on consumer demand and availability and affordability of supply. All goals reflect estimations of future product
collected and reported, and that the underlying volumes and commodity availability. We make efforts to source ingredients that support our animal welfare goals while meeting expectations of our consumers, investors,
APEX Companies, LLC completed an independent methodology is sound. and customers, and balancing potential impacts on other metrics, such as human health and the environment.
verification of select data included in the Better
Planet section of this report. We worked with Positive Any claims about Conagra Brands products made Climate Change
Solutions Consulting, LLC to calculate our Scope 3 herein, including any natural claim, are not intended to
Scope 1 and 2 Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions are emissions from sources that Conagra owns or controls directly.
greenhouse gas inventory estimates for fiscal year provide any assurances by Conagra Brands as to the Conagra Brands has set a goal to reduce its
Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions are indirect emissions associated with the purchase of electricity, steam,
absolute Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions.
2023, calculate our packaging volume, recyclability compliance of the claim with any applicable laws or heat, or cooling.
percentages and goal progress for fiscal year 2023 regulations outside of the United States.
and verify the consistency of our no deforestation
approach and relevance of our related procurement
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 49
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Key Focus Area Additional Information Key Focus Area Additional Information
Climate Change (Cont.) Diversity and Inclusion
Scope 3 Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions are indirect emissions (not included in Scope 2) that occur in Conagra’s value Conagra Brands is focused on fostering a diverse At Conagra, diversity is more than race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation and disability. We are focused on
Conagra Brands has set a goal to reduce Scope 3 chain. There are 15 categories of Scope 3 emissions and Conagra has focused its reduction efforts on category 1, and inclusive corporate culture. creating a diverse and inclusive corporate culture to help us attract, retain and encourage the development of top
greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our purchased goods and services, as the largest category of emissions in its value chain. talent. Our comprehensive D&I strategy includes providing education and training opportunities for talent across
purchased goods and services per metric ton of various dimensions of diversity and reinforcing a sense of belonging for all people throughout our organization to
Conagra’s 2030 Scope 3 target is a goal to reduce Scope 3 GHG emissions from purchased ingredients and
material sourced. advance inclusion.
packaging under category 1, purchased goods and services per metric ton of material sourced.
People of Color, as used in this report, is a term used primarily in the United States to describe historically
Conagra Brands’ 2030 science-based climate change goals were validated by the Science Based Target initiative (SBTi), an ambitious corporate climate effort leading the underrepresented people who are not white. It includes individuals who self-identify as American Indian or Alaska
way to a zero-carbon economy. Native, Asian, Black, or African American, Hispanic, or Latino, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, and Two or
More Races.
All calculations of our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions are estimates. See Conagra’s CDP Climate disclosure for more detail on our methodology.
Management level employees are those at director level and above.
Our ability to meet our climate change goals is dependent on our ability to invest in a range of technologies, infrastructure and processes while preserving consumer
access to quality, affordable food. Additionally, we are reliant on the continued evolution, and the availability and reliability, of technology associated with offering Middle-Manager level employees are those at manager level.
solutions to combat global warming while meeting expectations of our consumers, investors and customers, and balancing potential impacts on other metrics, such as
human health and the environment. We compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel. Our ability to meet our goals is dependent on our ability to attract,
develop and retain a diverse population of talented and highly performing employees.
Carbon offsets are not part of our Scope 3 goal reduction strategy.
EEO-1 data for calendar year 2022 is available here
Deforestation
Packaging Waste
Conagra Brands has adopted a sourcing strategy Conagra’s no deforestation sourcing strategy pertains to volumes of critical primary deforestation-linked
that strives to achieve no deforestation across commodities that are directly sourced, meaning purchased by us for use as an ingredient for products Conagra Brands has set a goal to increase our For purposes of this goal, (1) we include only primary consumer packaging material volumes, and secondary
critical primary deforestation-linked commodities. manufactured in our facilities, excluding private label and foodservice products, where applicable. We have sourcing of packaging materials that are packaging material volumes consistent with our CDP deforestation risk disclosure (such as rigid resin, flexible
identified beef (cattle products including fresh, frozen, cooked, and Kosher), palm oil (palm, palm kernel, and all renewable, recyclable or compostable. resin, plant fiber packaging materials (serving bowls and corrugate boxes), glass and metal packaging and we
Conagra aligns with AFi’s definition of deforestation:
blended oil), soy (soy, lecithin, soy flour, soybean oil, and soy protein products, excluding soy embedded in exclude totes, corrugate displays, multiwall bags, bulk bags, drum, valves and actuators, inner liners and
loss of natural forest as a result of (1) conversion
manufactured components), cocoa (cocoa powder and chocolate excluding cocoa embedded in manufactured miscellaneous packaging not specifically identified in our procurement data systems; (2) we define as renewable
to agriculture or other non-forest land use;
component) and timber (purchased for primary, secondary and tertiary packaging purposes) as critical primary all material composed of biomass from a living source that can be continually replenished, such as tree fiber, other
(2) conversion to a tree plantation; or (3) severe and
deforestation-linked commodities in our supply chain. plant fiber or other bio-based packaging materials; and (3) we define as recyclable all items able to be recycled via
sustained degradation. Loss of natural forest that
third-party definitions (such as recyclable packaging materials are defined as “widely recyclable,” “check locally,”
meets this definition is considered to be To meet our no deforestation compliance criteria, commodities purchased must be:
or “store drop off” by How2Recycle and packaging materials included in consumer take-back systems, such as
deforestation regardless of whether or not it is legal
1. Traceable to regions classified as low risk for deforestation according to reputable third-party industry TerraCycle) although we acknowledge that infrastructure may not exist to allow for consumer recycling in all places
and we encourage our suppliers to set no-
sources such as the World Wildlife Fund, the Global Canopy, and the Tropical Forest Alliance; or where our products are sold; and (4) we define as compostable materials meeting third-party home or industrial
deforestation goals in alignment with this definition.
compostable standards and/or compostable labelling requirements such as How2Compost. We intend to update
2. Verified through third-party auditing for certification programs utilized by our suppliers or us that have no these definitions to reflect new innovations and standards for renewable, recyclable and compostable
deforestation components, such as Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and Sustainable Forestry Initiative packaging materials.
Chain of Custody (SFI) (timber products), and Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) (palm oil); and
3. From a supplier who has made a commitment to eliminate deforestation from their operations or supply Conagra Brands is seeking to reduce waste derived Following the success of our 2017 strategy to increase our use of plant-based trays, bowls and other lower plastic
chain by 2025. from our packaging through thoughtful design and content packaging, we are currently reassessing our packaging strategy, including evaluating the accuracy and
use of renewable and more readily recyclable or quality of available data, potential metrics and indicators to measure performance, external benchmarks and
Information available to us at the time of our assessment allowed for at least 90% of our applicable buy for each
compostable materials. potential verification processes. We strive to reduce waste and measure our progress accurately and transparently.
commodity category to be assessed against our no deforestation criteria.
We continue to further our packaging strategy by identifying materials that have demonstrated a year-over-year
plastic reduction independent of sales volume, designing packaging with less material, and testing and adopting
While we have made significant strides for no deforestation in our supply chain, challenges remain. We acknowledge that despite our best efforts, gathering traceability recycled packaging content that meets our performance and safety standards.
information for these commodities can be challenging due to our position in the supply chain. We are actively working to enhance our traceability systems to improve
transparency and identify partnership opportunities with key suppliers. Conagra has conducted initial risk assessments and supply chain mapping for key deforestation-
Our ability to meet our packaging goals is dependent on our ability to invest in a range of alternative packaging, technologies, infrastructure and processes while
linked commodities and is working towards continuous improvement of traceability systems and risk assessment processes for these commodities.
preserving consumer access to quality, affordable food. Additionally, we are reliant on the continued evolution, and the availability and reliability, of technology related to
We are addressing these challenges by: renewable and recyclable plastic, availability of supply, regulatory requirements including food safety, consumer rejection and financial viability of alternative packaging.
• Engaging with our suppliers and supply chain partners to communicate our no deforestation policies.
• Improving material information quality and data quality through internal data housing programs of procured materials.
• Reviewing and updating our policies to reflect the latest best practices.
We recognize that achieving our goals for no deforestation in our supply chain will require industry-wide partnership to succeed while preserving consumer access to
quality, affordable food. Our ability to meet our goals depends on consumer demand and availability and affordability of supply. We make efforts to source ingredients that
support our no-deforestation goals while meeting expectations of our consumers, investors, and customers, and balancing potential impacts on other metrics, such as
human rights.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 50
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
2023 SASB Disclosure
The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) is an independent, private sector standards-setting organization dedicated to enhancing the
efficiency of the capital markets by fostering high-quality disclosure of material sustainability information that meets investor needs. Our reporting uses
the Standard for the Processed Foods industry as defined by SASB’s Sustainable Industry Classification System® (SICS®). Note that some responses may
not fully align with individual SASB metric guidance, but represent data most closely aligned with each metric.
Topic Accounting Category Unit Of Measure Code Response
Metric
Energy Management (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity, Quantitative Gigajoules (GJ), Percentage (%) FB-PF-130a.1 (1) 9,968,963 gigajoules (GJ) of energy consumed
(3) percentage renewable (2) 50.6% from grid electricity
(3) 4.7% renewable energy1
Water Management (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed, Quantitative Thousand cubic meters (m.), FB-PF-140a.1 (1) 16,481 thousand cubic meters (m) of water withdrawn
percentage of each in regions with High or Extremely High Percentage (%) (2) 2,876 thousand cubic meters (m) consumed; Areas of High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress make up 32.8% of all water withdrawn and 19.3% of all
Baseline Water Stress water consumed
Number of incidents of non-compliance associated with Quantitative Number FB-PF-140a.2 Conagra Brands had seven (7) incidents of non-compliance.
water quantity and/or quality permits, standards, and
regulations
Description of water management risks and discussion of Discussion and n/a FB-PF-140a.3 The primary tools leveraged by Conagra Brands to identify, assess and respond to water-related risks include: WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas – Food & Beverage
strategies and practices to mitigate those risks Analysis weighting scheme; in-house risk-mapping; a Supplier Excellence Program sustainability assessment; and international media resources.
Conagra Brands’ sustainability team annually reviews the Aqueduct Water Risk data for our manufacturing locations, overlaying production and water withdrawal
data with internal company knowledge to identify and monitor water use at high-risk sites. If a facility is designated as high-risk based on this assessment, water
conservation efforts are prioritized at that location, in addition to other business drivers of decision-making.
Separately, Conagra Brands’ Supplier Excellence Program broadly measures the performance of our largest and most strategic suppliers on a diverse set of criteria,
including social and environmental metrics. Water-related questions included in our Supplier Excellence Program assessment include whether suppliers conduct
water risk assessments, have water reduction goals, or implement sustainability policies that address agriculture or other value chain water use. The scoring system
allows us to quantitatively measure supplier progress over time, and Conagra Brands uses this information to enhance business partnerships. For more information,
see our 2023 CDP Water disclosure.
Food Safety Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) audit (1) non- Quantitative Rate FB-PF-250a.1 100% of Conagra plants have completed GFSI-recognized certification. In fiscal year 2023, there were six major non-conformances identified (rate of 0.15 major
conformance rate and (2) associated corrective action rate non-conformances per plant audited) and 206 minor non-conformances in fiscal year 2023 (rate of 5.0 minor non-conformances per plant audited). Corrective
for (a) major and (b) minor non-conformances actions were implemented for 100% of the major and minor non-conformances identified and submitted to, and accepted by, the GFSI certifying body for
confirmation.
Percentage of ingredients sourced from Tier 1 supplier Quantitative Percentage (%) by cost FB-PF-250a.2 We require our suppliers to use an accredited certification body to audit their compliance with Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) standards annually.
facilities certified to a Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) More than 95% of our Tier 1 suppliers have completed GFSI-recognized certification, which is the relevant metric we currently have available to report.
recognized food safety certification program
(1) Total number of notices of food safety violation received, Quantitative Number, Percentage (%) FB-PF-250a.3 Conagra Brands had one (1) food safety violation, which was an FDA 483 notification, out of 23 total inspections. 100% of these violations have been corrected.
(2) percentage corrected
(1) Number of recalls issued and (2) total amount of food Quantitative Number, Metric tons (t) FB-PF-250a.4 Three (3) recalls in fiscal year 2023.
product recalled
Health & Nutrition Gross Revenue from products labeled and/or marketed to Quantitative Reporting currency FB-PF-260a.1 Approximately 74% of retail sales revenue from Conagra products, based on Circana POS, Custom Conagra Hierarchy.2
promote health and nutrition attributes
Discussion of the process to identify and manage products Discussion and n/a FB-PF-260a.2 Conagra Brands maintains a number of cross-functional groups, including an Attribute Steering Committee, Nutrition Policy Leaders, Sodium Reduction Leaders,
and ingredients related to nutritional and health concerns Analysis and Natural Council, that meet regularly to identify and manage products, ingredients, strategies and food design related to nutrition, health and wellness concerns
among consumers among consumers and policy makers. The Committees include internal subject matter experts from legal, regulatory, labelling, nutrition, sustainability, consumer
demand, product development, communications, supply chain, government affairs and other functions relevant to identifying and managing nutritional and health
attributes and any related concerns, including but not limited to: sustainable proteins, additives, potential allergens, sodium, sugar, regulated claims, and product
disclosures. The Committees guide nutrition, health and wellness attribute development and communications for product packaging, brand websites, e-commerce
and other channels.
1Note to FB-PF-130a.1: Includes all Conagra Brands company-managed production facilities, corporate offices in Omaha and Chicago, corporate jet aircraft fuel, and company-owned and operated warehouses.
2Note to FB-PF-260a.1: These sales do not include foodservice or private label SKUs. CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 51
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Topic Accounting Category Unit Of Measure Code Response
Metric
Product Labeling Percentage of advertising impressions (1) made on children Quantitative Percentage (%) FB-PF-270a.1 Conagra Brands participates in the Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative (CFBAI) of the Council of Better Business Bureaus (BBB). Pursuant to our CFBAI
& Marketing and (2) made on children promoting products that meet pledge, Conagra Brands devotes 100% of our national advertising directed to children 13 years of age and under to products that meet the CFBAI’s strict uniform
dietary guidelines nutrition criteria, and does not advertise to children under the age of six. In line with our CFBAI commitments, programming is deemed “child-directed” if it has an
audience of 30% or more children under the age of 13. Conagra also abides by the guidelines established by the Children’s Advertising Unit (CARU) of the BBB to
further our efforts to only market to children responsibly. CARU’s standards are intended to promote child-directed marketing that is not deceptive, unfair, or
inappropriate, taking into account the unique vulnerabilities of a younger audience. CARU prohibits, among other things, claims that unduly exploit a child’s
imagination or sales pressure techniques that create a sense of urgency.
Revenue from products labeled as (1) containing Quantitative Reporting currency FB-PF-270a.2 (1) $8,650,381,785 (Gross Revenue)
genetically modified organisms (GMOs) and (2) non-GMO (2) $1,239,600,072 (Gross Revenue)1
Number of incidents of non-compliance with industry or Quantitative Number FB-PF-270a.3 Two (2) incidents of non-compliance with federal labeling codes, each of which was promptly addressed with appropriate corrective action.
regulatory labeling and/or marketing codes
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal Quantitative Reporting currency FB-PF-270a.4 Conagra Brands is and has been a party to legal proceedings challenging various product claims made in the Company’s product labeling. Information regarding any
proceedings associated with labeling and/or marketing material litigation and related loss contingencies is provided in Conagra Brands’ annual 10-K and/or quarterly 10-Q SEC reports.
practices
Packaging Lifecycle (1) Total weight of packaging, (2) percentage made from Quantitative Metric tons (t), Percentage (%) FB-PF-410a.1 (1) Estimated 657,699.53 metric tons (t) of packaging procured by Conagra Brands
Management recycled and/or renewable materials, and (3) percentage (2) Estimated 20% made from recycled or renewable materials
that is recyclable, reusable, and/or compostable (3) Estimated 93% made from recyclable, reusable and/or compostable materials
Estimates are based, in part, on Conagra and industry-wide average material weights and recycled content levels, guided by best practices on environmental
footprint accounting from organizations such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and How2Recycle.
Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental Discussion n/a FB-PF-410a.2 Conagra Brands has set a goal to strive towards making 100% of our current plastic packaging renewable, recyclable or compostable by 2025. Additionally,
impact of packaging throughout its lifecycle and Analysis Conagra Brands is seeking to reduce waste derived from our packaging through thoughtful design and use of renewable and more readily recyclable or
compostable materials.
See Additional Information in the Appendix to this Report.
Environmental & Social Percentage of food ingredients sourced that are certified to Quantitative Percentage (%) by cost FB-PF-430a.1 Our suppliers have obtained the following third-party certifications for the below listed volumes of products directly sourced for our operations, excluding excludes
Impacts of Ingredient third-party environmental and/or social standards, and private label and foodservice products where applicable, by volume:
Supply Chain percentages by standard
• 100% of our palm oil buy was certified by the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) under its Mass Balance model
• 99% of our seafood buy is certified by either via Marine Stewardship Council or the Global Aquaculture Alliance’s Best Aquaculture Practices (BAP)
Suppliers' social and environmental responsibility audit (1) Quantitative Rate FB-PF-430a.2 We have a Code of Conduct for Suppliers that outlines our expectations around Legal Compliance, Anti-Bribery and Corruption, Human Rights, Non-Discrimination
non-conformance rate and (2) associated corrective action and Fair Working Conditions, Animal Welfare, Environmental and Social Impact, and Business Integrity.
rate for (a) major and (b) minor non-conformances
Our risk management team monitors our entire supplier list daily for regulatory violations and legal actions, including those relating to regulatory corruption, social
and environmental compliance. We have a third-party service provider hosted ethics and compliance hotline and management system for concerns from employee
and third parties which allows for anonymous reporting. Each concern is tracked, investigated and reported in accordance with internal investigation protocols that
include escalation to relevant management and, as appropriate, our board of directors.
Ingredient Sourcing Percentage of food ingredients sourced from regions with Quantitative Percentage (%) by cost FB-PF-440a.1 We monitor sourcing water risks through a periodic assessment of the water risk level of the origins of selected ingredients using the WRI Aqueduct global water risk
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress mapping tool.
List of priority food ingredients and discussion of sourcing Discussion and n/a FB-PF-440a.2 For commodity-specific discussion and analysis, please refer to the Responsible Sourcing section of our 2023 Citizenship Report.
risks due to environmental and social considerations Analysis
Activity Metric Category Unit Of Measure Code Response
Weight of products sold Quantitative Metric tons (t) FB-PF-000.A Weight of products produced is approximately 3M metric tons.
Number of production facilities Quantitative Number FB-PF-000.B 42
1Response based on Circana provided retail sales data for Conagra’s fiscal year 2023. These sales do not include foodservice or private label SKUs.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 52
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index
Core TCFD Elements Recommended Disclosures Data & References Core TCFD Elements Recommended Disclosures Data & References
Governance A) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related 2023 CDP Climate Change Report: C1.1a, C1.1b Metrics and Targets A) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to 2023 CDP Climate Change Report: C6.10
risks and opportunities. assess climate-related risks and opportunities in
line with its strategy and risk management
process.
B) Describe management’s role in assessing and 2023 CDP Climate Change Report: C1.2, C1.3
B) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, In fiscal year 2023, our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions (CO2 e) were
managing
Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the approximately 759,053 metric tons.
related risks.
Strategy A) Describe the climate-related risks and 2023 CDP Climate Change Report: C2.1a, C2.2
C) Describe the targets used by the organization to Target reference number: Abs 1
opportunities the organization has identified over
manage climate-related risks and opportunities Target reference number: Abs 1 This target has been approved by the Science
the short, medium, and long term.
and performance against targets. Based Targets initiative
Target ambition: Well-below 2°C aligned
B) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and 2023 CDP Climate Change Report: C3.3, C3.4
opportunities on the organization’s businesses, Year target was set: 2020
strategy, and financial planning.
Target coverage: Company-wide
C) Describe the resilience of the organization’s 2023 CDP Climate Change Report: C3.1 Scope(s): Scope 1 & Scope 2
strategy, taking into consideration different
Scope 2 accounting method: Market-based
climate-related scenarios, including 2°C or lower
scenario Base year: 2020
Risk Management A) Describe the organization’s process for 2023 CDP Climate Change Report: C2.1, C2.2, C2.2a Target year: 2030
identifying and assessing climate-related risks.
Targeted reduction from base year: 25%
Performance against target Abs 1: In fiscal year 2023, our Scope 1 and 2
B) Describe the organization’s process for 2023 CDP Climate Change Report: C2.1, C2.2 greenhouse gas emissions (CO2 e) were approximately 759,053 metric tons.
managing climate-related risks. Target reference number: Int 1
This target has been approved by the Science Based Targets initiative
C) Describe how processes for identifying, 2023 CDP Climate Change Report: C2.2 Target ambition: Well-below 2°C aligned
assessing, and managing climate-related risks are
integrated into the organization’s overall risk Year target was set: 2020
management. Target coverage: Company-wide
Scope(s): Scope 3
Scope 3 category(ies): Category 1: Purchased goods and services
Intensity metric: Metric tons CO2e per unit of production
Target year: 2030
Targeted reduction from base year (%): 20%
Performance against target Int 1: In fiscal year 2023, we estimate that our
Scope 3 emissions decreased approximately 12.9% per metric ton of material
sourced from our 2020 baseline, which brings us approximately over half of the
way to our 2030 goal. In addition, we have reduced our estimated absolute in
scope emissions approximately 11.7% from our 2020 baseline.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 53
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Alignment of Conagra’s Citizenship Topics with the UN Sustainable Development Goals
Each of Conagra Brands’ Citizenship efforts support a component of the UN Sustainable Development Goals1
Critical Strategic Important
Food Safety: 2, 3, 9 Manufacturing Water Use: 6, 12 Deforestation: 2, 11, 15
Health & Nutrition: 2, 3, 9 Product Transparency: 2, 3, 12 Animal Welfare: 2, 14
Corporate Ethics: 1, 5, 8, 10, 16 Manufacturing Waste: 2, 12, 8, 11 Transportation & Logistics: 7
Supplier Code of Conduct: 1, 3, 5, 6, 8, 10, 16 Sustainable Sourcing: 2, 3, 5, 6, 8, 13, 14, 15
Climate Change: 3, 7, 11, 13 Packaging: 2, 8, 11, 12
Diversity & Inclusion: 1, 5, 10 Culture & Workplace: 3, 4, 5, 8, 16
Environmental Compliance: 3, 6, 8, 12 Community Impacts & Philanthropy: 1, 2, 4, 11, 17
Employee Health & Wellness: 3, 5
1 Based on Conagra’s internal assessment of the success metrics for each UN Goal, as compared to our Citizenship efforts.
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 54
CONTENTS ABOUT CONAGRA BRANDS GOOD FOOD RESPONSIBLE SOURCING BETTER PLANET STRONGER COMMUNITIES APPENDIX
Note on Forward-Looking Statements
The information contained in this document includes programs; risks related to the availability and prices with intangible assets, including any future goodwill
forward-looking statements within the meaning of of commodities and other supply chain resources, or intangible assets impairment charges; risk relating
the federal securities laws. Examples of forward- including raw materials, packaging, energy, and to our ability to protect our intellectual property rights;
looking statements include statements regarding our transportation, including any negative effects caused risks relating to acquisition, divestiture, joint venture or
expected future financial performance or position, by changes in levels of inflation and interest rates, investment activities; the amount and timing of future
results of operations, business strategy, plans and weather conditions, health pandemics or outbreaks dividends, which remain subject to Board approval
objectives of management for future operations, of disease, actual or threatened hostilities or war, and depend on market and other conditions; and
and other statements that are not historical facts. or other geopolitical uncertainty; risks related to the other risks described in our reports filed from time to
You can identify forward-looking statements by their effectiveness of our hedging activities and ability to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
use of forward-looking words, such as "may", "will", respond to volatility in commodities; disruptions or We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any
"anticipate", "expect", "believe", "estimate", "intend", inefficiencies in our supply chain and/or operations; forward-looking statements included in this document,
"plan", "should", "seek", or comparable terms. risks related to the ultimate impact of, including which speak only as of the date of this document.
reputational harm caused by, any product recalls We undertake no responsibility to update these
Readers of this document should understand
and product liability or labeling litigation, including statements, except as required by law.
that these forward-looking statements are not
litigation related to lead-based paint and pigment and
guarantees of performance or results. Forward- The goals, targets and commitments presented,
cooking spray; risks related to our ability to respond
looking statements provide our current expectations discussed, referenced or otherwise included in
to changing consumer preferences and the success
and beliefs concerning future events and are subject this document or made available on or through
of our innovation and marketing investments; risks
to risks, uncertainties, and factors relating to our our website are aspirational and not guarantees or
associated with actions by our customers, including
business and operations, all of which are difficult to promises that such goals, targets or commitments
changes in distribution and purchasing terms; risks
predict and could cause our actual results to differ will be achieved. In addition, historical, current and
related to the seasonality of our business; risks
materially from the expectations expressed in or forward-looking information included in this document
associated with our co-manufacturing arrangements
implied by such forward-looking statements. These or made available on or through our website may
and other third-party service provider dependencies;
risks, uncertainties, and factors include, among other be based on standards and practices for measuring
risks associated with actions of governments and
things: risks associated with general economic and progress that are still developing, internal controls and
regulatory bodies that affect our businesses, including
industry conditions, including inflation, rising interest processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions
the ultimate impact of new or revised regulations
rates, decreased availability of capital, volatility in that are subject to change. Accordingly, such
or interpretations including to address climate
financial markets, declining consumer spending rates, historical, current and forward-looking information
change or implement changes to taxes and tariffs;
recessions, decreased energy availability, increased or underlying assumptions may be subject to
risks related to the company's ability to execute
energy costs (including fuel surcharges), supply chain modifications in future disclosures due to such
on its strategies or achieve expectations related
challenges, labor shortages, and geopolitical conflicts developing standards, practices and controls and
to environmental, social, and governance matters,
(including the ongoing conflict between Russia and processes. Readers and viewers are cautioned not to
including as a result of evolving legal, regulatory, and
Ukraine); negative impacts caused by public health place undue reliance on such information.
other standards, processes, and assumptions, the
crises; risks related to our ability to deleverage on
pace of scientific and technological developments,
currently anticipated timelines, and to continue to
increased costs, the availability of requisite financing,
access capital on acceptable terms or at all; risks
and changes in carbon pricing or carbon taxes; risks
related to the company's competitive environment,
related to a material failure in or breach of our or our
cost structure, and related market conditions; risks
vendors' information technology systems and other
related to our ability to execute operating and value
cybersecurity incidents; risks related to our ability to
creation plans and achieve returns on our investments
identify, attract, hire, train, retain and develop qualified
and targeted operating efficiencies from cost-saving
personnel; risk of increased pension, labor or people-
initiatives, and to benefit from trade optimization
related expenses; risks and uncertainties associated
CONAGRA BRANDS 2023 CITIZENSHIP REPORT 55
222 Merchandise Mart Plaza
Suite 1300
Chicago, IL 60654
©Conagra Brands, Inc. All rights reserved.
