2023 Sustainability
Report
Contents
Chairman and CEO message 2 Our people 60
A compelling culture 64
Governance and our approach 4
Attracting a world-class workforce 68
Governance 5
Valuing our people 72
Managing sustainable development risks 8
Compensation, benefits 75
About our reporting 9
and well-being
Climate 12
Safety, health and security 78
Plan for the Energy Transition 14
Safety 79
Strategic capabilities 16
Emergency preparedness 83
Reducing Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 23
Occupational health and industrial hygiene 83
Addressing Scope 3 emissions 33
Security and cybersecurity 84
Contributing to the energy transition 35
Performance 85
Collaboration and engagement 38
Performance by year 85
Nature 40
Performance by country 91
Governance 41
AXPC ESG metrics template 93
Strategy 41
API template for GHG reporting 95
Risk and impact management 43
Disclosure, data quality and assurance 97
External collaboration and engagement 44
Abbreviations 98
Managing biodiversity-related 44
risks and impacts Recognition 100
Proactive conservation 46
Managing water-related risks 46
Metrics 48
Social 51
Managing social-related risks and impacts 52
Creating shared value 53
Valuing human rights 57
Supply chain and local content 59
Chairman and CEO message
Chairman and CEO message
A message from
our Chairman and CEO
In 2023, ConocoPhillips continued to manage This year’s Sustainability Report highlights strong
environmental and social-related risks across our global environmental and social performance that supports
portfolio, while delivering strong financial and operational ConocoPhillips as a company of choice for our many
performance. Energy supply and security remained key stakeholders. Efforts and results in this area are important
themes globally, as rising demand and market volatility to our employees, neighboring communities, financial sector
reinforced the importance of a reliable and affordable partners and shareholders, all of whom we actively engage
energy supply. Amid an uncertain macro environment, our with to align on shared value.
strategy is resilient and underpinned by an unwavering
commitment to sustainability.
Our strategy is resilient
The energy transition will be complex and will continue to
evolve, with oil and natural gas projected to remain essential and underpinned by an
parts of the energy supply mix for decades across a broad
unwavering commitment
range of transition scenarios. We intend to play a valued role
in this transition by executing on the tenets of our Triple
to sustainability.
Mandate. These include:
• Meeting transition pathway energy demand, which
requires a focus on delivering production that will best
Last year, we took a proactive approach to improving the
compete in any transition scenario. This production will be
data quality of reported GHG emissions. After surveying a
delivered from a diverse portfolio of resources with a
representative sample of our sites, we updated our reported
competitive cost of supply and low greenhouse gas
methane emissions to reflect a more accurate estimate of
(GHG) emissions intensity.
equipment counts and classifications, and flare downtime.
• Delivering competitive returns to shareholders, with our
This resulted in an increase in methane emissions estimates
greater than 30% of cash from operations (CFO)
compared to 2022. Accounting for the increase, we remain
commitment. Since our 2016 strategy reset, we have a
on track to achieve our near-zero methane emissions target
track record of delivering above 40% of CFO.
by 2030 by executing our comprehensive emissions
• Driving accountability for the emissions that are within reduction plan across our Lower 48 assets.
our control. We are progressing toward our net-zero
As a member of the Oil and Gas Methane Partnership
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions ambition.
(OGMP) 2.0 initiative, we collaborate with peers and non-
industry participants to improve methane measurement and
reporting. We were awarded the OGMP 2.0 Gold Standard
Pathway designation in recognition of our multiyear
measurement-based reporting plan, which goes beyond
current regulatory requirements and meets our commitment
to data quality and transparent reporting.
2 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Chairman and CEO message
Simultaneously, our Low Carbon Technologies organization Looking ahead, we will continue to integrate sustainability
continues to work with the company’s business units to into our planning and decision making, while delivering
develop and implement region-specific emissions reduction strong financial and operational performance in the years
initiatives and identify potential technology solutions for to come.
hard-to-abate emissions.
We believe ongoing engagement with key stakeholders
is integral to recognizing interests, accelerating
performance and supporting effective policy. This Ryan M. Lance
communication and collaboration allows us to understand Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
priorities and concerns, so that we can respond to risks August 2024
and opportunities that will arise throughout the
energy transition.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 3
Governance and our approach
Governance and our approach
At ConocoPhillips, we have a comprehensive governance framework that integrates
sustainability risks and trends into our business strategy and decision making processes
with the goal of safely and responsibly finding and delivering energy to the world. We are
committed to sustainable development (SD) across our diverse portfolio and have
incorporated environmental and social-related risks into our planning for decades.
Reviewing a Field Level Hazard
Assessment before starting
work at the Montney, our
unconventional resource play in
northeastern British Columbia.
4 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023

Governance and our approach
Board of directors We seek to ensure that the board reflects a range of
expertise — particularly in the areas of leadership and
oversight
management, financial reporting, issues specific to oil and
Our board of directors oversees our strategic planning gas-related industries, both domestic and international
and risk management programs, including those related markets, public policy and government regulation,
to sustainability. The board divides certain oversight technology, public company board service, human capital
functions to its five standing committees to provide management, and environmental and sustainability matters
expertise and effective supervision across the business. —sufficient to provide sound and prudent guidance with
The full board also reviews the climate risk strategy at the respect to the company’s strategic needs.
annual Board Strategy Session. The activities and design
To read more about the capabilities and skills of our board
of the ConocoPhillips sustainability governance structure
of directors and the structure of our committees, please visit
are described briefly below:
our website and our latest Proxy Statement.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS COMMITTEE STRUCTURE
Board of directors
Standing committees
Public Policy and Human Resources
Directors’ Affairs Audit and Finance Executive
Sustainability and Compensation
Regularly evaluates the Reviews and monitors Facilitates oversight of Supervises executive Exercises, as necessary
size and composition of climate, nature and financial reporting compensation and the and as permitted, the
the board of directors and social-related trends. practices, global performance-based authority of the full board
continually ensures that it Makes recommendations compliance and ethics components of the of directors in between
fits the company’s to the board of directors programs, and risk company’s incentive meetings.
strategic needs. and monitors compliance management programs programs. Facilitates
with our company’s including enterprise risk oversight of human
sustainability policy, management to ensure capital management,
standard and practices. compliance of our including diversity, equity
processes which underpin and inclusion (DEI).
prudent decision making
across the company.
6 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Governance and our approach
Sustainability across (including any updates to the 2030 target), advancing two or
more accretive low carbon business opportunities covering
our business
hydrogen and carbon capture and storage (CCS)
Our executive leadership team is responsible for developing investments. In addition, the Strategic Milestones included
corporate strategy, including implementing sustainability implementing action plans for priority environmental and
efforts, managing climate-related risks and opportunities, social risks and tracking progress against mitigations. Read
and driving the business in implementing climate-related more about how compensation is linked to sustainability
plans. Our Sustainable Development Leadership Team performance in our Proxy Statement.
(SDLT), which is comprised of global business unit (BU)
presidents and functional department heads, is responsible Policies and positions
for managing sustainability in their businesses and functions
Our company has policies and positions that guide our
including SD goals, priorities, action plans and results.
approach to sustainability including our Code of Business
Operations and leadership teams within our BUs and across Ethics and Conduct and Supplier Expectations. View all
functions are responsible for integrating sustainability into related policies and positions on our website.
their day-to-day operations, project development and
decision making. To support consistency across our global Business ethics and
operations, subject matter experts collaborate in issues
compliance training and
working groups focused on climate, water, biodiversity and
reporting
social issues to leverage global cross-functional expertise
from each BU. They meet quarterly to discuss risks, risk Our reputation and integrity depend on every ConocoPhillips
mitigation challenges and best practices, and to align on employee — and those working on our behalf — assuming
consistent practices. personal responsibility for business conduct. With oversight
from our Chief Compliance Officer, our Global Compliance
Linking compensation to
and Ethics team maintains adherence with applicable laws
sustainability performance and the highest ethical standards, promotes a positive
corporate reputation, reduces criminal and civil liability, and
Executive and employee compensation is linked to
sets the tone for an ethical work environment across the
sustainability performance through our annual Variable
company. The team includes local ambassadors who are
Cash Incentive Program (VCIP). This annual cash incentive is
embedded in BUs and functions and help support and
based on company success on critical performance metrics
administer our Global Compliance and Ethics program.
and individual performance. Those metrics include certain
Energy Transition and Strategic Milestones that are aligned Our external auditor annually reviews aspects of our
with SD priorities. In 2023, the VCIP included the following compliance and ethics program relevant to financial
Energy Transition Milestones: Demonstrating progress reporting while our internal audit function and external
toward our Plan for the Net-Zero Energy Transition, compliance experts periodically audit global compliance
achieving an annual greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and ethics processes. Read more about our ethics and
intensity aligned with our 2030 target trajectory range compliance training and reporting on our website.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 7
Governance and our approach
Managing sustainable Input and guidance are provided by our corporate Long-
Range Plan (LRP) and SD Risk Management Standard. The
development risks output informs the corporate enterprise risk management
(ERM) system and key business-planning processes for the
Our commitment to sustainability includes identifying,
company, including our overarching corporate strategy.
assessing and managing SD risks through a process that is a
mandatory, auditable, annual requirement for BUs and Read more about how we manage climate, nature and
select corporate functions. social-related risks on our website.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS
IMPLEMENTATION
ACTION & INTEGRATION
RISK PLAN
RISK RANKING
Execute action plans and
ASSESSMENT
Develop action plans integrate into Enterprise
Evaluate likelihood, for risks with line of Risk Management (ERM)
Assess climate, nature consequence severity, sight to BU goals. process.
and social-related risks. and time horizon.
LRP and corporate strategy
We integrate climate-related risks into our corporate including government policies around the world, emissions
strategy via the LRP, which enables us to test our portfolio reduction technologies, alternative energy technologies and
against climate-related risk scenarios to support informed changes in consumer trends. This strategy outlines choices
decisions. Our LRP forecasts key data related to portfolio around portfolio composition, emissions reductions, targets
development and performance, production, costs and cash and incentives, emissions-related technology development,
flow. We also forecast GHG emissions, carbon cost, low and our climate-related policies and finance sector
carbon capital spend, planned or possible GHG reduction engagement. To better understand long-term risk and
projects and water volumes. This data serves as a critical mitigation options during the energy transition, we utilize
input for understanding our environmental footprint and the four main energy transition scenarios that incorporate a
potential risks associated with planned business activities as wide range of possible outcomes for energy and carbon
well as emissions reduction opportunities. emissions to help shape our analysis and consideration of
potential policy, technology and market risks. Read more
The objective of our Climate Risk Strategy is to manage
about our Climate Risk Strategy on our website.
climate-related risks, optimize opportunities and equip the
company to respond to changes in key uncertainties,
8 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Governance and our approach
SD Risk Management About our reporting
Standard
Reporting frameworks
The SD Risk Management Standard supports a consistent
and scope
approach to identify social and environmental risks, conduct
risk ranking and develop mitigation action plans. The scope We report our sustainability performance using
of the SD Risk Management Standard includes physical and internationally recognized reporting standards and continue
transition risks for climate change and nature. It also to assess other emerging frameworks amid a changing
encompasses both operational and transition-related social market and regulatory landscape. Specifically, our reporting
risks associated with stakeholder engagement, human is guided by the industry standards set out by Ipieca, the
rights and social investment, as well as supply chain risks. Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), and
To facilitate consistent risk identification and categorization Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Additionally, we develop a
across BUs and functions, the standard is supported by a stand-alone Task Force for Climate-related Financial
guideline and risk assessment tool to evaluate potential Disclosures (TCFD) report.
consequence severity, likelihood, and near, mid and long-
Our reporting also follows the API Template 2.0 for GHG
term timing for each risk. The standard mandates
Reporting, the AXPC ESG Metrics Framework and Template
developing action plans for risks ranked “significant” or
and takes guidance from recently released frameworks
“high” and summarizing them in the corporate SD Risk
such as the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial
Register. Risks and action plans are tracked and managed at
Disclosures (TNFD).
the BU, function or project level.
The 2023 Sustainability Report covers data from January 1
Enterprise risk management
to December 31, 2023. The scope and methodologies of our
Items on the corporate SD Risk Register are shared with data reporting, as well as the boundary of our reporting, can
owners of relevant enterprise risks, including climate, capital be found on our website, as can more information related to
markets, public perception, operational matters, corporate our approach to disclosure, data quality and assurance.
strategy and policy. These enterprise risk owners, who are
ELT or senior managers, are also briefed on associated
mitigation activities. Enterprise risks are presented annually
to both the Audit and Finance Committee (AFC) of the board
and the full board of directors.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 9
Governance and our approach
Stakeholder engagement
We engage our stakeholders in a range of ways as we work to improve performance. The table below identifies our
stakeholders, shared priorities and engagement approach.
KEY STAKEHOLDER PRIORITIES AND ENGAGEMENT AREAS
FINANCIAL SECTOR COMMUNITIES GOVERNMENTS SUPPLIERS EMPLOYEES
Issue identification and Annually, we conduct a priority issues assessment to
identify and prioritize our reporting topics. Participants
prioritization
include subject matter experts (SMEs) from 20 key
We continuously evolve our sustainability reporting priorities
functions within the company who provide further insight
by considering the most pressing issues affecting
and prioritize topics based on level of interest or concern to
stakeholders and our industry.
key stakeholders and strategic importance to the company.
Through meetings, correspondence, and a review of publicly
This process helps determine the significance of 27
available materials, we gather opinions and input from key
sustainability topics. The issues covered in this report reflect
external stakeholders (e.g., investors, banks, rating
discussions with SMEs from across our company, findings
agencies, community members and leaders, policymakers
from primary and secondary research, the feedback we
and regulators) to further identify reporting priorities. Based
received, and insights we gained through our ongoing
upon this collaborative approach, we regularly review a list
engagement with stakeholders.
of potentially important issues across a range of topics
including governance, environment and social.
10 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
seitiroirP
• Climate Change • Local employment and • Climate change and • Safety and • Compensation and
• Transition Risk economic development environmental performance benefits
• Nature • Indigenous rights protection expectations • Career development
• Human Capital • Environmental • Energy supply • Cost efficiencies • Safety, health and
responsibility • Economic • Alignment with well-being
• Community impacts development and job climate risk and • Environmental
• Training and education creation sustainable responsibility
• Safety and emergency • R ene fg ou rl ca et mor ey
n t
d exe pve el co tp am tioe nn st • Company strategy
response • Diversity, equity and
• Taxes and royalties inclusion (DEI)
tnemegagnE
• Investor presentations • Websites and social • Direct advocacy and • Bid process • Performance
and conferences media policy development • Project management management
• Analyst calls • Community investment • Industry and trade • Direct leadership • Training and
• Annual shareholder programs, local association collaboration development
meetings business and representation • Safety meetings
• SEC filings employment • Regulatory • DEI Council
opportunities compliance, audits
• Financial sector • Code of Conduct and
• Community and permit reviews
outreach Ethics Helpline
consultations and • Regional
meetings developments • Employee
communications,
• Owner relations
surveys, town halls,
• Volunteering network groups,
volunteering and field
visits
• Global wellness
programs
Governance and our approach
2023 PRIORITY ISSUE ISSUE DESCRIPTION
Economics, governance and strategy1
Carbon asset risk Identifying the financial risk of stranded reserves and infrastructure.
Low carbon technologies Assessing and advancing low carbon business opportunities.
SD governance process Having a comprehensive governance framework, including oversight from the Board of Directors,
to manage SD risks and opportunities.
Business ethics Adhering to applicable laws and the highest ethical standards.
Transparency and corruption Promoting transparency to reduce corruption, improve government accountability and foster
economic stability.
Resilient portfolio Focusing on low cost of supply and low GHG intensity resources that meet transition pathway
energy demand.
Environment
Carbon policy Considering legislation, regulation and demand risk (including technology and sentiment) related to
climate and a transition to a lower carbon economy.
Energy efficiency Reducing the amount of energy required to find and produce natural gas and oil.
Greenhouse gas emissions Reducing GHGs emitted during natural gas and oil production and developing a conceptual tool
that describes possible pathways.
Methane Reducing methane emitted during natural gas and oil production.
Flaring Reducing emissions caused by flaring during natural gas and oil production.
Physical climate risk Addressing associated risks that may impact facilities, operations, communities and/or
supply chain.
Biodiversity Mitigating impacts from activities and operations on threatened or at-risk species and habitats.
Produced water Managing discharge, disposal and/or recycling of produced water for offshore and onshore
operations including potential impacts to receiving environments including seismicity.
Water sourcing Securing sustainable and economic water sources for exploration, drilling, completions or
production.
Value chain Assessing risks and opportunities related to environment, including GHGs, biodiversity and water in
the value chain (supply chain and commercial).
Non-operated assets Assessing risks and opportunities related to environment, including GHGs, biodiversity and water.
Social
Stakeholder engagement Engaging with local stakeholders and Indigenous Peoples to understand their interests, concerns
and culture, seeking solutions that create mutually beneficial relationships and integrating those
into planning and decision making.
Community investment Investing in communities to support giving categories including education, natural resources,
health and safety, arts, civic and social services, and disaster relief.
Human rights Implementing human rights policies and practices that promote respect for civil, cultural, economic,
political and social rights.
Local content Creating economic stimulus in the communities where we operate through job creation and
socioeconomic development initiatives.
Safety and health Creating and maintaining a safe and healthy workplace that is free of injuries, fatalities and illness.
Supporting our people Attracting and retaining talent, offering training and development for workers to build capability
and career opportunities while promoting diversity, equity and inclusion.
Supply chain Assessing risks related to due diligence.
Just transition Considering social impacts, risks and opportunities associated with an energy transition.
Community impact Considering potential project and cumulative impacts and risks to communities, including
vulnerable communities.
Non-operated assets Assessing risks and opportunities related to communities and stakeholders, including project and
cumulative impacts and human rights.
1 Other aspects of corporate governance are fully addressed in our Annual Report and Proxy Statement.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 11
Climate
Climate
Building a resilient strategy
for the energy transition
Managing climate-related risks
In a world aiming for net-zero emissions, we have a robust climate-related risk framework
consisting of strong governance, strategic capability, risk management processes and
disclosure that will allow us to demonstrate resilience across a range of transition scenarios.
The energy transition will be complex, with many possible pathways and uncertainties and
likely to evolve at different times, at different paces, in different regions. We acknowledge the
urgency and importance of limiting global average temperature increases, and our actions are
aligned with shareholder interests for long-term value and competitive returns.
We employ our Climate Risk Strategy with an objective to reductions, targets, incentives, emissions-related
manage climate-related risks, optimize opportunities and technology development, and our climate-related policy and
equip the company to respond to changes in key financial sector engagement. Our goal is to support an
uncertainties, including government policies around the orderly transition that matches supply to demand and
world, emissions reduction technologies, alternative energy focuses on returns on and of capital while safely and
technologies and changes in consumer trends. The strategy responsibly delivering affordable energy.
guides our choices around portfolio composition, emissions
Checking equipment
at a site in the
Delaware Basin.
12 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Climate
2023 performance summary • Improved data quality, including corrected equipment
counts and classifications, and expansion of flare
• Published a progress report in the 2024 Proxy Statement
downtime monitoring resulted in increased 2023
on our Plan for the Energy Transition to describe key
emissions intensity estimates compared to 2022:
milestones achieved throughout 2023 as we manage
– Scope 1 and Scope 2 gross operated GHG emissions
energy transition risks and opportunities.
intensity estimate increased to 25.3 kg CO e/BOE.
2
• Published a new net-zero scenario that models the global
– Methane intensity estimate increased to 4.8 kg
government and societal actions required to limit
CO e/BOE.
2
warming to 1.5 degrees.
– Flaring intensity estimate increased to 31.8 MMCF/
• Improved our greenhouse gas (GHG) target framework
MMBOE (total flaring volume per total production).
and made progress against our existing targets:
• Decreased routine flaring4 more than 90% since 2021.
– Accelerated our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions
• Progressed engagement with suppliers and
intensity reduction target to 50-60% by 2030 on both a
commercial partners to address climate-related risks
gross operated and net equity basis from a 2016
in our value chain.
baseline.
• Advocated for an economy-wide U.S. carbon price that
– Progressed methane emissions activities in support of
could address consumer energy demand patterns and
our near-zero methane emissions intensity by 2030 (1.5
end-use (Scope 3) emissions. Supported policy advocacy
kg CO e/BOE) and introduced data quality
2
beyond carbon pricing to include other end-use emissions
improvements.
policy and regulatory actions, such as the direct federal
– Remained on schedule to meet a target of zero routine
regulation of methane and national policy
flaring by the end of 2025, five years sooner than the
recommendations to reduce GHG emissions from the U.S.
World Bank Initiative’s goal of 2030.2
natural gas value chain.
– Began developing total flaring intensity target
• Secured additional regasification capacity for liquefied
for 2030.
natural gas (LNG) and signed new offtake agreements.
• Spent approximately $350 million on Scope 1 and Scope
• Continued evaluation of energy transition and low-carbon
2 emissions reductions and low-carbon opportunities in
technologies efforts, including carbon capture and
2023 that are expected to result in approximately 0.8
storage (CCS) and hydrogen projects.
million tonnes per annum (MTPA) in emissions
reductions.3 An additional $300-400 million is allocated
for spending in 2024.
• Participated in the Oil and Gas Methane Partnership
(OGMP) 2.0 initiative to improve methane measurement
and reporting transparency and achieved the Gold
Standard Pathway for emissions reporting.
2 Per the World Bank’s Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 initiative, “Oil companies that endorse the Initiative will develop new oil fields they operate according to plans that incorporate
sustainable utilization or conservation of the field’s associated gas without routine flaring. Oil companies with routine flaring at existing oil fields they operate will seek to implement
economically viable solutions to eliminate this legacy flaring as soon as possible, and no later than 2030.”
3 Emissions reduction projects include both mandatory and voluntary projects.
4 Routine flaring is defined as flaring of associated gas that occurs during the normal production of oil in the absence of sufficient facilities to utilize the gas onsite, dispatch it to a market or
reinject it. Flaring for safety reasons, non-routine flaring or flaring gas other than associated gas is not included as part of the World Bank Zero Routine Flaring initiative.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 13

Climate
2023–2024 progress report
1 Per the World Bank’s Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 initiative, “Oil companies that endorse the Initiative will develop new oil fields they operate according to plans that incorporate
sustainable utilization or conservation of the field’s associated gas without routine flaring. Oil companies with routine flaring at existing oil fields they operate will seek to implement
economically viable solutions to eliminate this legacy flaring as soon as possible, and no later than 2030.”
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 15
CIGETARTS YTILIBIXELF tneiliseR dna
oiloftrop
oiranecs sisylana • Continued focus on low cost of supply and low GHG intensity resources that meet energy transition pathway demand.
• Published a new net-zero scenario modeling the collective global government and societal actions that would be required to align with
limiting warming to 1.5 degrees.
SNOISSIME
2
DNA
1
EPOCS
GNICUDER
enahteM
• Reduced methane intensity by ~50% since 2015.
• Progressed methane emissions reductions activities in support of our near-zero methane emissions intensity by 2030 (1.5 kg COe/BOE) and
2 introduced data quality improvements.
• Participated in OGMP 2.0 to improve methane measurement and reporting transparency and achieved the Gold Standard Pathway for
emissions reporting.
• Invested in LongPath Technologies, a scalable laser-based continuous emissions monitoring solution with the potential to cover targeted
assets or provide basin-wide multi-operator coverage.
gniralF • On schedule to meet the World Bank Zero Routine Flaring goal by the end of 2025.1
• Developing total flaring intensity target for 2030.
GHG
llarevO
• Accelerated our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions intensity reduction target through 2030 from 40-50% to 50-60%, using a 2016
baseline for both gross operated and net equity emissions.
• Completed our approved Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions reduction projects and advanced low-carbon opportunities within the allotted
capital and cost budget.
• Participated in a Ceres-led roundtable to discuss solutions for reaching net-zero emissions with cross-sector participation from the financial
sector and exploration and production (E&P) oil and gas companies.
• Conducted third-party limited assurance on all sustainability disclosures in our Sustainability Report.
• Continued to strengthen sustainability reporting processes, controls and assurance to prepare for pending disclosure requirements.
• Chaired a National Petroleum Council study on GHG emissions reduction across the U.S. natural gas value chain.
stesffO • Developed guidelines for company participation in the voluntary carbon market, including due diligence requirements.
• Increased our investment in the Climate Asset Management Carbon Fund.
• Continued to evaluate a wide range of future offset projects and funds to diversify our portfolio.
DNA
SNOISSIME
)3
EPOCS(
ESU
DNE
GNISSERDDA
NOITISNART
YGRENE
EHT
OT
GNITUBIRTNOC
dna
ycacovdA
ycilop
cilbup
• Expanded policy advocacy beyond carbon pricing to include energy efficiency, end-use emissions policy and regulatory action.
• Joined the Alliance to Save Energy to support the development of energy efficiency policies.
• Continued engagement with agencies in developing durable federal regulation of methane and leading the National Petroleum Council
study which is developing policy recommendations for reducing GHG emissions across the natural gas value chain.
• Carbon pricing is the most effective and predictable policy action to reduce GHG emissions across the economy, so ConocoPhillips
continues working with the World Bank’s Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition as a private sector partner to share and expand the evidence
base for effective carbon pricing in addition to our continued support of the Climate Leadership Council and Americans for Carbon
Dividends in the U.S.
niahc
ylppuS
tnemegagne
• Hosted annual Supplier Sustainability Forum with a focus group of suppliers to identify opportunities to reduce emissions in our value
chain.
• Collaborated with industry groups and third-party partners to align on collection, reporting and supplier engagement for supplier emissions.
GNL
• Secured regasification capacity at the Gate LNG terminal in the Netherlands, in addition to our regasification capacity at German LNG.
• Secured 5 MTPA of LNG offtake along with 30% equity in Sempra’s Port Arthur LNG Phase 1 project on the U.S. Gulf Coast which began
construction in March 2024.
• Signed offtake agreements at Mexico Pacific’s Saguaro Energía LNG, pending final investment decision, and Energia Costa Azul export
facility on the west coast of Mexico.
nobraC
woL
seigolonhceT
• Continued evaluation of potential opportunities to develop CCS hubs along the U.S. Gulf Coast.
• Participating in Canada’s Oil Sands Pathways Alliance working toward emissions reductions through CCS.
• Completed an equity investment in Avnos, a hybrid direct air capture innovator, and began evaluating the technology for project
development.
• Evaluating the development of green and blue ammonia from the U.S. Gulf Coast with Japanese energy company JERA.
• Investing in Radia Gigawind as a potential advantaged power solution with lower cost of supply and high-capacity factor.
Climate
Strategic capabilities Scenario planning at
ConocoPhillips
We aim to manage climate-related risk, optimize
opportunities and better equip the company to respond to: The scenarios we have developed describe possible
Evolving investor sentiment, technologies for emissions pathways leading to a particular outcome. Scenarios are
reduction, alternative energy technologies and uncertainties hypothetical constructs and are not predictions or forecasts
such as government policies. of what we think is going to happen; they are used to
illustrate which factors drive future developments. We use
The evolving energy landscape requires a strategy that will
scenarios in our strategic planning process to:
remain robust across a range of potential future outcomes.
• Gain better understanding of external factors that impact
Our strategy is comprised of four pillars:
our business to assist in the identification of major risks
• Objectives: Our framework consists of a hierarchy of and opportunities and inform mitigating actions.
objectives — a long-term ambition that sets the direction
• Identify leading indicators and trends.
and aim of the strategy, medium-term performance targets
• Test the robustness of our strategy across different
for operational GHG emissions and methane intensity, and
business environments.
near-term targets for flaring and methane intensity
reductions that guide implementation of our strategy. • Communicate risks appropriately.
• Inform how we position our business, as technologies and
• Technology choices: We continue to enhance our
markets evolve, to capitalize on opportunities that meet
emissions reduction programs in our current operations,
risk and return criteria.
while also evaluating new opportunities and technologies
that can closely integrate with our global operations, Using scenarios enables us to understand a range of risks
markets and competencies. around potential commodity market prices associated with
various GHG emissions reduction scenarios. To assist our
• Portfolio choices: We have integrated climate-related
capital allocation decisions, we can test our current portfolio
risk into our portfolio decision making through
of assets and investment opportunities against these future
consideration of carbon pricing and focusing on low cost
possibilities and identify where strengths and weaknesses
of supply, low GHG intensity resources by asset class.
may exist.
• External engagement: Our stakeholders’ points of view
We use a range of analyses, input and information when
inform the evolution of our climate-related frameworks,
developing our strategy. The detail of our scenarios gives
actions and public policy.
insight into the analysis we use to inform our strategic
Progress in these four pillars is demonstrated throughout decision making and reinforces to stakeholders and
the following sections. Across the pillars, our strategy takes shareholders that we are both preparing for reductions in
into consideration transition demand, results from scenario GHG emissions consistent with the Paris Agreement and
planning, near, medium, and long-term risks and ways to developing resilient strategies that reflect the complex and
address impacts from those risks. uncertain range of energy futures.
16 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Climate
We use four main energy transition scenarios in our global PROJECTED GLOBAL ENERGY-RELATED
energy model: Pre-Pandemic Trends, Moderate Transition, CO EMISSIONS
2
Accelerated Transition and 1.5 Net Zero. The four scenarios Gigatonnes per year
incorporate a wide range of possible outcomes for energy
and carbon emissions.
While these scenarios extend to 2050, well beyond our
near-term operational planning period, they give insights on
trends that could have an implication for near and medium-
term decisions and enable choices on the creation or
preservation of future options.
Each scenario models the full energy system including coal,
oil, natural gas, solar, wind, geothermal and nuclear, as well
as their related GHG emissions and pricing policies. Each of
these plausible pathways is designed to stretch our thinking
about potential rates of new technology adoption, policy
development and consumer behavior.
The scenarios describe four pathways out of the myriad that
are possible, given the uncertainty surrounding the
The thoughtful application of scenarios in strategic
development of future energy markets out to 2050. They do
planning is core to our ability to navigate future uncertainty
not describe all possible future outcomes and are not used
and is a practical way of conveying this information in a
as a reliable indicator of the actual impact of climate
decision-useful manner. The key to scenario planning is the
change on the ConocoPhillips portfolio or business.
use of a wide-enough range to characterize uncertainty,
In addition to using the four scenarios to analyze potential rather than trying to correctly guess specific future
outcomes, we regularly monitor key signposts as we work to variables or parameters.
track the pace and direction of the energy transition and
identify potential leading indicators of change in the
demand for hydrocarbons. In this way we aim to establish
not just which scenario we are moving toward, but also to
identify emerging disruptive scenarios. This analysis is
presented to executive management and the board of
directors to assist in strategic decision making.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 17
Climate
Scenario descriptions
Carbon taxes Oil and gas demand
Scenario Key assumptions (in 2023 dollars) Energy demand growth from 2022
Pre-Pandemic • Government policies for carbon • Carbon taxes are introduced at a • The global oil market grows by 48%
Trends emissions remain globally moderate rate in OECD countries, 30% over 2022’s 100 MMBOD
uncoordinated. rising to only $30/tCOe in 2050. level, driven by solid economic
2
• Technologies evolve at a gradual • Non-OECD countries do not growth and a lack of competitive
pace and current modes of implement carbon pricing by alternatives.
transportation and power 2050. • Natural gas demand increases by
generation remain the lowest more than 70% compared to
cost, most efficient avenues for 2022, reaching 680 BCFD as
energy consumption and growing economies utilize more
generation. natural gas.
Moderate • Moderate advances in national • Carbon taxes go into effect • Global oil demand plateaus in the 21%
Transition level carbon pricing policies and across OECD countries during the early to mid-2030s at around 110
alternative energy technologies, mid-2020s and are $25/tCO₂e in MMBOD and then declines very
with incremental shifts in 2030, rising to $60 in 2050. slowly, remaining above current
consumer preferences for low- • China implements its proposed levels through 2050.
carbon products. national carbon pricing policy at • By 2050, the global gas market
50% of the OECD carbon fee. expands by 40% from 2022
• No other non-OECD country levels. The primary driver for
implements a carbon pricing natural gas demand growth is
policy prior to 2050. power generation, followed by
hydrogen production.
• Captured carbon grows to 2.6
gigatonnes per annum in 2050.
• Total hydrogen market expands
to 250 million tonnes per annum
in 2050.
Accelerated • Accelerated deployment of • Economy-wide carbon pricing • The global oil market peaks in -7%
Transition established low-carbon goes into effect across OECD size by 2028 and remains near
technologies, such as intermittent countries during the mid-2020s that level until tapering more
renewables and electric vehicles. and is $30/tCOe in 2030, rising to quickly in the mid-2030s.
2
• Increased focus on structural and $100 in 2050. • The global natural gas market
fuel efficiencies. • China implements an economy- grows at an average annual rate
• Significant reductions in battery, wide carbon pricing policy at 50% of 0.7% until peaking near 430
wind and solar generation costs of the OECD price. BCFD in 2040 and slowly
through economies of scale, and • Non-OECD countries impose a low declining thereafter.
rapid deployment of grid $5/tCOe price by 2030. • Captured carbon increases to 4
2
infrastructure, catalyzed by a gigatonnes per annum by 2050.
more favorable regulatory • Advances in renewables-powered
environment and reduced hydrogen technology expand the
permitting timelines. hydrogen market to around 350
million tonnes per annum by
2050.
1.5 Net Zero1 • Key technological breakthroughs • OECD countries and China • Global oil demand peaks in 2025 -45%
and rapid global policy implement a transparent and declines to 50 MMBD in
coordination. economy-wide carbon price 2050.
• Significant technological mechanism by 2025 which rises • The natural gas market is much
advances in low-carbon, from $50/tCO 2e in 2030 to $200 more resilient in this scenario in
dispatchable, high-capacity- by 2050. comparison to oil as natural gas is
factor power generation, long- • Other non-OECD nations follow by needed as a lower-carbon fuel for
duration energy storage, and imposing economy-wide carbon reliable, dispatchable electricity
carbon removal. prices of $10/tCOe in 2030 rising generation. Global natural gas
2
• Enhanced geothermal systems to $50 by 2050. demand peaks in 2030.
(EGS), small modular reactors, • Captured carbon plays a critical
and nuclear fusion all reach role in emissions reduction,
commerciality before 2040. expanding to 6 gigatonnes per
annum by 2050.
• Hydrogen market grows to
around 430 million tonnes per
annum in 2050.
1 The 1.5 Net Zero scenario is designed to reach net-zero emissions in the energy sector by 2050. The remaining carbon budget of 600 gigatonnes of cumulative CO2 emissions from 2020
to 2050, is in line with a 1.5-degree warming target before 2100 with a slight temperature overshoot around the middle of the century. See IPCC AR6 Synthesis Report (2023).
18 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Climate
Our scenarios have a wide range of assumptions regarding Resilience to energy
technological advances, government policies (e.g., carbon
transition
prices) and consumer behaviors leading to a range of oil and
natural gas prices. We take this future price uncertainty into Our ability to address climate-related risks and meet
account in our strategy by using a fully burdened cost of transition pathway demand will depend on our ability to
supply as our primary criterion for capital allocation. In the deliver competitive returns on and of capital. Our sector-
2023 Analyst and Investors meeting, we showed of the ~20 leading approach focuses on the cost of supply of our
billion barrels of resources with a cost of supply at $40 per portfolio, committing to balance sheet strength and
barrel and below held in our portfolio, resources at the moderating growth by holding to disciplined reinvestment
average cost of supply can be produced at $32 per barrel.5 rates.
This compares favorably to the expected commodity prices
detailed in our own scenarios as well as external scenarios
such as the IEA’s Net Zero Emissions scenario. WTI COST OF SUPPLY
$/BBL
The scenarios are designed to address transitional risks.
A separate scenario process addresses physical climate-
related risk using consultant scenarios based on the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) modeling.
CONOCOPHILLIPS GLOBAL ENERGY
MODEL SCENARIOS
MMBOED
Oil and
gas
500 55% Oil and Oil and
gas gas
450 52% 44%
Oil and Oil and
400 gas gas
55% 29%
350
300
Portfolio resource and cost of supply as of 2023 Analyst and Investor Meeting.
250 Does not reflect 100% ownership of Surmont.
200
150
100
50
0
Actuals Pre- Moderate Accelerated 1.5 Net
2022 Pandemic Transition Transition Zero 2050
Trends 2050 2050
2050
Oil Natural Gas Coal
Nuclear Biomass Renewables
Hydro
5 Costs assume a mid-cycle price environment of $60/BBL WTI.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 19
Climate
Oil and natural gas are projected to remain essential parts To assist our capital allocation decisions, we test our
of the energy supply mix in coming decades across a broad current portfolio of assets and investment opportunities
range of transition scenarios. We intend to maintain our key against future possibilities and identify strengths and
market role through remaining competitive and resilient to weaknesses that may exist. As a result of our strategy and
transition-related risks in any scenario by providing low- scenario work, we have focused capital on resources with
cost, low-GHG intensity production by asset type with low cost of supply, exiting deep water and high emissions
continuously improving sustainability performance. intensity gas fields while increasing our investments in
unconventional oil projects.
The cost of supply of our resource base supports our
assertion that resources with the lowest cost of supply are In recent years we have high-graded our portfolio and
most likely to be developed in scenarios with lower demand, applied stringent capital allocation criteria that direct
such as the IEA’s Net Zero Emissions scenario. Cost of investments to resources that will best match transition
supply is the West Texas Intermediate (WTI) equivalent price demand. We are equally focused on developing assets that
that would generate a 10% after-tax return on a point- have a low cost of supply and low GHG intensity, as these
forward and fully burdened basis. In our definition, cost of are most likely to compete in any future energy transition
supply is fully burdened with capital investment, foreign pathway with each asset type contributing to its unique
exchange, price-related inflation, G&A and carbon tax (if market (e.g., unconventionals, LNG, oil sands). Based on our
currently assessed). If no carbon tax exists for the asset, current forecasts, our GHG intensity will improve over time
carbon pricing aligned with internal energy scenarios is and assets with less than 10 kg CO e/BOE are projected to
2
applied. Cost of supply is the primary metric that we use for represent a larger portion of our portfolio by 2030. In
capital allocation, and it has the advantage of being addition, the cost of supply of our portfolio performs
independent of price forecasts. Providing low cost of supply competitively against expected commodity prices across a
also addresses a key component of a just transition — range of future scenarios.
reliable and affordable energy supply.
In 2023, we announced completion of the purchase of the
As shared during our 2023 Analyst and Investor Meeting, we remaining 50% interest in our Surmont asset. As a long-life,
have a resource base of ~20 billion barrels of oil equivalent low sustaining capital asset, Surmont plays an important
with a cost of supply of $40 per barrel (or lower) and an role in our diverse low cost of supply portfolio. The asset has
average of $32 per barrel. competitive operating margins and remains compatible with
meeting our 2030 GHG emissions intensity target. We have
plans for future operational emissions reduction by applying
OIL PRICES BY IEA SCENARIO1 both current and new technology. While Surmont is an
$/BBL emissions intensive asset, ConocoPhillips is also a member
STATED ANNOUNCED NET ZERO
of the Pathways Alliance, working on reducing emissions
POLICIES2 PLEDGES3 EMISSIONS4
using CCS from oil sands operations.
Temperature
2.5 1.7 1.5
Outcome (°C)
The mix and location of the resources in our portfolio
USD 2023 Real
89 77 44
Terms in 2030 provide flexibility and adaptability as we monitor scenarios
USD 2023 Real and global trends. Our short-cycle shale project times and
87 71 No data
Terms in 2040
capital flexibility enable us to redirect capital to the most
USD 2023 Real
86 62 26 competitive basins. Our extensive low cost of supply
Terms in 2050
resource base allows us to divest higher cost assets to high-
1 2022 IEA prices inflated to 2023 dollars to enable direct comparison with cost of supply
figures. grade our portfolio as our strategy evolves. This applies to
2 Stated Policies Scenario: No new policies. both hydrocarbon mix and geographic region. If policy in a
3 Announced Pledges Scenario: Net-zero pledges.
4 Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario. country or region significantly impacts cost of supply, we
can shift capital to other opportunities.
20 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Climate
One example of portfolio diversification is the significant Carbon price
expansion of our LNG portfolio in recent years through our
We use assumptions of carbon pricing to navigate GHG
increased interest in APLNG and participation in joint
regulations, drive culture shift, encourage energy efficiency
ventures with QatarEnergy. These projects have a low cost
and low-carbon investment, and stress test investments. In
of supply and low GHG emissions intensity on a life cycle
2023, the company used a range of estimated future costs
basis and align with our view that LNG is expected to play
of GHG emissions for internal planning purposes, including
an increasingly important role in helping meet energy
an estimate of $60 per tonne CO e as a sensitivity to
transition pathway demand, with its lower GHG intensity 2
evaluate certain future projects and opportunities. The base
compared to burning coal for power generation.
case for project approval economics and planning includes
either the forecast of existing carbon pricing regulations or
GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY OF GROSS our current probability-weighted energy transition scenario
OPERATED PRODUCTION for that jurisdiction, depending on which is higher. Where
there is no carbon price regulation, we use the current
transition scenario for that jurisdiction. We also run two
sensitivities:
• With only existing carbon pricing regulations, to reflect
near-term cash more accurately.
• With a sensitivity of $60 per tonne CO e to act as a stress
2
test to reduce the risk of stranded assets should climate
regulation accelerate.
This ensures that both existing and emerging regulatory
requirements are considered in our planning and decision
making.
Addressing climate-
Chart shows gross operated production as a percentage of the company portfolio
related risks
arranged by GHG intensity. 2030 data is estimated from forecasts current as of
August 2023 and are subject to change.
Our Climate Change Action Plan addresses the significant
and high risks from our SD Risk Register and includes
ConocoPhillips has long been a participant in the LNG
milestones over several years. Actions within the plan address
business, utilizing our commercial capabilities to develop
individual risks identified by our BUs or global/regional risks
and supply markets. We believe that U.S. LNG is well placed
identified by our central corporate staff. For example, some
to provide lower emissions intensity, reliable energy to
chronic and physical climate-related impacts are more likely
European and Asian markets. Our U.S. Gulf Coast Port
to apply to a single BU, given the specific local nature of the
Arthur LNG partnership also allows for optionality for future
risk and geographical location of our assets.
offtake from expansion trains and access to excess cargos
from equity investments. Read more about these projects in
the LNG section.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 21
Climate
CLIMATE CHANGE ACTION PLAN
RISK TOPICS MITIGATION ACTIONS AND MILESTONES
Climate-related policy
Climate change policy, • Review global emerging issues with the SPEC on a regular basis.
including carbon taxes • Work with Climate Leadership Council and API Climate Working Group to develop U.S. carbon tax framework; advocate for a carbon
price through the Climate Leadership Council/Americans for Carbon Dividends as well as the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition.
• Directly engage governments on evolving climate policy and monitor policy developments.
• Engage in industry working groups to provide input to federal consultation on border carbon adjustment policies.
• Use carbon price in base case long-range planning and forecasting; maintain GHG forecasting practice.
• Support effective incentives for emissions reductions, including tax and production credits and protocols for use of carbon credits
and offsets.
• Maintain global corporate position and strategy on carbon offsets purchases and advocate for the long-term use of carbon
offsets, including market convergence.
Climate disclosure policy • Conduct regulatory reporting gap assessment to plan for new regulatory disclosures.
• Conduct assurance and internal audit for all sections of annual Sustainability Report and enhance processes and controls.
• Implement strategy for environmental data management.
Low carbon technologies • Explore novel technology and investments through Low Carbon Technologies organization.
activities • Explore implementing CCS technology in project design.
• Explore development of a lower-carbon hydrogen/ammonia project.
• Consider partnering with future renewable energy project developers to power our operations where operationally and
economically feasible and monitor new opportunities.
Emissions and emissions management
GHG emissions • Support enactment of cost-effective federal methane regulations on new and existing sources that would preserve a state’s
regulations ability to adapt implementation to local conditions.
• Explore new technology solutions and facility improvements to meet methane and flaring reduction targets.
• Continue regulatory advocacy efforts around methane and flaring.
• Work with industry trade groups and task forces to respond to proposed GHG regulations.
GHG emissions • Design and develop new facilities with lower emission footprints. Focus on operational efficiency globally to reduce GHG intensity.
reductions • Execute U.S. flare reduction plans and consider developing additional flaring reduction targets.
• Continue implementation of corporate Climate Risk Strategy including energy transition plan with updated targets. Continue
integration of BU emissions reduction approaches.
• Improve GHG data collection efforts and advance MACC emissions reduction projects, plans and low-carbon ideas. Continue to
assess transformational technology pilots.
• Continue to grow emissions monitoring program. Advance methane mitigation measures through leak detection surveys, source
testing and tank monitoring.
• Participate in OGMP 2.0 to advance methane reporting to Level 5 Gold Standard reporting.
• Include energy transition milestones in short-term incentive plan to add accountability to reducing our GHG emissions intensity.
• Increase internal engagement on electricity load forecasting and grid power needs across the company to manage electricity-
related planning.
Physical climate-related impacts
Acute and chronic Assessment
physical risks • Continue to include physical climate risk in SD risk management process.
• Develop global physical risk assessment guidelines for BUs and continue with ongoing review cycle.
• Initiate asset-specific climate risk assessments.
Fresh water constraints
• Increasing use of recycled produced water and produced water infrastructure planning and collaboration.
• Progressing research to develop and pilot technologies and processes to treat produced water for potential beneficial reuse
opportunities beyond the oil and gas industry.
Permafrost thaw
• Continue assessment of risk of permafrost thaw for construction of new infrastructure and implementation of mitigation
measures.
• Investigate effective approaches for monitoring permafrost.
• Continually review and update engineering and design specifications, including equipment and site maintenance.
Wildfire
• Participate in desktop regional wildfire annual risk assessment and mitigation planning efforts.
• Execute emergency response plan exercises, drills and training for wildfire threats.
• Engage with local forestry industry on integrated land management plan.
• Implement and execute safety barriers and controls to enable facility and personnel protection in the case of fire and advance
warning of potential wildfire threats.
• Distribute wildfire daily update to relevant stakeholders.
22 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Climate
Reducing Scope 1 and
We have committed to near, medium and long-term
Scope 2 emissions targets for reducing operational (Scope 1 and Scope 2)
emissions over which the company has ownership. Our
In 2020, we adopted a climate-related risk framework with targets are:
an ambition to reduce our operational greenhouse gas • Ambition to reach net-zero emissions for Scope 1
(GHG) emissions to net-zero by 2050. To that end, we and Scope 2 emissions by 2050.
calculate key metrics and use targets to estimate and
• Reduce GHG emissions intensity to 50-60% by
monitor our performance and progress in managing climate-
2030 on both a gross operated and net equity basis
related risks and opportunities in line with our strategy and from a 2016 baseline.
risk management process. These include:
• Achieve near-zero methane emissions intensity by
• GHG emissions intensity target. 2030.
• Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. • Reduce methane emissions intensity by 10% by
2025 from a 2019 baseline.
• Metrics for methane, flaring and water.
• Achieve a target of zero routine flaring by the end
We believe these metrics and targets are the most useful in of 2025, five years sooner than the World Bank
managing climate-related risks and opportunities and initiative’s goal of 2030.
monitoring performance. Our 2023 emissions increased
compared to 2022 (on a gross operated basis) due to the
Our targets inform internal emissions reduction efforts at the
integration of methane emissions data improvements,6
BU level and support innovation on efficiency, emissions
including corrected pneumatic equipment counts and
reduction, GHG regulatory risk mitigation and climate-related
classifications, as well as the expansion of flare downtime
risk management throughout the life cycle of our assets.
monitoring:
• Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions intensity increased Beyond 2030, many uncertainties influence our ability to set
to 25.3 kg CO e/BOE. specific future commitments and progress toward our net-
2
zero operational emissions ambition. Examples include:
• Methane intensity increased to 4.8 kg CO e/BOE.
2
• Pace of development of currently undeveloped
• Flaring intensity increased to 31.8 MMCF/MMBOE (total
technologies.
flaring volume per total production).
• Country-driven climate policy.
Despite the increase in emissions in 2023, we are still on
track to achieving our 2030 GHG intensity and methane • Permitting and regulatory changes that may impair ability
emissions intensity reduction targets. to execute current or future plans.
Our ambition for net-zero operational emissions by 2050 is • Pricing, verifiability and availability of offsets; offset
set on an absolute emissions basis, while the rest of our market developments.
target framework for near and medium-term targets is set • Potential revisions to emissions estimates and reduction
on an intensity basis. Intensity targets better apply to the goals as measurement technologies advance.
E&P sector’s dynamic business environment where plans,
• Success and rate of return of nascent low carbon
technology, prices, industry structure and costs all change
investments, technologies and markets.
rapidly. Intensity targets are more durable and allow a
• The size and composition of transition demand driven by
company to change its plans to maintain a competitive
the world’s population and their per capita energy
portfolio without also having to repeatedly reset targets.
consumption.
6 In support of our company reporting practices that are based on the data principles from the World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting
Standard.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 23
Climate
Scenario modeling and analysis helps to identify key
uncertainties to be managed. We also recognize that future Our Performance metrics section provides the
government policy and regulatory efforts may supersede metrics included in this section in tabular
company net-zero targets as governments set and refine format.
their own Nationally Determined Contributions. As such, we
Our metrics are also linked to key frameworks
recognize that our pathway and targets may not be the such as SASB, GRI/Ipieca/UNGP and TCFD.
same as other companies due to differences in asset mix,
geographies, risks and opportunities.
SCOPE 1 – Direct GHG emissions from sources
All data presented herein is from January 1 to December 31,
owned or controlled by ConocoPhillips.
2023. Footnotes to our performance metrics outline the
scope and methodologies of our data reporting. The SCOPE 2 – GHG emissions from the generation of
minimum boundary for reporting on environmental priorities purchased electricity consumed by ConocoPhillips.
is the assets we operate. Current and updated targets and
SCOPE 3 – All other indirect GHG emissions as a
ambitions are outlined in near, medium and long-term
result of ConocoPhillips’ activities, from sources
timeframes, followed by examples of emissions reduction
not owned or controlled by the company, including
projects in our BUs. Our progress to date has not included
emissions from the end use of oil and gas products
the use of voluntary offsets.
by consumers.
Read more about the principles surrounding our approach to
target setting.
PATHWAY TO NET-ZERO1
Emissions Intensity (kg COe/BOE)
2
Near-Term (2025) • Zero routine flaring by end of 20252
• Reduce GHG intensity 50-60% (from 40-50%)³
Medium-Term (2030)
• Near-zero methane intensity target <1.5 kg CO e/BOE
2
Long-Term (2050) • Net-zero emissions ambition¹
1 Scope 1 and 2 emissions on a gross operated and net equity basis.
2 Achieving a target of zero routine flaring by end of 2025, five years sooner than the World Bank initiative goal of 2030.
3 Reduction from a 2016 baseline.
24 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Climate
GHG emissions TOTAL GROSS OPERATED GHG EMISSIONS
Percent of total company
Performance
CO from imported
In 2023, our total gross operated GHG emissions were 2
electricity | 6%
approximately 17.4 million tonnes, a 9% increase compared
Methane
to 2022. Changes between 2022 and 2023 include: (CO 2e) | 19%
• Data improvements for methane emissions:
– Corrected pneumatic equipment counts and
classifications.
– Expanded flare downtime monitoring in the Bakken
and Permian.
• Activity increases in Lower 48 and Canada.
CO from
These increases were partially offset by disposition of our 2
operations | 75%
Indonesia asset and decreased activity in Alaska, Norway
and Australia.
N2O represents only about 0.1% of our gross operated emissions
and is not included here.
GROSS OPERATED GHG EMISSIONS TOTAL GROSS OPERATED GHG EMISSIONS
CHANGES AND INTENSITY
Million tonnes COe
2
41.0
34.3
26.8
26.9
25.3
23.3
18.7
17.4
16.2 16.1
2016 2020 2021 2022 2023
Million tonnes COe kg COe/BOE
2 2
Data changes may not sum due to rounding.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 25
Climate
Target progress GROSS OPERATED PATHWAY TO 50-60%
In April 2023, we strengthened our target to 50-60% INTENSITY REDUCTION TARGET
reduction by 2030 from a 2016 baseline. The target covers kg CO 2e/BOE
Scope 1 and Scope 2 gross operated and net equity
emissions. Our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions and
emissions intensity calculations directly measure our
performance and help us understand climate-related risk.
Lower intensity assets are more resilient to policy, legal,
technology and market risk.
2023 GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY
TARGET PROGRESS
kg COe/BOE
2
The target includes emissions that are related to production
and excludes emissions from our aviation and polar tankers
Target range is 50-60% reduction on both gross operated and net equity basis. fleets. This may give rise to small differences between the
Target range shown reflects 60% reduction on gross operated and 50% reduction on
net equity basis. intensity we report for our GHG target purposes and the
intensity we report for our annual metrics. Since 2019, this
The company has already progressed toward meeting this difference has been less than 2%, or 1 kg CO 2e/BOE.
target over the past several years. Between 2016 and 2023,
we achieved a 36% intensity reduction on a target-related,
gross operated basis through a combination of specific
emissions reduction projects and portfolio changes. From
2024 to 2030, continued capital allocation actions are
expected to have a combined impact of lowering GHG
emissions intensity by roughly 14-24% as we increase
production from assets with low intensity, such as those in
the Permian Basin, and achieve reductions from near-term
projects. Our progress to date has not included the use of
voluntary offsets.
26 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Climate
Net equity and non-operated Equity based
operated
emissions
58%
In addition to progress against our operational GHG
Net equity
emissions intensity target, we are also working toward
GHG
reducing our net equity GHG emissions intensity. Our target-
emissions
related net equity emissions were 9% higher in 2023 Equity based
compared to 2022, at 19.8 million tonnes CO e. This non-operated
2
42%
corresponds to a target-related net equity intensity of
29.7 kg CO e/BOE. About 42% of our net equity emissions
2
are from non-operated assets.
Because we approach our company’s net-zero ambition as a
NET EQUITY PATHWAY TO 50-60%
shared challenge, we look to influence our joint operating
INTENSITY REDUCTION TARGET
partners’ climate risk strategies and GHG targets and align
kg COe/BOE
our emissions reduction activity. We engage with our major 2
operating partners to align on approaches to managing
climate-related risk. This includes discussions with
QatarEnergy and its operating company Qatargas for our
LNG partnership in Qatar as well as Origin Energy for our
APLNG business.
We also recently initiated an internal Non-Operated Asset
Working Group to align on ways of working with non-
operated partners, meet our company strategic objectives,
and exchange knowledge on best practices and levels of
engagement. These opportunities will deepen our
understanding of non-operated partners’ operational
directions and targets and allow us to engage with partners
on specific emissions reduction initiatives and frameworks
as a response to regulatory, social and stakeholder
pressures.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 27
Climate
Methane While these data quality changes ultimately increased the
total emissions we report, they also signify our commitment
Performance to incorporating the best available information from our
In 2023, estimated methane emissions totaled 3.3 million assets and the importance of transparency. Even with
tonnes of CO₂e and constituted approximately 19% of our changes to data quality, our methane reduction strategy
total GHG emissions. While methane emissions increased remains the same:
compared to 2022, as of year-end 2023, we have achieved
• Detect fugitive emissions events early.
an approximate 50% methane emissions intensity reduction
• Evaluate and execute emissions reduction opportunities.
from 2015 with an intensity of 4.8 kg CO e/BOE.7
2
• Validate emissions measurement through OGMP 2.0.
The increase in estimated emissions between 2022 and
• Maintain sound operating practices, including aerial and
2023 can be attributed to improved data quality. Corrected
ground-based surveys for leak detection.
equipment counts and classifications constitute the majority
of this increase, represented in dark blue in the following Leak detection and repair (LDAR) is a work practice used to
chart. In addition, we are expanding flare downtime identify and repair leaking components to reduce GHG
monitoring, further improving the accuracy of methane emissions, maintain regulatory compliance, and increase
emissions estimation, represented in light blue in the efficiency. Our LDAR program includes both regulatory-
following chart. required efforts and voluntary measures.
We continue to voluntarily conduct pilots of emerging
TOTAL GROSS OPERATED METHANE technologies at numerous facilities to determine
EMISSIONS effectiveness and scalability of next-generation detection
Global Warming Potential = 25 technologies, while also deploying fixed-sensor
Million tonnes COe
2
technologies and aerial survey methods for identification of
emissions events.
6.1
The primary objective of our monitoring program is to
expeditiously identify, investigate and repair leaks
associated within our operations.
1.4
0.6
1.7 1.8 1.8
1.6
1.4
2015 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Corrected equipment counts and classifications
Updated flare downtime
Data changes may not sum due to rounding. 2023 pneumatics and flare breakout is
based on Lower 48 only; all other reported numbers are at an enterprise level.
7 While 2019 is the formal baseline for our methane emissions intensity target, we also compare performance to 2015 to show longer-term progress. 2015 is an important milestone year for
international organizations like the UN-led Oil and Gas Methane Partnership 2.0 that aim to achieve a 45% methane emissions reduction by 2025 from 2015 levels.
28 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Climate
Target progress The Oil and Gas Methane
We have both a near-term and medium-term target8 for Partnership 2.0
reducing methane emissions: Joining the initiative
• By 2025: Meet a 10% methane emissions intensity In July 2022, ConocoPhillips joined the Oil and Gas Methane
reduction target by 2025 from a 2019 baseline. Partnership (OGMP) 2.0 initiative, a voluntary, public-private
partnership between the United Nations Environment
• By 2030: Achieve a near-zero methane emissions intensity
Programme (UNEP), the European Commission, the
by 2030. This near-zero target is defined as 1.5 kg CO e/
2
Environmental Defense Fund and over 130 oil and gas
BOE or approximately 0.15% of natural gas produced.
companies. OGMP 2.0 has emerged as a globally
While the data quality changes discussed in the previous recognized framework for methane emissions
section may potentially impact our 2025 methane intensity measurement and reporting and is aimed at minimizing
target, we continue to monitor progress against the target, methane emissions from global oil and gas operations. We
and we are maintaining line of sight to our 2030 target. With are committed to improving the transparency of our
regulatory reporting changes phasing in over 2024 and methane emissions reporting and delivering on our methane
2025, there remains some uncertainty over near-term reduction objectives and targets by collaborating with
methane emissions levels. Our path to near-zero methane industry peers to accelerate best practices in our
emissions by 2030 includes: Focusing on eliminating operations. Ultimately, reporting through OGMP 2.0 will
pneumatics, minimizing flare downtime, managing emissions help us make better informed decisions about where to
from thief hatches and continuing to execute our methane- prioritize our efforts to have the maximum impact on
related MACC projects. reducing our emissions footprint.
Creating a U.S. context
GROSS OPERATED METHANE While ConocoPhillips operates in several countries across
INTENSITY PROGRESS the globe, it was among the first few companies with a
kg CO 2e/BOE sizable U.S. onshore presence to join OGMP 2.0. We actively
engaged with UNEP staff and other OGMP 2.0 members to
PATH TO NEAR-ZERO BY 2030
implement the program for a U.S. onshore asset given the
1. Pneumatics elimination
2. Flare downtime minimization characteristics of dispersed operations in our Lower 48
3. Thief hatch management assets. U.S. companies operate thousands of individual wells
4. Continued MACC execution over large geographic areas, often involving many partners
with varying interests, making it challenging to conduct
measurement campaigns that span thousands of acres in
various locations.
Approach
As part of OGMP 2.0, we committed to reporting methane
emissions for all material sources from both operated and
non-operated assets, according to our reporting
boundaries, and we submitted our OGMP 2.0
Implementation Plan in May 2023. At that time, a majority of
the emissions from our assets were being reported at
Level 3. We then implemented a measurement campaign
involving sampling hundreds of sites across Lower 48,
8 These targets include emissions that are related to production and exclude emissions from our aviation and polar tankers fleets.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 29
Climate
Alaska, Canada, Australia and Norway at a mix of facilities, First, we conducted a “bottom-up” source-level equipment
including large, complex sites, batteries/facilities and well inventory to complement the existing inventories of sources
pads. Results from these sampled sites were used to inform at the selected sites. This was followed by source-level
asset-level totals. emissions measurements using targeted methods for
specific source types or the bottom-up Level 4
While our measurement campaign spans global assets, our
measurements. Next, we conducted flyovers at the
Lower 48 team is leading the effort since a majority of
selected sites to determine “top-down” measurements. We
company methane emissions are from Lower 48 assets, and
then extrapolated emissions from both bottom-up and
learnings from these assets can be leveraged for other
top-down measurements to the asset level. We are in the
operating areas. Lower 48 organized an internal,
process of initiating Level 5 reporting where we will
multidisciplinary team with representation from engineering,
compare and reconcile both bottom-up and top-down basin
operations and environmental functions to carry out the
inventories.
measurement and analysis for a measurement-informed
methane inventory. The approach focused on updating Results and impacts to reported data
equipment inventories, classifying equipment, initiating
additional metering to support real-time data, and
Measurement-informed estimates: Using direct,
conducting Quantitative Optical Gas Imaging surveys. To
measured data from a sample set of facilities to
complete a Level 5 inventory, OGMP 2.0 requires the
inform a wider set of facilities or basin-wide
measurement of source-level emissions (“bottom-up”) as
estimate.
well as site level emissions (“top-down”).
Regulatory-based estimates: Using generic
emissions factors rather than site-specific factors to
OGMP 2.0 “levels” refer to increasing reporting calculate emissions, following the regulatory
requirements and additional granularity. framework for each jurisdiction in which we operate.
• Level 3 includes reporting of emissions by
detailed source type based on generic
Our results to date are generally consistent with other
emissions factors.
published studies and included findings such as:
• Level 4 emissions are based on source-level
• Most of our emissions come from a small percentage of
measurements and often calculated using site-
sources, with a few high-emission events accounting for a
specific emission factors and activity factors.
large portion of the inventory.
• Level 5, the gold standard for reporting,
• Emissions from sources like pneumatic devices were
includes measurement at the site or facility
smaller compared to regulatory-based estimates.
level and reconciliation with Level 4 source-
level reporting estimates.1 • The difference between top-down emissions and
bottom-up emissions was dependent on basin; neither
1 FAQ – OGMP 2.0 (ogmpartnership.com)
measurement type yielded consistently higher emissions
across basins.
• In basins where the top-down emissions were higher,
it was often a result of higher emissions from
episodic events.
30 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Climate
Given ongoing developments in measurement technologies, Next steps
we expect our measurement-informed estimates will After submitting our implementation plan in 2023, we were
continue to evolve as we incorporate those technologies awarded OGMP 2.0’s Gold Standard Pathway designation in
into our approach. We do not consider that the recognition of our multiyear measurement-based reporting
measurement technologies will yield exact representations; plan which goes beyond current regulatory requirements.
we use our results to evaluate mitigation approaches rather The plan was also recognized for being detailed, descriptive,
than determine precise quantifications. As we approach transparent, robust and comprehensive per the “Company
Level 5 reporting, we anticipate that measurement Highlights” included in the International Methane Emissions
technologies will continue to improve, so we continue to Observatory 2023 Report. We will continue to advance
monitor, pilot and test a range of measurement technologies methane measurement efforts, including:
across our assets.
• Focusing on the most impactful and cost-effective
A desired outcome of OGMP 2.0 is that in the future, reductions, including those reductions informed by OGMP
measurement-based information can be incorporated into 2.0 measurements.
regulatory-required methane emissions reporting. While • Continuing our measurement program as we expand our
emissions inventories required by the EPA and other source-level and site-level measurements in 2024 and
regulators today are based on equipment count and beyond.
production, we expect this to show more convergence with
• Piloting new technologies as methane measurement
our measurement-based OGMP 2.0 inventory as EPA and
practices improve.
other regulations evolve to allow the incorporation of
• Using the latest academic research on calculations
empirical data beginning in 2025. In the interim, we
related to measurement-based inventories.
anticipate our measurement-informed emissions estimates
to differ from EPA and other regulatory reported emissions. • Continuing to progress to Level 5 reporting across our
However, increased emissions estimates from better material assets.
measurement-informed practices are not likely to impact • Engaging with non-operating partners and OGMP 2.0
our ability to achieve our 2030 GHG intensity target given members for industry-wide improvement in methane
our robust emissions reduction approach and focused measurement and reporting.
monitoring efforts on the most impactful emissions sources.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 31
Climate
Flaring In 2022, we committed to achieving zero routine flaring by
the end of 2025, five years in advance of the World Bank
Performance
goal, and we continue to make strong progress. In 2023,
Flaring is a safety-related process for the controlled release
routine flaring decreased more than 90% compared to 2021
and burning of natural gas during oil and gas exploration,
when we first began tracking it separately. We achieved
production and processing operations. Flaring is required to
this through active well management to shut-in wells
safely dispose of flammable gas released during process
during capacity constraint events and working closely with
upsets or other unplanned events and to safely relieve
third-party gas offtake providers to ensure sufficient
pressure before performing equipment maintenance. Flaring
capacity. Other projects focus on treatment of sour gas,
is also used to control and reduce emissions of volatile
flare capture and de-bottlenecking. Achieving this target is
organic compounds from oil and condensate storage tanks.
a key near-term action to achieving our World Bank goal as
In 2023, the total volume of flared gas was 21.9 BCF, an well as our net-zero operational emissions ambition.
increase of 22% from 2022. The increase was a result of
While total flaring emissions make up only about 13% of our
updated equipment inventories in both Permian and Bakken,
total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions, the target will
shutdown and maintenance at APLNG facilities in Australia,
drive continued near-term focus on routine flaring
and plant expansion in Canada.
reductions across our assets.
Target progress
In addition to our near-term routine flaring target, we are
ConocoPhillips is committed to the World Bank Zero exploring the development of a total flaring intensity target
Routine Flaring by 2030 initiative, a program that aims to for 2030.
create consistency among governments, the oil and gas
sector and development institutions to address flaring.9
TOTAL GROSS OPERATED FLARING VOLUME ROUTINE FLARING
Million Cubic Feet
43.8
1,030
31.8
29.5
24,600 25.9
30.8
21,867
20,500
17,858
14,500
111
13
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023
Million Cubic Feet/Million BOE Million Cubic Feet
9 Routine flaring is defined as flaring of associated gas that occurs during the normal production of oil in the absence of sufficient facilities to utilize the gas onsite, dispatch it to a market or
re-inject it. Flaring for safety reasons, non-routine flaring or flaring gas other than associated gas is not included as part of the World Bank Zero Routine Flaring initiative.
32 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Climate
Research and development Addressing Scope 3
Technology will play a major role in addressing GHG emissions
emissions, whether through reducing emissions or lowering
the energy intensity of our operations or value chain. As
Scope 3 reporting
discussed in our External Collaboration and Engagement
and Public Policy sections, we participate in a number of We calculate Scope 3 emissions using the Greenhouse Gas
research and industry initiatives, two of which are the Protocol and the Ipieca 2016 Estimating Petroleum Industry
Natural Gas Initiative and Pathways Alliance Inc. The Natural Value Chain (Scope 3) Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Gas Initiative is a program led by Stanford University methodologies based on net equity production numbers.
researchers with participation from industry, government, We report the four largest categories of Scope 3 emissions
intergovernmental organizations and foundations. The that apply to our operations. Scope 3 emissions include
initiative aims to increase public access to information about CO , methane (as CO e) and nitrous oxide (as CO e) for the
2 2 2
the accuracy of methane detection and quantification four material categories of Scope 3 emissions that apply to
technologies. our operations.
In 2021, ConocoPhillips joined the Oil Sands Pathways to For oil and natural gas exploration and production
Net-Zero Alliance (now Pathways Alliance Inc., “Alliance”), companies, Scope 3 emissions fall primarily into the “use of
which includes Canadian Natural Resources, Cenovus sold products” category. Though we do not control how our
Energy, Imperial, MEG Energy and Suncor Energy. Together total production is ultimately processed into consumer
this group represents the companies operating products, we make the conservative assumption that the
approximately 95% of Canada’s oil sands production. The majority of production is ultimately burned as fuel by end
ambition of the Alliance is to progress toward reducing users. We use the API Compendium GHG emissions factors
Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from oil sands for crude oil and natural gas burned as fuel. This method
operations to help Canada meet its climate goals with the accounts for all possible GHG emissions that could be
use of carbon capture and storage. ConocoPhillips is associated with end use of our production. Our assumptions
partnering with members of the Alliance and governments and method are especially conservative when the “double
to accelerate emissions reduction efforts. Financial support, counting” issues inherent in Scope 3 estimations for an
regulatory approvals and advances in technology are critical exploration and production company are taken into account.
to advancing this ambition.
We conservatively calculate the other three categories of
Another way we support technology development is through Scope 3 emissions by taking our entire volume of crude and
our annual MACC process which identifies and prioritizes natural gas and applying the relevant transportation,
our emissions reduction opportunities from operations distribution and processing emissions factors from academic
based on the project’s breakeven cost of carbon ($ per tonne life cycle analyses, including the 2022 S&P Global “The Right
CO 2e reduced). This data helps identify projects that might Measure: A Guidebook to Crude Oil Life-cycle GHG
become viable in the future through further research, Emissions Estimation," and the 2024 National Petroleum
development and deployment. As a result of this work, we
have focused our near-term technology investments on
SCOPE 3 SOURCE 2023 ESTIMATED
reducing both costs and emissions where feasible.
MILLION TONNES CO E
2
Upstream transportation 2
Through the MACC process, since 2018 we have spent
Downstream transportation 6
approximately $750 million on research and development,
equipment, products and services and projects to reduce Processing of sold products 16
our GHG emissions. Use of sold products 218
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 33
Climate
Council “Charting the Course: Reducing Greenhouse Gas Baker-Shultz Carbon Dividends Plan. In 2021, ConocoPhillips
Emissions from the U.S. Natural Gas Supply Chain.” was accepted as a Private Sector Partner within the Carbon
Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC), a global voluntary
While net production increased by approximately 5% in
partnership run by the World Bank to share and expand the
2023, Scope 3 emissions only increased about 3% due to
evidence base for effective carbon pricing policies.
updated emissions factors from more recent life cycle
Participation in the CPLC further demonstrates our
analysis studies.10
commitment to carbon pricing and is complementary to our
engagement with the CLC.
Carbon price policy
engagement Supply chain
Our advocacy efforts are aligned with our focus on reducing We collaborate and innovate with industry groups, peers and
our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and supporting sensible suppliers to integrate sustainability into our supply chain
policies that reduce Scope 3 emissions. ConocoPhillips strategies.
believes a well-designed pricing regime on carbon emissions
We engage with suppliers on the environmental and social
is the most effective tool to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG)
aspects of their operations throughout the procurement
emissions across the global economy, and we continue to
process. This includes communicating our expectations and
advocate for policies aligned with our carbon pricing
priorities and identifying opportunities for improvement and
principles as well as effective and efficient regulatory
collaboration related to climate issues, including GHG
actions. We support the aims of the Paris Agreement, which
management and environmental supply chain risks.
include limiting the rise of global average temperatures well
below 2 degrees Celsius, as reflected in our ambition to be a
Supplier’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions are a category of
net-zero operational emissions company by 2050.
our Scope 3 emissions. We have ongoing engagements with
major suppliers to seek alignment of their GHG emissions
Climate-related policy action can support an orderly
goals with our plans for the energy transition. We also
transition to a low-carbon economy, facilitate the
utilize a questionnaire in key bids that includes questions on
development of innovative technology and reduce the
sustainability and in 2023 we began incorporating an
overall risks associated with climate. Since we published our
assessment of their emissions reduction efforts into
first global climate change position in 2003, we have
targeted bids.
remained consistent in our view that market-based solutions
at national and global levels, rather than a patchwork of less
In support of our Scope 3 Supplier Emission Strategy, key
efficient regulatory approaches, will be most effective in
2023 achievements include:
reducing GHG emissions.
• Issuing a supplier emissions questionnaire to suppliers
Among our efforts, ConocoPhillips is a founding member of representing ~50% of our global spend to communicate
the Climate Leadership Council (CLC), an international policy our priorities, understand the priorities of our suppliers,
institute founded in collaboration with business and and to promote and engage in two-way learning
environmental interests to promote a carbon dividends opportunities.
framework in the U.S. as the most cost-effective, equitable • Continuing to highlight climate and sustainability
and politically viable climate solution. Participation in the expectations for our suppliers through our annual
CLC provides an opportunity for ongoing dialogue about Supplier Sustainability Forum.
carbon pricing and framing the issues in alignment with our
principles. We are also a member of Americans for Carbon We continue to monitor climate-related risks and believe
Dividends (AFCD), the education and advocacy branch of the that maintaining a global network of suppliers will mitigate
CLC, which focuses on progressing the bipartisan climate-related risks. Read more about our supply chain
sustainability efforts.
10 We calculate our Scope 3 emissions on an equity share basis. Our Scope 3 calculations should not be compared to other companies who may calculate their emissions using different
organizational boundaries, covering different Scope 3 categories, and using different calculation methodologies.
34 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Climate
Commercial Contributing to the
Our Commercial organization has frequently consulted and energy transition
provided ad hoc support for ConocoPhillips sustainability
initiatives and is now developing a strategy to more ConocoPhillips is also focused on participating in, and
consistently and proactively: contributing to, an orderly energy transition and creating
• Support emissions reduction and other environmental business value through differentiated products, business
initiatives. adjacencies, low-carbon opportunities and mitigation
measures. Below we describe our efforts to develop our
• Work with midstream and commercial partners to align on
liquefied natural gas portfolio and low carbon opportunities
the ambition for net-zero.
like CCS and hydrogen.
• Reduce GHG emissions along the value chain.
Liquefied natural gas (LNG)
Early work and near-term plans include:
• Evaluating the potential to deliver differentiated products ConocoPhillips has a 60-year history of leadership in LNG
(e.g., natural gas, LNG, crude oil and natural gas liquids) and LNG technology. While LNG is still considered part of
including a refresh of a previous consideration of our traditional oil and gas business, its prominence is
Certified Natural Gas. This includes: increasing in global energy markets. We view LNG as an
important component of responsibly meeting energy
– Focusing on methane emissions reduction,
transition demand in the coming decades.
measurement and verification.
– Engaging key certifiers to understand gaps between The use of natural gas in place of coal and refined products
company plans and evolving certification represents a specific opportunity for significant reductions
requirements. in end-use GHG emissions across the globe and it is a key
contribution to the energy transition. We expect LNG to play
– Engaging gathering, processing and transport vendors
an increasingly important role in the global energy mix, as it
to understand value chain emissions.
has lower GHG emissions than traditional hydrocarbon
– Evaluating participation in the differentiated gas
resources like coal used for electricity generation.
market.
Building on our LNG expansions in 2022, in 2023, we
– Monitoring regulatory and voluntary initiatives for
continued advancing our LNG portfolio in several key areas:
requirements related to natural gas and LNG markets.
• Secured regasification capacity at the Gate LNG terminal
• Developing a Cross-Commodity Commercial
in the Netherlands, in addition to our regasification
Sustainability Engagement Plan to:
capacity at German LNG.
– Identify potential partners for electrification efforts,
• Reached final investment decision securing 5 MTPA of
low carbon projects, midstream projects and emissions
LNG offtake along with 30% equity in Sempra’s Port
protocols.
Arthur LNG Phase 1 project on the U.S. Gulf Coast, which
– Find allies in advocacy efforts.
began construction in March 2024.
– Influence processing and transport vendors to improve
• Signed offtake agreements at Mexico Pacific’s Saguaro
environmental performance.
Energía LNG, subject to final investment decision, and
Energia Costa Azul export facility on the west coast of
Mexico.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 35
Climate
In addition to these specific projects, we have licensed our and global reach. Since 2021, we have advanced our
liquefaction Optimized Cascade® Process in 28 trains positions in both technologies, including offering support
around the world. This is the industry-leading liquefaction to drive innovation, described in more detail in the
technology of choice for low-cost LNG train designs using following sections.
scalable, modular construction from 1.5 to 8 MTPA that
Carbon capture and storage (CCS)
deliver low emissions, high availability and efficiency.
CCS involves capturing CO from concentrated sources —
2
In 2023, we supplied Asian markets with approximately 0.34
such as power plants or industrial sources — preprocessing,
trillion cubic feet (or nearly 1 billion cubic feet per day) of
compressing, transporting and injecting the CO into
2
natural gas and LNG. To put this in perspective, if all the
geologic formations underground and monitoring the
natural gas and LNG we sold to Asia in 2023 had been used
storage site. This process helps reduce the amount of CO
2
to replace coal for electricity generation, GHG emissions
released into the atmosphere.
would have been reduced by approximately 20 million
tonnes, 16% more than the company’s combined Scope 1 ConocoPhillips is leveraging our land positions, technical
and Scope 2 emissions for the year, based on EPA GHG expertise, project development skills and safety
emissions factors. commitment to evaluate future cost-effective and
permanent carbon storage opportunities. We have
Our marketing efforts are focused on further progressing
assembled an internal team of subsurface and surface
the placement of our offtake volumes into Europe and Asia.
experts, with support from our Land, Regulatory, Legal,
Government Affairs, Commercial, Environmental and
Low carbon opportunities
Sustainable Development and Stakeholder Relations teams,
In early 2021, we established a multidisciplinary Low Carbon and are actively engaged in subsurface characterization,
Technologies organization. The organization’s remit is to business development, appraisal and land acquisition to
support our net-zero ambition on Scope 1 and Scope 2 mature these opportunities.
emissions, understand the low-carbon energy landscape
We have received approved permits from the Texas Railroad
and prioritize opportunities for future competitive
Commission to drill two exploratory wells on leased
investment. We are approaching this effort with the same
property in Refugio County,Texas, to evaluate subsurface
discipline we follow in our traditional business investment
formations for potential permanent geologic storage of
and capital allocation process. This includes keeping costs
carbon dioxide and started field activities in May 2024.
low, leveraging competencies, identifying viable economic
Throughout 2024, ConocoPhillips will engage with local
opportunities and anticipating and managing risk while
stakeholders, collect and analyze technical information from
focusing on projects with competitive returns potential.
the appraisal activities and determine the viability of the
We are working with organizations in research and leased area as a potential CO 2 sequestration site.
development and academia as well as industry ConocoPhillips is conducting local stakeholder engagement
collaborations focused on carbon capture and storage activities in Refugio, Aransas and San Patricio counties, and
(CCS), renewables, energy efficiency, electrification and when appropriate, seeks regulatory approvals from relevant
hydrogen generation, deployment and transportation to federal and state regulatory agencies.
advance low carbon opportunities around the globe.
We have leased land in Cameron Parish, Louisiana, and
We recognize the important role that CCS and hydrogen have ongoing permitting activities for an appraisal well in
could play in decarbonizing the global economy. We intend that region.
to apply our disciplined approach to the development of
We will continue to evaluate development of low-carbon
these new opportunities through clear investment criteria
projects, particularly on the U.S. Gulf Coast, including a CCS
and a focused strategy. We have prioritized opportunities in
project as part of the previously described LNG work with
these technologies as they offer potential for competitive
Sempra Infrastructure.
returns and align closely with our technical competencies
36 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Climate
We are a member of the Pathways Alliance Inc., a group of Markets for hydrogen and ammonia are nascent and require
Canada’s largest oil sands producers working together to further maturity before major investment decisions can be
address climate change by reducing Scope 1 and Scope 2 taken. Commitments across the value chain, including long-
emissions from member operations. One of the key actions is term offtake commitments from buyers are needed to
the proposed foundational Alliance project, which includes connect the value chain and develop the market to enable
plans for a CCS network to transport captured CO from oil hydrogen delivery at scale.
2
sands facilities and sequester it deep underground at a
In early 2022, we made an investment to support the
storage hub. Supportive fiscal and regulatory frameworks
development of a novel turquoise hydrogen production
and the development of technologies are critical to advancing
technology from Ekona Power Inc., a Vancouver-based
this ambition.
hydrogen technology venture. Ekona’s new methane
Hydrogen pyrolysis technology platform is expected to produce low-
cost hydrogen from methane. The technology converts
ConocoPhillips is also evaluating technologies that will
existing methane streams into hydrogen and solid carbon to
enable the cost-effective production of hydrogen. We have
reduce CO emissions when applied. This investment
identified two types of hydrogen manufacturing for bulk 2
represents an opportunity to leverage our existing
fuel supplies in both hydrogen and ammonia form that have
infrastructure and create optionality at the front end of new
technical and commercial adjacencies that leverage the
technologies that will be important to the future of energy.
company’s core competencies and the potential to grow into
We continue to follow the project’s development.
a scalable business — hydrogen from natural gas with
associated CCS (“blue hydrogen”) and hydrogen from the
Our collaboration with Japanese energy company JERA was
electrolysis of water using electricity from renewables
announced in September 2022. ConocoPhillips Gulf Coast
(“green hydrogen”).
Ammonia LLC and JERA Americas Inc. are evaluating the
development of a lower-carbon hydrogen/ammonia
We are evaluating optimum locations for low-cost hydrogen
production facility on the U.S. Gulf Coast.
manufacturing, monitoring development of the market, and
assessing access routes to demand centers. Success factors
ConocoPhillips has been an early-stage investor in Radia, a
for blue hydrogen are a reliable supply of low-cost natural
wind energy company, as part of our program to explore
gas and proximity to subsurface sites suitable for CCS. For
different technologies that can help reduce our Scope 1 and
green hydrogen, the success factors are low-cost supplies of
Scope 2 emissions. Radia Gigawind offers the potential for
renewable electricity, water and large-scale electrolysis.
an advantaged power solution with lower cost of supply and
high-capacity factor.
Technologies for manufacturing both blue and green
hydrogen are rapidly evolving, and, as with CCS, we are
We have also invested in LongPath Technologies, a scalable
pursuing various ways to access these technologies and
laser-based continuous emissions monitoring solution with
qualify them for use. Leveraging our global reach and our
the potential to cover targeted assets or provide basin-wide
technical expertise, we are evaluating and high-grading
multi-operator coverage.
hydrogen production and marketing opportunities,
including ammonia as a hydrogen carrier, both domestically
and globally.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 37
Climate
concluded existing policies and actions are expected to
Collaboration and
result in a 63% decline in methane emissions by 2030
engagement relative to 2020. However, the existing policies will need
additional efforts to reduce carbon dioxide which the study
Proactive public policy expects to increase under the Energy Information
Administration (EIA) Reference Case. The greatest
engagement
reductions will occur under the study’s Technology,
In addition to our work with the CLC and CPLC, we recognize Innovation and Policy Pathway (TIP) which implements all
the policy trend in the U.S. toward a regulatory approach to recommendations in addition to other measures. Under the
emissions reductions, and we advocate for effective and TIP Pathway methane emissions will decrease by 70%,
efficient regulations and legislation to advance economic carbon dioxide emissions will decrease by 32%, and total
incentives and reduce GHG emissions. To that end, we are GHG emissions will decrease by 52% by 2050 relative to
leading discussions around additional policy options, aligned 2020. Read more about the study.
with our principles, that address end-use emissions:
We have also demonstrated strong engagement with major
• Supporting development of alternative carbon pricing
trade associations to advance climate policy positions that
mechanisms including some sector-specific programs,
include support for a market-based approach to reduce GHG
which if developed for multiple sectors and combined
emissions. Our advocacy also addresses methane and flaring
with a World Trade Organization-compliant Border
regulation, clean fuel or power standards, and sector-
Carbon Adjustment (BCA) mechanism could function like
specific regulations based on carbon-intensity benchmarks.
a carbon price.
We also work with our trade associations to drive alignment
• Supporting the robust development of a voluntary offsets
with our Climate Change Position.
market through our membership in the International
Emissions Trading Association (IETA) and advocating via Within API’s Climate Committee, for example, we work with
IETA and other trades in support of the further peers to address climate change issues affecting the U.S. oil
development of a voluntary carbon market. and natural gas industry. The group oversees the
development of API’s Climate Position, Climate Policy
• Joining the Alliance to Save Energy to support the
Principles and industry initiatives. The group developed the
development of energy efficiency policies and address
Climate Action Framework, a combination of policies,
end-use emissions.
innovation and industry initiatives to reduce emissions from
• Meeting with EPA technical staff to communicate some energy production, transportation and use by society. We
remaining concerns with respect to issues such as are active in many API committees that can also involve or
calculating heating values and as part of the New Source address climate-related issues, and we work to contribute
Performance Standard (NSPS) reporting. our perspective in alignment with our positions and actions.
• Submitting comments and supporting our trades during
The American Exploration and Production Council (AXPC)
meetings with Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and
Climate Change Task Force addresses climate change
the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs on the
issues affecting the U.S. exploration and production sector
proposed BLM Waste Prevention Rule.
of the oil and natural gas industry. The group has helped to
In April 2024, the National Petroleum Council, a federal develop AXPC’s climate policy and principles, its ESG
advisory committee to the U.S. Secretary of Energy, Metrics Framework and Template, and its position on
approved a report titled, “Charting the Course: Reducing methane regulations.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions from the U.S. Natural Gas Supply
Read more about our alignment with our associations
Chain.” With input from more than 200 experts,
regarding climate change.
ConocoPhillips led this two-year study that provided
consensus recommendations for meaningful actions to Read more about public policy governance and major trade
reduce emissions from the natural gas system. The report association memberships.
38 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Climate
External engagement • Pathways Alliance: Program that includes Canada’s Oil
Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) as well as the
External engagement is important to understanding the
Pathways Alliance Inc., which is an alliance of Canada’s
issues and challenges relating to climate and the evolution
top oil sands operators working toward emissions
of policy development. Current actions include:
reductions through CCS. ConocoPhillips was one of
• Taking part in global legislation and regulation COSIA’s founding members.
development.
• International Emissions Trading Association (IETA):
• Engaging with stakeholders, including investors, on Nonprofit business organization created in 1999 to
climate-related risks. establish a functional international framework for trading
GHG emissions reductions.
• Working within industry groups to advance sector-wide
net-zero solutions. • Climate Leadership Council (CLC): International policy
institute to promote a carbon dividends framework in
External engagement and collaboration remain an area of
the U.S.
focus for us because the energy transition will require joint
efforts to achieve meaningful emissions reductions and • Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC): Global
evolve policy solutions. In 2023, we participated in or had voluntary partnership to share and expand the evidence
membership in the following: base for effective carbon pricing policies.
• World Bank Zero Routine Flaring by 2030: Initiative that • National Petroleum Council: A federal advisory committee
aims to achieve consistency among efforts by to the U.S. Secretary of Energy. As an NPC member, our
governments, the oil and gas sector and development CEO chaired a study, conducted by over 200 stakeholders,
institutions to address routine flaring. that provided consensus recommendations to reduce GHG
emissions from the U.S. natural gas supply chain.
• The Environmental Partnership: Coalition of more than
100 oil and natural gas companies working to improve • Oil and Gas Methane Partnership 2.0: Globally
methane emissions management. recognized framework for methane emissions
measurement and reporting.
• E&P Net-Zero Principles Roundtable: Facilitated by
Ceres, a small group of financial sector stakeholders, E&P
oil and gas companies and NGOs, seeking to define what
it means to be a Paris-aligned E&P company. Ceres, a nonprofit sustainability advocacy
organization, facilitated collaboration among a
• Net-Zero Business Alliance: Initiative from the Bipartisan
small group of financial sector stakeholders,
Policy Center to bring together business leaders and
E&P companies and NGOs. They worked to
frame an affirmative and pragmatic approach in the
define what it means to be a Paris-aligned E&P
climate solutions debate and subsequently engage with
company. Recognizing the segment has limited
governments (as a group and directly) to advance an
opportunities to diversify its business model,
aggressive climate strategy that is grounded in
the collaboration focused on solutions for
engineering, commercial and economic realities.
reaching net-zero emissions that also meet
• Net-Zero Company Benchmark: Engaging with Climate transition demand.
Action 100+ twice each year to gather feedback to
The resulting product, Key Elements for a Net
strengthen our approach to managing climate-related risk.
Zero Transition for Operations at Oil and Gas
• Natural Gas Initiative: Program led by Stanford Exploration & Production Companies, is a basis
University researchers with participation from industry, for engagement and direction as net-zero
government, intergovernmental organizations and pathways are traveled.
foundations. Initiative aims to increase public access to
information about the accuracy of methane detection and
quantification technologies.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 39
Nature
Nature
Managing nature-related
risks and impacts
The landscape of nature-related sustainability reporting is evolving, shaped by
international initiatives and organizations. Key contributors include the Intergovernmental
Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES), the Convention
on Biological Diversity's 15th Conference of the Parties Global Biodiversity Framework
(COP 15 GBF), and the Task Force on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD).
Led by TNFD, this evolution in reporting underscores integrate disclosure recommendations related to our
increasing expectations for nature-related disclosure. ongoing efforts and achievements in water and biodiversity
Accordingly, our reporting continues to evolve as we management.
Conducting environmental field studies
on Alaska’s North Slope.
40 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Nature
The executive-level Sustainability and Public Policy
Governance
Executive Council (SPEC) has the highest level of
Our governance framework applies to nature and extends management responsibility and accountability for nature-
from the board of directors through executive and senior related priorities. Their role is to review and assess nature-
management to the operations in each of our BUs. The related strategy, policies, programs, practices and
Public Policy and Sustainability Committee (PPSC) of the processes as well as risks and impacts prior to PPSC review.
Board of Directors has oversight of nature-related risks and Read more about sustainability governance on our website.
impacts that could affect business activities and
Strategy
performance. The PPSC reviews and monitors policies,
programs and practices with respect to nature-related
Nature-related risks have the potential to impact our
trends and risks. In 2023, the PPSC received nature-related
business, leading us to:
briefings on the following topics:
• Assess how our business impacts nature.
• Nature-related risks identified in the annual SD risk
assessment process. • Identify ecosystem services we rely on.
• Evolving expectations for sustainability disclosures and • Implement risk reduction and transformative opportunities
assurance. at the BU level or as a strategic corporate priority.
• Briefings on the COP 15 GBF, trends in nature-related
Risks
financial reporting, as well as progress updates on
nature-related business priorities. We evaluate and track nature-related risks through our SD
Risk Register. Read more about our assessment process.
• Review of nature-related sustainability achievements in
Nature-related risks and actions in our 2023 SD Risk
2023 and priorities for 2024.
Register are summarized in the table below.
RISKS TIME HORIZON MITIGATION ACTIONS1
Physical risks (BU-specific)
Threatened/valued Near to mid-term • Maintaining over 470,000 acres of voluntary conservation agreements.
species • Completing development reviews for ecological sensitivity.
• Conducting wildlife surveys including population monitoring.
• Supporting proactive conservation through bird joint ventures.
• Prioritizing research associated with conservation-significant and commercially
valued species.
Produced water Near to mid-term • Increasing use of recycled produced water and produced water infrastructure
disposal planning and collaboration.
• Conducting subsurface characterization of stress faulting and seismic hazards,
assessing risk and implementing mitigation, as appropriate.
• Progressing research to develop and pilot technologies and processes to treat
produced water for potential beneficial reuse opportunities beyond the oil and
gas industry.
Transition risks — policy and legal (global)
Nature-related Mid-term • Engaging with organizations developing nature-related frameworks, standards,
policy changes and metrics and targets.
regulations
• Completing assessment of alignment and gaps for evolving nature disclosure
requirements and recommendations.
1 Actions relate to specific BU risks unless indicated as “global.”
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 41
Nature
Impacts Dependencies
ConocoPhillips recognizes that our activities and operations Our operations rely on water and our facilities design takes
can have direct or indirect impacts on nature. The concept advantage of flood and storm mitigation provided by nature.
of "nature impact drivers," introduced by IPBES, offers a These are examples of ecosystem services. We identify and
framework for characterizing and quantifying the impact of evaluate ecosystem services for each of our operated
company activities. There are five key areas contributing to assets as part of the state of nature assessment. TNFD
potential impacts to nature including: land, fresh water or refers to ecosystem services that society or a company rely
ocean-use change, resource use, invasive species, pollution on to function as dependencies.
and climate change.
We also assess ecosystem services that local or Indigenous
Land, fresh water or ocean-use change11: Our activities and communities situated in proximity of some operated assets
operations involve the conversion or modification of land rely on which include water supply, biomass resources,
cover or ocean floors to accommodate infrastructure such recreation, education, spiritual well-being, pollination and
as wells, pads, access roads, pipelines or marine platforms. flood mitigation.
Land cover modification may result in habitat disturbance,
reduced habitat connectivity and impacts on species Opportunities
distribution. Read more about how we avoid, minimize,
We implement actions to mitigate risks and impacts to
restore or offset impacts.
biodiversity and water. We also work to create positive
outcomes through proactive conservation. These are
Resource use: Our activities and operations involve fresh
examples of opportunities TNFD describes as avoiding,
water withdrawal and consumption. We disclose a
reducing or mitigating nature-related risks or transformative
comprehensive set of water metrics. Read more about how
actions. Opportunities can be implemented as mitigation
we manage water-related risks.
measures at the BU level or as a strategic corporate priority.
Invasive species: Our operated assets have adopted
location-specific approaches to managing invasive species Effect on business
in accordance with local regulations and landowner
and strategy
expectations.
Nature-related risks have the potential to impact our
Pollution: Non-greenhouse gas (GHG) air emissions and
business in a variety of ways. Our SD risk management
unplanned events involving water, chemical, air, or other
process plays a crucial role in identifying these risks and
emission releases may result in pollution impacts. We
enables us to assess potential severity, likelihood and
disclose a comprehensive set of metrics, including non-GHG
timing. Risks characterized as significant or high in the SD
air emissions and liquid hydrocarbon spills to the
Risk Register may have the capacity to introduce risks to our
environment.
business, including:
Climate change: Read more about our approach to
• Constraints on access: Nature-related risks may restrict
managing impacts from climate-related risks.
our access to exploration and operational areas and/or to
essential resources like water supply, potentially leading
to project delays or business interruptions.
• Production limitations: These risks can also impose
restrictions on our production techniques, such as
hydraulic fracturing, or limit our ability to discharge or
dispose of produced water.
11 Refers to disturbances of terrestrial land, fresh water aquatic or marine environments.
42 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Nature
• Increased costs: In response to changing policies and
Risk and impact
regulations aimed at mitigating nature-related risks, we
may face heightened operational and compliance costs. management
• Stakeholder actions: Actions taken by investors, the
Assessment, management
financial sector, and regulatory bodies may require us to
meet increased reporting expectations regarding and integration
environmental and social performance. Additionally,
This section describes our processes for identifying,
shareholder resolutions may demand specific measures
assessing and prioritizing nature-related risks, impacts,
to address nature-related risks, further impacting our
opportunities and dependencies. Our SD Risk Management
business strategy and operations.
Standard is a mandatory, auditable, annual requirement for
business units (BUs) and select corporate functions. The
Nature-related strategy
output informs the corporate enterprise risk management
We test the robustness of our nature-related corporate (ERM) system and key business-planning processes for the
water and biodiversity strategies using four plausible future company, including our corporate water and biodiversity
states. The objective of the annual assessment is to identify strategies. Read more about our sustainability risk process.
suitability, strengths and weaknesses of current strategies,
looking at time frames of less than three years, three to five A location-specific risk assessment is completed annually
years and five to 10 years. Our approach to the review is by all operated assets and new projects. The process is
informed by the TNFD Guidance on Scenario Planning and guided by our SD risk assessment tool and considers nature-
completed with local experts from all operated assets. The related physical risks, transition risks and climate change
scenario planning considered two key uncertainties: related physical risks with potential nature impacts. Action
plans are developed for significant and high risks and
• Severity of habitat loss, biodiversity loss and exposure to
include measures to mitigate risks or impacts.
water stress affecting biodiversity and water
management risks for our operated assets.
State of nature assessment
• Degree of alignment between regulations, policy, legal,
TNFD describes state of nature as the condition and extent
market and reputational risks.
of ecosystems and species population size and extinction
Asset locations risk, including positive or negative changes. State of nature
changes not only influence habitats and species but also
Our fact sheets contain information related to company
have broader implications on ecosystem services, which are
assets, operations and locations. Operated assets include
critical to various aspects of human and economic activities.
Bakken, Eagle Ford and Permian in the Lower 48, Greater
Kuparuk Area and Western North Slope in Alaska, Montney We have completed pilot assessments to characterize the
and Surmont in Canada, Greater Ekofisk Area in Norway and state of nature for locations where our activities and
APLNG in Australia. operations contribute to nature impact drivers. At the BU
level, our understanding of the local ecosystem condition
and biodiversity importance is based on habitat and
species distribution assessments, wildlife surveys and
species monitoring.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 43
Nature
At the corporate level, we have started to explore
Managing
geospatial indicators to complete a relative ranking of
locations where our operations interface with areas that are biodiversity-related
important for biodiversity, have high ecosystem integrity, are
risks and impacts
exposed to water stress or are important for ecosystem
service provision for local and Indigenous communities.
Mitigation Hierarchy
External factors
The Mitigation Hierarchy is a decision making framework
We assess external factors impacting the state of nature for
involving a sequence of four prioritized steps to mitigate
regions where we have operated assets. This evaluation is
adverse biodiversity impacts: Avoid, minimize, restore and
carried out using the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool
offset. We use the Mitigation Hierarchy as a guide to manage
(IBAT) Species Threat Abatement and Restoration (STAR)
risks and mitigate impacts of our operations. We implement
score which provides information on the relative contribution
opportunities as mitigation measures to support habitat and
of different threat types based on the International Union for
species conservation through strategic and proactive
the Conservation of Nature's (IUCN) threat classification
conservation initiatives in collaboration with partners.
scheme. On average, the most prevalent threats for asset
areas, as indicated by the highest STAR scores, encompass Avoid
invasive or problematic species, genes and diseases, Some biodiversity impacts can be avoided through careful
biological resource use and agriculture and aquaculture. spatial or temporal placement of infrastructure or
scheduling field activities outside peak migration or
External collaboration
breeding seasons. Notable examples from 2023 include:
and engagement
Australia: Otway Basin Exploration Project
Working with external stakeholders is a key component of In 2021, we excluded areas of giant crab habitat from the
our risk and impact management approach. We focus our Sequoia 3D Marine Seismic Survey acquisition area to avoid
potential impacts to the species and the associated depleted
external engagement on: fishery. Consequently, planning conducted in 2022-2023 for the
Otway Exploration Drilling Program has also built in avoidance of
• Developing industry leading practices and guidance with these areas.
industry organizations.
U.S. Lower 48: Bakken
• Collaborating with local and regional communities, peer
Sharp-tailed grouse are considered a management indicator
companies and industry groups.
species for North Dakota and are present throughout our asset
area. We completed a three-year study to gain a better
• Supporting research and educational initiatives.
understanding of sharp-tailed grouse nesting, brood rearing and
habitat types and local migration patterns. Learn more about the
We collaborate with the Environment, Biodiversity and study results.
Ecosystem Services and Water working groups of Ipieca, the
global oil and gas industry association for environmental
Read more about examples of how we avoided biodiversity
and social issues and the International Association of Oil &
impacts across the globe.
Gas Producers (IOGP). We also collaborate with local,
regional and international stakeholders and industry groups
across our operated assets. Read more about local
engagement initiatives on our website.
44 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Nature
Minimize Restore
We minimize biodiversity impacts through measures taken to When impacts and disturbance cannot be completely
reduce the duration, intensity and/or extent of the footprint of avoided or further minimized, we employ measures to
our operations. Notable examples from 2023 include: restore the area to a stable, productive and self-sustaining
ecosystem through remediation or reclamation activities,
Australia: Otway Basin Exploration Project considering beneficial uses of the impacted and surrounding
We conducted marine mammal surveys in 2021-2023 to collect areas. Notable examples from 2023 include:
data that supports effective decision making in the Otway Basin.
This research continues to improve knowledge on the presence/
absence, distribution and behaviors of key species during and
outside of known peak seasons. Additionally, data is made Canada: Surmont
available to government agencies and research organizations. We
We completed the dismantling, remediation and reclamation of
advocate for community-based research programs with the
the Surmont pilot plant after it served as the central processing
Dolphin Research Institute, who are expanding their Two Bays
facility for 19 years. The decision to retire and reclaim the plant is
Whale Program. We also support research through the Arthur
part of our strategy to proactively remove infrastructure that no
Rylah Institute in expanding their southern right whale aerial
longer contributes to active operations. In the summer of 2023, a
monitoring program along the Victorian coastline through 2024. In
land blessing ceremony was conducted by a local Indigenous
2022, we collaborated with and contracted the University of
community before trees were planted at the site. The area will be
Tasmania to complete a literature review, fishers survey and
monitored for several years as the vegetation establishes and a
analysis of fisheries data, focused on southern rock lobsters within
new forest begins.
and around the Zeehan Marine Park. This work was completed in
2023 and has improved our understanding of the importance of
this area for the species and associated fisheries. Canada: Montney
At our Montney asset, we continued to work with a local
Canada: Surmont Indigenous community in 2023 to complete restoration related to
the British Columbia Dormant Sites Reclamation Program. The
We worked with a Surmont area forest company in 2023 to align
scope of the restoration work for 10 community-selected sites,
and integrate land management for planned forestry harvest
covering almost 40 acres, had been developed considering
blocks with future Surmont development plans, minimizing the
traditional knowledge, observations about key local species, the
overall footprint of our combined industrial activity. This
desired restored landscape, community vendors and innovative
collaboration will also reduce near-term wildfire risks.
restoration and revegetation techniques. Restoration work was
completed for seven of the 10 sites in 2023, including harvesting
Norway: Greater Ekofisk Area and planting approximately 1,800 willow and poplar trees.
We completed offshore field studies using glider technology to
assess and minimize the effects of seismic surveys and produced U.S. Lower 48: Permian
water discharges. The glider technology enabled an integrated
For company-owned land in the Permian, we have a history of
ecosystem monitoring approach and no detrimental impact of
implementing stewardship programs in support of habitat
seismic operations or produced water on the pelagic ecosystem
restoration. In 2023, Permian restoration efforts included:
were observed. The study also enabled comparison of modelled
• Application of grassland restoration best management
sound propagation and actual measured sound levels that showed
acceptable sound exposure of spawning fish during current practices:
seismic operations. – 12,574 acres of brush management targeting invasive
species.
– 2,196 acres of seeding utilizing available locally adapted
Read more about how we minimized impacts across our native species.
– 31.5 miles of fencing replaced with wildlife friendly fencing to
asset portfolio.
facilitate prescriptive grazing and uninhibited movement of
wildlife.
• Conducting 270 development reviews for ecological sensitivity,
conflicts with ranch operations, and adherence to conservation
agreements and best management practices, and 128 wildlife
surveys for six different species with ongoing population
monitoring via remote sensing for select megafauna.
Read more about how we have restored habitats across our
asset portfolio.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 45
Nature
Offsets Managing water-
Biodiversity offsets may be used for impacts or disturbances
related risks
that remain after avoidance, minimization and restoration
measures have been implemented, or to address a
We manage water-related risks by considering the local,
regulatory requirement. A notable example from 2023:
social, regulatory, economic and environmental conditions
such as water stress, which are unique to every basin or
Canada: Montney offshore marine area. Water risks are managed at the BU
Our Montney team completed restoration work and tree planting level, enabling a tailored, region-specific approach. Read
to mitigate historic land disturbance for a habitat offset program
more about how we manage water-related risks.
to address a British Columbia pipeline permit requirement. The
team worked with a local Indigenous community to select three
sites with a total area of about 16 acres, targeting a 4:1 offset for Unconventional assets
land disturbed in valued ecosystems as defined by the Indigenous
community. Site selection and the scope of restoration work were
In 2023, our unconventional assets included Eagle Ford,
determined in collaboration with the local Indigenous community
after field reconnaissance visits. Delaware and Midland Basins in the Permian, and Bakken in
the U.S. and Montney in Canada. Unconventional production
Read more about examples of biodiversity offsets across methods rely on horizontal wells and hydraulic fracturing
our asset portfolio. techniques.
Proactive conservation U.S. Lower 48: Permian
To minimize reliance on local fresh water sources and because
Proactive conservation describes voluntary efforts with the some of our Permian assets are located in areas with high baseline
water stress, we actively pursue opportunities to use recycled
goal of conserving or restoring biodiversity and habitats,
produced water to hydraulically fracture new wells. In 2023, >50%
focusing on conservation of species, primarily in the U.S. of the water used for hydraulic fracturing of new wells in the
Permian Basin was recycled produced water. We also began
Lower 48, before they need to be protected through recycling domestic wastewater from some of our drilling rig
government regulations. Voluntary conservation actions camps in the Midland and Delaware Basins. The wastewater is
used in drilling and cementing operations.
benefit species that are at risk of becoming threatened or
ConocoPhillips entered into an agreement with Aris Water
endangered in the future as well as species already Solutions and Chevron to develop and pilot technologies and
processes to treat produced water for potential beneficial reuse
designated. Our efforts are designed to create positive
opportunities. ExxonMobil joined the collaborative industry effort
outcomes by reducing impact on biodiversity or nature and in 2023. Engineering, construction and execution of the testing
protocols and pilot projects will be led by Aris, leveraging the
by contributing to restoration. combined technical expertise of members. Pilot testing of
produced water treatment technologies began in 2023 and
continues through 2024, paving the way for risk assessments for
ConocoPhillips has provided long-term support for the
treated produced water beneficial reuse across various
conservation, restoration and improvement of more than 20 applications.
million acres through collaboration with our conservation
Canada: Montney
partners. Since 2014, roughly 400 bird migration routes have
In Canada's Montney development, we also manage water using a
been tracked and more than 40 scientific discoveries have
centralized water gathering and distribution system. Our
been published, enabled by funding ConocoPhillips provided expectation is to recycle at least 90% of the produced water for
hydraulic fracturing by 2030, lowering both fresh water demand
to the Smithsonian Migratory Bird Project. Working with
and produced water disposal. We also continue to explore
other notable partners such as the National Fish & Wildlife opportunities for sharing our treated produced water with other
local operators. Learn more about our Montney water
Foundation, Yellowstone Forever, Pheasants Forever and
management.
Migratory Bird Joint Ventures, we supported dozens of
projects in 2023 that will improve and expand habitat size,
connectivity and quality to benefit grassland bird species,
large game, such as pronghorn, elk and mule deer, fish and
other aquatic species.
46 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Nature
Induced seismicity ConocoPhillips Global Water
In 2023, we supported research led by the University of
Sustainability Center
Texas at Austin’s multi-disciplinary Center for Injection and
Seismicity Research to understand seismicity across Texas. 2023 marked the 13th year for our Global Water
We also supported seismological research at the Stanford Sustainability Center (GWSC) in Qatar. The center develops
University Center for Induced and Triggered Seismicity. innovative solutions for water management related to oil and
gas operations and programs with three main focus areas:
In response to high magnitude seismicity, regulators in both
Providing specialized technical engineering and analytical
New Mexico and Texas have defined multiple Seismic
support to our global operations and to QatarEnergy LNG,
Response Areas (SRA) within which individual water disposal
conducting applied research to qualify advanced
well volumes are curtailed. ConocoPhillips leads one of the
technologies for deployment, and organizing outreach
three operator lead response groups (OLRG) in Texas. All
activities related to water sustainability. One research
three OLRGs have provided industry response plans to the
program progressed in 2023 supports the development of
Railroad Commission of Texas that will mitigate future
beneficial reuse options of produced water in Lower 48
potential seismicity within their individual SRAs.
operations and at the same time minimizes deep well
injection volumes. The GWSC is also conducting research to
Conventional, oil sands,
generate additional resources such as hydrogen, acid, base
offshore and LNG and other valuable products from saline produced water as
part of a circular economy. Read more about the GWSC.
Our diverse asset portfolio includes Alaska’s Kuparuk,
Western North Slope and the Willow project, Australia’s In 2023, ConocoPhillips and Qatar Science and Technology
APLNG facility, Canada’s Surmont in situ oil sands operation Park co-hosted the 106th meeting of Petroleum Environment
and Norway’s offshore Greater Ekofisk area. Conventional Research Forum “Circular Economy in the Energy Industry:
production methods include enhanced oil recovery and oil Converting Waste By-Products into Valuable Products.” The
sands steam-assisted gravity drainage. An example from forum identified potential areas of collaboration to enhance
Alaska is highlighted for 2023. Read more about examples environmental efforts in support of circular economy in the
from across our asset portfolio. energy industry both locally and globally.
Alaska: Kuparuk and Western North Slope
Water management in our Alaska operations is unique, as most of
our fresh water use is not directly for natural gas and oil
production, but primarily to build seasonal ice roads and pads for
development, exploration and overland resupply. In 2023, water
for drilling mud was partially sourced from treated camp
wastewater for our Western North Slope operations.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 47
Nature
Metrics
Biodiversity
We collect data and information related to species as sensitive by local regulators or conservation
occurrence and sensitive habitats located within or organizations as well as IUCN I-VI protected areas. Data and
adjacent to our operated assets. We focus on species information are used to develop metrics related to
characterized as at-risk, endangered, rare, significant, protected areas, restored or protected habitats and the
threatened or of cultural value, and habitats characterized IUCN Red List of Threatened Species.
PROTECTED AREAS
0.03% OF LEASE AREAS OVERLAP
WITH PROTECTED AREAS1
12 PROTECTED AREAS WITHIN We complete an annual assessment of protected areas
3 MILES (5 KM) OF FIVE ASSETS located within or adjacent to (3 miles or 5 km) operated
asset lease areas. The assessment utilizes the latest
APLNG | Bakken | Permian Basin version of the World Database on Protected Areas. Our
Montney | Teesside infrastructure within or adjacent to protected areas
includes pipelines, well pads, compressor stations, one
1 Estimated as the percentage of lease areas overlapping with designated LNG facility and one terminal.
protected areas using the World Database on Protected Areas.
HABITATS CONSERVED, PROTECTED OR RESTORED
OVER
We consider habitat to be protected where the
540,000 environment remains in its original state with a
healthy and functioning ecosystem, and habitat
to be restored where actions have either
CUMULATIVE ACRES restored the environment to its original state or
on company-owned lands and enhanced it to a state where it has a healthy and
operated assets. functioning ecosystem.
IUCN RED LIST SPECIES
9 We identify local species of interest including
ASSETS IN FOUR species at-risk, endangered, rare, significant,
COUNTRIES threatened or of cultural value. Some of the local
with at least one IUCN Red List species of concern may also have been identified
species known to occur.2 as near-threatened, vulnerable, endangered or
critically endangered on the IUCN Red List of
2 The majority of our assets actively mitigate risks related to at least one Threatened Species.
species of local importance that is also an IUCN Red List species.
48 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Nature
Water
We measure and report the volume of fresh water12 and our fresh water consumption intensity and exposure to
non-fresh water13 withdrawn from local water sources, the water stress.15 We also collect water forecast data for our
volume of municipal waste water reused, and the volume of annual Long-Range Plan process which enables us to test
produced water14 that is reused, recycled, disposed or our portfolio of projects against our water risks to make
discharged after treatment. The data are used to estimate better-informed strategic decisions.
FRESH WATER CONSUMPTION INTENSITY
0.06 0.03
BBL/BOE EUR1 BBL/BOE2
UNCONVENTIONAL CONVENTIONAL/OFFSHORE
Bakken | Eagle Ford Alaska | APLNG | Ekofisk
Montney | Permian Basin Surmont | Teesside
1 Calculated using Enverus data for the average volume of fresh water (BBL) divided by the average estimated ultimate recovery (EUR, BOE) as of April 1, 2024.
Intensity value may change as EUR data is updated. EUR — estimated ultimate recovery.
2 Calculated using the average volume of fresh water (BBL) divided by the average annual production (BOE).
12 Regulatory definitions of fresh water can range from less than 1,000 to less than 4,000 milligrams per liter total dissolved solids (TDS).
13 Non-fresh water includes brackish/saline groundwater with ranges between 2,000 to more than 10,000 milligrams per liter TDS and seawater with about 35,000 milligrams per liter TDS.
14 Produced water ranges from less than 10,000 to more than 300,000 milligrams per liter TDS.
15 Estimated using the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Risk Atlas.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 49
Nature
Exposure to water stress
We use the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Risk Atlas Operated assets located within areas of high baseline water
to complete a screening level assessment of our portfolio stress in 2023 included parts of the Permian Basin and parts
exposure to water stress. For select assets we also verify of the Eagle Ford. Overall, 14.7% of our fresh water
the level of water stress using local water supply and withdrawal and 18.3% of our fresh water consumption was
demand data for a more detailed understanding. in regions of high water stress.
REGIONAL WATER METRICS
Alaska APLNG Bakken Eagle Ford Permian Montney Norway Surmont Teesside
METRIC (MM m3) (MM m3) (MM m3) (MM m3) (MM m3) (MM m3) (MM m3) (MM m3) (MM m3)
Fresh water withdrawn 0.6 0.02 2.5 3.8 0.19 0.5 0.17 1.3 1.4
Fresh water discharged 0.2 0.03 0 0 0 0.17 0.17 0.04 1.4
Non-fresh water withdrawn 11.9 0 0 5.2 10.6 0 25.5 0.17 0.18
Municipal wastewater reclaimed 0.16 0 0 0 0.39 0 0 0 0
Produced water reused/recycled 37.1 0 0.02 0 11.6 0.5 0 24.4 0
Produced water disposed 0.00004 0 3.5 4.5 60.1 0.045 0 2.5 0
Produced water discharged 0 0 0 0 0 0 17.2 0 0
SOURCE WATER — GLOBAL PRODUCED WATER MANAGED — GLOBAL
Reused/ 92.4% Discharged Reused/ 45.6%
recycled Non-fresh recycled
OF SOURCE WATER IS OF PRODUCED
NON-FRESH WATER, WATER IS REUSED
MUNICIPAL WASTE OR RECYCLED
WATER AND REUSED
43.7%
OR RECYCLED
PRODUCED WATER
IS DISPOSED OF
10.7%
7.6%
IS DISCHARGED
FreIsSh FRESH WATER
Disposed
OFFSHORE AFTER
Municipal Waste TREATMENT
Water
50 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Social
Social
We are committed to respectfully engaging with local stakeholders — those who
influence or may be affected by our business — to understand their values and
interests, mitigate the impact of our operations and proposed projects, and support
economic and community development opportunities. We prioritize early and frequent
engagement with our stakeholders to build trust, garner respect and develop mutually
beneficial relationships.
ConocoPhillips employees and members of the Halfway River First Nation admire a quilt
created by members of the community. The quilt was commissioned by ConocoPhillips Canada
and symbolizes the strong working relationship between the two groups.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 51
Social
management process where existing and planned
Managing social-related
exploration and production, and major projects are
risks and impacts examined against the physical, social and political settings
of our operations. Social assessments consider:
We address the social and community aspects of our
• Impacts to communities, including human rights, rights of
operations and projects at the BU level.
Indigenous Peoples, labor rights, security, public health,
We have a comprehensive governance framework that political and economic issues.
extends from the board of directors, through executive and • Stakeholder priorities, including support or opposition to
senior management to the staff levels in each BU. Read more company activities.
about our sustainable development governance structure.
• Risks and impacts related to supplier and contractor
activities.
Risk and impact assessment
• Cumulative effects of company and/or industry activities.
By understanding the social, economic, political and
environmental factors affecting stakeholders, we can To support our BUs in operationalizing our Stakeholder
identify and monitor emerging trends, manage potential Engagement Principles, we provide Social Performance
impacts and reputational risks associated with our operations Guidance with recommended internal processes and
and add value to the communities where we operate. external engagement to understand and address
stakeholder priorities. Based on this guidance, each BU
Our stakeholder identification process is a key component
manages local social risks, priorities and regulatory
of social risk assessment. Each BU is responsible for
requirements, enabling tailored, region-specific business
identifying stakeholders to understand their perspectives
goals to address unique challenges and opportunities.
and concerns. Through our ongoing relationships with
stakeholders, we identify important issues as well as In 2023, five BUs and the corporate SD function identified
potential opportunities for collaboration. From this we and ranked eight significant social risks associated with
develop an engagement plan to address concerns and potential project delays and business interruptions.
foster mutually beneficial relationships. By having open Mitigations have been developed to address these risks.
dialogue, we are able to identify and address potential
impacts associated with our operations. This is done through
our integrated sustainable development (SD) risk
52 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Social
Working with local authorities in Canada and Indigenous
Creating shared value
communities, we also identify and select sites to mitigate
We aim to build strong relationships founded on impacts and prioritize restoration under the applicable
transparency, courtesy and trust. This approach not only regulations. Through site visits and collaboration with the
enables us to effectively manage potential risks and community, the restoration plan for each site is developed,
impacts to local stakeholders and our business but also executed and monitored. The final restoration plans
supports the development of mutually beneficial include the incorporated community feedback and
relationships. Through this dedication to transparency and innovative site preparation techniques. Read more about
trust, we foster the creation of long-term value and our efforts in Canada.
opportunities for both the community and our organization.
In Alaska, we are committed to ongoing engagement
As part of a just and orderly transition, we seek to address throughout the state, and with the North Slope communities,
community interests by prioritizing community input and especially those near our operations and within the National
supporting local development initiatives. Read our Just Petroleum Reserve-Alaska (NPR-A). We travel to villages and
Transition Position. host in-person meetings to listen to stakeholder feedback
and concerns. We attend regular city and tribal council
Integrating stakeholder input meetings, regional assembly and planning commission
meetings, and participate in community events to develop
Through inclusive and transparent engagement, we gain
relationships with local leaders and community members.
further understanding of stakeholder values, priorities and
Through our community investment activities, we support
concerns. Our aim is to integrate their input into our plans
projects and events that are important to our stakeholders
and operations by finding mutually beneficial solutions that
and enhance the communities near our operations.
address the impacts of our operations on their communities.
This approach is displayed in a variety of efforts across our ConocoPhillips Alaska remains committed to maintaining the
global BUs. subsistence lifestyle of North Slope residents. We continue
to seek feedback from stakeholders, implementing and
In Canada, our collaborative contracting process allows us
refining mitigation measures, such as reduced speed limits
to work closely with Indigenous communities to create
and pullouts and ramps to improve access along the road
economic development opportunities. In both Montney and
system. We also consult with stakeholders on the placement
Surmont, we established business working groups to
and design of infrastructure to facilitate and improve
incorporate community feedback and consider:
subsistence access. Read more about our efforts in Alaska.
• Contracting capacity alongside ConocoPhillips
contracting opportunities. In 2023, ConocoPhillips Australia conducted a
comprehensive stakeholder perception survey to evaluate
• Community contracting priorities and focus areas.
and enhance its engagement processes with relevant local
• Comments and feedback on ConocoPhillips procurement
stakeholders and the community. The primary objective was
processes.
to understand stakeholder perspectives to help inform and
shape the future direction of engagement activities.
Together we discuss how to measure the success of these
efforts.
The survey involved in-person sessions and focus groups,
covering five key focus areas: Community Sentiment,
Communications, Environmental and Social Performance,
and Community Investment. Read more about our efforts
in Australia.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 53
Social
We also collaborated on a statement of intent (SOI) with the Similarly, we continued with the Citizens Advisory
First Nations Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Committees (CAC), a group of non-elected leaders,
First Nations Bailai, Gurang, Gooreng Gooreng, Taribelang landowners and businesspersons from each county.
Bunda People Development Corporation. The SOI outlines Quarterly, these advisors learn about various aspects of the
the commitment to ensuring that opportunities created industry. This includes a robust question-and-answer
through business and supply chain activities are accessible session where we provide responses on topics related to our
to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples, businesses operations and communities.
and organizations, aiming to improve inclusion and
participation. Building and strengthening
local economies and
We remain committed to ongoing collaboration with First
Nations peoples, encompassing policy development areas communities
such as culturally appropriate employment, workforce
Helping improve the quality of life in the communities where
development, supply chain goods and services delivery, and
we live and work is an important goal for ConocoPhillips and
business development. Read more about the development of
our employees. We work with stakeholders to identify and
our Reconciliation Action Plan.
support programs and opportunities that will make a
In the U.S. Lower 48, we continued hosting leadership difference in communities.
roundtables for assets in 12 different counties. The
Charitable contributions are an important part of how we
roundtables provide an opportunity for the company to share
meaningfully contribute. Our giving underpins long-term
updates on our operations and report on community
relationships with trusted partners who deliver and track
investment and sponsorship activities. However, the most
beneficial impacts for our signature programs, while also
valuable aspect is the feedback we receive, as it helps us
supporting employees and other local community needs.
understand the needs and objectives set by locally appointed
Annually, approximately 20% of our global budget is
leaders in these counties and cities. The engagements have
allocated to employee giving programs, while the
shaped the company's involvement in various projects.
remaining 80% is allocated between our signature
programs and other local contributions. Read more about
our 2023 social investments.
2023 SOCIAL INVESTMENTS
In Millions1
Contractual Contributions | $1.4
In-Kind Donations | $0.2
Infrastructure Projects | $2.3
University Relations | $2.3
Sponsorships | $8.4
Cash Contributions | $33.8
$63.2
Memberships | $14.8
1 Based on payments and annual business unit reporting.
54 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Social
2023 CASH CONTRIBUTIONS
In Millions1
$4.9 $0.1
EMPLOYEE GIVING PROGRAMS DISASTER RELIEF
United Way - $2.8
Matching Gifts - $1.7
$12.1
Other Programs - $0.4
SIGNATURE PROGRAMS
Conservation - $7.0
$16.8 $33.8 STEM Education - $5.1
LOCAL CONTRIBUTIONS
Arts - $3.4
Civic - $4.1
Education - $2.5
Health - $2.7
Safety - $0.8
Social Services - $3.1
Unspecified - $0.2
1 Due to rounding, some total numbers may not equal the sum of the subcomponents.
We have maintained a focus on two signature programs for For our conservation program, working with strategic
over 10 years: Science, technology, engineering and partners such as the National Fish & Wildlife Foundation,
mathematics (STEM) education in Houston, Texas, and Yellowstone Forever, Pheasants Forever, Migratory Bird
species and habitat conservation globally. Joint Ventures, Ducks Unlimited and the Smithsonian
Migratory Bird Project, ConocoPhillips has contributed
The strategic alignment between ConocoPhillips and our
toward the collaborative conservation, restoration and
STEM program recognizes that math remains key to
improvement of more than 20 million acres, tracked 400
academic and career success and core to our work. Since
bird migration routes and supported more than 40 scientific
the launch of the Houston Signature Program, more than
discoveries. Read more on our website.
$30 million16 has been invested in math education to support
programs designed to enhance teacher development and ConocoPhillips recognizes that our employees are often the
improve student performance. Programs include Rice company’s best liaison with the communities where we
University’s Applied Math Program (AMP!), United Way operate. Therefore, we encourage and support their
Mastering Algebra Together Houston (M.A.T.H.) and the involvement in local charitable activities through our
Houston Texan’s TORO’s Math Drills. Learn more about Matching Gifts, Volunteer Grants and United Way workplace
these efforts on our website. giving programs. In 2023, ConocoPhillips extended its reach
by supporting three additional United Way agencies near
our Permian operations. In total, ConocoPhillips and
company employees and retirees donated $5.6 million to 15
United Way agencies.
16 Includes both sponsorship and programming expenses.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 55
Social
As part of our commitment to be a good neighbor, our BUs In Canada, we introduced the Girls Talk Tech program
and functions provide local investments to address other already proven successful in the Lower 48. Designed to
essential needs in the communities near our global operations. inform, educate and encourage school-aged girls to pursue
These investments support local arts, civic, disaster relief, careers in STEM-related fields, employees showcased this
education, health, safety and social services. initiative at the annual Inside Education three-day youth
summit held in Alberta. The summit welcomed 120 students,
Some examples of 2023 contributions from around our
40 teachers, 20 high schools and five First Nations and
operating areas include:
Metis communities in discussions about the importance of
In the Permian Basin, donations to LiftFund, the Permian
energy, climate and water.
Strategic Partnership and the West Texas Food Bank
supported economic development and food security In Australia, members of our Gladstone and Brisbane team
initiatives: attended Bright Future STEM events organized by the
Australian Resources & Energy Employer Association
• Our ConocoPhillips Small Biz Builder program provides
(AREEA) to encourage more than 600 primary school
business management training and access to capital
students to consider STEM-related fields across multiple
funding through LiftFund. In 2023, 71 local entrepreneurs
industries.
completed this program.
• Investments with the Permian Strategic Partnership
focused on providing safer roads, public education, health
care, affordable housing and workforce development.
• ConocoPhillips supported the build-out of the West Texas
Food Bank’s Odessa facility and provided meals for more
than 600 seniors in need across 19 West Texas counties.
In Alaska, we worked with the Cook Inlet Tribal Council to
open a new Super Fab Lab, providing a creative space where
local young people can access the latest high-tech
equipment, a media room with green screen, and a robust
computer lab to help empower and equip them to turn their
career aspirations into reality. The council serves Alaska
Native and American Indian people residing in the Cook Inlet
region of south central Alaska.
Local students interact with ConocoPhillips employees to learn
about technology used in the field of oil and gas during the Girls
Talk Tech Fest at ConocoPhillips headquarters in Houston.
56 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Social
Our commitment to human rights is also reflected in
Valuing human rights
our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, and our Health,
ConocoPhillips is committed to respecting human rights. We Safety and Environment Policy and Supplier Expectations set
recognize the dignity of all human beings and our core values the standards of behavior and human rights commitments
embrace these inalienable rights: For all people to live their for our people, as well as contractors, suppliers and others
lives free from social, political or economic discrimination or who perform work for ConocoPhillips. Read our Human
abuse. Our approach is consistent with the human rights Rights Position.
philosophies expressed in the following global frameworks:
Human rights due diligence
• Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Consistent with our stakeholder engagement approach, BUs
• United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human
assess and manage human rights risks. If our operations
Rights
identify potential human rights concerns, engagement plans
• International Labour Organization Declaration on
and specific actions to manage and mitigate that risk are
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work
developed through engagement with the community or
• Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights other stakeholders. BUs communicate and engage with
(VPSHR) communities and their representatives on how to contact
the company and how to address any concerns or
This includes the core labor standards related to
grievances. In addition, all interested stakeholders may
nondiscrimination, freedom of association, right to collective
access the ConocoPhillips Ethics Helpline to report a
bargaining and avoiding the use of forced or child labor. We
potential violation of our Code of Business Ethics and
perform high-level human rights risk assessments in our
Conduct, which is publicly available on our website.
global operations to evaluate potential human rights issues.
Areas considered include: We continue to offer human rights training globally via
• Security and human rights. computer-based modules to our stakeholder engagement
practitioners and other operations staff and management as
• Land rights and relocation.
appropriate based on location.
• Land use.
In addition, in the areas where we operate in vicinity to
• Indigenous Peoples issues and rights.
Indigenous Peoples, our BUs provide cultural awareness
• Company and supplier labor standards.
training. In many cases, our stakeholder engagement
• Access to water. leaders and business leaders will educate themselves
• Cultural heritage. through mentors in the Indigenous community or with the
help of local experts.
• Vulnerable groups.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 57
Social
Respecting Indigenous
Peoples
When engaging with Indigenous stakeholders, we seek first
to understand their social values, cultures and traditions, as
well as their expectations and preferences for dialogue and
dispute resolution. Our consultations consider traditional
land use information and community interests, goals and
perspectives on environmental, social and economic topics.
We engage with Indigenous communities at regional, local
and individual levels by meeting regularly with regional
governments, community associations, local leaders and
community residents. Our stakeholder engagement
The ConocoPhillips team at the Martin Luther King, Jr.
professionals work with our asset and operations teams to Commemorative Parade in Tulsa. Oklahoma.
guide discussions and facilitate cooperation with Indigenous
Peoples to address potential operational impacts on the Security and human rights
community. Wherever we engage with Indigenous
We drive collective action to address security and human
communities, we pursue opportunities to support economic
rights issues through engagement with government,
development consistent with Indigenous cultures and
nongovernmental organization (NGO) and other business
community development plans. In some cases, the
stakeholders in the VPSHR. We have been a member of the
engagement and consultation may be guided by a formal
VPSHR initiative since its inception in 2000. Our social
agreement with the Indigenous community.
performance guidance directs our VPSHR implementation
Areas where we explore or operate near these communities and our annual report to the VPSHR details our current
include the United States, Canada and Australia. Our practices and provides updates for previous years.
engagement with Indigenous communities in those locations
is consistent with the principles of the International Labour
Organization Convention 169 concerning Indigenous and
Tribal Peoples, and the United Nations Declaration on the
Rights of Indigenous Peoples.
58 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Social
contractors and suppliers with the opportunity to participate
Supply chain and
in projects and operating requirements, generally through a
local content competitive bidding process. We seek opportunities to
develop local suppliers and promote local hiring as
Sustainability is integral to our procurement process. By
appropriate to meet business needs. Read more about how
actively engaging with suppliers to learn and share
we are creating shared value in communities on our website.
sustainable practices, we seek to enhance our business
methods and operational efficiency. This proactive approach Supplier diversity
allows us to effectively manage risks, minimize impacts, and
We believe that long-term success and diverse supplier
enhance overall value across our supply chain. We work to
inclusion go hand-in-hand. Through our Supplier Diversity
foster business opportunities and promote the growth of
Program we strive for inclusion of diverse suppliers
local and diverse suppliers within our supplier network.
throughout our areas of operation.
Supplier engagement
We do business with qualified minority, woman, disabled,
As an organization committed to SD, we recognize the LGBTQ+ or veteran-owned, small business enterprises, as
critical role that suppliers play. Engagement with suppliers well as global, local and Indigenous suppliers around the
is a fundamental aspect of our sustainability strategy. We world. This approach attracts qualified suppliers, stimulates
collaborate with our suppliers to assess their sustainability local economic development, and creates long-lasting social
practices and look for alignment with our values and and economic benefits in our stakeholder communities. In
objectives. Through dialogue, we foster a shared the U.S., our 2023 Supplier Diversity spend totaled $803
commitment to environmental stewardship and community million with Indigenous businesses, businesses owned by
well-being. veterans, minorities, women, members of the LGBTQ+
community, service-disabled people and historically
We regularly engage our suppliers through business reviews
underutilized businesses (HUBs). An additional $787 million
and supplier audits to:
was spent with small business enterprises. Read more about
• Identify SD opportunities and risks in the supply chains. our Supplier Diversity efforts.
• Maintain alignment with our Climate Risk Strategy for
supply chain engagement.
• Track metrics, review performance and identify 2023 TOTAL SPEND BY SEGMENT
continuous improvement opportunities.
Asia Pacific &
• Share best practices for building supplier capacity Corporate | 6% Middle East | 1%
throughout the supply chain.
Canada | 7% Lower 48 | 57%
An important element of our ongoing engagement with key
suppliers is our annual Supplier Sustainability Forum where
Europe | 14%
we engage about our strategic sustainability objectives.
$12.5
Read more about our 2023 forum.
Local content and BILLION
employment
Alaska | 15%
We emphasize promoting supplier capability and capacity
building in our procurement and we expect our suppliers to
do the same. We place a high priority on purchasing goods
and services locally and are committed to providing local
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 59
Our people
Our people
Our strategy, performance, culture and reputation are fueled by our world-class workforce —
the heart of our company and business success. We recognize that attracting and developing
talent is a competitive imperative within our changing industry. At year-end 2023, we had
approximately 9,900 employees in 13 countries. Read more about our workforce metrics.
Colleagues collaborate near electric
compressors at the China Draw
Central Facility 3.
BY THE NUMBERS
27% 32% 8%
WOMEN U.S. POC1 UNIVERSITY
HIRES
~9,900 27% 41% 3.9%
TOTAL HEADCOUNT WOMEN U.S. POC1 VOLUNTARY
HIRES HIRES ATTRITION
As of Dec. 31, 2023.
1 People of Color (POC)
60 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Our people
We depend on our workforce to successfully execute the Our SPIRIT Values set the foundation for our HCM strategy
company’s strategy and we recognize the importance of and all HCM programs are built around three pillars that we
creating a workplace where our people feel valued. The believe are necessary for success: A compelling culture,
Executive Leadership Team (ELT) and board of directors play attracting a world-class workforce and valuing our people.
key roles in setting our Human Capital Management (HCM)
Key actions and progress against these pillars are described
strategy and driving accountability for meaningful progress.
in more detail below:
A compelling culture Attracting a world- Valuing our people
class workforce
• SPIRIT Values guide our words and • Robust succession planning process to
our actions. • Consistent recruitment/selection ensure we have talent available for
• Annual Perspectives survey used to practices minimize bias. critical leadership roles.
establish meaningful action plans • Actively partner with trade • Hands-on global Talent Management
tied to employee feedback. associations and nonprofit Teams (TMTs) guide employee
• A dedicated DEI organization aligns organizations to broaden talent development.
strategic actions with DEI pillars: pipelines. • Real-time recognition programs provide
People, programs and process, • U.S. Summer Internship Program employees with monetary and
culture, and our external brand and offers university students a nonmonetary awards.
reputation. compelling, hands-on experience. • Reward employees for contributing to
• Data analytics leveraged to track key • Fostering significant long-standing our success through:
workforce/engagement metrics partnerships with universities to – Competitive performance-based
through transparent internal build external pipelines of early- compensation packages; global
dashboards and expanded external career talent; strengthening equitable pay practices.
disclosures. partnerships with Historically Black – Compensation programs linking
• Support flexible ways of working Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) individual and company performance.
through hybrid office work program. and Hispanic-serving institutions.
– Inclusive global benefits informed by
• Office improvement and integration • Investing in strengthening our future external market practices and
projects enhance employees’ workforce by making financial employee needs/feedback.
workplace experience. contributions to universities.
– Global wellness programs addressing
physical/mental well-being.
– Expanded benefits to support
families.
13 10.9 17%
COUNTRIES OF AVERAGE YEARS EMPLOYEES
OPERATION OF SERVICE PROMOTED
%
66% 17.9 25.6
U.S. AVERAGE YEARS AVERAGE TRAINING
POPULATION OF EXPERIENCE HOURS PER EMPLOYEE
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 61
Our people
GLOBAL REPRESENTATION
~9,900 27% 10.9 17.9
GLOBAL WOMEN AVERAGE YEARS AVERAGE YEARS
HEADCOUNT OF SERVICE OF EXPERIENCE
GLOBAL VOLUNTARY ATTRITION
16.8% 18.0%
OF WOMEN ARE OF MEN ARE
LEADERS LEADERS
3.9%
All Employees PERCENTAGE OF GLOBAL PROMOTIONS
BY MEN AND WOMEN
Women Men
2021 18.9%
13.7%
2022 24.0%
17.3%
4.2%
2023 19.8%
15.5%
Women
2023 GLOBAL EMPLOYEE TRAINING
3.9%
28.5 $1,043
Men
HOURS / AVERAGE AMOUNT
PETROTECHNICAL SPENT PER EMPLOYEE
EMPLOYEE ON TRAINING
62 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Our people
U.S. REPRESENTATION
66% U.S. EMPLOYEES 29% WOMEN 32% POC 5.9% U.S. 5.2% PEOPLE WITH
VETERANS DISABILITIES
U.S. PEOPLE OF COLOR (POC) BY RACE ETHNICITY
Black/African American American Indian/Alaska Native Asian Hispanic/Latino Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander Two+ Races
2021
3.8% 2.2% 6.1% 14.7% 0.2% 1.0%
2022
4.2% 2.4% 6.3% 15.6% 0.3% 1.4%
2023
4.4% 2.6% 6.6% 16.3% 0.2% 1.7%
U.S. LEADERSHIP BY RACE/ETHNICITY U.S. VOLUNTARY ATTRITION
AMERICAN
16% BLACK/ 17% INDIAN/
AFRICAN
ALASKA
AMERICAN
NATIVE
4.1%
13% 12% HISPANIC/
ASIAN All employees
LATINO
NATIVE
20% HAWAIIAN/ 19% TWO+
PACIFIC RACES
ISLANDER
20%
WHITE
3.1%
POC
PERCENTAGE OF PROMOTIONS
IN U.S. BY RACE/ETHNICITY
POC White
2021 16.8%
19.0%
4.6%
2022 23.1%
23.1%
White
2023 20.1%
19.0%
Employee data based on active employees as of Dec. 31, 2023. Promotion metrics are calculated relative to a corresponding population.
2023 U.S. leaders by race/ethnicity based on the represented population at ConocoPhillips.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 63
Our people
OUR SPIRIT VALUES
S P I R I T
SAFETY PEOPLE INTEGRITY RESPONSIBILITY INNOVATION TEAMWORK
No task is so We respect one We are ethical and We are accountable We anticipate change We have a “can do”
important that we another. We trustworthy in our for our actions. and respond with attitude that
can’t take the time recognize that our relationships with We care about our creative solutions. inspires top
to do it safely. A safe success depends internal and neighbors. We are responsive to performance
company upon the capabilities external Sustainability is core the changing needs from everyone.
is a successful and inclusion of our stakeholders. to our company and of the industry. We We encourage
company. employees. We value We keep our creates shared value embrace learning. collaboration. We
different voices and promises. for our stakeholders. We are not afraid to celebrate success.
opinions. try new things. We win together.
A compelling culture
has become our primary listening platform for gathering
feedback on employee sentiment and strengthening our
How we do our work sets us apart and drives our
culture. Leaders analyze the survey data and comments and
performance. We’re experts in what we do and continuously
identify focus areas for action, striving for incremental year-
find ways to do our jobs better. Our different backgrounds,
over-year progress on results. Our employee feedback
ideas and views drive our success. Together, we deliver
strategy is comprised of an annual engagement survey and
strong performance, but not at all costs. We embrace core
shorter ad hoc pulse surveys, as needed.
cultural attributes that exist across the organization. Our
SPIRIT Values — Safety, People, Integrity, Responsibility, We launched our latest survey in January 2024. We asked 24
Innovation, and Teamwork — are the foundation of our questions on topics relevant to the health and long-term
culture and ensure alignment across our global workforce. success of our organization, such as engagement, DEI,
SPIRIT Values, company strategy, career development,
Strengthening our culture leadership and well-being. We had a participation rate of
85% and received over 15,000 written comments from
through employee feedback
employees around the globe. More than 70% of our scores
Taking steps to measure and assess employee satisfaction improved year over year. Our employee satisfaction score
and engagement is at the heart of long-term business increased from 79 to 80, which is higher than both the oil
success and creates a great place to work for our global and gas and global benchmarks provided by our third-party
workforce. Since 2019, the ConocoPhillips Perspectives survey survey provider.
2024 CONOCOPHILLIPS PERSPECTIVES SURVEY
85% ~15,000 80 82%
GLOBAL WRITTEN EMPLOYEE WOULD RECOMMEND
PARTICIPATION COMMENTS SATISFACTION CONOCOPHILLIPS AS
RATE SCORE A GREAT PLACE TO WORK
64 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Our people
Advancing our DEI journey across the company. Our DEI strategy is guided by four
pillars: People, programs and processes, culture, and our
Meeting the world’s evolving energy needs requires
external brand and reputation. All company leaders are also
attracting and retaining a world-class workforce and
accountable for advancing DEI through local efforts. Our
cultivating an inclusive environment where everyone is
strategy, efforts and progress are regularly reviewed with
encouraged and able to contribute — no matter their role,
the board.
level or location. This is how innovation thrives, leading to
better business outcomes. That is why we continue to be Our 2023 focus was building clarity and connection.
committed to DEI and creating a great place to work. Highlights include:
• Launching our refreshed DEI strategy.
At ConocoPhillips, we believe our unique differences power
the future of energy. Our DEI vision states that we foster an • Reviewing the overall results of the 2023 Perspectives
inclusive culture that benefits all employees and values the survey and analyzing feedback through different
rich mixture of backgrounds, identities, and work styles of demographic lenses for additional insights.
our people, built on equitable practices that support all
• Hosting BU-specific workshops to create a dialogue and
employees in unlocking their full potential.
education on the definitions and examples of diversity,
equity and inclusion.
The ELT has ultimate accountability for advancing our
commitments through a governance structure that includes • Developing the DEI Foundations learning module and
a Chief Diversity Officer (CDO), a dedicated DEI organization, launching it to senior leaders.
and a global DEI Council consisting of senior leaders from
We are committed to being transparent as we build a more
diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace. We monitor
employee feedback survey results and diversity metrics on a
OUR DEI COUNCIL REPRESENTATION
global basis. Our CDO and DEI Council, in conjunction with
36% 43% the ELT, review these metrics and identify appropriate plans
and priorities to address trends.
WOMEN U.S. POC Starting in 2019, we published our first DEI Dashboards
internally, which contain key DEI statistics and metrics. We
64% 36% update the dashboards annually with global and U.S.
workforce metrics and industry benchmark data, allowing us
to measure our internal metrics against the external market
U.S.-BASED LEADERS GLOBAL LEADERS and our peers.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 65
Our people
Externally, we publish our workforce metrics and HCM disclosures in our Consolidated EEO-1 Reports, Sustainability Report
and Human Capital Management Report. They are also provided in the Performance Metrics and key trends below:
PROGRESS IN GLOBAL REPRESENTATION PROGRESS IN REPRESENTATION
OF WOMEN OF U.S. PEOPLE OF COLOR
FROM 2019 TO 2023 FROM 2019 TO 2023
1 Junior leader is defined as front-line supervisors, typically recognized within the company for expertise and technical leadership within a discipline.
2 Top leader is defined as high-level leaders typically responsible for enterprise/business unit goals, strategies and cross-discipline organizations.
As part of our Perspectives survey, we use five questions to track DEI focused on the topics of belonging, inclusion, diversity
progress, equity and psychological safety. Insights are used to validate and/or evolve our multiyear priorities and actions.
CONOCOPHILLIPS PERSPECTIVES SURVEY
DEI Questions 2023 2024 2024 Scores vs.
External Benchmark
We are making progress on diversity, equity 74 73
Not Available*
and inclusion at ConocoPhillips.
73 75
I feel a sense of belonging at ConocoPhillips. Exceeds
82
My supervisor values different perspectives. — Not Available*
ConocoPhillips’ programs and processes provide a 69
— Not Available*
fair and equitable opportunity for my success.
I feel free to speak my mind without 78 73
Exceeds
fear of negative consequences.
* No external benchmark available as this is a customized question for our company.
66 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Our people
U.S. Equal Employment ConocoPhillips EEO-1 reports for the last three years:
Opportunity (EEO) reports • 2023 EEO-1 Report
• 2022 EEO-1 Report
We publicly disclose the ConocoPhillips Consolidated EEO-1
Report on a voluntary basis. The report characterizes our • 2021 EEO-1 Report
U.S. workforce by race, ethnicity and gender across job
Additional details on EEO reports are available on the EEOC
categories established by the U.S. Equal Employment
website.
Opportunity Commission (EEOC). The makeup of our U.S.
workforce is included below.
Two+ races | 1.7%
American Indian or Alaska Native | 2.6% Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander | 0.2%
Black or African American | 4.4%
Asian | 6.6%
2023 U.S.
Hispanic or Latino | 16.3% representation
White | 68.2%
by race/
ethnicity
5.9% U.S. 5.2% PEOPLE WITH
VETERANS DISABILITIES
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 67
Our people
Attracting a world-class
workforce
Our continued success requires a talented workforce with Business | 31%
the right skills across the globe to achieve our strategic
objectives. We recruit experienced hires with critical skills to
help us sustain a broad range of expertise. We also offer
university internships across multiple disciplines and partner
Global hires
with nonprofit organizations and universities to create talent Field | 40%
by function
pipelines for early-career talent.
Our voluntary attrition rate in 2023 was 3.9%. We monitor
our voluntary attrition rate on a weekly basis and seek to
understand trends that may be driving attrition. This Engineering and
Geoscience | 30%
includes reviewing qualitative feedback from exit interviews
and periodically analyzing the data through different
demographics filters (e.g., gender and U.S. POC) for trends. Data may not equal 100% due to rounding.
Two+ Races | 2.5%
American Indian or Alaska Native | 2.5% Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander | 0.2%
Black or African American | 6.5%
Asian | 7.5%
2023
U.S. hires White | 59.1%
Hispanic or Latino | 21.8%
27% 41% OF U.S. HIRES IN
OF GLOBAL HIRES
2023 WERE
WERE WOMEN
PEOPLE OF COLOR
Data may not equal 100% due to rounding.
68 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Our people
Collaborating
in Doha, Qatar
We strive to ensure equitable practices free from bias in • We use an established internal business process for
every aspect of our recruitment process and conduct talent auditing each step of our sourcing, recruitment and
assessments to ensure we have the organizational capacity selection processes to mitigate the potential for bias in
and capabilities to successfully execute our business plans. our decisions.
To ensure our workforce reflects the diversity of external
• In the U.S., we maintain a data analytics dashboard to
talent sources, we leverage data analytics and other key
provide insights into the diversity of external and
business drivers to evaluate and optimize our experienced
university talent sources, from application to offer. This
hire recruiting strategies.
dashboard also helps us monitor acceptance rates and
enables us to make data-driven decisions regarding our
• We use an innovative writing platform to help us remove
candidate attraction strategies and financial
any biased language and unconscious barriers to
contributions to universities.
attracting top candidates from job postings. In 2023, job
descriptions were updated to reflect transferable skills
and industry-adjacent experiences in support of
broadening our talent pipeline for field-based roles.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 69
Our people
U.S. internship program 2023 DIVERSITY OF U.S. INTERNS AND
UNIVERSITY HIRES
Hiring people with fresh ideas into our company is vital to
our future. We take enormous pride in our summer INTERNS:
internship program, which offers compelling, hands-on
44% 46%
experience. We provide interns with challenging
assignments, knowledgeable mentors and engaging
activities to help them grow their skills and network. WOMEN POC
The relationship between the company and the universities
UNIVERSITY HIRES:
we support is important. We invest in strengthening our
40% 33%
future workforce by making financial contributions to 19
universities, including giving to programs that aid in
expanding the pipeline of talent into our industry.
WOMEN POC
To attract top talent for full-time positions and summer
internships, we recruit from numerous universities in the U.S.
Society of Black Engineers, the National Association of
By attending conferences and recruiting at Hispanic-serving
Black Geoscientists, the National Association of Black
institutions like the University of Houston and HBCUs like
Accountants, and INROADS, a nonprofit organization
Prairie View A&M University and Howard University, we are
committed to leadership and career development for
able to broaden the diversity of our talent sources. We also
underrepresented talent.
partner with diverse organizations such as the National
OUR 2023 U.S. INTERNSHIP PROGRAM BY THE NUMBERS
130 INTERNS 34 UNIVERSITIES 10 DISCIPLINES 44% WOMEN 46% POC
Two+ races | 5.6% 2023 job and internship
acceptance rates1
Black or African American | 5.6%
by U.S. university students
Asian | 6.9%
82%
U.S. INTERNS
2023 U.S.
Hispanic or White | 66.7%
Latino | 15.3% university
73%
hires U.S. UNIVERSITY HIRES
82% CONVERSION RATE
OF INTERNS TO
HIRES
1 Acceptance and conversion rates are calculated by dividing accepted offers by the total number of offers made to U.S. university students or interns in 2023.
70 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Our people
SPOTLIGHT STORY
Kerry Harris: Intern takes
the road less traveled
“Can I bring my dogs?” Kerry Harris needed to know. After In the coming weeks, Kerry interviewed for the
all, his rescue dogs, Blossom and Nala, were his family, so internship, and a week later he got his official invitation
the thought of having to leave them behind gave him pause. to join ConocoPhillips, becoming one of its 130 U.S.
interns for 2023. Kerry knew flying to Anchorage would
“You can bring your dogs,” said a welcoming Shree Vikas,
be the easier option, the logical choice.
manager, Market Intelligence & Business Analysis, assuring
Kerry during a career fair held for the Sourcing & But Kerry recognized the road-trip opportunity at hand,
Procurement Organization at University of Houston that a grand adventure that would not only show just how
leaving them in Houston wouldn’t be necessary if he were to serious he was about the job but enable him to put his
join ConocoPhillips for a 10-week summer internship in logistical skills to the test. Two months later, Kerry,
Alaska, working for Supply Chain. “When Shree said I could Blossom and Nala piled into his truck, an F-150 clad in
bring them, I was all in,” said the University of Houston new all-terrain tires, and rolled out of Tomball, Texas,
Supply Chain Management major, excited about the pending on May 12 heading toward Anchorage. Read more about
opportunity to learn more about the company's Supply Kerry’s internship experience.
Chain operations and the energy industry.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 71
Our people
Valuing our people Succession planning
Succession planning is a top priority for the ELT and the
Investing in our employees is good for business. It improves
board of directors. This work ensures we have the talent
our company’s performance and strengthens employee
available for critical leadership roles while limiting business
engagement. We approach talent development and
interruption. Leaders at all levels review Individual
succession planning with the same rigor that we apply to
Development Plans, provide feedback and facilitate career
our business strategy. We seek to attract, develop and
conversations on an ongoing basis to ensure that employees
retain employees through a combination of on-the-job
have opportunities to learn and grow. Annually, business
learning, formal training, and regular feedback and
leaders and TMTs meet to review succession benches,
mentoring. For our efforts, we have been recognized as one
calibrate talent and provide recommendations to executive
of Forbes’s 2023 World’s Best Employers, Fortune’s 2023
leadership and the board to ready our succession
World’s Most Admired Companies and Newsweek’s 2023
candidates for future leadership roles.
America’s Greatest Workplaces.
Formal training
Career development
In 2023, our employees completed more than 253,300 hours
We empower our employees to grow their careers through
of virtual and in-person training on topics ranging from
personal and professional development opportunities,
technical to professional development (an average of 25.6
including individual development plans, annual career
hours per employee). We provide numerous training and
development conversations with supervisors, a voluntary
development offerings to equip our workforce, hiring
360-feedback tool and training on a broad range of
managers and leaders with the skills, knowledge and
technical and professional skills.
behaviors needed for success. We also offer all global
Talent Management Teams employees access to thousands of professional and
personal development courses on LinkedIn Learning.
Skills-based Talent Management Teams (TMTs), made up of
senior representatives from BUs and corporate functions,
guide employee development and career progression by
discipline (e.g., Geoscience, Finance and Global Production)
and location. TMTs help identify our future business needs
and assess the availability of critical skill sets within the
company. They also play a vital role in ensuring the integrity
and equity in our talent practices and succession planning.
72 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Our people
SPOTLIGHT STORY
LIFT off
In March 2023, more than 130 petrotechnical employees and Lower 48 to Qatar. Early and mid-career employees
from around the world gathered in Houston for a special were nominated to participate in the program to build
learning event, Learning and Innovation for Today and knowledge and expand their networks.
Tomorrow or “LIFT.” LIFT originated in 2019 and is a
Participants left with new problem-solving techniques
technical training event for global petrotech professionals
and enhanced communications skills to help convey
designed to promote employee engagement, foster
complex, technical ideas. Importantly, participants
innovation, reinforce leadership skills and drive cross-
formed connections with peers across the globe.
discipline collaboration and networking.
Watch a video about LIFT.
LIFT participants came from a variety of backgrounds
and BUs, ranging from Geoscience to HSE,
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 73
Our people
Leadership development
to recognize their peers for individual accomplishments
through monetary and nonmonetary awards (Instant
We recognize that supervisors play a key role in talent
Thanks). Within our monetary program, a peer-to-peer
development, so we offer a supervisor development
recognition component enables employees to acknowledge
curriculum to help leaders effectively engage and develop
and extend real-time recognition to colleagues for going
their employees. Global courses focus on proactive
above and beyond in their day-to-day work or completing
communication, employee development and building trust.
project milestones.
Our Leader of Leaders program brings together the
company’s top senior leaders from around the globe in small
virtual cohorts to create an opportunity to connect on key
THE MARK AWARD PROGRAM
business drivers influencing our culture. Every fall, senior
An employee-driven recognition program
leaders come together in person in Houston for our annual
11%
Leadership Forum meeting to align with the ELT on priorities
OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVED
related to strategy, technology, culture and topical INSTANT THANKS
employee engagement strategies.
1,400
Performance management ~ INSTANT THANKS
MESSAGES SENT
We use a performance management program focused on
objectivity, credibility and transparency. The program
71%
includes broad stakeholder feedback, real-time recognition OF EMPLOYEES
and a formal “how” rating to hold our workforce and leaders RECEIVED AWARDS
accountable for behaviors reflective of our SPIRIT Values
and Leadership Competencies. Leaders are equipped with 18,700
~ MONETARY
guidelines and reference materials to assist with their
AWARDS SHARED
assessment of key “how” performance indicators.
Recognition is important to our employees and core to our
culture. Our supervisor and employee-driven internal
recognition program, The Mark Award, enables employees
74 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Our people
Compensation, benefits performance metrics and also recognizes individual
performance. The RSU program is designed to attract and
and well-being
retain employees, reward performance and align employee
interest with stockholders by encouraging stock ownership.
Our compensation and benefits philosophy and the overall
Our retirement and savings plans are intended to support
structure of our programs are designed to reward all
employees’ financial futures and are competitive within
employees who contribute to our success. We offer
local markets.
competitive, performance-based compensation packages,
follow global equitable pay practices and provide family-
Global equitable pay
friendly benefits that support employees through all stages
of their life. practices
We have global equitable pay practices that strive to ensure
Compensation
the compensation of every employee reflects their talents,
Our compensation programs are generally comprised of a skills, responsibilities and experience and is competitive
base pay rate, the annual Variable Cash Incentive Program within our peer group. We routinely benchmark our global
(VCIP) and, for eligible employees, the Restricted Stock Unit compensation and benefits programs with local markets to
(RSU) program. From the CEO to the frontline worker, every ensure they are competitive, inclusive and aligned with
employee participates in VCIP, which aligns employee company culture, and allow employees to meet their
compensation with ConocoPhillips success on critical individual needs and the needs of their families.
GLOBAL EQUITABLE PAY PRACTICES
We conduct annual disparity pay
reviews to assess potential gaps We conduct annual adverse impact
across employees in each country and analysis before compensation
conduct annual university hire pay decisions are finalized.
compression analysis.
We follow established hiring
Per local government requirements,
guidelines for U.S. university
we conduct and report on gender
recruitment to make competitive and
pay gap analysis in the U.K and
equitable compensation offers based
Australia, as well as pay equity
on job and relevant degree
analysis in Norway.
requirements.
With the assistance of external We provide regular updates to the
expertise, we conduct periodic Human Resources and Compensation
pay equity analysis in our major Committee of the board of directors
markets and adjust compensation on people strategies and initiatives,
where appropriate. including DEI and pay equity.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 75
Our people
Benefits In the U.S., we partner with employees who participate in
the ConocoPhillips medical plan to promote accountability
Our global benefits are competitive, inclusive and align with
for personal health through our Health Improvement
our culture. We provide family-friendly policies such as
Incentive Program. This voluntary program encourages
flexible work schedules, a hybrid office work program,
healthy behaviors, provides insights into potential health
competitive time off, paid leave to care for seriously ill family
risks and offers opportunities to improve overall health.
members and parental leave in many locations. Combined
Employees can earn incentives toward medical premiums
with our maternity benefit (eight weeks), new birth mothers
by completing a series of steps, including a mental well-
in the U.S. are eligible for up to 14 weeks of paid leave.
being incentive. In 2023, over 80% of participants
completed a biometric screening, of which 85% earned the
mental well-being incentive.
U.S. EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE
PROGRAM (EAP) BENEFITS Well-being
Our global well-being programs are designed to educate
participants and promote a healthy lifestyle and culture.
Exercise facilities, healthy food choices and various
8
wellness programs are available to our employees at many
locations. Each year, we host a global well-being
COUNSELING SESSIONS competition featuring health and wellness activities called
Available for employees and eligible
the SPIRIT of Wellness challenge. In 2023, ~1,200
dependents per issue, per year.
employees participated as individuals or as part of a team,
recording daily activities, earning points, and tracking their
progress on individual and team leaderboards. Participants
worldwide benefited from interactive presentations and
24 events focused on four key areas: Physical activity, nutrition,
mental health and lifestyle improvements. The program
challenged participants to prioritize their well-being by
HOURS PER DAY
incorporating healthy and sustainable components of
Employees can call anytime
to get help. wellness into their daily routines.
All employees have access to our employee assistance
program (EAP), and many of our locations offer custom
programs to support mental well-being.
365
DAYS OF THE YEAR
EAP is available through
Concern Health.
76 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Our people
SPOTLIGHT STORY
Lower 48 program ensures mental wellness
support is just a colleague away
Mental health matters. To ensure employees have access to Allies have received training to recognize when someone
resources designed to support their mental health needs, may be struggling or experiencing a decline in their
the Lower 48 BU launched the Mental Health Allyship mental well-being. While not professional counselors,
Program in 2023. As part of this program, 22 employee Allies help “get the conversation started.”
volunteers serve as Mental Health Allies to serve as a first
Programs like this help us continue to build an inclusive
point of contact, directing colleagues to internal resources,
and diverse work environment that embraces our SPIRIT
like the ConocoPhillips EAP, or outside resources in their
Values. Read more about Mental Health Allies.
area. Supported by the company’s mental health experts,
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 77
Safety, health and security
Safety, health and security
Our SPIRIT Values — Safety, People, Integrity, Responsibility, Innovation and Teamwork —
inspire our actions and confirm that safety is core to how we operate. We consistently
promote safe work practices and are focused on control of work.
Photo caption goes here.
Caption text to come.
An HSE coordinator at the
Montney Central Processing
Facility in Canada.
78 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Safety, health and security
Safety
A learning organization
We will not be satisfied until we succeed in eliminating all
injuries, occupational illnesses, unsafe practices and
incidents of environmental harm from our activities.
We continuously look for ways to operate more safely,
efficiently and responsibly, and we believe that begins with
learning. By being curious about how work is done,
recognizing error-likely situations and applying safeguards
to strengthen systems and processes, we can reduce the
likelihood and severity of unexpected incidents.
Read more about how we approach safety on our website.
Operator training and the Process Safety Fundamentals are
foundational to achieving process safety excellence.
Process safety
Process safety is achieved by using precautions, or barriers,
to keep our facilities safe and our products safely contained,
eliminating potential impact to people, property or the
environment. An unplanned or uncontrolled release of any
material from a process system is considered a process
safety event. We have consistent practices and processes
for the prevention, control and mitigation of process safety
events. Effective barriers can be active, passive or
procedural, and can involve equipment and/or people. We
utilize multiple barriers to achieve redundancy depending on
the severity of the potential hazard.
Learn more about our process safety culture on our website.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 79
Safety, health and security
PROCESS SAFETY FUNDAMENTALS
Working on a
floating production
storage and
offloading vessel
in Bohai Bay, China.
80 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Safety, health and security
Hydrocarbon spill prevention and separated by the type and volume of each material. This
approach is consistent with industry best practices and has
We evaluate the risk of spills occurring and potential
allowed for a more accurate spill assessment by considering
impacts while taking numerous precautions to prevent spills
site-specific conditions and only reporting the volumes that
and mitigate impact within our operations. Specialized
are impacting the environment. Spill volumes prior to 2022
designs, operating procedures, routine maintenance of our
have not been adjusted to reflect this methodology update.
facilities, verifications and process safety best practices
play a key role in preventing spills and protecting the The ongoing reduction in spill counts and volumes is also a
environment where we operate. reflection of enhanced spill prevention awareness and
mitigation tactics in recent years. View our Performance
In 2023, we experienced zero hydrocarbon spills to the
Metrics.
environment greater than 100 barrels.
Spill response and mitigation
The number of hydrocarbon spills to the environment
greater than one barrel decreased in 2023. We had 38 spills We have both internal and external resources to assist with
that were greater than one barrel. Forty-five percent of the spill remediation and response. Our investment in spill
spilled volume was fully recovered. None of our spills in response technologies includes membership in Oil Spill
2023 impacted a shoreline. Removal Organizations (OSROs) across the globe, which
affords us access to substantial inventories of, and the
In 2022, our methodology for reporting hydrocarbon spills to
latest advances in, proven response equipment.
the environment was reviewed and updated to better align
with Ipieca reporting standards. Total spill volumes for Read more about our emergency preparedness on our
events are recorded distinctly for each impacted location website.
HYDROCARBON SPILLS TO HYDROCARBON SPILLS TO
THE ENVIRONMENT >100 BARRELS (BBL) THE ENVIRONMENT >1 BARREL (BBL)
4
178
2 2
99
89
83
1
38
0
1,100 100 734 299 1,800 600 2,194 861 303
2019 2020 2021 2022 20023 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Number of spills Volume of spills (BBL) Number of spills Volume of spills (BBL)
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 81
Safety, health and security
TOTAL RECORDABLE RATES (TRR) TOTAL RECORDABLE RATE (TRR)
0.60 3 0.40
0.30
0.40 2
0.20
0.20 1
0.10
0.00 0 0.00
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2023
TRR Fatalities Lost workday case rate Incidents per 200,000 hours worked.
Incidents excluding COVID-19 lost workday cases.
Personal safety
The rules have visual reminders and easy-to-follow
Safety is our first SPIRIT Value — the safety of our minimum requirements, called critical controls, to keep our
workforce always comes first. We focus on control of work workforce safe during high-risk activities. Videos
through safe work practices, required safety trainings and highlighting each rule and corresponding critical controls
foundational HSE programs for all employees and are played in field-safety training meetings. Applicable Life
contractors at the jobsite. Saving Rule identification and critical controls are
addressed as part of pre-job planning, permits and risk-
For example, the Lower 48 BU conducts Safety Leadership
assessment processes. They are part of our safe work cycle
Seminars, taught by field leaders, to reinforce hazard
that includes “plan, do, assess and adjust.” Our Life Saving
recognition tools, our safety-first culture and expectations.
Rules and corresponding field verification program
All field-based employees and contractors are required to
reinforce our strong culture of safety and contribute to our
attend a seminar within six months of starting work and
long-term decline in workforce injuries.
renew their training at least every three years.
We compare our Total Recordable Rate (TRR) with that of
Our foundational Life Saving Rules are introduced during
our peers in the oil and gas industry, as well as other
new employee and contractor onboarding sessions and
industries. Over the past six years, we have achieved top-
orientation. These rules were established based on industry
quartile TRR performance among our peers five times.
lessons and best practices to prevent serious or fatal
However, in 2023, we unfortunately experienced an increase
injuries from occurring.
in injuries, including one fatality.
82 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Safety, health and security
HSE management system response capabilities while retaining an intense focus on
prevention. Thorough investigations of all significant
Objectives, targets and deadlines are set and tracked
incidents are conducted in partnership with BUs and
annually to drive strong HSE performance. Progress is
corporate HSE to understand the root cause and share
tracked and reported to our Executive Leadership Team and
lessons learned to prevent future incidents.
the Board of Directors.
In 2023, the corporate CM&ER team conducted four large-
Our corporate Health, Safety and Environment (HSE)
scale response exercises. The corporate CM&ER team in
Management System Standard helps ensure our activities
conjunction with the Norway BU and the Information
are consistently conducted in a safe, healthy,
Technology function conducted an exercise designed to
environmentally and socially responsible manner across the
test and strengthen our cybersecurity incident response
globe. The standard outlines requirements for implementing
plan, business continuity plan, and optimize collaboration
the company's HSE Policy, leadership expectations and
between local staff and corporate teams. Another exercise
SPIRIT Values. Individual sections of the standard combine
tested the oil spill response plan at Teesside in the United
to provide a continuous improvement process based on plan,
Kingdom. In Alaska, the Aviation function tested their mass-
do, assess and adjust. Our corporate standard aligns with
casualty response plans and practiced establishing a family
and is based on industry standards such as ISO 45001,
assistance center. In Canada, a multiday tank fire exercise
ISO 14001 and ISO 9001.
was conducted with the Alberta Energy Regulator.
In accordance with the corporate standard, each BU
Read more about our emergency preparedness on our
implements a BU-specific HSE Management System to
website.
meet requirements outlined in the global standard and
assess and manage local regulatory requirements and Occupational health
operational risks to the business, employees, contractors,
and industrial hygiene
stakeholders and the environment.
The goal of our Occupational Health and Industrial Hygiene
Emergency
program is to protect the health of workers and the
preparedness neighboring community through the identification,
evaluation and control of potential workplace exposures.
The complex nature of our business means we must be
prepared to respond to a range of possible disruptions such Each BU develops and implements an Exposure Assessment
as major accidents, political instability or extreme weather. Plan that identifies potential chemical and nonchemical
Preventing incidents through good project planning, design, exposures and implements controls to prevent worker or
implementation and leadership is our primary objective. If a community exposures. Health assessments are conducted
spill or other unplanned event occurs, we have procedures to ensure that control measures are protecting the health of
and processes in place to respond effectively. potentially exposed workers.
The corporate Crisis Management & Emergency Response Read more about employee benefits and wellness on our
(CM&ER) team is responsible for maintaining emergency website.
response preparedness on a global scale, providing
proactive training, resources and supplemental staffing
assistance in the event of an emergency. Additionally,
regional teams maintain groups of well-trained response
professionals for local incidents. We conduct multiple
emergency preparedness trainings and exercises at the
global and regional level each year to further enhance our
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 83
Safety, health and security
We maintain a “Tier III” status in the Customs-Trade
Security and
Partnership Against Terrorism program by demonstrating
cybersecurity effective security that exceeds the minimum program
criteria. This effort is conducted through our partnership
Security with U.S. Customs and Border Protection who assess the
overall effectiveness of our security processes.
The security and protection of our people, assets,
information and reputation are cornerstones of our business. We remain an active, participating member of the U.S. State
While risk can never be eliminated, we continuously strive to Department Overseas Security Advisory Council (OSAC),
mitigate it by prudently anticipating, preventing and the Domestic Security Alliance Council (DSAC), Voluntary
responding to internal and external security threats. Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR) and other
national and international security organizations.
As an operator of critical infrastructure and facilities in
challenging locations worldwide, we work closely with
Cybersecurity
governmental agencies, nongovernmental organizations, our
peers and local communities on initiatives to identify, deter, We take a multilayered approach to cybersecurity risk
prevent and mitigate a range of potential threats to management and strategy. Our Information Technology (IT)/
company personnel, facilities and operations. We manage Operational Technology (OT) Security Program integrates
our facilities consistent with national and international administrative, technical, and physical controls against
security standards and regulations including: evolving cybersecurity threats, and includes enterprise IT
and OT security architecture, cybersecurity operations, data
• U.S. Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism
privacy and governance, supply chain security, and
standards
governance, risk, and compliance. Additionally, it is designed
• Department of Transportation
to identify, assess, and manage cybersecurity risks and
• Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our
data, IT, and OT. Read more about cybersecurity risk
• Hazmat Transportation Security requirements
management in our 10-K filing.
• Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
• International Ship and Port Facility Security Code
• Maritime Transportation Security Act
• Maritime Transport and Facilities Security Regulations
(Australia)
• Bureau of Land Management
• Other applicable governmental security requirements
84 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Performance by year
Performance
1
Performance by year
NET EQUITY TOTAL2,3
METRIC 2019 2020 2021 20224 20234 GRI IPECA SASB
Climate
Net Equity Greenhouse Gas Emissions
(thousand tonnes COe) n/a 16,700 18,300 18,358 20,070 CCE-4
2
Net Equity GHG Intensity (kg COe/BOE)5 n/a 40.8 32.9 28.9 30.1 305-4 CCE-4
2
Target Related Net Equity Intensity (kg COe/BOE)6 n/a 40.2 32.4 28.5 29.7 305-4 CCE-4
2
OPERATED TOTAL7
Climate and Air Emissions
GHG INTENSITY (kg COe/BOE)
2
Total GHG Intensity 36.5 34.3 26.9 23.3 25.3 305-4 CCE-4
Target Related GHG Intensity6 35.9 33.8 26.6 22.9 24.9 305-4 CCE-4
GHGs (THOUSAND TONNES)
CO from Operations 17,700 13,800 15,900 13,229 13,113 305-1 CCE-4
2
CO from Imported Electricity (Scope 2) 1,000 700 1,000 1,060 1,001 305-2 CCE-4
2
Methane (COe)8 1,700 1,600 1,800 1,758 3,298 305-1 CCE-4
2
Nitrous Oxide (COe) 100 100 20 21 21 305-1 CCE-4
2
Total GHGs (thousand tonnes COe) 20,500 16,200 18,720 16,068 17,433 CCE-4
2
COe Per Dollars of Revenue (tonnes/$thousand)9 0.63 0.86 0.41 0.20 0.31 305-4
2
Potential COe from Proved Reserves (million tonnes) 2,190 1,875 2,525 2,699 2,821 EM-EP-420a.2
2
SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS BY SOURCE CATEGORY
(THOUSAND TONNES COe)10
2
Flaring 2,300 1,300 1,900 1,560 2,283 305-1 CCE-4
Combustion 15,200 12,300 13,800 11,536 11,402 305-1 CCE-4
Process Venting 1,500 1,500 1,500 1,461 2,599 305-1 CCE-4 EM-EP-110a.2
Fugitive Venting 200 200 220 168 147 305-1 CCE-4
Other11 300 200 300 282 <1 305-1 CCE-4
Total Scope 1 Emissions 19,500 15,500 17,720 15,008 16,432 305-1 CCE-4 EM-EP-110a.1
Percent of Scope 1 Emissions Covered by Regulation 40% 40% 38% 43% 39% EM-EP-110a.1
METHANE
Methane Intensity (kg COe/BOE)8 3.0 3.4 2.6 2.6 4.8 CCE-4
2
Methane Emitted as Percent of Natural Gas Production 0.24% 0.28% 0.23% 0.30% 0.61% CCE-4 EM-EP-110a.1
Methane Emitted as Percent of Total Hydrocarbon
Production 0.08% 0.10% 0.07% 0.07% 0.14% CCE-4 EM-EP-110a.1
Methane Emitted as Percent of Scope 1 Emissions 9% 10% 10% 12% 20% CCE-4
FLARING
Routine Flaring Volume (million cubic feet)12 n/a n/a 1,030 111 13 305-1 CCE-7
Total Flaring Volume (million cubic feet)13 24,600 14,500 20,500 17,858 21,867 305-1 CCE-7 EM-EP-110a.2
Flaring Intensity (Total Flaring Volume as Percent
of Gas Produced) 2.60% 1.97% 1.81% 2.39% 3.36%
Flaring Intensity (Total Flaring Volume MMSCF/Total
Production MMBOE) 43.8 30.8 29.5 25.9 31.8
OTHER AIR EMISSIONS (TONNES)
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) 69,900 60,800 96,400 98,508 115,587 305-7 ENV-5 EM-EP-120a.1
Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) 36,100 28,200 42,000 48,528 47,682 305-7 ENV-5 EM-EP-120a.1
Sulfur Oxides (SOx) 4,700 2,700 2,900 2,701 2,607 305-7 ENV-5 EM-EP-120a.1
Particulate Matter (PM) 1,400 1,100 1,700 1,978 1,818 305-7 ENV-5 EM-EP-120a.1
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 85
Performance by year
OPERATED TOTAL7 continued
METRIC 2019 2020 2021 20224 20234 GRI IPECA SASB
Climate and Air Emissions continued
ENERGY USE (TRILLION BTUs)
Combustion Energy 217 179 211 199 197
Imported Electricity 4 4 6 8 8
Total Energy 222 183 217 206 205 302-1 CCE-6
Energy Intensity (trillion BTUs/MMBOE) 0.40 0.39 0.31 0.30 0.30 302-3 CCE-6
Environment
WATER
Fresh Water Withdrawn (million cubic meters) 14.4 10.6 9.7 9.2 10.5 303-3 ENV-1 EM-EP-140a.1
Fresh Water Consumed14 (million cubic meters) 12.1 8.5 7.5 7.3 8.5 303-5 ENV-1 EM-EP-140a.1
Fresh Water Withdrawn in Regions with High Baseline
Water Stress15 8% 5% 17% 6.3% 14.7% 303-3 ENV-1 EM-EP-140a.1
Fresh Water Consumed in Regions with High Baseline
Water Stress16 8% 2% 20% 2.4% 18.3% 303-5 ENV-1 EM-EP-140a.1
Non-Fresh Water Withdrawn17 (million cubic meters) 51.3 48.7 55.3 52.6 53.6 303-3 ENV-1
Total Produced Water Recycled or Reused18
(million cubic meters) 82.3 63.8 80.0 74.0 73.6 ENV-1 EM-EP-140a.2
Municipal Wastewater Reused (million cubic meters) n/a n/a 1.3 1.8 0.5 ENV-1
Produced Water Recycled or Reused 66% 67% 48% 49% 46% ENV-1 EM-EP-140a.2
Produced Water Injected or Disposed 22% 16% 42% 41% 44% 303-4 ENV-2 EM-EP-140a.2
Produced Water Discharged Offshore 12% 17% 10% 10% 11% 303-4 ENV-2 EM-EP-140a.2
Hydrocarbons in Overboard Discharges (tonnes) 145 124 147 129 129 ENV-2 EM-EP-140a.2
WATER INTENSITY
Unconventional Fresh Water Consumption19
(barrels/BOE EUR) 0.22 0.23 0.08 0.06 0.06 ENV-1
Conventional Fresh Water Consumption20 (barrels/BOE) 0.05 0.05 0.03 0.03 0.03 ENV-1
BIODIVERSITY
Operated Area Overlapping With IUCN Protected Areas21 0.25% 0.24% 0.03% 0.04% 0.03% 304-1 ENV-4
Number of IUCN Protected Areas Near Operated Assets21 7 7 8 10 12 304-1 ENV-4
Habitat Areas Protected or Restored by ConocoPhillips
(thousand acres)22 316 275 550 409 540 304-3 ENV-4
Number of Operated Assets with IUCN Red List Species23 15 13 12 12 9 304-4 ENV-4
LIQUID HYDROCARBON SPILLS TO THE
ENVIRONMENT24
Number of Spills > 100 Barrels 2 1 4 2 0 306-3 ENV-6 EM-EP-160a.2
Volume of Spills > 100 Barrels (barrels) 1,100 100 734 299 0 306-3 ENV-6 EM-EP-160a.2
Number of Spills > 1 Barrel 89 83 178 99 38 306-3 ENV-6 EM-EP-160a.2
Volume of Spills > 1 Barrel (barrels) 1,800 600 2,194 861 303 306-3 ENV-6 EM-EP-160a.2
Volume Recovered from Spills > 1 Barrel (barrels) 1,200 400 1,410 496 155 ENV-6 EM-EP-160a.2
LIQUID HYDROCARBON SPILLS IN THE ARCTIC25
Number of Arctic Spills > 1 Barrel 1 1 3 1 2 EM-EP-160a.2
Volume of Arctic Spills > 1 Barrel (barrels) 2 2 5 5 7 EM-EP-160a.2
Volume Recovered from Arctic Spills > 1 Barrel (barrels) 2 2 5 5 7 EM-EP-160a.2
WASTES (TONNES)26,27
Hazardous Wastes 21,900 28,200 23,000 78,600 107,611 306-3 ENV-7
Nonhazardous Wastes 279,000 159,400 213,200 322,489 1,352,155 306-3 ENV-7
Recycled Wastes 130,400 107,500 191,700 265,508 38,075 306-4 ENV-7
Total Waste Generated 431,300 295,100 427,900 666,596 1,497,841 306-3 ENV-7
Waste Disposed 300,900 187,600 236,200 401,088 1,459,766 306-3 ENV-7
86 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Performance by year
OPERATED TOTAL7 continued
METRIC 2019 2020 2021 20224 20234 GRI IPECA SASB
Safety
SAFETY (RATE PER 200,000 HOURS WORKED)
Workforce Fatalities 1 0 0 0 1 403-9 SHS-3 EM-EP-320a.1
Workforce Total Recordable Rate 0.15 0.12 0.15 0.14 0.17 403-9 EM-EP-320a.1
Workforce Lost Workday Rate 0.03 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04
Employee Total Recordable Rate 0.05 0.09 0.14 0.12 0.19 403-9-a-iii SHS-3
Employee Lost Workday Rate 0.03 0.02 0.05 0.06 0.05 SHS-3
Contractor Total Recordable Rate 0.18 0.13 0.16 0.14 0.16 403-9-b-iii SHS-3
Contractor Lost Workday Rate 0.03 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 SHS-3
PROCESS SAFETY (RATE PER 200,000 HOURS WORKED
BY OPERATIONS)
Tier 1 Process Safety Event Rate28 0.03 0.03 0.09 0.05 0.04 SHS-6 EM-EP-540a.1
Social
ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION
Payments to Vendors and Suppliers ($ billion)29 9.4 7.3 7.9 10.9 12.5
Shareholder Dividends ($ billion) 1.5 1.8 2.4 5.7 5.6
Capital Investments ($ billion) 6.6 4.7 5.3 10.2 11.2
Cash Contributions ($ million) 43.9 31.3 33.6 33.9 33.8 SOC-13
GLOBAL WORKFORCE
Employees at Year-End30 10,400 9,700 9,900 9,500 9,900 2-7-a SOC-5
Part-Time Employees 1.4% 1.0% 0.9% 0.7% 0.6% 2-7-b SOC-5
Employees — Women 26% 27% 26% 27% 27% 405-1-b-i SOC-5
All Leadership —Women 24% 23% 25% 26% 26% 2-7-a SOC-5
Top Leadership — Women 20% 19% 22% 25% 26% 2-7-a SOC-5
Junior Leadership — Women 25% 24% 25% 26% 26% 2-7-a SOC-5
Professional — Women 28% 29% 29% 30% 30% 2-7-a SOC-5
Petrotechnical — Women 20% 20% 20% 21% 21% 2-7-a SOC-5
Non-U.S. Employees 45% 41% 39% 34% 34% SOC-5
All Non-U.S. Leadership 47% 44% 41% 35% 33% SOC-5
Non-U.S. Top Leadership 31% 25% 24% 23% 23% SOC-5
Non-U.S. Junior Leadership 50% 49% 44% 37% 35% SOC-5
Avg. Years of Service 11.4 11.9 11.3 10.9 10.9 SOC-5
Avg. Years of Experience 17.5 17.9 17.5 17.5 17.9 SOC-5
Employees by Age Group SOC-5
Under 30 8% 8% 8% 8% 7% 405-1-b-ii SOC-5
30–50 60% 60% 62% 62% 61% 405-1-b-ii SOC-5
51+ 31% 33% 30% 31% 31% 405-1-b-ii SOC-5
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 87
Performance by year
OPERATED TOTAL7 continued
METRIC 2019 2020 2021 20224 20234 GRI IPECA SASB
Social continued
U.S. WORKFORCE DEMOGRAPHICS31
Employees — POC32 24% 25% 28% 30% 32% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5
All Leadership — POC 19% 19% 21% 23% 24% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5
Top Leadership — POC 13% 13% 15% 18% 18% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5
Junior Leadership — POC 21% 22% 23% 25% 26% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5
Professional — POC 24% 24% 26% 28% 30% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5
Employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement 4% 4% 4% 4% 4% 2-30-a SOC-5
Veterans 6% 6% 6% 6% 6% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5
Employees with disabilities n/a 5% 5% 5% 5% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5
U.S. Employees by race/ethnicity and gender
White Women 20.9% 21.2% 20.0% 19.9% 19.0% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5
White Men 54.6% 54.0% 51.8% 49.9% 49.2% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5
Hispanic Women 2.5% 2.6% 3.0% 3.6% 3.9% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5
Hispanic Men 7.9% 7.8% 11.7% 12.0% 12.4% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5
Asian Women 2.0% 2.0% 1.9% 2.1% 2.1% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5
Asian Men 4.7% 4.7% 4.2% 4.3% 4.5% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5
Black/African American Women 1.8% 1.8% 1.6% 1.7% 1.8% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5
Black/African American Men 2.2% 2.3% 2.2% 2.5% 2.6% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5
American Indian or Alaska Native Women 1.0% 0.9% 0.9% 1.0% 1.1% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5
American Indian or Alaska Native Men 1.6% 1.6% 1.3% 1.4% 1.5% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5
Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander Women 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5
Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander Men 0.1% 0.2% 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5
Two+ races Women 0.2% 0.3% 0.4% 0.5% 0.6% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5
Two+ races Men 0.3% 0.5% 0.5% 0.9% 1.1% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5
HIRING (GLOBAL UNLESS IDENTIFIED AS U.S.)
University hires 12% 25% 10% 8% 8% 401-1 SOC-15
Diversity hiring — Women 24% 29% 23% 29% 27% 401-1 SOC-15
U.S. Hiring
Diversity hiring — U.S. POC 29% 28% 35% 41% 41% 401-1 SOC-15
U.S. Hiring by race/ethnicity
White 69.7% 71.7% 63.1% 59.2% 59.1% 401-1 SOC-15
Hispanic 14.8% 10.4% 21.9% 21.2% 21.8% 401-1 SOC-15
Asian 7.8% 8.0% 5.3% 6.8% 7.5% 401-1 SOC-15
Black/African American 3.9% 6.0% 5.0% 7.4% 6.5% 401-1 SOC-15
American Indian or Alaska Native 0.8% 2.0% 0.8% 2.2% 2.5% 401-1 SOC-15
Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander 0.4% 0.4% 0.3% 0.5% 0.2% 401-1 SOC-15
Two+ races 2.3% 1.6% 2.1% 2.4% 2.5% 401-1 SOC-15
Undisclosed 0.2% 0.0% 1.6% 0.5% 0.0% 401-1 SOC-15
External hire acceptance rate SOC-15
University hire acceptance (U.S.) 84% 85% 81% 70% 73% 401-1 SOC-15
Interns acceptance (U.S.) 68% 74% 76% 68% 71% 401-1 SOC-15
Conversions from Interns to Hires 73% 91% 82% 77% 82% 401-1 SOC-15
Interns — U.S. Minorities 32% 36% 38% 40% 46% 401-1 SOC-15
88 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Performance by year
OPERATED TOTAL7 continued
METRIC 2019 2020 2021 20224 20234 GRI IPECA SASB
Social continued
ATTRITION RATE
Total Attrition Rate 11.2% 5.3% 14.5% 13.1% 4.9% 401-1 SOC-6
Voluntary Attrition 4.1% 3.0% 5.0% 5.6% 3.9% 401-1 SOC-6
Voluntary Attrition — Women 3.8% 2.8% 5.3% 5.0% 4.2% 401-1 SOC-6
Voluntary Attrition — Men 4.1% 3.1% 4.9% 5.9% 3.9% 401-1 SOC-6
Voluntary Attrition — U.S. POC 3.4% 2.9% 4.8% 5.7% 3.1% 401-1 SOC-6
U.S. Voluntary Attrition by race/ethnicity
White 4.9% 3.7% 6.8% 6.7% 4.6% 401-1 SOC-6
Hispanic 3.3% 2.2% 5.2% 4.7% 3.5% 401-1 SOC-6
Asian 3.8% 4.1% 2.9% 6.7% 3.1% 401-1 SOC-6
Black/African American 3.5% 4.2% 4.0% 6.9% 3.6% 401-1 SOC-6
American Indian or Alaska Native 4.1% 1.4% 7.8% 6.5% 1.2% 401-1 SOC-6
Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander 0.0% 0.0% 6.7% 0.0% 6.6% 401-1 SOC-6
Two+ races 0.0% 0.0% 7.3% 7.3% 1.9% 401-1 SOC-6
Voluntary attrition less than 5 years of tenure 4.3% 2.5% 8.4% 7.6% 4.7% 401-1 SOC-6
TRAINING, DEVELOPMENT AND PROMOTIONS
Training of Petrotechnical employees
(Hours of training/empl.) 28.5 27.1 21.5 23.1 28.5 404-2 SOC-7
DEI Training courses completed by employees n/a 1,872 1,281 1,402 1,057 404-2 SOC-7
Average spent on training per employee (in dollars) $1,277 $948 $889 $1,071 $1,043 SOC-7
Promoted — Women 31% 32% 33% 34% 32% SOC-7
Promoted — U.S. POC 27% 24% 26% 30% 33% SOC-7
U.S. Promoted SOC-7
White 72.8% 76.5% 74.2% 69.9% 67.0% SOC-7
Hispanic 12.4% 9.6% 10.7% 16.2% 18.6% SOC-7
Asian 7.6% 5.7% 5.6% 5.4% 5.7% SOC-7
Black/African American 4.3% 4.1% 5.2% 4.1% 4.1% SOC-7
American Indian or Alaska Native 2.0% 2.8% 2.1% 2.8% 2.1% SOC-7
Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander 0.2% 0.4% 0.6% 0.1% 0.5% SOC-7
Two+ races 0.7% 0.9% 1.3% 1.5% 2.0% SOC-7
Undisclosed 0.0% 0.0% 0.2% 0.0% 0.0% SOC-7
Promoted to Top Leadership — Women 9% 22% 31% 34% 25% SOC-7
Promoted to Top Leadership — U.S. POC 24% 6% 21% 28% 16% SOC-7
Governance
BOARD33
Independent Members 91% 92% 80% 86% 83%
Women 36% 31% 27% 29% 17% 405-1-a-i
Exploration and production
AVERAGE DAILY NET PRODUCTION34
Crude Oil (MBD) 705 568 829 898 936 EM-EP-000.A
NGL (MBD) 115 105 142 252 287 EM-EP-000.A
Bitumen (MBD) 60 55 69 66 81 EM-EP-000.A
Natural Gas (MMCFD) 2,805 2,394 3,162 3,130 3,135 EM-EP-000.A
Total (MBOED) 1,348 1,127 1,567 1,738 1,826 EM-EP-000.A
Total Operated Production (MMBOE)35 561 471 694 688 688
Total Proved Reserves at Year-End (million BOE) 5,262 4,459 6,101 6,599 6,758
Proved Reserves in Low-Transparency Countries36 4.4% 5.1% 3.6% 3.8% 3.4% EM-EP-510a.1
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 89
Performance by year
Notes
1 Due to rounding, some total numbers may not equal the sum of the subcomponents.
2 Based on the equity share approach as defined in “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (WRI).”
3 Baseline net equity emissions intensity data was estimated from the Long-Range Planning process and may be found within the Emissions Reduction Targets and Performance section of
the Sustainability Report on www.conocophillips.com.
4 Updated in 2022, GHG metrics are reported to the nearest whole number in each unit, except intensity or other metrics expressed as ratios.
5 The denominator uses net production values reported in the ConocoPhillips Annual Report, which represent the company’s equity share of total production.
6 GHG intensity target excludes emissions from exploration and transportation services (i.e., Polar Tankers and Global Aviation), which are not directly related to oil or gas production. This
may give rise to small differences between the intensity we report for our GHG target purposes and our total greenhouse gas intensity. The company set a medium-term target to reduce
our gross operated and net equity operational GHG emissions intensity by 50% to 60% by 2030, from a 2016 baseline.
7 Data is based on assets where we have operational control. Environmental data is represented as 100% ownership interest regardless of actual share owned by ConocoPhillips with
acquisitions and divestitures aligned with financial reporting. To provide the most current and accurate data available, we have updated previously reported data for prior years as needed.
8 2023 methane emissions are higher due to updated equipment inventory, equipment classification and real-time tracking of flare downtime.
9 Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions divided by sales and other operating revenues. Source: ConocoPhillips Annual Report
10 Includes CO2 from operations, Methane (CO2e), Nitrous Oxide (CO2e).
11 Includes emissions related to unplanned events/incidents and emissions from Sulfur Hexaflouride.
12 Routine flaring is defined as flaring that occurs during the normal production of oil in the absence of sufficient facilities to utilize the gas onsite, dispatch it to market, or reinject it. In
2020, we endorsed the World Bank Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 initiative. Per the World Bank’s Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 initiative text, “Oil companies that endorse the Initiative will
develop new oil fields they operate according to plans that incorporate sustainable utilization or conservation of the field’s associated gas without routine flaring. Oil companies with
routine flaring at existing oil fields they operate will seek to implement economically viable solutions to eliminate this legacy flaring as soon as possible, and no later than 2030.”
13 Total flaring volume represents total hydrocarbon content flared. Safety flaring is included in the total flaring volume.
14 Calculated as total fresh water withdrawn minus total fresh water discharged.
15 Based on World Resources Institute Aqueduct Risk Atlas water stress mapping layer as of Dec. 31, 2023, verification of water stress using local water supply and demand data for select
assets and calculated as the percentage of total fresh water withdrawn.
16 Based on World Resources Institute Aqueduct Risk Atlas water stress mapping layer as of Dec. 31, 2023, verification of water stress using local water supply and demand for select assets
and calculated as the percentage of total fresh water consumed.
17 Includes water withdrawn from saline/brackish groundwater aquifers and seawater.
18 Includes produced water recycled for production (e.g., steam generation) or completions (e.g., hydraulic fracturing) and produced water reused for enhanced oil recovery.
19 Calculated using Enverus data for the average volume of fresh water (BBL) divided by the average estimated ultimate recovery (EUR, BOE) as of April 1, 2024. Intensity value may change
as EUR data are updated.
20 Calculated using the average volume of fresh water (BBL) divided by the average annual production (BOE).
21 Operated lease area overlapping with IUCN I-VI protected areas based on World Database on Protected Areas accessed on Dec. 31, 2023.
22 Cumulative acreage includes impact avoidance, grassland and wetland restoration, habitat conservation, biodiversity offsets and voluntary conservation areas.
23 Operated assets with species observed or known to occur based on IUCN Red List of Threatened Species mapping tool accessed on Dec. 31, 2023.
24 The term “environment” refers to the natural environment, including soil, surface water, groundwater and ice-affected surfaces.
25 No spills in this section were deemed as to the environment, per local regulatory requirements.
26 Regulatory definitions for hazardous and nonhazardous waste vary between countries and jurisdictions. Data is based on country and jurisdictional definitions.
27 The variance in waste volumes is due primarily to increased well production and an improved methodology to determine waste quantities and the allocation of hazardous and recycled
waste in the Canadian and Lower 48 Business Units.
28 Rate of process safety events of greater consequence as defined by API 752 and IOGP 456 Standards.
29 Payments to vendors and suppliers is an estimate based on Production and Operating Expenses and Capital Program.
30 Employee headcount based on active employees as of Dec. 31, 2023.
31 U.S. workforce demographics account only for self-reported data.
32 POC: People of Color (includes ethnic/racial groups defined per the U.S. Census).
33 As of Dec. 31, 2023.
34 Production data is average daily net production from continuing operations.
35 Data is normalized using barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) from production operations, including gas plant liquid production of ethane, propane, butane and condensate and production from
third-party gas not accounted for in production operations. For gas production, 6,000 standard cubic feet of gas is assumed to equal one BOE.
36 In the 20 lowest-ranked countries per Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index.
Units Of Measure
MBD Thousands of Barrels per Day.
MBOED Thousands of Barrels of Oil Equivalent per Day.
MMCFD Millions of Cubic Feet per Day. Represents quantities available for sale
and excludes gas equivalent of natural gas liquids.
MMBTU Millions of British Thermal Units.
90 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Performance by country
1
Performance by country
OPERATED TOTAL 2,3
METRIC U.S. CANADA NORWAY/U.K. AUSTRALIA ALL OTHERS4 TOTAL
Climate and Air Emissions
GHGs (THOUSAND TONNES)
CO from Operations 6,741 3,268 1,063 2,041 0 13,113
2
CO from Imported Electricity 705 283 13 0 0 1,001
2
Methane (COe) 3,198 49 22 29 0 3,298
2
Nitrous Oxide (COe) 8 7 3 2 0 21
2
Total GHGs 10,653 3,607 1,101 2,072 0 17,433
Total GHG Intensity (kg COe/BOE) 23.0 57.4 13.7 25.3 0 25.3
2
Flaring Volume (million cubic feet) 19,923 349 464 1,131 0 21,867
OTHER AIR EMISSIONS (TONNES)
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) 112,535 522 2,460 68 0 115,587
Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) 42,981 1,881 1,611 1,209 0 47,682
Sulfur Oxides (SOx) 1,400 1,071 126 10 0 2,607
Particulate Matter (PM) 1,583 120 63 51 0 1,818
ENERGY USE (TRILLION BTUS)
Combustion Energy 85 59 16 36 0 197
Imported Electricity 6 2 <1 0 0 8
Total Energy 91 61 16 36 0 205
Environment
WATER
Fresh Water Withdrawn (million cubic meters) 7.1 1.8 1.6 0.02 0 10.5
Non-Fresh Water Withdrawn5 (million cubic meters) 27.7 0.2 25.7 0 0 53.6
Produced Water Recycle/Reuse6 48.7 24.9 0 0 0 73.6
(million cubic meters)
Hydrocarbons in Overboard Discharges 0 0 129 0 0 129
(tonnes)
LIQUID HYDROCARBON SPILLS TO THE
ENVIRONMENT
Number of Spills > 100 Barrels 0 0 0 0 0 0
Volume of Spills > 100 Barrels (barrels) 0 0 0 0 0 0
Number of Spills > 1 Barrel 37 1 0 0 0 38
Volume of Spills > 1 Barrel (barrels) 298 5 0 0 0 303
Volume Recovered from Spills > 1 Barrel 150 5 0 0 0 155
(barrels)
WASTE (TONNES)7
Hazardous Waste 36 96,339 11,225 12 0 107,611
Nonhazardous Waste 1,205,399 144,948 1,698 110 0 1,352,155
Recycled Waste 20,376 8,337 8,595 767 0 38,075
Total Waste Generated 1,225,811 249,624 21,517 888 0 1,497,841
Waste Disposed 1,205,435 241,287 12,923 122 0 1,459,766
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 91
Performance by country
OPERATED TOTAL2,3 continued
METRIC U.S. CANADA NORWAY/UK AUSTRALIA ALL OTHERS4 TOTAL
Global Workforce8
Employees at Year-End 6,570 870 1,940 300 220 9,900
Employees — Women 29% 25% 21% 23% 50% 27%
All Leadership — Women 26% 27% 22% 19% 43% 26%
Top Leadership — Women 28% 19% 18% 0% 0% 26%
Junior Leadership — Women 26% 28% 23% 21% 44% 26%
Professional — Women 31% 31% 27% 20% 48% 30%
Petrotechnical — Women 20% 21% 25% 22% 27% 21%
Avg. Years of Service 10.1 9.4 14.3 8.3 11.4 10.9
Avg. Years of Experience 16.6 19.7 20.8 19.8 19.5 17.9
Employees by Age Group
Under 30 9% 3% 6% 4% 1% 7%
30–50 62% 72% 52% 67% 74% 61%
51+ 30% 26% 41% 29% 25% 31%
Production
Total Operated Production (MMBOE)9 463 63 80 82 0 688
Notes
1 Due to rounding, some total numbers may not equal the sum of the subcomponents.
2 Data is based on assets where we have operational control. Environmental data is represented as 100% ownership interest regardless of actual share owned by ConocoPhillips with
acquisitions and divestitures aligned with financial reporting. To provide the most current and accurate data available, we have updated previously reported data for prior years as needed.
3 Updated in 2022, GHG metrics are reported to the nearest whole number in each unit, except intensity or other metrics expressed as ratios.
4 All Others previously included Indonesia and Malaysia. Due to no Exploration and Production operations, there were no environmental metrics to report from the Malaysia Business Unit in
2023.
5 Includes water withdrawn from saline/brackish groundwater aquifers and seawater.
6 Includes produced water recycled for production (e.g., steam generation) or completions (e.g., hydraulic fracturing) and produced water reused for enhanced oil recovery.
7 Regulatory definitions for hazardous and nonhazardous waste vary between countries and jurisdictions. Data is based on country and jurisdictional definitions.
8 Workforce for All Others includes China, Malaysia and other small operations.
9 Data is normalized using barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) from production operations, including gas plant liquid production of ethane, propane, butane and condensate and production from
third-party gas not accounted for in production operations. For gas production, 6,000 standard cubic feet of gas is assumed to equal one BOE.
92 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
AXPC ESG metrics template
1,2
AXPC ESG metrics template
TOPIC METRIC UNITS 2021 2022 2023 ADDITIONAL COMMENTS
Greenhouse Scope 1 GHG Emissions metric tons 5,880,410 5,740,354 7,908,938
gas emissions CO 2e
Scope 1 GHG Intensity metric tons 13.6 15.0 19.6
GHG Emissions/Gross Annual COe/MBOE
2
Production as Reported Under
Subpart W
Percent of GHG Emissions % 21% 23% 23%
Attributed to Gathering and
Boosting Segment
Scope 2 GHG Emissions metric tons 555,892 708,335 703,688
COe
2
Scope 1 and 2 Combined GHG metric tons 14.9 16.8 21.3
Intensity COe/MBOE
2
Scope 1 GHG Emissions + Scope 2
GHG Emissions/Gross Annual
Production as Reported Under
Subpart W
Scope 1 Methane Emissions metric tons 62,181 59,117 126,385
CH
4
Scope 1 Methane Intensity metric tons 0.14 0.15 0.31
Scope 1 Methane Emissions/Gross CH/MBOE
4
Annual Production as Reported
Under Subpart W
Percent of Methane Emissions % 11% 14% 11%
Attributed to Gathering and
Boosting Segment
Flaring Gross Annual Volume of MCF n/a n/a n/a Please refer to our Flaring definitions and
Flared Gas volumes as reported in Performance
Metrics by Country.
Percentage of Gas Flared Per % n/a n/a n/a Please refer to our Flaring definitions and
MCF of Gas Produced volumes as reported in Performance
Gross Annual Volume of Flared Metrics by Country.
Gas/Gross Annual Gas Production
Produced Liquids Spilled/Total MCF/BOE n/a n/a n/a Please refer to our Flaring definitions and
Produced Liquids volumes as reported in Performance
Gross Annual Volume of Flared Metrics by Country.
Gas/Gross Annual Production
Spills Spill Intensity BBL/MBBL n/a n/a n/a Please refer to our Hydrocarbon Spills
Produced Liquids Spilled/Total related data as reported in Performance
Produced Liquids Metrics by Country. ConocoPhillips
follows the Ipieca Sustainability Reporting
Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry. This
scope of this guidance pertains to
hydrocarbon spills over 1 bbl and that is
what is reported in our performance
metrics tables. We do not report on other
liquid spill media.
Water use Fresh Water Intensity BBL/BOE 0.08 0.05 0.05 BOE expressed as BOE EUR for
Fresh Water Consumed/Gross unconventional assets.
Annual Production
Water Recycle Rate BBL/BBL 63% 60% 88%
Recycled Water/Total Water
Consumed
Does your company use WRI yes/no yes yes yes
Aqueduct, GEMI, Water Risk Filter,
Water Risk Monetizer, or other
comparable tool or methodology to
determine the water-stressed
areas in your portfolio?
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 93
AXPC ESG metrics template
AXPC ESG METRICS TEMPLATE1,2 continued
TOPIC METRIC UNITS 2021 2022 2023 ADDITIONAL COMMENTS
Safety Employee TRIR 0.56 0.66 0.38
# of Employee OSHA Recordable
Cases x 200,000/Annual Employee
Workhours
Contractor TRIR 0.42 0.20 0.14
# of Contractor OSHA Recordable
Cases x 200,000/Annual
Contractor Workhours
Combined TRIR 0.44 0.24 0.16
# of Combined OSHA Recordable
Cases x 200,000/Annual Combined
Workhours
Supporting Gross Annual Oil Production BBL 303,290,000 349,330,000 368,910,000
data Gross Annual Gas Production MCF 661,420,000 567,090,000 567,020,000
Gross Annual Production BOE 412,000,000 443,880,000 463,361,600
Gross Annual Production MBOE 412,000 443,880 463,362
Gross Annual Production as MBOE 432,458 384,779 404,100
Reported Under Subpart W
Total Produced Liquids MBBL n/a n/a n/a Please refer to our Hydrocarbon Spills
related data as reported in Performance
Metrics by Country.
ConocoPhillips follows the Ipieca
Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the
Oil and Gas Industry. This scope of this
guidance pertains to hydrocarbon spills
over 1 bbl and that is what is reported in
our performance metrics tables. We do
not report on other liquid spill media.
Produced Liquids Spilled BBL n/a n/a n/a Please refer to our Hydrocarbon Spills
related data as reported in Performance
Metrics by Country.
ConocoPhillips follows the Ipieca
Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the
Oil and Gas Industry. This scope of this
guidance pertains to hydrocarbon spills
over 1 bbl and that is what is reported in
our performance metrics tables. We do
not report on other liquid spill media.
Fresh Water Consumed BBL 35,360,000 32,124,525 43,260,804
Recycled Water BBL 342,740,000 312,059,370 306,359,364
Total Water Consumed BBL 546,496,000 523,078,260 349,797,688
Employee OSHA Recordable # of cases 20 24 14
Cases
Contractor OSHA Recordable # of cases 111 76 59
Cases
Combined OSHA Recordable # of cases 131 100 73
Cases
Annual Employee Workhours # of hours 7,190,565 7,230,395 7,437,885
Annual Contractor Workhours # of hours 52,769,789 76,080,186 82,689,791
Methodology Employee workhours based on
headcount reports from HR. Contractor
hours based on factors applied to spend
(by activity type).
Annual Combined Workhours # of hours 59,960,354 83,310,581 90,127,676
1 The basis for the data in the table is defined by AXPC. The GHG data reported is for U.S. operated assets reporting under Subpart W and other metrics corresponding to U.S. operations.
2 Safety-related data for 2021 and 2022 has been restated to reflect all U.S. operated assets. Rates for 2021 and 2022 are shown including COVID-19 work-related illnesses experienced in
2021 and 2022 as defined by OSHA.
94 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
API template for GHG reporting
API template for GHG reporting
IPCC AR GWP: AR4
Basis: Operated
NO. INDICATOR UNITS 2021 2022 2023
1. Direct GHG Emissions (Scope 1)
1.1 Direct GHG Emissions (Scope 1) — All GHGs million metric tons COe 17.7 15.0 16.4
2
1.1.1 Upstream — All GHGs million metric tons COe 15.3 12.5 14.1
2
1.1.1.1 Methane (CH) million metric tons COe 1.7 1.7 3.3
4 2
1.1.1.2 Upstream Flaring — All GHGs (subset of million metric tons COe 1.9 1.5 2.2
2
Direct GHG Emissions – Scope 1)
1.1.1.3 Volume of Flares mmcf 19,615 17,182 20,736
1.1.2 Midstream — All GHGs million metric tons COe n/a n/a n/a
2
1.1.2.1 Methane (CH) million metric tons COe n/a n/a n/a
4 2
1.1.3 Downstream — All GHGs million metric tons COe n/a n/a n/a
2
1.1.4 LNG — All GHGs million metric tons COe 2.1 2.1 2.1
2
1.1.5 Oil and Natural Gas Field Services — All GHGs million metric tons COe 0.3 0.3 0.3
2
2. Indirect GHG Emissions from Imported Energy (Scope 2)
2.1 Indirect GHG Emissions from Imported Electricity + Heat + Steam + 1.03 1.06 1.00
Cooling (Scope 2, Market-based)
2.1.1 Upstream — All GHGs million metric tons COe 1.01 1.06 1.00
2
2.1.2 Midstream — All GHGs million metric tons COe n/a n/a n/a
2
2.1.3 Downstream — All GHGs million metric tons COe n/a n/a n/a
2
2.1.4 LNG — All GHGs million metric tons COe 0 0 0
2
2.1.5 Oil and Natural Gas Field Services — All GHGs million metric tons COe 0.02 0.002 0.002
2
3. GHG Mitigation
3.1 GHG Mitigation from CCUS, Credits, and Offsets million metric tons COe n/a n/a n/a
2
3.1.1 Carbon Capture Utilization and Storage (CCUS) — All GHGs million metric tons COe n/a n/a n/a
2
3.1.2 Renewable Energy Credits — (RECs for Indirect Emissions) — million metric tons COe n/a n/a n/a
2
All GHGs
3.1.3 Offsets — All GHGs million metric tons COe n/a n/a n/a
2
4. Intensity — GHG Emissions
4.1 Scope 1 + Scope 2 Upstream GHG Intensity kilograms COe/BOE 26.70 22.45 24.82
2
4.2 Scope 1 Upstream Methane Intensity kilograms COe/BOE 2.84 2.75 5.39
2
4.3 Scope 1 Upstream Flaring Intensity kilograms COe/BOE 3.07 2.52 3.66
2
4.4 Scope 1 + Scope 2 Liquids Pipelines Transmission GHG million metric tons COe/ n/a n/a n/a
2
Intensity throughput in barrel-miles
4.5 Scope 1 Natural Gas Pipelines Transmission and Storage Methane % n/a n/a n/a
Intensity
4.6 Scope 1 + Scope 2 Downstream GHG Intensity kilograms COe/BOE n/a n/a n/a
2
4.7 Scope 1 + Scope 2 LNG GHG Intensity million metric tons COe/mmcf 0.0000044 0.0000045 0.0000044
2
4.8 Additional Intensity Metrics, if applicable (e.g., further disaggregated yes/no no no no
by constituent GHG or by more granular business asset, and/or for
additional business assets beyond these categories)
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 95
API template for GHG reporting
API TEMPLATE FOR GHG REPORTING continued
NO. INDICATOR UNITS 2021 2022 2023
5. Indirect GHG Emissions from Consumers' Use of Products (Scope 3)
Attention: Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold products are released when the hydrocarbons produced and marketed by natural gas and oil companies are
combusted by consumers. GHG emissions from the use of sold products are not within a company’s control, and it should be noted that not 100% of the hydrocarbon
products produced/refined/sold by the company may be combusted at the end of the product life cycle. Scope 3 emissions lead to extensive multiple counting of GHG
emissions across the economy. Therefore, it is inaccurate to add together Scope 3 emissions reported by individual companies in order to ascertain GHG emissions
from consumers’ use of oil and natural gas products. For example, an oil and natural gas company’s Scope 3 emissions represent Scope 1 and/or Scope 2 emissions for
fuel consumers (e.g., electric utility combusting natural gas, individuals using gasoline, manufacturers purchasing natural gas to power their operations). Scope 3
emissions on an individual company basis are not an indicator whether global GHG emissions are being reduced and do not provide context of how GHG emissions fit
within the global energy system. Scope 3 emissions are also not indicative of a company’s strategy to manage potential climate risks and opportunities nor of a
company’s commercial strategy or viability.
5.1 Indirect GHG Emissions from Use of Sold Products million metric tons COe 197.6 207.9 217.9
2
(Category 11)
6. Additional Climate-Related Targets and Reporting
6.1 GHG Reduction Target(s) yes/no yes yes yes
6.2 TCFD-informed reporting yes/no yes yes yes
6.3 Additional Climate Reporting Resources
7. Third-party Verification
7.1 Assurance level Limited Limited Limited
7.2 Assurance provider ERM ERM LRQA Inc.
96 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Disclosure, data quality and assurance
Disclosure, data quality
and assurance
The accuracy of the information reflected in our report is We mapped relevant GRI, Ipieca, UN Global Compact
very important to us. ConocoPhillips reports our Principles, TCFD and SASB disclosures for stakeholder
sustainability performance using internationally recognized convenience and we continue to assess alignment with
reporting standards and frameworks. The 2023 other frameworks. We also consider frameworks such as the
Sustainability Report covers data from January 1 to Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures. We
December 31, 2023. provide information to CDP for climate change, Dow Jones
Sustainability Index and other organizations that assess the
Our reporting is in accordance with the GRI Standards and
ESG performance of companies. We engage with MSCI,
references guidance and standards developed by Ipieca,
Sustainalytics and ISS E&S QualityScore, all of which rate
TCFD and SASB. LRQA Inc. has provided independent
us based on publicly available information.
limited assurance of the disclosures and the 2023 data for
the metrics in the performance tables. LRQA Inc. assurance The ConocoPhillips Internal Audit group, which reports to
activities included reviewing evidence for the disclosures in the Audit and Finance Committee, also provided limited
the report, interviewing content owners and subject matter assurance of the data included in the report.
experts as required in order to substantiate and corroborate
the disclosures, and testing the data for the performance
metrics at both corporate and operational levels, via reviews
with selected operations.
Read the most recent LRQA Inc. statement and GHG
assurance letter.
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 97
Abbreviations
Abbreviations
AFC Audit and Finance Committee EIS Environmental Impact Statement
AFCD Americans for Carbon Dividends ELT Executive Leadership Team
API American Petroleum Institute EOR enhanced oil recovery
APLNG Australia Pacific Liquefied Natural Gas EPA Environmental Protection Agency
APS IEA Announced Pledges Scenario ERM enterprise risk management
AXPC American Exploration and Production Council EU ETS European Union Emissions Trading System
BBL barrel EUR estimated ultimate recovery
BCA border carbon adjustment EVP executive vice president
BCF billions of cubic feet GFANZ Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net-Zero
BCFD billions of cubic feet per day GHG greenhouse gas
BLM Bureau of Land Management GRI Global Reporting Initiative
BOE barrel of oil equivalent GWSC Global Water Sustainability Center
BRT Business Roundtable HCM human capital management
BU business unit HRCC Human Resources and Compensation
Committee
CBAM European Union Carbon Border
Adjustment Mechanism HSE health, safety and environment
CCIWG Climate Change Issues Working Group IEA International Energy Agency
CCS carbon capture and storage IETA International Emissions Trading Association
CLC Climate Leadership Council IOGP International Oil & Gas Producers Association
CO e carbon dioxide equivalent IPBES Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on
2
Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services
COSIA Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance
IUCN International Union for Conservation of Nature
CPLC Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition
IWG issues working group
DEI diversity, equity and inclusion
LCT Low Carbon Technologies
DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Index
LNG liquefied natural gas
E&P exploration and production
LRP Long-Range Plan
EEOC U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission
98 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
Abbreviations
MACC marginal abatement cost curve SBTN Science Based Targets Network
MM millions SD sustainable development
MMBBL millions of barrels SDGs United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals
MMBOD millions of barrels per day
SDLT Sustainable Development Leadership Team
MMBOE millions of barrels of oil equivalent
SEC Securities and Exchange Commission
MMBOED millions of barrels of oil equivalent per day
SOR steam-oil ratio
MMCF millions of cubic feet
SPEC Sustainability and Public Policy
MMCFD millions of cubic feet per day
Executive Council
MMBTU millions of British thermal units
STEPS IEA Stated Policies Scenario
NGO nongovernmental organization
SVP senior vice president
NPC National Petroleum Council
TCFD Task Force on Climate-related
NPR-A National Petroleum Reserve – Alaska Financial Disclosures
NZAC Net-Zero Advisory Council TMT Talent Management Team
NZE IEA Net Zero Emissions Scenario TNFD Taskforce on Nature-related Financial
Disclosures
NZEC Net-Zero Executive Council
TRR total recordable rate, also referred to as
NZLT Net-Zero Leadership Team
total recordable incident rate (TRIR)
OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation
VCIP Variable Cash Incentive Program
and Development
VIA values and interest assessment
OGMP 2.0 Oil and Gas Methane Partnership 2.0
VPSHR Voluntary Principles on Security
OSRO Oil Spill Removal Organization
and Human Rights
POC People of Color
WRI World Resources Institute
PPSC Public Policy and Sustainability Committee
WTI West Texas Intermediate
PSP Permian Strategic Partnership
SAGD steam-assisted gravity drainage
SASB Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023 99
Recognition
Notable recognition
and achievements
We have been recognized for our sustainable development performance and success.
Awards and Ratings and
recognition questionnaires
Forbes’ World’s Best Employers 2023 Dow Jones Sustainability Index
United States North America
One of only four companies in North America from the
Fortune’s World’s Most Admired Oil & Gas Upstream and Integrated sector
Companies in 2022 and 2023
Global FTSE4Good Index Series
Constituent of the 2023 FTSE4Good Index Series
Institutional Investor Research
Ranked #2 for Best ESG by combined buy-side and MSCI ESG
sell-side in the oil and gas E&P sector “AA” rating
Oil & Gas Methane Partnership 2.0 Gold ISS E&S Quality Score
Standard Pathway designation Received a score of “1” on Social and “2” on Environmental
United States metrics. 1 = Lowest Risk
Newsweek’s America’s Greatest
Workplace 2023
United States
We also have a long history of sustainable development leadership:
• Founding member of the United States Business Council for Sustainable Development.
• Founding member of the Climate Leadership Council.
100 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2023
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE Explore
SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
This report contains forward-looking statements as defined under the federal securities laws. Forward-looking ConocoPhillips
statements relate to future events, plans and anticipated results of operations, business strategies, and other
aspects of our operations or operating results. Words and phrases such as “ambition,” “anticipate,” “estimate,”
“believe,” “budget,” “continue,” “could,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “potential,” “predict,” “seek,” “should,” “will,” Annual Report
“would,” “expect,” “objective,” “projection,” “forecast,” “goal,” “guidance,” “outlook,” “effort,” “target” and other The ConocoPhillips Annual Report and
similar words can be used to identify forward-looking statements. However, the absence of these words does
Form 10-K provides details on the
not mean that the statements are not forward-looking. Where, in any forward-looking statement, the company
expresses an expectation or belief as to future results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and company’s financial and operating
believed to be reasonable at the time such forward-looking statement is made. However, these statements are performance, a letter from our chairman
not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and other factors beyond our
control. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecast in the and chief executive officer, and additional
forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from what is shareholder information.
presented include changes in commodity prices, including a prolonged decline in these prices relative to
conocophillips.com/annualreport
historical or future expected levels; global and regional changes in the demand, supply, prices, differentials or
other market conditions affecting oil and gas, including changes resulting from any ongoing military conflict,
including the conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East, and the global response to such conflict, security threats Fact Sheets
on facilities and infrastructure, or from a public health crisis or from the imposition or lifting of crude oil
production quotas or other actions that might be imposed by OPEC and other producing countries and the Published annually to provide detailed
resulting company or third-party actions in response to such changes; insufficient liquidity or other factors, such operational updates for each of the
as those listed herein, that could impact our ability to repurchase shares and declare and pay dividends such
that we suspend our share repurchase program and reduce, suspend, or totally eliminate dividend payments in company’s six segments.
the future, whether variable or fixed; changes in expected levels of oil and gas reserves or production; potential conocophillips.com/factsheets
failures or delays in achieving expected reserve or production levels from existing and future oil and gas
developments, including due to operating hazards, drilling risks or unsuccessful exploratory activities;
unexpected cost increases, inflationary pressures or technical difficulties in constructing, maintaining or Human Capital
modifying company facilities; legislative and regulatory initiatives addressing global climate change or other Management Report
environmental concerns; public health crises, including pandemics (such as COVID-19) and epidemics and any
impacts or related company or government policies or actions; investment in and development of competing or Published annually to provide details of
alternative energy sources; potential failures or delays in delivering on our current or future low-carbon strategy, the actions the company is taking to
including our inability to develop new technologies; disruptions or interruptions impacting the transportation for
our oil and gas production; international monetary conditions and exchange rate fluctuations; changes in inspire a compelling culture, attract and
international trade relationships or governmental policies, including the imposition of price caps, or the retain great people, and meet our
imposition of trade restrictions or tariffs on any materials or products (such as aluminum and steel) used in the
commitments to all stakeholders.
operation of our business, including any sanctions imposed as a result of any ongoing military conflict, including
the conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East; our ability to collect payments when due, including our ability to conocophillips.com/hcmreport
collect payments from the government of Venezuela or PDVSA; our ability to complete the proposed acquisition
of Marathon Oil Corporation (Marathon) or any other announced or any other future dispositions or acquisitions
on time, if at all; the possibility that regulatory approvals, consents or authorizations for the Marathon acquisition Managing Climate-Related
or any other announced or any other future dispositions or acquisitions will not be received on a timely basis, if at Risks Report
all, or that such approvals may be subject to conditions neither we nor Marathon anticipated or may require
modification to the terms of the transactions or our remaining business; business disruptions relating to the Published annually to provide details on the
Marathon acquisition or following any other announced or other future dispositions or acquisitions, including the company’s governance framework, risk
diversion of management time and attention; the ability to deploy net proceeds from our announced or any
management approach, strategy, key metrics
future dispositions in the manner and timeframe we anticipate, if at all; the receipt of other requisite approvals
for the Marathon acquisition, including the approval of Marathon stockholders, the satisfaction of other closing and targets for climate-related issues.
conditions on a timely basis or at all or the failure of the Marathon acquisition to close for any other reason or to conocophillips.com/reports
close on anticipated terms; our ability to successfully integrate Marathon’s business and technologies, which
may result in the combined company not operating as effectively and efficiently as expected; our ability to
achieve the expected benefits and synergies from the Marathon acquisition in a timely manner, or at all; Proxy statement
potential liability for remedial actions under existing or future environmental regulations; potential liability
resulting from pending or future litigation, including litigation related directly or indirectly to our transaction Published annually and sent to
with Concho Resources Inc.; the impact of competition and consolidation in the oil and gas industry; limited stockholders informing them of when and
access to capital or insurance or significantly higher cost of capital or insurance related to illiquidity or
where our Annual Meeting of Stockholders
uncertainty in the domestic or international financial markets or investor sentiment; general domestic and
international economic and political conditions or developments, including as a result of any ongoing military is taking place and detailing the matters to
conflict, including the conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East; changes in fiscal regime or tax, environmental be voted upon at the meeting.
and other laws applicable to our business; and disruptions resulting from accidents, extraordinary weather
events, civil unrest, political events, war, terrorism, cybersecurity threats or information technology failures, conocophillips.com/proxy
constraints or disruptions; and other economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting our
business generally as set forth in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Unless legally
Sustainability Report
required, ConocoPhillips expressly disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether
as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Published annually to provide details on
Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors – The SEC permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to priority reporting issues for the company,
disclose only proved, probable and possible reserves. We may use the term “resource” in this report that the
a letter from our CEO and key environmental,
SEC’s guidelines prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. U.S. investors are urged to consider closely
the oil and gas disclosures in our Form 10-K and other reports and filings with the SEC. Copies are available from social and governance metrics.
the SEC and from the ConocoPhillips website. conocophillips.com/reports
Upcoming and Past
Investor Presentations
Provides notice of future and archived
presentations dating back one year, including
webcast replays, transcripts and slides.
conocophillips.com/investors
Published Aug. 7, 2024

