Sustainability
Report
2024
Table of Contents
01 / Introduction 02 / Clean Energy Future 03 / Governance
04 / CEO Letter Powering America’s Clean, Carbon-Free Energy Future Upholding Strong Governance Principles
07 / About Constellation
16 / Accelerating the Clean Energy Future 41 / Prioritizing Responsible Leadership and Governance
08 / Our Purpose, Values and Principles
34 / Managing Our Climate Impacts 44 / Maintaining Ethical Business Conduct
10 / Our Sustainable Business Strategy
46 / Protecting Cybersecurity
04 / Communities 05 / Environment 06 / About
Uplifting and Strengthening Our Communities
Fostering Environmental Stewardship 78 / About this Report
48 / Engaging With Communities
70 / Managing Environmental Programs
52 / Building a World-Class Workforce
72 / Protecting Ecosystems and Natural Resources
63 / Promoting Health and Safety
76 / Managing Our Waste Responsibly
66 / Building a Responsible and Diverse Supply Chain
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 2
1
Introduction
04 / CEO Letter
07 / About Constellation
08 / Our Purpose, Values and Principles
10 / Our Sustainable Business Strategy
A Message
From Our CEO
In a rapidly changing world, America needs clean, dependable energy to We are especially proud that Constellation and our people were recognized
grow a secure, carbon-free economy. With our unmatched carbon-free, for their tremendous progress during our first two years as an independent
reliable generation portfolio, Constellation has what our country needs. We company. In the past year, we were named to JUST Capital’s JUST100, earned
are proud to be the nation’s largest producer of clean, carbon-free energy1 a Great Place to Work® certification and were ranked ninth in Barron’s list of
and a leading supplier of energy products and services, including sustainable the 100 Most Sustainable Companies in the U.S., which was the highest score
energy solutions that are helping our country and our customers meet of any energy company. These recognitions reinforce our work to provide
their economic growth and environmental goals. Our nearly 14,000 people clean, reliable energy to millions of Americans and our efforts to foster a
work every day to safely generate approximately 10 percent of the nation’s diverse, inclusive and equitable workplace culture.
clean energy and supply millions of American families and businesses with
dependable, affordable energy. These talented members of our team are at
Accelerating the Clean
the core of our success.
Energy Future
As proud as I am about what we’ve built at Constellation, I am even more
excited about what’s to come. Our focus is on increasing the output and
Our carbon-free generation fleet of nuclear, hydroelectric, wind and solar
lifespan of our clean, reliable nuclear fleet -- and supporting potential new
assets makes us the nation’s largest clean energy producer, and we see
nuclear development -- to meet the energy needs of our growing national
opportunities to go further. The landmark Inflation Reduction Act has
economy. At the same time, we continue to introduce our customers to new
stabilized and repositioned nuclear energy as a catalyst for growing our entire
products to power their homes and businesses and help them reduce their
economy. Policymakers on both sides of the aisle, environmental groups and
carbon footprints.
public opinion have all shifted to recognizing the need to maintain and expand
our nation’s nuclear fleet.
This report outlines our continuing strategy to provide customers with the
most important commodity in the world today – energy that is clean and
always on. It also outlines the steps we are taking to strengthen and support
1 As used in this report, the terms “clean” or “carbon-free
the communities we serve and ensure that all communities, especially energy” refer to electricity that is generated by facilities that
do not directly emit GHGs, such as carbon dioxide, during the
underserved populations, reap the benefits of clean, reliable and affordable generating process.
energy.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 4
A Message From One of the single most important steps we can take to secure These investments will help our nation meet its growing and industrial customers along their full sustainability
Our CEO a reliable grid is to extend the licenses of our nation’s nuclear energy needs with clean power as we electrify everything journey, from calculating emissions baselines to developing
plants by at least an additional 20 years. Extending the life of from transportation and heating to heavy industry and the decarbonization roadmaps.
Constellation’s fleet will create as much additional carbon- booming data economy. To ensure America’s national security
free power as all the renewable energy generated in America and economic leadership, it is critical that we power these In addition to helping customers achieve their sustainability
over the past 40 years, and these plants will still be generating essential industries in the U.S. with reliable energy. To that goals, we are focused on operating our own business
carbon-free power long after all the wind and solar built in end, we are exploring opportunities to co-locate customer responsibly. To that end, in 2023 we developed a roadmap to
this decade retires due to age. In February, Constellation facilities, such as data centers, at our existing clean energy identify and implement feasible pathways to achieve our own
announced that it would seek to extend the license of its centers. This approach provides our customers secure and ambitious climate goals.
Clinton Clean Energy Center in Central Illinois, and in March reliable access to clean energy, as well as abundant land,
we announced plans to seek a second license renewal at our water and transportation. But it also can be the most cost-
Empowering Our Communities and
Dresden Clean Energy Center in Morris, Ill. With continued effective way for the grid to add new loads without taxing the
policy and market support, we see opportunities to relicense transmission system, while at the same time ensuring the
Our People
our entire nuclear fleet, preserving more than 22 gigawatts of long-term operation of the nuclear plants. Through contracts
clean energy capacity, billions of dollars in economic activity with those same customers, we also see opportunities to
Our role in the clean energy transition isn’t just about the
and thousands of jobs, while keeping energy costs affordable. locate the next-generation of advanced nuclear reactors at
carbon-free power we produce; it’s about ensuring that
our existing sites, where the infrastructure and expertise is
Americans of all backgrounds benefit from that transition.
In addition, we are investing $800 million in new equipment to already well established.
As a company, we take pride in our commitment to uplift
increase the output of our Braidwood and Byron clean energy
and strengthen our communities, creating greater economic
centers in Illinois. Together, these investments will increase In addition, the reach of our commercial business -- serving
opportunities for all. Last year, Constellation contributed
the capacity of those nuclear plants by 158 megawatts, and nearly one-fifth of all the commercial and industrial demand
$18.7 million in combined giving to charities -- $13.6 million by
we are considering similar projects at other plants that could in the U.S. and three-fourths of Fortune 100 companies -- puts
the company and its foundation, and another $5.1 million by
collectively result in up to one gigawatt of additional new us in the best position to meet the needs of our customers
our workforce, who volunteered more than 102,000 hours in
clean energy capacity over the next decade. through our innovative clean energy solutions, such as
the community.
hourly carbon-free energy matching. In 2023, we launched
Constellation Navigator, a platform that guides commercial
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 5
A Message From Constellation is a catalyst for economic growth and progress Our robust governance and ethical business practices help
in our communities. We are especially proud of the family- ensure we honor our commitments to our communities,
Our CEO
sustaining jobs that we support. Our $1.25 million Powering employees and customers. In 2023, we advanced and
Change investment and other workforce development strengthened our practices by developing our Responsible
programs and apprenticeships, among other initiatives, will Artificial Intelligence Policy.
help eliminate employment barriers in the energy industry
and provide training, reskilling and upskilling opportunities for
Looking Forward
underserved and underrepresented communities.
We are proud to lead the nation in providing clean, reliable
We are committed to creating a workplace that is welcoming
energy for millions of American families and businesses.
to all and to promoting diversity and inclusion. In 2023 we
State and federal policies, bipartisan political support, public
introduced quarterly Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Spotlight
opinion surveys and increased customer demand for reliable
Awards and launched THRIVE, a nomination-based program
and clean electricity all point to strong and growing support
that brings together a diverse and inclusive cohort of high-
for nuclear energy to power our economy for decades to
potential leaders to help them take the next steps in their
come. As we work diligently to deliver on our purpose, we
career paths. As part of our Building Trades Diversity Pledge,
will continue to safely provide the reliable and carbon-free
we have a team looking at ways to promote access to energy
energy that our country needs. That will include adding
industry jobs for all communities.
new dependable, clean energy through uprates and license
extensions, and supporting new nuclear development by
To cultivate the growth of diverse and small businesses, we
Joe Dominguez
leveraging our expertise and existing clean energy sites with
spent over $500 million with these suppliers last year—
President and Chief Executive Officer
room to grow. The world is counting on us, and we will be
representing 21 percent of our managed spend. Supplier.io,
there to meet the moment.
a leading supplier diversity and ESG data and management
solutions firm, recognized our work by naming Constellation
as a 2023 Supply Chain Diversity Leader.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 6
About Constellation
2024 Constellation Energy Corporation (NASDAQ: CEG), through 16M homes
Sustainability Report Constellation Energy Generation, LLC and its subsidiaries,
(collectively, Constellation) is the nation’s largest producer of
Our carbon-free generation fleet powers the
clean, carbon-free energy2 and a leading supplier of energy
equivalent of 16 million homes.
products and services, including sustainable energy solutions.
Our carbon-free generation fleet of nuclear, hydroelectric,
wind and solar generation facilities generated approximately
~10%
178 terawatt hours (TWh) of clean, carbon-free energy in
2023, powering the equivalent of 16 million homes and
providing around 10 percent of all clean power generated in We provide around 10 percent of all clean power
the United States (U.S.), while avoiding almost 125 million generated in the U.S.
metric tons of carbon emissions. We also operate natural
gas plants and other assets that provide a mix of baseload,
intermediate and peak power generation. ~2M customers
Our family of retail businesses serves approximately two
We serve approximately two million residential, public
million residential, public sector and business customers,
sector and business customers, including 75 percent
including 75 percent of the Fortune 100. We offer innovative of the Fortune 100.
clean energy solutions, such as hourly carbon-free energy
matching and Constellation Offsite Renewables (CORe), to
help customers reach their own climate goals. We are also
working to advance new technologies, including behind-the-
meter (BTM) energy solutions, at our clean energy centers to
help decarbonize hard-to-abate industries.
2 As used in this report, the terms “clean” or “carbon-free energy” refer
to electricity that is generated by facilities that do not directly emit
greenhouse gases (GHGs), such as carbon dioxide, during the generating
process.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 7
Our Purpose,
Values and Principles
Our Purpose: Our Values:
Accelerating the transition
to a carbon-free future It’s about trust. Our customers rely on us to be We bring people together equitably so all voices can
Safety And Respect, Belonging,
up and running 24/7, 365 days a year. Solving be heard and every perspective is valued. Respecting
Operational Excellence Diversity and Equity
We live our purpose every day in a problems. Keeping promises. Putting safety first. differences, collaborating, being inclusive and striving
way that benefits our customers, our Operational excellence is a matter of pride and for balance. Bringing our whole self to the job, so we
communities and our shareholders. at the core of everything we do. can come together as one.
Our values are the shared ideals that
help our people function as a team and
work towards Constellation’s common We are motivated by the challenge. To be the It’s about having an impact. Driving economic
Competitive Catalyst For
purpose: accelerating the transition to best operators. To deliver new technology to the progress, improving lives and reflecting the diversity
Spirit Change
a carbon-free future. market. To continuously improve and relentlessly of our society in our workforce. It’s a can-do attitude
innovate. Our competitive spirit sets us apart. that says: Together we can be a catalyst for positive
change in communities across America.
We are committed to doing what’s right. We honor Our role has never been more essential. Leading the
Act With Climate
our commitments. We act with integrity because transition to a clean energy economy. Advocating for
Integrity Champion
respect for our colleagues, customers and change. Preparing our communities for the future. We
communities compels us to be accountable for must be champions for climate.
everything we do.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 8
Our Sustainability
Principles:
Our sustainability principles are core to our business strategy and value
proposition and guide us in our central purpose. We are focused on driving action
in these critical focus areas:
Providing Carbon-Free Energy Carbon-Free Policy Advocacy
and Climate Mitigation
Commercial & Industrial Equity and Community
Customer Transformation Empowerment
Innovation and Technology Commitment to Diversity, Equity,
Enablement Inclusion and Belonging
Strong Corporate Governance
KEY LINKS
and Risk Management
What We Stand For
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 9
Our Sustainable
Business Strategy
World leaders at the 28th Conference of the Parties to the greater access to clean energy, we stand ready to meet
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change the accelerating demand. Our business model, coupled
(COP28) stressed the unprecedented challenge posed with investments in innovation and our close customer
by climate change, and that while the Paris Agreement relationships, will continue to fuel our growth.
has spurred action, the world is still not on track to meet
the Agreement’s objectives.3 At the same time, energy Our sustainable business strategy is focused on accelerating
demand growth across the U.S. is driven by onshoring of the nation’s transition to a carbon-free energy future,
responding to the climate crisis as a premier sustainability
manufacturing, industrial electrification, the adoption of
company and delivering long-term value for our customers,
electric vehicle (EV) technology and the booming demand
communities, employees and shareholders. Our nuclear fleet
from the data economy. As the nation retires dispatchable
is a critical driver of the energy transition, providing resilient,
fossil fuel generation assets and deploys intermittent
secure and readily dispatchable carbon-free energy. Our
renewable energy resources, the electricity industry must
unique blend of reliable and clean assets enables us to meet
address the growing need for clean, firm energy sources that
customer demand at every hour of every day, throughout
can meet demand affordably and reliably.
the year. We also support the local communities in which we
operate to help facilitate a clean energy transition that is just
Constellation is well-positioned to address this challenge
and inclusive for all.
and provide both carbon-free energy and reliability, now
and through the energy transition. We believe the most
Our disciplined capital allocation strategy supports a strong
valuable energy commodity in the world today is a clean and
investment grade balance sheet, reinvestment in our business
reliable megawatt (MW), and Constellation’s nuclear fleet,
and growth investment consistent with our corporate strategy
the nation’s largest in terms of generating capacity and the
and return of capital to owners.
number of reactor units,4 offers more clean and reliable MWs
than any other energy provider in the U.S.
3 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. (2023,
November 29). COP28 Opens in Dubai with Calls for Accelerated
Sustainability and stewardship drive our business and
Action, Higher Ambition Against the Escalating Climate Crisis.
our growth. When many states, communities and major
4 U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. (2024, February 5). List
corporations are setting ambitious climate goals and seeking of Power Reactor Units. Note that Exelon Generation Co., LLC is
still listed as the owner/operator for some units that are owned/
operated by Constellation Energy Generation, LLC.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 10
Our Sustainable Business
Strategy Principles:
Power America’s Clean Provide Energy and Sustainability
Energy Future Solutions for Customers
Operate and grow the nation’s largest fleet of carbon-free, Provide reliable, resilient energy and deliver innovative sustainability
zero-emissions generation facilities, with world-class levels solutions that help customers achieve their carbon-free energy goals.
of safety, reliability and resiliency.
Expand America’s Largest Fleet Uplift and Strengthen
of Clean Energy Centers Our Communities
Leverage and expand our state-of-the-art clean energy assets by Advance respect, belonging, diversity and equity, and drive
co-locating with data centers, exploring direct air capture of carbon community investment and create family-sustaining clean energy
dioxide (CO 2) and, if supported by policy, producing clean hydrogen jobs for all.
and other sustainable fuels to reduce industrial pollution.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 11
Our Business
Constellation is the nation’s largest
producer of clean, carbon-free energy and
a leading supplier of energy products and
services, including sustainable energy
solutions.
48 states Headquartered in
Operates in 48 U.S. states, the District
Baltimore
of Columbia, Canada and the United Kingdom.
~14,000
Employs almost 14,000 people.
>33,000 MWs
Constellation has a generating capacity
of more than 33,000 MWs and an annual ~2 million
output that is nearly 90 percent carbon-free,
Constellation serves approximately two
generating enough clean, carbon-free energy
million residential, public sector and business
to power the equivalent of 16 million homes.
customers through our family of retail
businesses.
75%
~10%
Constellation supplies energy products and
Constellation produces approximately 10 services, including sustainability solutions, to
percent of the carbon-free energy in the U.S. 75 percent of Fortune 100 companies.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 12
Green Financing Framework
We published our Green Financing Framework in March Constellation’s Green Financing Framework represents
2024 outlining our criteria to issue green bonds, which are the nation’s first nuclear-focused green financing and is a
financial instruments that are issued specifically to finance continuation of our strategy to validate our standing as the
projects or activities that deliver positive environmental or premier clean, carbon-free infrastructure company among
climate impacts. The framework states that proceeds will the fixed-income investor community.
finance or refinance existing and future projects that support
decarbonization of the energy sector in the U.S., furthering Also, in March 2024, Constellation issued the first corporate
our commitment to accelerate the transition to a carbon-free green bond in the U.S. that can be used to finance nuclear
future. The framework defines eligibility criteria in six key energy projects. Constellation will use the proceeds from
categories: Nuclear Power, Renewable Energy, Operational the $900 million, 30-year term offering for investments
Emissions Reduction, Clean Hydrogen, Energy Storage such as maintenance, expansion and life extensions of clean,
and Clean Commercial Offerings. Constellation retained reliable nuclear power generation that reduce or avoid carbon
Sustainalytics to provide a Second Party Opinion on the emissions or provide other environmental benefits. Annually,
environmental benefits of our Green Financing Framework as Constellation plans to publish a Green Bond Allocation
well as alignment with the Green Bond Principles 2021 and and Impact Report on the Investor Relations section of our
Green Loan Principles 2023. website that would include expected sustainability metrics
related to eligible projects.
KEY LINKS
About Constellation Investor Relations 2023 Form 10-K
Business Strategy Values & Sustainability Principles 2024 Proxy Statement
Our Purpose
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 13
Constellation 2023-2024
Awards and Recognition
GREAT PLACE
Ranked ninth on Barron’s 100 Most Sustainable U.S.
BARRON’S Earned a 2023 Great Place to Work® Certification.
Companies 2024. TO WORK
CENTER FOR ENERGY Named a 2023 recipient of the Center for Energy Workforce
Named to JUST Capital’s 2024 JUST100, which measures how
Development’s Community Partnership Award for our impactful
JUST CAPITAL the nation’s largest corporations are performing on the business WORKFORCE
work through our Powering Change workforce development
issues that matter most to Americans. DEVELOPMENT (CEWD)
initiative, Constellation Scholarships and more.
Named a 2023 Supply Chain Diversity Leader by Supplier.io,
DET NORSKE VERITAS
Voted the #1 energy supplier in pre-sale support, pricing &
SUPPLIER.IO recognizing our support of over 20,000 jobs at small and diverse
(DNV) contracting and after-sale service by energy brokers by DNV.
suppliers in 2022.
ENERGY RESEARCH
Recognized as a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Top Scorer Ranked #1 in Overall Satisfaction in 2024, and recognized with
DISABILITY:IN
for 2023, with a score of 90 out of 100, on the Disability:IN CONSULTING GROUP Excellence Awards in all major categories: Ease of Doing Business,
EQUALITY INDEX
Equality Index. (ERCG) End Customer Experience and Price Competitiveness.
CHICAGO WOMEN
Received the Chicago Women in Trades’ Building Together Award.
IN TRADES
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 14
2
Clean Energy Future
Powering America’s Clean, Carbon-Free Energy Future
16 / Accelerating the Clean Energy Future
34 / Managing Our Climate Impacts
Accelerating the Clean
Energy Future
At a glance At Constellation, we play an essential role in leading the transition to a clean
~10%
energy economy, advocating for change and preparing our communities
for the future. We pursue opportunities to increase our nuclear generation
We produce around 10 percent of the
capacity, with its unparalleled reliability, while helping customers achieve
clean, carbon-free energy in the U.S.
their own sustainability goals through innovations such as hourly carbon-free
energy matching and seeking to co-locate customer demand at our clean
energy centers. By providing clean, safe, affordable and reliable energy and
~90%
expanding the use of our carbon-free generation fleet to decarbonize other
sectors, we are well-positioned to meet the increasing demand for sustainable
with an annual output which is nearly
energy solutions that deliver long-term value to our shareholders while
90 percent carbon-free
tackling the climate crisis.
The Corporate Governance Committee of the Constellation Board of Directors
75%
is tasked with reviewing our sustainability and climate change strategies,
including impacts on the economy and people and efforts to protect
with a carbon intensity, per megawatt
and improve the environment. For more information on oversight of our
hour (MWh) generated, 75 percent lower
sustainability programs, please see the Prioritizing Responsible Leadership
than our nearest U.S. industry peer.
and Governance section.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 16
Our Fleet of Clean,
Reliable Energy Assets
We produce around 10 percent of the clean, carbon-free
energy in the U.S. Our diverse generation portfolio serves
our nation’s energy needs with a mix of carbon-free and low- 2023 Generation Portfolio
carbon resources, including the nation’s largest nuclear fleet,5
as well as hydroelectric, wind, solar and efficient natural gas
facilities. Today, our fleet’s annual output is nearly 90 percent Generation Source Capacity Net Generation Avoided Carbon Emissions7
carbon-free, with a carbon intensity, on a per megawatt hour
(MWh) basis, more than 75 percent lower than our nearest
U.S. industry peer.6 Our portfolio will only become more MW % TWh % Millions of %
metric tons
essential to the clean energy transition as electricity demand
increases amid global efforts to lower carbon emissions.
22,070 67% 174 87% 122 97%
Nuclear
5 The nation’s largest in terms of generating capacity and the number of Natural Gas & Oil 8,461 25% 23 11% 0 0%
reactor units. U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. (2024, February 5).
List of Power Reactor Units. Note that Exelon Generation Co., LLC is still
listed as the owner/operator for some units that are owned/operated by Renewable & Storage 2,563 8% 4 2% 3 3%
Constellation Energy Generation, LLC.
6 For more information, please see the most recent Benchmarking Air
Emissions Report, published November 2023.
7 Estimated based on 178 terrawatt hours (TWh) of zero-emissions electricity Total 33,094 100% 201 100% 125 100%
generated by our nuclear and renewable fleet during 2023, using the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency’s GHG Equivalencies Calculator.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 17
21
Constellation owns and operates 21
active nuclear reactors in the Mid-
Atlantic, Northeast and Midwest and has
an ownership interest in four additional
reactors
22,070 MW
with a total capacity of 22,070 MW
67%
representing 67 percent of our total
generating capacity
~174 TWh
generating approximately 174 TWh of
carbon-free electricity in 2023
~122 Million
avoiding approximately 122 million metric
tons of CO e.
2
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 18
2,563 MW
Constellation also operates a fleet of
hydroelectric, wind, solar and storage
assets with a combined capacity of more
than 2,563 MW
~4 TWh
generating approximately 4 TWh of
carbon-free electricity in 2023
~3 Million
avoiding ~3 million metric tons of CO e.
2
~178 TWh
Our carbon-free fleet of nuclear,
hydroelectric, wind and solar facilities
generated approximately 178 TWh in 2023,
supplying around 10 percent of the carbon-
free energy in the U.S.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 19
Our Nuclear Fleet
Constellation owns and operates 21 active nuclear reactors in the Mid-Atlantic, Across America, our nuclear fleet is the best-run by capacity factor, staying
Northeast and Midwest and has an ownership interest in four additional online 94.4 percent of the time on average in 2023. Our performance last
reactors with a total capacity of 22,070 MW, representing 67 percent of our year is a continuation of nearly two decades of maintaining best-in-industry
total generating capacity. In 2023, Constellation acquired a partial ownership nuclear capacity factors. This steady, around-the-clock performance provides
stake in the South Texas Electric Generating Station, a 2,645-MW dual-unit the consistent, dependable service our customers and communities need,
nuclear plant located in Bay City, Texas. especially during the energy transition.
For more information on our efforts to update and seek license renewals for Our nuclear fleet operates as a reliable, baseload generation source, providing
our nuclear plants to continue providing clean and reliable energy, please see a continuous power supply even in the face of seasonality, weather anomalies
the Investing in a Clean Energy Future section. and other external volatilities. The reliability and predictability of our 24/7
nuclear generation fleet provides stability to the nation’s energy system,
Our unmatched nuclear fleet produces a critical and valuable asset—carbon- critical for grid balancing and management, while supporting the expansion of
free and reliable energy. Clean, dispatchable, always-on nuclear energy is key renewables. Further, our nuclear sites can operate for 18 to 24 months before
to the energy transition and to achieving the U.S.’s climate goals and the goals needing to refuel, which minimizes the impact of supply volatility.
of the Paris Agreement. Our nuclear fleet operates as a reliable, baseload
generation source, providing a continuous power supply even in the face of Grid operators are tasked with meeting volatile energy demand every hour of
seasonality, weather anomalies and other external volatilities. every day, throughout the year. Traditionally, they leveraged dispatchable fossil
fuel-powered generation to meet peak demand and ensure the grid is stable.
Nuclear fission emits no greenhouse gases (GHGs), criteria air pollutants However, this dispatchable generation is being replaced by more intermittent
or other toxic air emissions such as nitrogen oxides (NO ), sulfur dioxide wind and solar resources and short-duration batteries, while demand for
X
(SO ), particulate matter (PM) or mercury. We operate our nuclear fleet at energy is projected to increase dramatically due to growing adoption of EVs,
2
high performance standards while maintaining a clear focus on safety and industrial process and building heating electrification, and the booming
leveraging best practice management models. For more information on how data economy.
Constellation safely operates our nuclear assets, please see the Promoting
Health and Safety and Managing Our Waste Responsibly sections.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 20
The grid hits peak load as consumers return home for the day and run
appliances, plug in EVs and turn on the air conditioning. This happens as
solar generation declines causing the grid to call upon dirtier resources like
dispatchable fossil generation.
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23
DISPATCHABLE FOSSIL INTERMITTENT WIND BASELOAD/INTERMITTENT FOSSIL
BATTERY STORAGE INTERMITTENT SOLAR NUCLEAR
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 21
)WM(
ygrenE
Without this reserve of fossil fuel-powered dispatchable This chart shows a representative hot day with relatively low wind
generation capacity, supply constraints can especially in the ERCOT (Texas) region based on U.S. Energy Information
occur on hot days with low winds in the period immediately Administration hourly electric grid monitor data:
following peak demand between 6 and 9pm, when solar
When the sun sets and wind conditions have
generation declines and wind generation slowly rebounds
yet to rebound from daytime lows, it can
from its daytime low. This can cause tight grid conditions cause tight grid conditions and increased
risk of service disruptions. Carbon-intensive
and increased risk of service disruption, with more carbon- PEAK LOAD
dispatchable fossil generation (and battery
intensive dispatchable fossil resources called upon to 80k
storage) is called upon to maintain reliability.
maintain grid stability after short-duration battery storage
resources are depleted. In addition, severe winter weather 70k
events, that result in prolonged periods of subfreezing
temperatures, pose an entirely different set of challenges for
60k
grid reliability, with lower solar output and the potential for
long periods of low wind generation.
50k
These risks will only grow in the future with projected
40k
demand load growth and increased displacement of
fossil generation by intermittent wind, solar and short-
30k
duration battery storage. The challenge of reliable grid
decarbonization lies in balancing load with clean power
20k
every hour of every day despite the weather-dependent,
intermittent nature of wind and solar generation. Nuclear
10k
is one of the only technologies that can accomplish this.
Keeping our nation’s existing nuclear fleet online and adding
0
more diverse clean power resources like advanced nuclear
and medium- to long-duration energy storage will serve a Hours of the Day
pivotal role in a reliable clean energy future.
LOAD
Constellation’s Nuclear Fleet Ran at Near 100
Percent Capacity During Hottest Summer on Record8
The meteorological summer of 2023 was the hottest summer in Earth’s
100%
recorded history. To ensure our customers had reliable access to power
for cooling and other critical needs, Constellation’s carbon-free nuclear Constellation’s carbon-free nuclear
units ran nearly 100 percent of the time in June, July and August, units ran nearly 100 percent of the time
powering the equivalent of 16 million average American homes with clean
energy. That near-perfect reliability helped Constellation support our
16 million
customers through a growing number of extreme heat days—all without
adding any harmful emissions to the environment. powering the equivalent of 16 million average
American homes with clean energy.
To prepare for the summer heat, technical experts performed tens
of thousands of tasks at Constellation nuclear plants during planned
Tens of Thousands
refueling and maintenance outages designed to ensure all reactors would
run uninterrupted through the peak summer heat. As the number and To prepare for the summer heat, technical experts performed
severity of extreme weather events increase, Constellation’s nuclear tens of thousands of tasks at Constellation nuclear plants.
facilities continue to play a vital role in providing reliable and affordable
carbon-free energy all year long.
8 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. (2023, September 14).
The world just sweltered through its hottest August on record
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 22
Our Renewable and Hydroelectric Our Natural Gas and Oil Assets
Hydroelectric Assets
In Maryland and Pennsylvania, we own and operate two hydroelectric power plants along Equally important to transitioning to clean, safe, reliable
the Susquehanna River: Conowingo Hydroelectric Generating Station, a clean, run-of- and cost-effective power is ensuring that energy supply
In addition to our nuclear fleet, river hydroelectric facility, and Muddy Run, a pumped storage hydroelectric facility. These can meet customer demand, especially when intermittent
Constellation owns and operates hydroelectric assets provide much needed load-leveling power to the Mid-Atlantic region. generation assets are unable to serve that demand. Our
hydroelectric, wind and solar assets. natural gas fleet includes some of the nation’s cleanest and
Wind most efficient combined-cycle gas turbine units that provide
a reliable source of energy for our electric customers as the
We operate 28 wind projects across 10 states. To capitalize on growth opportunities within our
grid undergoes the transition to lower-carbon sources. Our
existing wind fleet, we are investing $350 million to repower and refurbish 315 MW of wind
combined cycle units in Texas are also air-cooled to reduce
assets between 2023 and 2025. This will enable us to increase energy output as well as
water consumption.
extend the operational life of these assets to help ensure clean energy generation into the
future. The first 70 MW of repowered assets began operating commercially at the end of
We continue to invest in research to identify ways to
2023. At our Criterion wind project in Maryland, we repowered 28 turbines with new, state-
decarbonize our natural gas assets. In 2023, we set an
of-the-art components that will allow us to increase clean energy production by 79,000 MWh
industry record for blending high concentrations of hydrogen
per year and run the project for an additional 20 years.
with natural gas at our Hillabee gas plant in Alabama. This
high percentage blending test highlights hydrogen’s potential
Solar
to meet the nation’s climate goals by reducing carbon
We operate five solar facilities in the West and Mid-Atlantic, including the Antelope Valley Solar emissions from existing natural gas-fired power plants. Based
Ranch in California—one of the nation’s largest solar power facilities. With 3.8 million solar on the hydrogen fuel blending rate of 38 percent tested, the
panels, the facility has a generation capacity of 242 MW of clean, renewable electricity, enough plant’s carbon emissions could be reduced by nearly 270,000
to power the equivalent of 75,000 average American homes. metric tons annually if implemented fully.
For more information on our ambitious goals to achieve 100
percent carbon-free owned electricity generation by 2040,
please see the Managing Our Climate Impacts section.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 23
Investing in a Clean
Energy Future
Investments Tackling the climate crisis by maintaining and expanding our The support for new clean energy in the IRA has allowed capabilities and characteristics can help developers of new
clean energy capacity is foundational to our growth strategy us to reexamine uprate opportunities in our fleet that were clean, firm generation overcome challenges. For example,
in New Clean
and vital to efficiently achieving a decarbonized American previously uneconomic due to poor market conditions. For we are exploring long-term contracting structures that will
Energy Capacity economy. We are helping to bring more clean energy to example, we are investing $800 million in new equipment combine hourly carbon-free energy supply from existing
the market by seeking license extensions for our existing to increase the capacity of two of our nuclear plants in carbon-free energy resources with the development of new
nuclear fleet, investing in projects to increase the capacity Illinois by 135 MW. We are considering and examining similar clean energy projects that would be located at the same site.
of our nuclear and wind assets and developing innovative nuclear uprate projects that could lead to the addition of up This contracting and partnership approach could address
approaches to support our customers’ current need for to one gigawatt of new clean energy capacity over the next siting challenges, a common hurdle for new carbon-free
clean reliable electricity while building out the clean energy decade, helping to meet increasing energy demand to power energy deployment, by locating new small modular reactors
solutions of tomorrow. hyperscale data centers and support the electrification (SMRs) or other advanced technologies at our existing
of buildings, industrial processes and transportation with nuclear plant sites. These contracts also help ensure our
The landmark Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), passed in 2022, carbon-free resources. And as stated earlier, we are investing existing assets are economically viable while new, innovative,
recognizes the essential role our nation’s existing nuclear $350 million to repower and refurbish 315 MW of wind assets advanced clean energy technologies, such as SMRs, are
fleet must play in meeting demand for a clean, reliable between 2023 and 2025, with the first 70 MW of repowered developed and deployed in the future. For more information,
grid. Through the IRA, existing nuclear plants are eligible to assets at our Criterion wind project in Maryland allowing us to please see the Applied Technology page on our website.
receive production tax credits of up to $15 per MWh through increase clean energy production by 79,000 MWh per year for
2032.9 Pending continued policy support for nuclear energy, an additional 20 years. 9 See Note 5 – Government Assistance in our Q1 2024 Form 10-Q.
Constellation intends to pursue 20-year license renewals at all
our nuclear plants. To that end, in early 2024 we started the However, we realize that serving increasing energy demand
regulatory process to renew the licenses of our Clinton and also requires innovative approaches to addressing our
Dresden Clean Energy Centers in Illinois. Extending the life of customers’ current clean energy needs while building out
our nuclear fleet would generate as much additional carbon- additional clean energy capacity for the future. Therefore, in
free power as all the renewable energy generated in America April 2024, we responded to a request for information from
over the past 40 years. For more information on our recent Microsoft, Google and Nucor on ways to bring more advanced
license renewals and efforts to secure future license renewals, clean, carbon-free firm energy technologies online to meet
please see Item 1. Business of our 2023 Form 10-K. growing demand. Our proposal outlined how our unique
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 24
Clean Energy Our nuclear generation facilities are clean energy centers that They are critical infrastructure that require a significant
have positive benefits beyond their current use as a baseload amount of energy to operate.
Centers
carbon-free energy source and provider of electricity to the
electric grid. These facilities can support production of clean Powering data centers and other co-location applications
hydrogen and other sustainable fuels as well as power direct with nuclear energy will help preserve our largest and most
air capture technology to remove CO from the atmosphere. reliable source of clean energy. In the decade prior to passage
2
Some customers may locate their facilities adjacent to of the IRA, 13 nuclear units retired mostly due to economic
our nuclear plants—or co-located—so they can take direct factors and another 20 nuclear units avoided retirement by
advantage of our clean, 24/7 carbon-free electricity. entering state-based procurement programs. The nuclear
production tax credit enacted in Section 45U of the IRA has
Co-location refers to initiatves in which customer demand provided the financial stability needed to halt the premature
is met through a direct connection to the generation facility, retirement of nuclear plants, but that tax credit expires in
rather than via the electric transmission or distribution 2032, just as an increasing number of nuclear units will need
systems. Such initiatives co-located at our nuclear generation to renew their 20-year operating licenses from the Nuclear
facilities would provide customers direct access to clean, Regulatory Commission (NRC). Pairing our nuclear plants
24/7 nuclear generation capacity, proximity to water with these types of co-located end-uses will support the
resources, ample land and a secure facility. One especially financial stability needed to pursue relicensing and to keep
impactful co-location opportunity we are exploring is these highly reliable and emissions-free sources of electricity
connecting data center customers to our nuclear plants. available for decades to come. For more information on our
policy support for the preservation and expansion of nuclear
The rapidly expanding data economy is driving demand generation, please see the Sustainability Engagement and
for hyperscale data centers, which host thousands of Policy Advocacy section.
servers on-site. Data centers are needed to maintain U.S.
competitiveness and support national security, while also
creating jobs and stimulating state and local economies.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 25
Technology We believe that achieving a clean energy future will require investment in and that promotes, develops and licenses a proprietary process for efficiently
commercialization of emerging technologies. This vision includes our research generating electricity from natural gas while capturing all CO emissions.
2
Enablement &
and development and grants program with leading universities and national NET Power’s revolutionary patented technology captures over 97 percent of
Advancement laboratories. Working with research institutions such as the Massachusetts CO 2 emissions from power generation by combusting natural gas with pure
Institute of Technology, Argonne National Laboratory, the University of oxygen and recirculating most of the resulting CO emissions back into a
2
Maryland, the University of Maryland Baltimore County and the Electric Power turboexpander, which produces electricity. Any CO not recirculated through
2
Research Institute (EPRI), among others, this program aims to develop and the process is captured for sequestration.
deploy innovative solutions by leveraging external grant funding. Constellation
is a prime or sub-recipient of the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and New We also track how our clean energy economy and research and development
York State Energy Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) grants on (R&D) investments create opportunities for researchers and business
clean energy technologies including direct air capture of CO , long duration enterprises owned or led by marginalized, women, veteran/service-disabled
2
energy storage and clean hydrogen production. veterans and LGBTQ+ individuals and small businesses. Through our CTV
Corporate Social Responsibility Survey, businesses or projects in which we
Constellation Technology Ventures (CTV) is the venture investing organization have invested voluntarily disclose whether they have marginalized, women,
within Constellation. CTV invests in companies exploring innovative energy veteran/service-disabled veterans and LGBTQ+ leaders and if they have
technologies and business models, building a portfolio that represents a documented equitable employment or contracting practices. Although we
broad range of development stages and technology types. CTV goes beyond consider a variety of factors in making CTV investment and R&D decisions,
capital investment by actively working with company leadership to deploy we aspire to direct, over time, 25 percent or more of our investments in
the company’s products via Constellation’s commercial platform. Areas of business and R&D enterprises led by marginalized, women, veteran/service-
investment focus include technologies addressing the core power sector, disabled veterans and LGBTQ+ individuals. Achieving this goal over time will
carbon markets and the electrification of buildings and transportation. require active engagement and support from Constellation’s team, helping to
reinforce a shared commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion, belonging and
Through CTV, we were a strategic venture investor in NET Power, LLC, accessibility.
which went public in 2023 to form a new company called NET Power Inc.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 26
Clean Hydrogen Production To support a transformative decarbonization
pathway, Constellation is a participant in LevelTen Energy
Hydrogen can be produced from clean
the Midwest Alliance for Clean Hydrogen
electricity through electrolysis, which splits
(MachH2), comprised of more than 70 public
water molecules to produce hydrogen and
and private entities across the hydrogen
One of CTV’s active investments, LevelTen Energy, helps with LevelTen further enhances our ability to offer robust
oxygen. This hydrogen can be used as fuel or
value chain. In 2023, MachH2 was selected
renewable energy buyers, sellers, advisors and financiers hourly carbon-free energy supply structures to our
converted to energy-dense synthetic fuels
for up to $1 billion in funding by the DOE to
get deals done faster. LevelTen created a web-based commercial customers. By making the process of buying
that burn clean and reduce the emissions
advance the production of clean hydrogen.
marketplace that streamlines the buying and selling of and selling carbon-free energy and attributes more
profile of end-users. We believe that using
The lynchpin of MachH2’s projects is
offsite renewable energy projects, such as wind and solar, efficient, this critical transaction infrastructure is helping
electricity from our clean energy centers is
Constellation’s proposed 250 MW electrolyzer
across North America. This platform connects project accelerate the clean energy transition.
the fastest, most scalable and cost-effective
to be located in Illinois, which would be
developers with corporate buyers in a way that simplifies
way to produce large amounts of hydrogen
the largest nuclear-power clean hydrogen
the execution of physical and virtual power purchase
from carbon-free energy. Constellation’s
production facility in the world. Funded in part
agreements (PPAs) while facilitating additional risk
ability to advance this new hydrogen frontier,
through a separate DOE grant, our Nine Mile
intermediation services.
however, is contingent upon regulatory
Point Nuclear Power Plant operates a one MW
guidance allowing for nuclear powered
demonstration-scale project that began full
Recognizing that deep decarbonization requires
hydrogen production to receive tax credits
production in March 2023, making it the first
harnessing more than renewable resources alone, in
under Section 45V of the Internal Revenue
nuclear-powered hydrogen facility of its size in
2023 LevelTen Energy and Intercontinental Exchange
Code.
the U.S.
announced the Granular Certificate Trading Alliance
as a trading platform for granular carbon-free energy
KEY LINKS attribute certificates. Constellation’s founding
membership in the Alliance and strong collaboration
Constellation Generation Nuclear 101 Hydrogen Strategy
Clean Energy Strategy Innovation & Advancement Fixed Income Investors
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 27
Sustainable Product
Portfolio
Our integrated commercial platform is designed to empower existing and
future customers in how they buy, manage and use energy. We provide
customized tools and solutions that enable our customers to meet their
sustainability and carbon reduction targets, measure their carbon footprint,
increase access to clean, carbon-free power, improve energy efficiency and
reduce emissions. Not only does our sustainable product portfolio enable our
customers to accelerate their own transition to a carbon-free future, but it
also drives the development of future clean energy technologies.
Customer demand for sustainable energy products and services will
accelerate as customers aim to achieve their decarbonization goals while
electric demand increases due to the electrification of vehicles, buildings and
industrial heating. Additionally, load growth is expected from technological
advances, such as artificial intelligence (AI), that require significant computing
power to operate and around-the-clock power to support the data centers
that house such operations. We identify market opportunities and potential
growth areas to effectively expand our offerings, such as meeting challenges
related to grid reliability and resiliency due to the intermittent nature of
renewable energy. By developing a strong sustainable product portfolio, we
aim to attract environmentally conscious customers, help them achieve their
sustainability goals and strengthen our market position.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 28
Hourly Carbon-Free Constellation Offsite Constellation
Energy Matching Renewables (CORe) Navigator
Hourly Carbon-Free Energy Matching is an hourly CORe is a suite of product offerings that allows our Constellation Navigator is a platform that guides
matching platform and electricity supply solution that customers to access utility scale, third-party renewable commercial and industrial (C&I) customers along
enables us to continuously match our customers’ power generation projects through the simplicity of a physical, their full sustainability journey by providing them with
consumption with regional carbon-free energy sources load-following energy supply contract with Constellation. data analytics tools for carbon accounting, utility bill
each hour, with on-demand reporting and retirement We also offer an Impact PPA option which ensures management and rebate administration, combined
of hourly clean energy attribute certificates (EACs). For that the large off-site renewable energy projects CORe with expert sustainability advisory services. The
more information, please see the Hourly Carbon-Free customers support also provide incremental benefits to Navigator platform has developed emissions baselines
Energy Matching section on our website. the communities where those projects and businesses for 100 percent of the C&I customers served by
are located. We expect to deliver more than 75 TWhs Constellation. For more information, please see the
of clean energy over the term of all our existing CORe Constellation Navigator section on our website.
agreements, which includes almost 2,600 MW of new
renewable energy capacity being added to the grid since
2019. For more information, please see the Constellation
Offsite Renewables (CORe) section on our website.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 29
Constellation Constellation Efficiency Made Easy® (EME)
Sustainable Gas Energy Solutions
EME is a program that enables customers to identify, implement and fulfill efficiency
improvements with no upfront cost, helping to reduce energy costs, modernize
(CES)
and Carbon Offsets
facilities and meet sustainability goals. Since EME’s establishment in 2011, we have
helped fund more than $400 million in energy efficiency projects for thousands of
Constellation customers. For more information, please see the Efficiency Made Easy
Constellation’s sustainable gas and carbon offsets CES develops and designs energy efficiency and
section on our website.
offerings include products such as renewable renewable energy infrastructure projects for
natural gas (RNG), carbon credits/offsets and government, education, healthcare and other
carbon removal projects that help retail gas commercial customers, leveraging forward-
customers achieve their decarbonization goals. thinking technology, data, systems integration
Since 2018, Constellation has enabled the and alternative energy solutions. In 2023, CES
Electric Vehicle (EV) Charging Solutions
development of over 50 RNG production facilities customers avoided more than 227,000 metric
as a primary off-taker and services provider to tons of CO . For more information, please see
2
the projects, delivering the sustainability and the Energy Solutions section on our website.
Our turnkey residential EV solution supports home charging, including the installation
economic benefits of RNG to over 500 end-use
of a home charger, an energy plan to optimize the cost of charging and assistance
customers and averaging more than 300,000 accessing federal, state and local rebates.10 For more information, please see the EV Home
metric tons of CO e avoided each year. For more
2 Charger Installation Services section on our website. Constellation can also deliver end-
information, please see the Renewable Natural
to-end electrification solutions to business and municipal customers by developing and
Gas and Carbon Offsets sections on our website.
implementing charging infrastructure.
10 Available in Maryland and Texas
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 30
Alaska Municipal League Among First
to Use Innovative Energy Management
and Sustainability Tracking Tool
Constellation and the Alaska Municipal League (AML) whole as well as community-level inventories, including
have collaborated to develop a GHG and criteria information from 245 communities across the state.
air pollutant emissions inventory map tool through Developing community emission inventory data into
Constellation Navigator’s carbon accounting platform. usable community- and asset-level data visualization and
AML indicated that Alaska has often been excluded calculation will allow these small communities to develop
from national modeling tools in the past due to its an emissions baseline while experts from Constellation’s
unique geography and infrastructure. Despite this, sustainability advisory team will help propose and
Constellation Navigator makes granular GHG emissions plan emissions mitigation projects and assist these
data available for rural and Indigenous communities, communities with applying for funding.
largely for the first time, by providing data for Alaska as a
KEY LINKS
Commercial Business Retail Products & Services Constellation Energy Solutions
Sustainability Strategies Empowering Our Customers
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 31
Sustainability Constellation has a long history of working with policymakers at Preservation and Expansion of Nuclear Gallup:
all levels of government to enact comprehensive regulations and
Generation
Engagement & 55%
legislation that drive decarbonization and benefit consumers,
Policy Advocacy shareholders, our business, the communities we serve and The first Global Stocktake of progress on the implementation
the planet. We work with broad-based coalitions to advocate of the Paris Agreement, released in 2023, recognizes the critical 55 percent favor nuclear energy as a
for policies that support clean, carbon-free energy generation, nature of new and existing nuclear generation in any credible way to provide electricity in the U.S.
including the preservation and expansion of nuclear power, clean plan to reach net zero emissions in time to prevent the worst
hydrogen development, hourly carbon-free energy matching environmental and social impacts of climate change. We believe
and accurate GHG emissions accounting and reporting. We that the most valuable energy commodity today and throughout
also support competitive retail and wholesale markets that the energy transition is clean, carbon-free and reliable electricity. Potential Energy:
11 Potential Energy Coalition, et al.
(2024, May). The World Wants incentivize the deployment and retention of clean, carbon- We work with policymakers to ensure the unique clean and
61%
New Nuclear: Findings from a
free energy resources. We engage with policymakers on reliable attributes of nuclear generation resources can continue
Comprehensive Evaluation of
the World’s Understanding and critical components of the just energy transition, including to operate through mid-century. The preservation and expansion
Support for Advanced Nuclear. 61 percent of Americans support use
comprehensive workforce development and transition programs, of nuclear generation is critical to maintaining grid reliability
of the latest nuclear technologies to
community investment strategies and strategies to retire fossil during the energy transition as the energy sector faces
12 Brenan, Megan. (2023, April generate electricity.
25). Americans’ Support for fuel plants in the future. We also support policies increasing the increasing demand, the retirement of dispatchable fossil fuel
Nuclear Energy Highest in transparency and reliability of climate-related disclosures and assets and the expansion of intermittent, renewable generation
a Decade, Gallup.
risks. resources.
13 Leppert, Rebecca and Kennedy,
Brian. (2023, August 18). We provide our employees with opportunities to advocate for the Recent polls have found that Americans’ support for nuclear Pew Research:
Growing share of Americans
favor more nuclear power. Pew policies we support. Our employee advocacy group, Constellation energy is at the highest levels seen in a decade. For instance,
57%
Research Center. Nation, empowers employees with tools and opportunities to Potential Energy found that 61 percent of Americans support the
advocate for clean energy policies. Constellation’s employee use of the latest nuclear technologies to generate electricity.11
14 Radiant Energy Group. (2023). 57 percent favor more nuclear to
Public Attitudes toward Clean Political Action Committee helps amplify our voice as a catalyst Pew Research and Gallup found that 57 percent and 55 percent
generate electricity in the U.S.
Energy 2023 – Nuclear. for change through political engagement. of respondents, respectively, favor more nuclear to generate
electricity in the U.S.12,13 While electoral politics remains
polarized, nuclear power boasts bipartisan support. In addition,
a 2023 research study by Radiant Energy Group found that 46
percent of people surveyed across 20 countries support nuclear
energy, 1.5 times higher than the percentage of those who
oppose it.14
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 32
Constellation has worked to build on these opportunities through Hourly Accounting of Clean Energy Generation
collaborations with grassroots organizations advocating for the preservation
We support the development of technology to more accurately track clean
of nuclear energy nationwide.
energy generation and report GHG emissions through our advocacy work
with federal and state governments, participation in industry trade groups
We also support the expansion of nuclear energy around the world and in
and involvement with other non-governmental organizations. By enabling an
2023, we signed the Net Zero Nuclear Industry Pledge, along with 120 nuclear
evolution towards hourly accounting, companies can track and match carbon-
industry companies and organizations in 25 countries, including the US
free energy supply with demand in every hour, and therefore more accurately
government, to support at least tripling the amount of zero-carbon nuclear
report GHG emissions associated with their load. This enables them to go
energy globally by 2050 to urgently address the climate crisis.
beyond net-zero carbon to fully achieve zero-emissions goals and promotes
investment in reliable grid decarbonization by addressing the hardest-to-
Power Plant Emissions Reduction Standards
decarbonize hours of the day. In 2023 as part of the ongoing World Resources
Institute GHG Protocol standards update process, we submitted a detailed
Constellation engages in opportunities to advocate for policies that support
proposal for improving Scope 2 emissions accounting guidance that would
long-term investment in clean, reliable and affordable power generation and
promote the reporting of hourly market-based emissions metrics.
further the ongoing efforts to decarbonize the power sector. In 2024, the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) finalized new GHG emission limits
and guidelines for fossil fuel-fired power plants based on cost-effective and
available control technologies. We strongly support the need to reduce power-
KEY LINKS
sector emissions from new and existing fossil power plants and submitted
comments to the EPA outlining our recommendations to ensure the rule
Innovation & Advancement
enables a reliable transition to a more decarbonized grid.
Clean Energy Strategy
Hydrogen Strategy
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 33
Managing Our Climate Impacts
As industry leaders, we are committed to operating our businesses in a socially
responsible, sustainable manner by reducing our GHG emissions. Our Climate Change
Policy guides our clean energy and climate strategy and reinforces our commitment to
support meaningful climate action, within our own operations and beyond.
GHG Emissions While Constellation plays a leading role in the transition to increase in emissions from long-term and spot market power Moving forward, we intend to only count reductions in our
a clean energy economy, we recognize that our operations purchases for resale. market-based Scope 2 inventory if our energy consumption
Performance
can contribute to climate change through the generation of is matched with carbon-free energy on an hourly basis and
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. We manage these impacts In 2023, our market-based Scope 2 emissions increased by on the same power grid. As part of this pivot, we retroactively
by responsibly designing, constructing and operating our 4.6 percent from approximately 363,000 metric tons of CO e updated our historic market-based Scope 2 inventories and
2
facilities, consistently reporting our relevant GHG emissions, to 380,000 metric tons, which was driven by a slight increase are using this year to reset, without any procurement of
setting ambitious climate commitments and regularly in electricity consumption (0.5 percent) and higher residual contractual instruments against our 2023 inventory, while
reporting our GHG emissions data through public disclosures, mix emission factors in the regions where we consume the we turn our ambitions toward making progress on hourly
including this report. Through our GHG emission reduction majority of our electricity, i.e. the Pennsylvania-New Jersey- matching against our own electricity use in our 2024 market-
efforts, we are helping advance the goals of the Paris Climate Maryland Interconnection (PJM), New York Independent based Scope 2 inventory and beyond. This will enable us to do
Agreement and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate System Operator (NYISO), and Electric Reliability Council of our part by investing in the hardest-to-decarbonize hours of
Change to limit the rise in mean global temperature to well Texas (ERCOT) market territories.15 the day, as well as the data and information systems required
below 1.5 degrees Celsius by 2050. to support hourly carbon-free energy matching. We anticipate
Historically, we have taken an annual energy matching being able to report progress on hourly carbon-free energy
In 2023, across all three scopes, our GHG emissions approach to reducing our market-based Scope 2 emissions matching in future reports.
increased by 7.3 percent from our 2022 total. Our Scope 1 by retiring Emissions-Free Energy Certificates (EFECs) from
emissions increased by 6.3 percent compared to 2022, from nuclear generation to cover 100 percent of our annual grid- Constellation continuously explores pathways to better
9.10 million metric tons of CO e in 2022 to 9.68 million metric supplied electric use in the PJM market territory, as was the understand and streamline our GHG emissions data
2
tons in 2023. This increase was the result of our natural gas practice prior to our separation from Exelon in 2022. As part collection approach. In 2023, we implemented an automated
generation assets in Texas being called on more frequently of our climate roadmap work in 2023, we reassessed our digital platform to track our operational emissions and
and for longer durations than in prior years to ensure the approach to using contractual instruments like EFECs to improve our reporting processes. This enables us to maintain
reliable delivery of power to meet the demand of the state’s reduce our market-based Scope 2 inventory. We determined our reporting accuracy and transparency while utilizing our
electricity grid. Our location-based Scope 2 emissions of we needed a change to align our clean energy procurement resources more efficiently to better implement our climate
approximately 293,000 metric tons of CO e decreased 1.8 strategy with what we believe is required for firm, reliable grid action strategy.
2
percent in 2023 compared to 2022, while our total Scope 3 decarbonization: hourly carbon-free energy matching of load
15 Had we continued the historic practice of retiring EFECs to cover 100 percent
emissions increased by 7.5 percent in 2023 compared to 2022 with supply within geographically deliverable boundaries.
of our annual grid-supplied electric use in the PJM market territory, our Scope
due to a slight increase in our retail natural gas sales and an 2 market-based emissions would have increased by 13.4 percent in 2023
compared to 2022, from approximately 46,000 to 53,000 metric tons of CO e.
2
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 34
Climate Commitments Clean Electricity Supply:
95% Carbon-free Generation 100% Carbon-free Generation
We commit that our owned electricity generation will
A critical aspect of our sustainable business strategy is our
by 2030 by 2040
be 95 percent carbon-free by 2030 and 100 percent
commitment to achieving our own climate goals, which aim
carbon-free by 2040.16
to accelerate a carbon-free future by continuing to expand
the capabilities of our carbon-free energy generation and
16 Subject to policy support and technology
reduce our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. advancements
2030 2040
In 2022, Constellation established the following climate
commitments that fully cover our Scope 1 and 2 GHG
emissions:
Operational Emissions
Reduction:
We plan to reduce operations-driven emissions by
65% Emissions Reduction 100% Emissions Reduction
100 percent by 2040. Any emissions that cannot be
by 2030 by 2040
We will also work with our key energy suppliers on their GHG technologically reduced will be offset. In the interim,
emissions and climate adaptation strategies. we will reduce carbon emissions by 65 percent by
2030.17
In 2022, we successfully delivered on our commitment to
provide 100 percent of our C&I customers with customer-
We also commit to reducing methane emissions by 30 2030 2040
specific information on their GHG impact for facilities
percent by 2030, aligning Constellation with the Global
contracting for power and gas supply from Constellation,
Methane Pledge.
which include hourly carbon-free energy matching. We are
committed to continually engaging with our customers to
17 From a 2020 baseline. Any emissions that cannot be
help them achieve their sustainability goals. technologically reduced by that time will be offset.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 35
control (i.e., Scope 1 and 2). Constellation has already
Constellation’s Generation Carbon Intensity
reduced our fleet’s generation carbon intensity in
terms of metric tons of CO per MWh generated
2 (Metric Ton / MWh) Versus Power Generation Industry-Wide
by 49 percent since 2013. Our target of 95 percent
Decarbonization Trajectories
carbon-free electricity generation by 2030 translates
to a reduction of another 50 percent from our 2023
generation carbon intensity by 2030, and 100 percent
reduction by 2040. We are already well ahead of
industry-wide trajectories for limiting global warming Historical Actual
Metric tons CO / MWh
0.700
2
to 1.5 degrees Celsius and below 2 degrees Celsius,
Constellation’s Climate Roadmap
and our climate commitments keep us on track to
0.600
reduce emissions at the rate necessary to achieve 1.5° C Industry Trajectory
those targets.
0.500 < 2° C Industry Trajectory
Our operational emissions reduction target applies
0.400
to the remaining Scope 1 and 2 emissions associated
with our operations other than those from power
0.300
generation (covered in our clean electricity supply
target) and those from owned natural gas storage
(covered in our methane emissions reduction target). 0.200
Constellation is already well ahead of industry-wide Our methane reduction commitment applies to 0.100
trajectories toward a 1.5 degrees Celsius pathway, Scope 1 emissions at our Everett Marine Liquified
but we are not stopping there. The focus of our clean Natural Gas (LNG) Terminal, specifically those 0.000
electricity supply target is to decarbonize our associated with LNG venting which occurs during the
2013 2018 2023 2028 2033 2038 2043
Scope 1 emissions from power generation, which storage phase on site.
make up the majority of the emissions we directly
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 36
Climate Roadmap
In 2023, we undertook a project to develop a roadmap for achieving our
climate goals, identifying feasible pathways to meet these commitments,
with an initial focus on our interim targets in 2030.
Clean Electricity • Maintaining and extending the life of our nuclear fleet.
Supply:
• Growing our clean electricity fleet through nuclear uprates and
acquisitions of nuclear or renewable assets.
For our clean electricity • Retiring uneconomic fossil fuel generation units.
supply commitment, we
identified the following • Decarbonizing our natural gas fleet through technology interventions,
potential actions: such as blending natural gas with alternative fuels like clean hydrogen
and renewable natural gas or post-combustion carbon capture and
storage.
• Investing in new and emerging technologies, such as direct air capture
and other high quality carbon removal technologies, to address any
residual emissions toward our 2040 target.
Achieving this target will be a challenge given the uncertainty in new
technology development, the public policy landscape in the U.S. and future
energy mix in the territories we serve. We will continually revisit these
developments, refine our assumptions and adjust our roadmap as we
approach 2030, to ensure we select the right path forward for our business
to achieve our interim 2030 and long-term 2040 clean electricity supply
commitment.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 37
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 38
eOC
snot
cirtem
dnasuohT
2
Operational Emissions Methane Emissions
Reduction: Reduction: Potential Actions to Achieve 2030 Operational
Emissions Reduction Interim Goal
Our interim operational target of 65 percent reduction by
We have identified technology options for reducing methane 168k across all 3 actions
2030, from a 2020 baseline, will require a wide range of
emissions by up to 30 percent at our Everett LNG Terminal that
decarbonization efforts, but we believe that we can achieve this
250k
reduce emissions by capturing and utilizing methane in other 256k -48k
target by 2030 through the following potential actions:
processes. We are exploring those options to identify the most
cost-effective path forward and hope to have an update in next
• Energy Efficiency: Conducting energy efficiency audits and
taking advantage of opportunities with low payback periods year’s Sustainability Report. 200k -13k
and high return-on-investment. -107k
• Electrification: Electrifying our vehicle fleet and stationary
combustion sources like standby auxiliary boilers where 150k
possible.
• Fuel Switching: Replacing high global warming potential
(GWP) refrigerants with newer, lower GWP refrigerants and
100k
replacing fossil fuels with biofuels where feasible.
88k
• Clean Fuels: Purchasing Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF)
credits for our corporate aircraft fleet to send the market
50k
signal for SAF demand.
• Hourly Carbon-free Energy Matching (Hourly Matching):
Matching our electricity use with clean energy purchases
0k
on an hourly basis and within the same market boundary
2020 Planned Fossil Decarbonization Hourly 2030 Climate
to ensure our load is reliably covered by clean, carbon-fee
Baseline Retirements Initiatives Matching Roadmap
electricity, helping to enable a firm, clean and reliable grid.
Climate Change We see the management of climate-related risks and There are also clear opportunities for Constellation to mitigate
opportunities as fundamentally intertwined with our business the effects of climate change and accelerate the transition to
Risk and
strategy and community engagement. Our operations a low-carbon future as a clean, carbon-free energy provider.
Opportunity may face climate-related physical risks, such as increasing We continually evaluate growth opportunities aligned with our
ambient temperatures, severe weather events and storms, businesses, assets and markets and leverage our expertise in
water scarcity and sea level rise. Additionally, our operations those areas to build long-term value. As the risks from climate
may face climate-related transition risks, including changes change become more apparent, there is a growing market
to energy systems because of new technologies, changing for clean, reliable baseload generation as well as other clean
customer expectations, such as voluntary GHG goals, and energy solutions as companies and organizations work to
local, state or federal regulatory requirements intended to reduce their GHG emissions while increasing electricity usage
reduce GHG emissions. These risks can impact demand for and complying with new regulations. For more information
electricity and natural gas, the prices of energy commodities, on how Constellation is capitalizing on climate-related
as well as put our facilities at risk. For more information on our opportunities and supporting the transition to a low-carbon
other business risks, please see the Identifying and Managing future, please see the Accelerating the Clean Energy Future
Risk section and Item 1A. Risk Factors in our 2023 Form 10-K. section.
We design, construct and operate our facilities as much as
possible in a manner that maximizes the resilience of these
facilities to adapt to a changing climate. We also periodically
perform analyses to better understand how climate change
KEY LINKS
could affect our facilities and operations. In 2022, we began a
commercial resiliency assessment of our nuclear generation
Climate Change Policy
fleet using climate scenario modeling to understand the
Climate Commitment
medium- and long-term impact of acute and chronic physical
Environmental Stewardship & Impact
risk from climate change on our operational continuity, which
will be completed in 2024. We hope to provide an update in 2023 CDP Climate Change Response
next year’s Sustainability Report. Sustainability Data Index & Factsheet
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 39
3
Governance
Upholding Strong
Governance Principles
41 / Prioritizing Responsible Leadership and Governance
44 / Maintaining Ethical Business Conducts
46 / Protecting Cybersecurity
Prioritizing Responsible
Leadership and Governance
Accelerating the transition to a carbon-free future
Constellation's Board of Directors
requires a strong foundation of governance and ethics.
Robust policies and expert leadership drive our financial
success and responsible growth and enable us to deliver
on our commitments.
The Corporate Governance Committee The Nuclear Oversight Committee
Board Governance reviews sustainability and climate change strategies, including efforts to oversees environmental and safety laws, regulations and standards
protect and improve the environment. The committee also identifies and applicable to ownership and operation of nuclear power facilities. This
With a focus on sustainability and value creation, evaluates Board candidates and advises on the evaluation process for includes compliance with policies and procedures to manage and
Constellation’s Board of Directors oversees the the Board, its committees and directors. mitigate risks associated with nuclear assets and oversight of both
implementation of the company’s growth and long-term cybersecurity risks and environmental health and safety issues related
business strategy, closely monitors business operations to nuclear generating facilities.
and performance and assesses enterprise risks, including
climate change-related risks and opportunities. The Board
consists of 11 members, including the president and CEO
and ten independent directors,18 and ensures alignment
The Audit and Risk Committee The Compensation Committee
with best practices in governance through evaluation
of executive compensation and corporate citizenship reviews Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) disclosures related is actively involved in reviewing policies related to executive
initiatives including sustainability, environmental to environmental, human capital and cybersecurity risks, and maintains compensation, talent development and DEI, monitoring and shaping
stewardship and social responsibility. oversight of the independent auditor. The committee also reviews the corporate culture and evaluating potential sustain§ability metrics for
processes by which the company assesses and manages sustainability- compensation programs.
related risks as part of the broader enterprise risk management
18 Directors are considered independent based on criteria set by framework.
The Nasdaq Global Select Market and outlined in the Constellation
Corporate Governance Principles.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 41
To ensure effective governance, the Board delegates Sustainability Governance and largest institutional investors and utilizing various We also maintain memberships with and actively
specific aspects of our sustainability oversight to four communication methods such as calls, meetings, participate in trade associations and other
Stakeholder Engagement
standing committees. The responsibilities of each publications and surveys to engage with other organizations to further our sustainability efforts,
committee are outlined in their respective charters, stakeholders throughout the year. advance the adoption of clean energy technology and
We take a collaborative approach to sustainability
which are reviewed annually. expand innovative research. For more information,
governance and various executive team members
We also have an active shareholder engagement please see the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
play a pivotal role in supporting our sustainability
Reviewing the composition of our Board is crucial to process which provides valuable insights for the indicator 2-28: Membership associations in our
initiatives. The Constellation Sustainability Council is
ensuring we maintain alignment with organizational Board and its committees into investor perspectives Reporting Frameworks Content Index.
overseen by the Vice President of Sustainability and
objectives and foster a diverse range of perspectives and priorities. As part of the shareholder engagement
Climate Strategy and consists of a cross-functional
and expertise. We assess our Board members’ process, we contact holders of a majority of our For more information on how we engage with local
group of executive leaders from key departments
qualifications regularly and consider a range of outstanding stock with offers to engage. The stakeholders in the communities where we operate,
across Constellation. The Council meets four times
diverse characteristics, skills, perspectives and Constellation engagement team is comprised of see the Engaging Our Communities section.
each year to assess sustainability policies and
backgrounds, including age, gender, specialized members from our Office of Corporate Governance,
initiatives, ensure alignment with our strategic goals,
expertise and other relevant qualities. As of June Investor Relations, Sustainability, Compensation and
review developing sustainability trends and provide
2024, three directors of Constellation’s Board identify Human Resources departments. The engagement
recommendations to senior management.
as women, totaling 27 percent of the Board, and 45 team meets with shareholders to discuss a wide
percent identify as being racially or ethnically diverse. variety of issues, including business operations
Stakeholder engagement is crucial for our
and strategy, sustainability and climate matters,
KEY LINKS
sustainability efforts as it helps us understand
Our Board regularly discusses sustainability issues, executive compensation, human capital and Board
diverse perspectives and priorities, identify emerging
as well as social concerns, during quarterly meetings composition and effectiveness. Engaging openly with
Board & Committees
topics of concern and build trust. Through close
and annual strategy retreats. Constellation is a our shareholders on these and other topics drives
collaboration, we enhance our decision-making Ethics & Governance
member of the National Association of Corporate increased accountability, improves decision making
processes and ensure that our sustainability Corporate Governance Principles
Directors (NACD), and, therefore, all of our Board and ultimately creates long-term value. The feedback
initiatives effectively address stakeholder concerns.
members have access to the multitude of resource received from shareholders and other stakeholders is Board Diversity Matrix
We actively engage with stakeholders by integrating
materials, seminars and conferences provided by shared with each Board committee and the Board, as 2024 Proxy Statement
their perspectives into the development of our
the NACD, including those related to sustainability appropriate.
Sustainability Data Index & Factsheet
sustainability strategy and business plans. This
matters.
Reporting Frameworks Content Index
includes hosting bi-annual investor calls for our
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 42
Identifying and Managing Risk
As the nation’s largest producer of carbon-free energy
and a leading supplier of energy products and services
including sustainable solutions, effective risk management
is foundational to delivering on our sustainability goals. To
effectively manage risks, we follow a layered approach that
combines both top-down and bottom-up methodologies.
The top-down approach involves identifying and analyzing
risks from a strategic perspective, considering and gaining
a comprehensive understanding of external factors such as
the macro environment, industry trends, regulations and
stakeholder expectations. The bottom-up approach focuses
on identifying and analyzing risks from an operational
perspective, involving and encouraging employees to use
their expertise and actively identifying and reporting on
environmental, social or operational concerns. These two
approaches create a holistic risk management framework
to proactively address challenges and safeguard our ability
to operate responsibly, protect stakeholders’ interests and
maintain long-term business continuity.
For more information on our business risks, please see Item
1A. Risk Factors in our 2023 Form 10-K.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 43
Maintaining Ethical
Business Conduct
Acting with One of our foundational values is to Act with Integrity. Constellation employs a multifaceted approach to track and the Code to include expectations around additional topics
We believe that high ethical standards are essential for enhance the effectiveness of our ethics and compliance including human rights, anti-money laundering and trade
Integity
building trust, maintaining accountability, fostering strong program. Reported case statistics are documented and laws.
relationships and ensuring the long-term sustainability of our presented to the Audit and Risk Committee for review
business. From top-level decision-making to daily operations, quarterly. Additionally, we conduct various employee training
Employee Training
our robust ethics and compliance program guides our courses and share relevant communications on ethics
actions and interactions with our colleagues, customers and topics across our workforce. We assess our ethical culture All employees, directors, officers, subsidiaries and relevant
communities. annually through a survey as part of our Code of Business third parties are expected to uphold the standards of
Conduct training, and the Ethics and Compliance Office tracks the Code. To ensure that employees understand these
Ethics and Compliance Program incoming ethics reports through the Ethics Help Line. expectations, they must complete annual training on the
Code, which includes anti-corruption topics. Annual training
To ensure our processes remain up-to-date and effective, we is supplemented by ad-hoc, targeted training as needed,
The Board’s Audit and Risk Committee reviews ethics and
review our ethics and compliance program and policies and and new people leaders receive specific ethics training to
compliance program policies and procedures pertaining
identify key priority areas for improvement. reinforce ethical principles. Employees (other than unionized
to prevention of illegal payments, conflicts of interest and
employees) and Board members complete an annual
other questionable practices. Our Chief Ethics & Compliance
certification questionnaire to disclose conflicts of interest and
Officer is responsible for managing Constellation’s ethics Code of Business Conduct
affirm their understanding of the Code. In 2023, 99 percent of
and compliance program and reports to the Audit and Risk
employees completed required Code training, with an average
Committee quarterly. The Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer Constellation’s Code of Business Conduct (Code) details our
99 percent completion rate for the certification questionnaire.
is supported by the Ethics and Compliance Office, as well as expectations around our core values and legal and ethical
To help ensure compliance with the Code, our Human
compliance departments within our business units, which obligations, and contains guidelines for topics including
Resources team holds monthly meetings to monitor and
conduct various annual risk assessments to identify and conflicts of interest, respectful workplace conduct, safety,
discuss ethics cases and determine necessary actions.
address compliance risks across the organization. For more protecting company assets and confidential information,
information on Board oversight of our ethics programs, please fighting bribery and corruption, government interactions
see the Board Governance section. and competing with integrity. In 2024, we will be updating
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 44
The Code is also reinforced by supplementary Voicing Concerns
policies, such as our management model policies
We prioritize creating a culture where all
focusing on anti-corruption measures, information
stakeholders feel empowered to voice any concerns
governance and prevention of discrimination,
regarding potential violations of our Code, policies
harassment and retaliation. Additional anti-
or procedures and laws or regulations. We maintain
corruption training is provided to relevant roles, and
several communication channels for stakeholders,
we aim to extend this training to a broader range of
such as employees and local community members,
employees in 2024.
to report concerns or ask questions. This includes
our Ethics Office email box and a 24-hour Ethics
Our commitment to responsible business practices
Help Line, which has an anonymous reporting option
extends beyond our direct operations and we aim
available via phone and web portal. Additionally,
to work with suppliers who align with our values.
the Nuclear Employee Concerns Program provides
For more information about our Supplier Code of
a dedicated avenue for nuclear plant workers to KEY LINKS
Conduct and the ethical expectations we have for
raise and address concerns. We maintain a strict
our Supply organization-managed suppliers, please
policy against retaliation towards any stakeholder Code of Business Conduct
see the Building a Responsible and Diverse Supply
because they in good faith report unethical behavior Supplier Code of Conduct
Chain section.
or violations of the Code. The Code is appropriately
Related Persons Transaction Policy
enforced, regardless of seniority, role or location of
Ethics & Governance
those involved in misconduct. Disciplinary actions
Ethics Help Line
may include reprimand, suspension, demotion,
Sustainability Data Index & Factsheet
reduction of incentive awards or termination.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 45
Protecting Cybersecurity
Our cybersecurity risk management strategy is established cybersecurity risks associated with our nuclear assets. The With a constantly evolving cyber landscape, we regularly
at the executive level and is implemented through our Audit and Risk Committee oversees policies and processes update our policies and procedures to adapt to emerging
cybersecurity program, which deploys risk-based security established by management to identify, assess, monitor, threats and technologies. In 2023, we implemented a
controls and services to protect our customers, personnel, manage and control Constellation’s material strategic, Responsible Artificial Intelligence (AI) Policy which establishes
information and cyber assets. The program aligns enterprise financial, operational, regulatory, business unit, reputational requirements and best practices for the responsible and
cyber and physical security controls with the National and other risks, including technology and cyber risks. For ethical use of AI to enable the use of the latest technology to
Institute of Standards & Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity more information on Board oversight of our cybersecurity automate, innovate and improve our products and processes.
Framework (CSF) and other industry standards such as programs, please see the Board Governance section.
the North American Electric Reliability Corporation Critical For more information on our cybersecurity approach, please
Infrastructure Protection standards and Nuclear Regulatory Our strategy is enhanced by regular exercises of business see Item 1C. Cybersecurity in our 2023 Form 10-K.
Commission Cybersecurity Rule (10 CFR 73.54). continuity plans conducted every two years and annual cyber
drills. To continuously improve our efforts, we conduct internal
Employee Training
Cybersecurity Oversight and assessments of our security controls program and beginning
in 2024, we plan to undertake an external assessment of the Cybersecurity is a collective responsibility for all Constellation
Management
cybersecurity program every two years. employees. Beyond our strong technical safeguards, we
place a high priority on employee awareness and mandate
We implement processes for assessing, identifying and In 2023, among other initiatives, we focused on updating our cybersecurity training for all new and existing employees
managing material risks from cybersecurity threats to the cybersecurity processes and practices, enhanced monitoring and contractors with access to our network. Cybersecurity
company, including governance at the Board-level and of potential new regulatory requirements, improved training is conducted annually for current employees
executive management accountability for the execution of our our incident response program to account for new SEC and in 2023, 100 percent of employees with access to
cyber risk management strategy and the controls designed requirements and refined methods to assist in quantifying our the Constellation IT network environment completed
to protect our operations. In order to effectively oversee risk exposure across key threat categories such as third-party cybersecurity awareness training, with limited approved
cybersecurity risk management practices, our Board has risks, mishandled information and ransomware. By leveraging exceptions.
delegated direct oversight of cybersecurity risks to its Nuclear
new tools and data, we can adopt data-informed strategies
Oversight and Audit and Risk Committees. The Nuclear
that prioritize and mitigate critical risk areas in the future.
Oversight Committee is tasked with overseeing compliance
with policies and procedures to manage and mitigate
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 46
4
Communities
Uplifting and Strengthening
Our Communities
48 / Engaging Our Communities
52 / Building a World-Class Workforce
63 / Promoting Health and Safety
66 / Building a Responsible and Diverse Supply Chain
Engaging Our
Communities
We believe in building enduring relationships with the communities we serve Community Information Nights, offering the public a chance to meet plant
that are founded on trust, transparency, respect and inclusivity. Our aim representatives and learn about nuclear energy generation. Our sites also
is to have a positive and lasting impact through two-way engagement and engage with local communities through site tours for local leaders, schools
collaboration. Constellation has been an active participant in community and media, collaborating with regulators and supporting regional nonprofits.
initiatives throughout our company history, and we extend support through We also participate in civic events and school programs to share information
various mechanisms such as outreach programs, philanthropy and volunteer about our safe, reliable and clean energy practices and address any inquiries
efforts to support the welfare and economic growth of our communities. or feedback from the public.
Community Outreach and Engagement Additionally, our Ethics Help Line is publicly available 24/7 for external
stakeholders to report any community issues.
We communicate with stakeholders to shape our approach, build trust, gain
insight into community needs and cultivate mutually beneficial alliances. Championing Environmental Justice and the
We use a variety of outreach channels including active participation and
Just Transition
information booths at community events, our philanthropic program, news
media outreach and social media to directly engage with key groups including
Constellation’s business fundamentally powers the clean energy transition,
public officials, community leaders and local residents. Information about
increasing access to reliable, affordable, carbon-free energy in the local
our energy generation sites is publicly accessible through our website and
communities where we operate. The continued operation of our emissions-
we provide crucial updates about our company and our sites through social
free nuclear fleet means that fossil fuel energy sources near communities
media.
need to run less often, therefore alleviating local air pollution. However,
we acknowledge that there are still serious social disparities and systemic
To sustain community support and raise awareness about our operations
inequities in those communities that we have a duty to address. Through
and their benefits to local communities, we conduct outreach initiatives at
our Environmental Justice Policy, Constellation commits to contributing
each site. Our nuclear sites host State of the Plant events annually, inviting
to energy equity, affordability and the just transition by promoting energy
key officials and community leaders to receive updates on plant performance,
access, reducing barriers to good paying clean energy jobs and serving under-
current and upcoming projects, potential challenges and opportunities
resourced communities.
for community involvement. Additionally, several nuclear facilities host
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 48
Environmental Justice Initiatives Workforce Development for the Just Transition the launch of the new Chris Crane High School to Work program,
which will provide students the skills to qualify for full-time entry-level
Constellation has operations in a number of communities that As a leader in the transition to a clean energy economy, Constellation
positions at our Illinois nuclear plants. In collaboration with SkillsUSA
have historically been disproportionately burdened by air and is in a unique position to enable the just transition for workers,
and Joliet Junior College, students will receive mentorship, a two-
water pollution and may be particularly vulnerable to the impacts ensuring no one is left behind as we shift away from polluting energy
week job shadow program, site tours and exposure, and scholarship
of climate change. Our approach to promoting environmental sources. By the nature of our business, we upskill and reskill workers,
support to pursue an associate degree while participating in a paid
justice in these communities is inspired by the federal Justice40 including those displaced from polluting industries, to fill the need
internship at Constellation. This program honors the late Chris Crane,
Initiative, which seeks to directly invest in marginalized, for highly skilled labor for emerging clean energy technology sectors.
a transformative leader within the nuclear industry and a tireless
underserved and overburdened communities. As such, we use This adaptability is evident in our workforce’s ability to learn and
advocate of Constellation’s generation fleet. Crane, who passed
federal- and state-specific screening tools such as the White apply new skillsets to emerging clean energy production sources and
away earlier this year, was the CEO of Constellation’s former parent
House Council on Environmental Quality’s Climate and Economic methods. We collaborate with industry and community organizations
company, Exelon, from 2012-2022.
Screening Tool to identify communities in which to focus our to attract and provide training and advancement opportunities
environmental justice and just transition investments. for these workers and develop meaningful career opportunities
We also work with various community training, high school, technical
in the new clean energy economy. For example, Constellation’s
trades schools and pre-apprenticeship programs to provide career
Promoting environmental justice is a priority across all of achievement in breaking the industry record for blending carbon-
exposure and access for populations with historically limited
Constellation’s activities. At the site level, listening to community free hydrogen with natural gas highlights the effectiveness of our
access to employment within the energy sector. For example,
concerns is vital, and our local government affairs and site workforce in embracing new technologies and driving innovation in
our Constellation Home business offers a four-year paid heating,
leadership team members are accessible to personally hear clean energy.
ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) apprenticeship program for
feedback brought by elected officials and community members.
unemployed, underemployed and/or individuals from disadvantaged
Federal public policy engagement is also crucial, and we Constellation also continues to advance Powering Change, our
communities. In 2024, 18 apprentices graduated from this program.
are committed to advancing policy positions that equitably signature workforce development initiative. This program provides
In recognition of our work towards building a skilled energy workforce
improve health and well-being. Further, we seek opportunities $1.25 million annually in grants to six nonprofits that increase
and establishing impactful relationships in our local communities,
to collaborate with and fund institutions serving marginalized access to science, technology, engineering and math (STEM)
we received the Community Partnership Award from The Center for
communities, incubators and accelerators with a focus on diverse learning opportunities and create economic access, generational
Energy Workforce Development in 2023.
startups that play a crucial role in energy innovation. wealth and family supporting careers. Through our Local Workforce
Development Site program, each nuclear site is granted $25,000
We also implemented a Workforce Development Partnerships
For more information on how we support DEI throughout our to invest in scholarships and educational programs across local
Dashboard to measure and monitor our community impact and
business, please see the Shaping the Future Through Diversity, community organizations and high schools that aid underserved and
key workforce development metrics. For more information on our
Equity and Inclusion and Support for Diverse and Small Suppliers underrepresented communities, first generation students or students
talent development programs, please see the Our Efforts to Recruit,
sections. with unmet financial needs. For instance, our Braidwood Clean
Develop and Support a Thriving Workforce section.
Energy Center’s contribution to Joliet Township High School supports
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 49
Philanthropy &
Volunteerism
We have a proven track record of supporting the communities in which we The Constellation Foundation expands our philanthropic mission and
operate. Through our robust philanthropy and volunteering initiatives, we deepens our long-term investment in the communities we serve. The
actively engage with communities to address challenges across the three Foundation aligns its support with our three pillars and amplifies our
pillars of our citizenship and philanthropy program: commitment to creating positive change. In 2023, Constellation and
the Constellation Foundation donated $13.6 million and provided direct
community support across 31 states and Washington, D.C. 81 percent
of the company’s $8.1 million in direct grant funding supported
Climate & Equity & Employee Philanthropy
organizations, programs or events that served underrepresented
Environment Education & Volunteerism
populations, reflecting our commitment to driving positive change
for all.
Providing support for Investing in education, Demonstrating leadership
environmental conservation STEM and workforce and passion for causes
and stewardship development close to our hearts We also encourage and support our employees to get involved in
their communities. In 2023, employees contributed $5.1 million in
charitable donations and volunteered over 102,000 hours to support
community causes, representing a 28 percent increase in volunteer
102,000 hours $5.1 million
hours from 2022. Our Employee Charitable Match program offers up
2023
to $10,000 in annual matching gifts for every employee to charities of
Figures volunteered by employees of charitable contributions
made by employees their choice. Additionally, initiatives like our Dollars for Doers program
incentivize volunteerism by providing financial support of up to $1,000
for every 100 hours volunteered by an employee and our Impact
Leaders program rewards employee volunteer leadership with an
$13.6 million 81%
additional $1,000 grant.
philanthropic donations across 31 of direct grant funding supports
states and Washington, D.C. organizations, programs and events whose
mission is to serve underrepresented and
underserved populations
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 50
Community Program Description
Philanthropy Programs
This STEM education program awards grant funds to sixth grade through college students who inspire new perspectives
E2 Energy to Educate
on sustainability and energy, focused on underserved communities. Since its inception in 2010, E2 Energy to Educate
We are committed to has provided nearly $6 million in grant funding, reaching over 290,000 students.
collaborating with organizations
to uplift and strengthen
our communities and
Launched in 2023, this immersive program for high school juniors and seniors enables them to explore energy careers,
Youth Energy Summit (YES)
proudly work to support
providing hands-on STEM experience and mentorship opportunities for students interested in clean energy careers.
educational opportunities
Building on the success of the program in Maryland and Pennsylvania, we plan to expand the program to additional
for underrepresented and
states in 2024.
underserved communities.
Some of our community
philanthropy programs include:
Constellation scholarships provide funding to students nationwide, primarily those students with an interest in
Constellation Scholarships
pursuing a STEM career. In 2023, we enhanced the program to focus on providing scholarship recipients with
additional touchpoints and awareness of various career pathways and internship opportunities. This involved hosting
four professional development sessions aimed at helping to equip scholarship recipients with the necessary skills to
KEY LINKS
navigate their journey toward full-time employment, including workshops on how to approach internship applications.
We are excited to further expand the program in 2024, with plans to introduce additional mentorship opportunities for
Community
scholarship recipients.
Community Champions This program provides funding to our customers for causes that are important to their communities. Extra
consideration is given to requests that focus on education, the environment or youth. Since the program’s inception in
2013, we have funded over $1.5 million through over 3,100 projects.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 51
Building a World-Class
Workforce
To effectively serve our customers and communities, Constellation strives to recruit, retain and nurture
a world-class workforce that is passionate about fulfilling our purpose. We work toward this objective by
developing and sourcing from a diverse talent pipeline and fostering an inclusive culture where the worth
Our DEI Strategic Pillars
and dignity of everyone is respected and all individuals can develop to reach their full potential.
Shaping the Future Through
• Integrating diversity as a business imperative and
Strategic Talent Sourcing Workforce Development
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
core value;
Constellation operates in a world rich in diversity including, Source talent through relationships, Improve career awareness, foster equal
• Attracting, retaining and advancing employees who will
among other things, race, ethnicity, religious belief and technology and inclusive practices to access and advance skills of workers in
best understand and serve our vision, values, customers,
practice, gender identification, sexual orientation, disability, broaden the talent pool and promote the energy sector.
partners and communities;
life experience, age, socioeconomic status, experience and diversity.
thought. Constellation provides equal opportunity and does
• Providing a workplace where we respect the dignity and
not discriminate on the basis of protected characteristics in
worth of each other, and creating a sense of belonging in
employment decisions. DEI at Constellation strengthens our
which each of us can grow and contribute at our greatest Equity and Belonging Business (Supplier) Diversity
ability to achieve our vision by:
potential; and,
Eliminate barriers to participation Create an inclusive supply chain that
• Creating and fostering an inclusive purchasing
and create opportunities for all employees enables, equips and empowers diverse
environment while building an ecosystem of sustainable
by establishing a culture of inclusion businesses, including small businesses, to
relationships, expanding opportunities and cultivating the
and belonging. thrive in our marketplaces.
growth of diverse businesses, including small businesses,
which add value to Constellation and the communities
we serve.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 52
Core Values We believe that the responsibility for creating a workplace enhance ongoing DEI and workforce development initiatives. refining our strategies to promote DEI within our organization.
culture aligned with our core values extends to every member In 2023, the Communities of Practice engaged on several An example of this includes the newly formed Outage
of our workforce. To promote accountability and ensure that topics including DEI webinars, workforce development barrier Job Shadow Program launching in Spring 2024, which
each person actively contributes to advancing DEI throughout reduction efforts and the DOE’s energy industry employment provides the opportunity for individuals from historically
our organization, non-unionized employees have individual trends. underrepresented or underserved communities to gain
DEI performance goals focused on inclusion and belonging.19 exposure to the building trades and experience the nuclear
landscape during a clean energy center outage.
Promoting DEI
With a comprehensive approach to managing DEI strategy
and initiatives, Constellation has established various We are continuously looking for new opportunities to enhance At Constellation, we recognize the importance of empowering
functions to monitor progress and support. Our DEI Constellation’s DEI program and in 2023, we implemented our employees to express their true selves in the workplace.
Center of Excellence, created to continuously strengthen several initiatives to amplify efforts aligned with our core Encouraging authenticity fosters inclusivity and belonging and
our commitment to DEI, serves as the foundation for our values. The introduction of our quarterly DEI Spotlight enriches our workplace culture. To achieve this, we promote
efforts, addressing the evolving needs of employees and Awards celebrates both individual contributors and leaders inclusion and diversity through our Self ID campaign, which is
communities. Our DEI Advisory Board, founded in 2023, nominated by their peers for their consistent championing of a three-part series that encourages employees to voluntarily
comprises employees from all nine Employee Resource DEI. In February 2023, we launched THRIVE, a nomination- self-identify and provide demographic data so we can more
Groups (ERGs) and representatives from across business based program that brings together a diverse and inclusive accurately understand the diversity of our workforce. In
units, offering oversight, strategic guidance and feedback cohort of high-potential senior managers and directors. 2023, we broadened the LGBTQ+ self-identification options
on progress towards our DEI goals. Additionally, our four Through a comprehensive pathway including assessments, to include gender in addition to sex, sexual orientation
Leadership Councils and other leadership programs empower trainings, coaching and challenges, THRIVE equips and preferred pronouns, while also providing the option
employees to pursue personal career aspirations. Within participants with skills in leading diverse teams, addressing to identify as a member of the LGBTQ+ community or an
our Commercial organization, our 35 Culture Ambassadors barriers and fostering allyship and belonging. ally. Additionally, we expanded our persons with disabilities
collaborate with leadership to support DEI goals throughout disclosures to encompass more detailed and inclusive
19 All exempt and non-unionized/
Constellation’s Commercial organization. As part of our commitment to the Building Trades Diversity examples aligned with the Americans with Disabilities Act. The
non-craft/non-exempt employees
have individual DEI performance Pledge, we established an oversight committee in 2023 that third aspect of the campaign enables employees to voluntarily
goals, focused on behaviors that
In January 2023, our DEI Center of Excellence initiated will set annual goals aligned with the pledge commitments report their veteran status and branch of service.
promote respect, inclusion, equity
and belonging. collaborative DEI and Workforce Development Communities and share best practices. Through this initiative, we aim to
of Practice, which united over 50 thought leaders from across promote equitable access within the energy industry and For workforce DEI metrics, please see the Sustainability Data
Constellation to share best practices, define strategies and uplift our communities while continuously reviewing and Index & Factsheet.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 53
DEI Education and Training Our Commitment to Equity and 1,000
Anti-Discrimination and Fair Labor Practices
We believe that fostering a culture of DEI begins with prioritizing education and
participants took part in our three-part
awareness within our company. For instance, we offer educational resources such
We conduct analyses of gender and racial pay equity. We also provide training and
allyship series.
as Unconscious Bias Training and Disability Fundamentals for Hiring Managers and
review hiring and promotion processes to avoid unconscious bias and include equal
we cover DEI topics in our quarterly DEI Webinar Series, while our Executive DEI
pay efforts in broader company-wide equity initiatives. These actions help to create
learning initiative targets enhancing leaders’ and teams’ ability to connect across
an environment where all employees can thrive and advance as equal members of the 35
differences. In 2023, we hosted a three-part allyship series, which attracted over 1,000
workforce.
participants across each session, to create opportunities for meaningful dialogue and
Culture Ambassadors collaborate with
learning. The series covered topics such as ways to be an active ally, LGBTQ+ history
We provide equal opportunity and do not tolerate any form of discrimination based leadership to support DEI goals throughout
and terminology and how to be an ally across generations. We hope to build on the
on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability, age or any other protected Constellation’s Commercial organization.
success of this program by hosting additional sessions in the future and in 2024, we
characteristics, as stated in Constellation’s Policy Against Discrimination, Harassment
plan to shift our focus from allyship to advocacy for ERG sponsors at our ERG Summit.
and Retaliation, and reinforced in our Equal Employment Opportunities Policy and
120
Workplace Accommodations Policy. We also prohibit any form of sexual harassment,
For additional details on how we integrate DEI in our community development and
as stated in our Policy Against Sexual Harassment, and we provide mandatory training
talent management programs, please see the Championing Environmental Justice attendees participated in our inaugural ERG
on sexual harassment prevention on an annual basis.
and the Just Transition and Our Efforts to Recruit, Develop and Support a Thriving Summit for a multi-day program to share
Workforce sections. best practices, plan initiativ es and recognize
Constellation follows applicable minimum wage, overtime wage, child and forced
outstanding contributions.
labor and other wage and hour laws and regulations. We also follow our Policy Against
Employee Resource Groups Discrimination, Harassment and Retaliation and Policy Against Sexual Harassment to
foster an environment where all team members are valued, engaged and empowered
Our nine ERGs, which are open to all employees, continue to play a pivotal role in
to deliver their best work in an atmosphere built on respect and inclusivity.
fostering dialogue and collaboration. This year, the ERGs focused on the theme of
KEY LINKS
intersectionality, and we hosted our inaugural ERG Summit since our separation
from Exelon. The Summit brought together 120 attendees including sponsors,
Our Commitment to DEI
Board members and participants from various ERGs for a multi-day program in
Community
Baltimore where participants could share best practices, plan initiatives and recognize
outstanding contributions. Employee Resource Groups
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 54
Gender identity
22% Female
1% Gender not disclosed
77% Male
Racial or ethnic diversity
0.4% American Indian or Alaska Native
4.5% Asian
7.0% Black or African American
5.7% Hispanic or Latino
0.2% Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander
1.9% Race/ethnicity not disclosed
2.2% Two or more races
78.0% White
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 55
Assessing Our DEI Practices
In our continual pursuit of enhancing our DEI practices, veteran employment practices across various key areas.
we collaborate with external organizations to gain These assessments provided valuable insights, guiding
insights and drive improvements. our efforts to ensure accessibility and inclusivity in our
workplace.
In 2023, we successfully completed the Disability:IN
Equality Index, the world’s most comprehensive We also completed the Human Rights Campaign
benchmarking tool measuring disability workplace Corporate Equality Index, a benchmarking tool for
inclusion among the Fortune 1000. We use this Constellation to review corporate policies and identify
comprehensive benchmark to assess our organization practices and areas of opportunity related to LGBTQ+
for measurable, tangible actions across five scored employees and workplace equality.
categories: Culture & Leadership, Enterprise-
Wide Access, Employment Practices, Community Looking ahead, we aim to complete the Fair360 Top 50
Engagement and Supplier Diversity. We are proud to Companies for Workplace Fairness assessment in 2024
have been recognized as one of the “Best Places to to further strengthen our commitments and practices
Work for Disability Inclusion.” Additionally, we leveraged around DEI.
the National Organization on Disability’s Disability
Employment Tracker to assess our disability and
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 56
Our Efforts to Our employees are powered by passion and purpose. We We recruit STEM-focused students and professionals from to our communities. We engage with veteran organizations,
are inspired by our culture that prioritizes inclusivity and diverse backgrounds and participate in mentoring programs, including military transition programs and career centers,
Recruit, Develop
values-driven work, keeps our environment and teams safe conferences, career fairs and industry events. In 2023, we and in 2023 we attended multiple military-specific career
and Support a and invests in our communities for the future. Our employees attended the national conferences and career fairs for the fairs and military base visits to connect with qualified veteran
drive our success, so we nurture a workplace that encourages Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers, the Society of candidates in their transition to civilian careers. In 2023,
Thriving Workforce
employee well-being in all dimensions, treats employees fairly Asian Scientists and Engineers, the National Society of Black 16 percent of total hires were veterans and 24 percent of
and listens to feedback and takes action. We strive to be an Engineers and the Society of Women in Engineering. management and executive hires were veterans.
employer of choice and retain our talented workforce through
our inclusive culture, career development opportunities, Constellation’s PowerEd program amplifies our collaborations For more information on how we develop our future
engagement mechanisms and competitive wages and with universities, community colleges and technical workforce, please see the Championing Environmental
benefits package. colleges with the expansion of scholarship programs, Justice and the Just Transition section.
mentorship and local student pipeline initiatives across our
business. Constellation established networks with partner
Strategic Talent Sourcing
universities to engage with students in various STEM-focused
We are strategically focused on attracting talented, innovative departments and collegiate diversity chapters. In addition,
individuals who are passionate about driving our purpose and we will continue to expand our engagement with Historically
are representative of the communities we serve. Our Talent Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Hispanic
Acquisition team implements a multi-pronged approach to Serving Institutions and institutions serving marginalized
build awareness of Constellation and our career opportunities communities to improve diversity within STEM majors
across a diverse range of communities. We have established through programs such as InRoads HBCU+.
relationships with universities, technical schools and diversity,
disability and military organizations. These collaborations Constellation is a proud military friendly organization. Our
provide us access to a diverse pool of talent and help us tap military and veteran initiatives assist those who served our
into specialized skill sets. Through our efforts, we hired 1,519 country and are looking to re-enter the workforce. Former
new employees and 289 interns in 2023. military personnel bring the dedication and focus that
Constellation needs to provide safe, clean and reliable energy
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 57
Learning and
New Hire Orientation: Nuclear Leadership Leadership Development:
Development
Training:
During onboarding, all new employees
We implement programs to help our leaders
participate in our New Hire Orientation to learn
develop and strengthen their capabilities
We implement trainings, such as the
We understand that learning is a lifelong about Constellation and our values.
and professional development, including the
Constellation Supervisor Training Program and
journey, so we provide employees with
Emerging Leaders Program, Constellation’s
Constellation Leadership Academy, specifically
the tools, training and career growth
High Impact Leadership Development
designed for nuclear first line supervisors, mid-
opportunities they need to be successful
Program for Managers and New People
level managers and directors to strengthen
at their jobs and expand their skillsets
On-demand Trainings: Leader Orientation. We also implement
their leadership skills, support professional
to align with future needs. Constellation
THRIVE and other high potential programs,
development and improve bench-strength to
uses a multi-faceted approach to Existing employees can access self-directed,
which are nomination-based and aimed
ensure excellence in plant performance.
professional development that includes interactive learning opportunities through
at supporting professional development
formal assessments, feedback, coaching, platforms, including Talent and Development
for a diverse and inclusive cohort of senior
mentoring, training, leadership development Webinars and LinkedIn Learning, to sharpen
managers and directors.
and targeted developmental experiences. their skills.
These opportunities increase employee
Tuition Reimbursement:
engagement, improve retention and enhance
our value proposition. Programs offered
Energize Your Career: Certain employees are eligible to receive
include:
annual tuition reimbursement for pursuing
A six-session webinar series that helps equip
undergraduate or graduate degrees or
and empower employees to drive their careers
professional certificates.
at Constellation.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 58
Performance Employees participate in the year-end review process to Employee Engagement • Improve internal job opportunity communication
gauge the effectiveness of employee performance against for role changes.
and Labor Relations
Management and
expectations.20 Through this process, we evaluate what
Succession Planning employees have achieved against their performance goals, Our human capital management strategy is informed by • Encourage authenticity and promote inclusion by
as well as whether these goals have been achieved through formal and informal employee feedback mechanisms. reiterating voluntary self-identification options.
behaviors consistent with Constellation’s values and core We promote an open feedback culture and listen to our
competencies. The year-end review process includes a focus employees’ perspectives through our biennial employee • Enhance recognition and appreciation methods
on forward-looking development to drive employees’ learning engagement survey, town halls, all-hands meetings, manager for employees to feel valued.
and growth to achieve their career objectives. Managers check-in meetings, focus groups and special Candid
have meaningful, quality conversations with their direct Conversation sessions with C-suite leaders. Executive • Develop and distribute key messages on the value
reports to enable high performance in their current roles and Committee members and teams are responsible for of company-provided benefits.
help prepare them for future roles. To enhance the quality developing action plans based on the results of the survey to
of feedback and coaching received, employees can access improve the employee experience. These plans integrate both • Evaluate flexibility options to achieve work/life
a variety of resources through our online talent and people centralized actions for company-wide issues and leader-led balance and operational excellence.
development portal. actions for areas unique to specific teams or business areas.
Externally, we gather feedback through public websites
To enable our employees’ career progression, we encourage such as Glassdoor and Indeed.com, where current, previous
We also conduct periodic pulse surveys in between our full
internal mobility through our internal job posting site. and future employees can provide anonymous reviews
engagement surveys to measure engagement and track
We also talent map all first-level supervisors through vice related to employee experience. We engage with these
progress against our action plans. Additionally, executives
presidents, conduct succession planning for executive-level external feedback mechanisms to benchmark and align our
created recorded videos specifically tailored to address
roles and review our talent pipeline annually to enable our performance related to the experiences we aim to create,
employee concerns identified through our engagement
long-term business success and continuity. To support and and we plan to share themes and updates with leadership
20 All exempt and non-unionized/ surveys. Based on the employee insights gathered through
non-craft/non-exempt employees accelerate the integration of new leaders, we implement quarterly.
our most recent survey, Constellation has identified several
hired prior to October 1 are
third-party leadership assessments to identify and address
required to participate in our opportunities for improvement, including:
year-end review process. developmental opportunities. We respect and support the right of employees within our
workforce and value chain to seek union representation.
Approximately 25 percent of our workforce is covered under
collective bargaining agreements (CBAs). In 2023, four CBAs
were new or renegotiated.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 59
Great Place To Work® Certification
In 2023, we earned a Great Place To Work®
81%
Certification based on how employees rate their
experience working at Constellation. In a survey of Constellation employees said it is a great
about 5,000 Constellation employees, 81 percent place to work.
of those who responded said it is a great place to
work—about 24 points higher than the average U.S.
company.
91%
91 percent of Constellation employees who Constellation employees said they feel
completed the survey said they feel good about the good about the ways the company
ways the company contributes to the community contributes to the community.
and 89 percent of employees answered favorably
that “I’m proud to tell others I work here (at
Constellation).”
89%
Constellation employees answered
favorably that “I’m proud to tell others I
work here.”
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 60
Employee Benefits
and Wellbeing
At Constellation, we are
focused on a culture of Physical Health Life & Financial
care for our employees and
& Wellbeing Family Wellbeing
their families. Our wellbeing
programs are designed
to promote holistic health
through proven clinical
− Medical, dental, vision and prescription drug − Virtual physical therapy, mental health − Parental leave for up to 16 weeks for birthing mothers − Employee stock purchase program
support programs—all coverage resources and counseling services and up to eight weeks for non-birthing and adoptive
− Dependent care flexible spending account
parents
offered at no cost.
− Disability and life insurance (company − Expert medical opinion and cancer care
− Legal and identity theft insurance
provided and supplemental) services − Paid time off for vacation, holidays, sick days and
primary caregiver leave for a family member with a − Financial planning
Our comprehensive benefits − 401(k) with company match − Diabetes management program
critical health condition
package is designed with an
− Health care flexible spending account and − Support for menopause, fertility, pregnancy
− Backup child and elder care services
overall focus on well-being health savings account and parenting
including mental and physical − Tuition reimbursement up to $10,000 annually for
− Employee assistance program − Program for smoking, tobacco and nicotine
undergraduate or professional certification courses
support, retirement, financial cessation
− Robust wellbeing program and up to $15,000 annually for graduate courses
and legal support and family
− Weight loss management program
− Reimbursement of up to $4,000 for lodging − Adoption and Family Assistance up to $15,000 to
care. Company benefits
and transportation costs for a covered − 24/7 nurse line reimburse eligible out-of-pocket expenses per adoption
offered include: medical procedure or service not available (including stepchildren and embryo adoption) or
− Fitness reimbursement up to $100 per
in-network within 100 miles of a participant’s surrogacy
quarter and gym membership discounts
home (available for all employees enrolled in
Constellation’s medical plan, including part-
time employees)
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 61
At Constellation, we are focused on a culture of care for our employees and
their families. Our wellbeing programs are designed to promote holistic
health through proven clinical support programs—all offered at no cost.
We believe there are many benefits to providing flexible work arrangements
and our Alternate Work Arrangements Policy gives employees whose jobs
allow for remote work the opportunity to find a flexible working solution
that works best for them. The policy outlines the various alternate work
arrangements, expectations of employees in these arrangements and
requirements for managers and leaders.
KEY LINKS
Careers
Community
Workforce Development
Benefits
Policy Against Discrimination, Harassment and Retaliation
Policy Against Sexual Harassment
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 62
Promoting Health
and Safety
At Constellation, safety is our first and most critical obligation (or an approved equivalent), and we require contractors to Employee Engagement in Our
Overview
to our employees, contract workers, business partners and screen their employees for safety risks prior to working at
Safety Culture
communities. We maintain goals across each business unit our sites.
in pursuit of safety and regulatory compliance, measured Employee empowerment is essential to prevent injuries
At the site level, we implement employee-led safety
by key performance indicators (KPIs) specific to our unique and illnesses, which is why Constellation is committed to
committees, while our Safety Peer Group operates at the
operating environments. The Nuclear Oversight Committee maintaining open and honest dialogue on health and safety
enterprise level. The Safety Peer Group is comprised of
of the Board has ultimate oversight responsibility for issues, hazards and performance with our employees, their
business unit Safety Managers who meet quarterly to
our enterprise health and safety performance. For more unions and contract workers. Employees are encouraged
review our safety procedures, takeaways from across the
information on Board oversight of our safety programs, please to contribute to our proactive safety culture by reporting
Constellation fleet and best practices shared by industry
see the Board Governance section. For more information potential hazards through our injury prevention program, in
partners. The Safety Peer Group reports to the Corporate
on our health and safety performance, please see the addition to practicing stop work authority in the presence of
Safety Council, sponsored by our Chief Generation Officer
Sustainability Data Index & Factsheet. unsafe working conditions. Employees can report incidents
and comprised of the vice presidents of health and safety,
to their supervisors, our Ethics Office or through our safety
legal, audit and other key leadership.
Workforce Safety Culture, behavior observation program. We investigate all reported
incidents, as appropriate, to ensure that corrective action
Management and Oversight To proactively drive continuous improvement, Constellation
is taken to resolve hazards. Nuclear plant workers can also
monitors our performance, conducts risk assessments,
raise concerns around safety through our Nuclear Employee
Our Corporate Safety Policy outlines our dedication to safety leverages industry benchmarking and evaluates novel safety
Concerns Program.
and the protection of our stakeholders by incorporating safety monitoring technology. Additionally, third-party safety audits
into our sustainable business strategy. This extends to each at select facilities monitor compliance with U.S. Occupational
Our New Hire Orientation includes safety modules, and
business unit, which maintain safety management programs, Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards.
employee training is supplemented by continuous leadership
hazard identification procedures and hazard-specific training.
development programs focused on Constellation’s safety
We expect all employees to abide by our safety procedures,
culture, as well as additional training for employees and
including their right and obligation to question, stop and
contract workers based on job requirements. In 2023, our
correct unsafe conditions or behaviors. Contract workers are
workforce received 220,000 hours of health and safety
also expected to adhere to Constellation’s safety procedures
training.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 63
Nuclear and We adhere to the highest standards of safety for our nuclear Constellation operations. Additionally, the NRC performed
assets to maintain community trust and continue to supply approximately 8,000 hours of nuclear safety inspections in
Public Safety
our customers with safe, clean and reliable energy. Our 2023 and annually reviews each of our nuclear stations, while
Nuclear Oversight Committee advises and assists the Board INPO performed an additional 9,000 hours of third-party
in overseeing the management and safe operation of our evaluations and audits across the fleet in 2023.
facilities. Our nuclear operations also receive independent
oversight from Independent Nuclear Safety Review Boards, In addition to securing our nuclear assets comprehensively
which review each plant twice per year. At the corporate from within, we implement multiple layers of strict, redundant
level, fleet-wide nuclear safety, coordination, regulatory physical security measures to uphold safety and security
compliance and cost-effectiveness are governed through in the face of external hazards. Safeguards include physical
our Management Model and overseen by our Chief Nuclear barriers, security towers and surveillance devices, managed
Officer. Our nuclear plant employees are responsible for by a team of professional security staff and emergency
implementing corporate safety requirements, supplemented responders. To protect against cyber-attacks, critical systems
by robust, site-specific procedures. are isolated from the internet and resilient to electrical grid
anomalies. We also prepare extensively for natural disasters,
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) closely as the NRC requires all nuclear plants to be able to withstand
regulates nuclear operations, requiring all operators to the most severe natural phenomena historically reported in a
maintain programs to proactively identify, report and 200-mile radius around each plant.
resolve nuclear safety, security and operational hazards. Our
reporting tools enable employees and contract workers to
Employee Training
raise concerns internally and self-report significant safety or
security issues, as required, to the NRC. We tailor our nuclear Nuclear plant employees must complete training, education
safety policies and procedures to the unique operating and qualification curriculum, and the training programs
environments of each facility, all of which meet or exceed for operations, maintenance and technical employees are
the safety standards set by the NRC and Institute of Nuclear accredited by the National Nuclear Accrediting Board and
Power Operations (INPO). The NRC and INPO also provide taught by INPO-certified instructors. These trainings are
nuclear safety KPIs, which we use to monitor and evaluate comprehensive, lasting nine months for the initial training
real-time performance, in addition to metrics specific to program, to up to two years for NRC-licensed nuclear control
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 64
room operators. Supplemental trainings occur regularly to Incidents are unlikely; however, it is critical that community
keep our workforce abreast of current technological expertise, members also understand proper emergency procedures.
sector-specific knowledge and performance-enhancing Constellation distributes emergency communications to
trends. communities adjacent to our nuclear facilities on an annual
basis and maintains site-specific emergency planning
information on our website. For more information on how
Emergency Preparedness and Response
our nuclear sites interact with communities, please see the
Constellation develops and maintains our emergency Engaging Our Communities section.
preparedness and response program in compliance with
NRC requirements, which are periodically revised to include
Site Closure and Decommissioning Plans
new threat scenarios and updated emergency preparedness
guidance. Within our nuclear business unit, the Senior Due to the complexity of upholding safety and environmental
Manager of Emergency Preparedness oversees this program. quality while decommissioning a nuclear facility, Constellation
At the site level, we coordinate with and train state, county begins the planning process before sites are even issued
and local emergency management and response agencies, operating licenses. For the 21 nuclear generating reactors
conducting full Federal Emergency Management Agency we currently operate, the NRC requires us to document
(FEMA)-evaluated emergency preparedness exercises with any radiologically affected areas and maintain and
these stakeholders every two years and FEMA Radiological demonstrate evidence of sufficient funding for radiological
Emergency Preparedness Program-compliant training and decommissioning. Constellation has already retired several
exercises annually. nuclear units, for which we submitted decommissioning plans
and cost estimates to the NRC. We also maintain community
engagement activities throughout site decommissioning.
KEY LINKS
For more information on how we safely handle spent nuclear
Corporate Safety Policy
fuel, please see the Managing Our Waste Responsibly section.
Nuclear Oversight Committee Charter
Nuclear Safety
Decommissioning
Sustainability Data Index & Factsheet
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 65
Building a Responsible
and Diverse Supply Chain
Supply chain risks, such as supplier disruptions or market fluctuations, Supplier Code of Conduct and Supplier
emphasize the vital need for effective risk management strategies to help
Investment Recovery Program
Expectations
ensure the continuity of our operations and strengthen organizational
resilience. Additionally, we are focused on embedding resiliency, reliability,
As part of our commitment to integrity and responsible business practices,
transparency and fairness into our supply chain and optimizing our
we expect adherence to the Constellation Code of Business Conduct or
operational efficiency. Our business sustainability is impacted by our direct
Supplier Code of Conduct, which is based on the Code of Business Conduct,
Constellation Supply Organization’s Investment
operations and by the actions and initiatives of the partners with which we
by our Supply organization-managed suppliers, their subcontractors and their
Recovery Program is a standout example of the
work. We aim to meaningfully engage with contractors, consultants, suppliers
respective workforces. The Supplier Code covers our expectations of suppliers
company’s dedication to sustainability. By selling
and vendors (collectively, our suppliers) that help drive our mission and
to support respect and inclusion, health and safety, uphold human rights and
unneeded parts and equipment from across
support our commitment to the highest standards of safety, quality, reliability,
fair labor practices, maintain ethical business conduct and minimize negative
our fleet and corporate locations, the program
technical excellence and business (supplier) diversity.
environmental impacts, among other topics. Covered suppliers are required to
effectively reduces waste while generating
ensure their workforce undergoes mandated training, where relevant, and is
significant revenue. In 2023, the Investment
Internal Supply Chain Evaluation
aware of the expectations in our Supplier Code. We are updating our Supplier
Recovery Program achieved nearly $4 million
Code in 2024 to include, among other things, requirements for suppliers
in sales, showcasing the program’s substantial
We use internal metrics to assess the performance of our supply chain
around our Acceptable Use Policy, which outlines the security requirements
economic impact.
function, such as parts quality, safety performance, strategic sourcing
and expected behaviors for all authorized suppliers accessing Constellation
savings and business (supplier) diversity. We establish aspirational internal
facilities, assets, systems or information.
goals for the utilization of Tier 1 (prime) and Tier 2 (subcontractor) suppliers
and regularly review progress toward these aspirational goals with our Chief
In addition to the Supplier Code, covered suppliers are expected to adhere to
Supply Officer, Vice President of Supplier Diversity and other executive
our or similar standards around fair labor and safeguarding of human rights
leaders.
within all work environments. Our contracts with suppliers generally include
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 66
provisions that prohibit the use of forced and child labor and in cases where leadership, embraced across all business units and supported by our supplier
Constellation is made aware of supplier-related human rights violations, we base and community. We recognize that a diverse and inclusive supply
may place suppliers on a Supplier Performance Improvement Plan (SPIP) or chain provides us with a strategic competitive advantage through increased
terminate our contracts. innovation, access to new markets and improved resiliency and sustainability.
Throughout the Supply organization-managed supplier vetting process, We support a wide range of businesses, including, but not limited to,
we assess suppliers against sustainability criteria to understand their marginalized-, women-, veteran/service-disabled veteran-, disabled-, small
initiatives and goals. We also monitor supplier performance and adherence businesses, HUBZone-21 and LGBTQ+-owned enterprises. We search for
to contractual agreements. Suppliers that fail to meet compliance standards, suppliers who share our value to deliver the best service to our customers and
including those involved in environmental incidents that breach our contracts, ask our suppliers to support our goals, including providing equal opportunity
may be placed on a Watch List or an SPIP, outlining areas for improvement for the utilization of diverse prime and subcontractors, accurate reporting of
to achieve compliance. Instances of severe non-compliance, such as ethical diverse subcontracting and development of their own diversity programs. We
breaches or safety concerns, can lead to disqualification from future view diverse-certified businesses and small businesses as valued partners in
engagements with Constellation. For more information on the sustainability our efforts to serve our customers, and we believe that these joint efforts will
criteria included in supplier assessments, please see the GRI Supply Chain help diverse businesses develop and grow.
section of our Reporting Frameworks Content Index.
Our efforts in supplier diversity serve as a catalyst for transforming and
Support for Diverse and Small Suppliers diversifying our supply chain. In 2023, we spent over $521 million with diverse
suppliers, which represents 21 percent of our total spend on materials and
services with suppliers that are managed through our Supply organization. We
At Constellation, we aspire to be recognized as an industry leader in supplier
are proud to have been recognized as a 2023 Supply Chain Diversity Leader by
diversity by empowering a supplier ecosystem that fosters economic inclusion
Supplier.io in recognition of supporting over 20,000 jobs at diverse, including
and drives top- and bottom-line growth through innovation, competition
small, suppliers in calendar year 2022.
and supply chain stability. Our mission is to create and foster an inclusive
purchasing environment while building an ecosystem of sustainable
For more information on how we support DEI throughout our business, please
relationships, expanding opportunities and cultivating the growth of diverse
see the Shaping the Future Through Diversity, Equity and Inclusion section.
businesses, including small businesses, which add value to Constellation
and enhance the economic growth of the communities we serve. Supplier
21 Historically Underutilized Business Zone (HUBZone) a business concern must be at least
diversity is woven into the core fabric of our organization, championed by our
51% owned and controlled by U.S. citizens, a Community Development Corporation, an
agricultural cooperative, an Alaska Native corporation, a Native Hawaiian organization,
or an Indian tribe; Have its principal office located in a HUBZone; Have at least 35% of its
employees living in a HUBZone.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 67
Nuclear Fuel Supply Chain
We place significant emphasis on addressing nuclear fuel supply chain
risks that could affect our operational efficiency and success. Our nuclear
fuel group takes a diversified approach to uranium extraction, conversion,
enrichment and fabrication to mitigate risks associated with the nuclear fuel
supply chain. Our strategy engages international and domestic suppliers and
implements a multi-year horizon to safeguard against potential disruptions
and fluctuations in the nuclear fuel market. We plan for 100 percent of our fuel
to be contractually covered for at least two years before a scheduled refueling
year. We have taken action to further extend contracted coverage and buy
and secure fuel through at least the end of this decade and build a diverse
and resilient portfolio that can withstand volatilities, such as a Russian supply
disruption.
Constellation actively advocates for the development of a domestic supply
chain for uranium conversion and enrichment. We engaged with federal
policymakers in 2023, advocating for the allocation of federal funding to
catalyze the establishment of new domestic production capacity.
KEY LINKS
Supplier Code of Conduct
Suppliers
Sustainability Data Index & Factsheet
Supplier Diversity
2023 Form 10-K
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 68
5
Environment
Fostering Environmental
Stewardship
70 / Managing Environmental Programs
72 / Protecting Ecosystems and Natural Resources
76 / Managing Our Waste Responsibly
Managing Environmental
Programs
Overview At Constellation, we are committed to protecting and Environmental Management least once every five years. Annually, both nuclear and non-
sustaining the environment by complying with applicable nuclear operations conduct targeted environmental program
Systems
regulatory requirements while protecting and enhancing compliance assessments to mitigate potential compliance
life below water and on land. Constellation’s Environmental risks and we also conduct a focused review of acquired, new
We maintain robust environmental management systems
Council oversees our program and is comprised of leaders operations and assets under construction, as appropriate.
(EMS) for both our nuclear and non-nuclear operations; the
from each business unit. The Council is subject to oversight Constellation constantly looks for improvement opportunities.
frameworks of our EMS cover 100 percent of Constellation’s
from the Board of Directors and meets four times per Our facilities establish environmental KPIs and goals annually
wholly owned and operated generation facilities22. We
year to review policies and initiatives, ensure strategic and then track these monthly. Progress on the KPIs is
continuously monitor our EMS for conformance through
alignment, discuss emerging environmental trends and make communicated to our leadership team via the annual nuclear
internal assessments and audits including external audits
informed suggestions to senior executive leadership. For and non-nuclear EMS management review meetings, where
managed by Constellation Audit Services in accordance with
more information on Board oversight of our environmental the effectiveness of our EMS and other issues related to
our management model program.
programs, please see the Board Governance section. environmental performance are discussed, and quarterly
to the Constellation Environmental Council. For additional
Our environmental audit program includes annual
Our Environmental Policy provides a standardized framework information on our performance and metrics, please see the
certification or surveillance audits for our nuclear EMS to
for us to uphold compliance obligations, manage and Sustainability Data Index & Factsheet.
maintain International Organization for Standardization
mitigate environmental impacts and promote continuous
(ISO) 14001:2015 certification, as well as third-party audits
improvement within diverse operating conditions.
once every three years at a selected site to validate our non-
nuclear EMS conformance with ISO 14001: 201523. Nuclear 22 Our EMSs encompass a vast majority of our operations. Per ISO 14001
requirements, any non-nuclear sites excluded from the scope of the
and non-nuclear business units also conduct periodic internal
non-nuclear EMS are documented (along with business justifications for
EMS audits, which are led by qualified internal or external exclusion) in the non-nuclear EMS Program document.
auditors. Additionally, our nuclear sites are externally audited
23 Our nuclear EMS is certified to, and our non-nuclear EMS conforms
at least once every three years and non-nuclear staffed sites
with the ISO 14001:2015 standard. Constellation maintains an internal
are externally audited for environmental, health and safety at process to ensure we meet all the requirements of the ISO-14001
standards. Our nuclear ISO certification statement can be viewed here.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 70
Additionally, we assess suppliers against environmental
criteria throughout the vetting process to understand their
initiatives and goals. For more information on how we manage
environmental impacts in our supply chain, please see the
Building a Responsible and Diverse Supply Chain section.
Employee Training
All plant employees and full-time contractors at Constellation
sites are subject to annual plant access, site-specific
environmental awareness and EMS training through our
robust training programs. Short-term contractors receive
site-specific vendor orientation training. Employees complete
additional online and/or in-person training covering topics
such as air, water, wastewater, waste, spill prevention, control
and countermeasure, biodiversity protection and the EMS to
complete environmental job responsibilities. Environmental
KEY LINKS
training is reviewed and updated annually
Environmental Policy
Non-GHG Air Emissions Environmental Stewardship & Impact
Nuclear EMS Certification Statement
We report air emission data, including NO and sulfur oxide
x
(SO ) emissions, in compliance with the Clean Air Act. In
x
2023, our measured emissions intensity rates, on a per MWh
generated basis, for NO and SO were well below the U.S.
x x
electric generation industry average24, and we have lowered 24 For more information, please see the most recent
Benchmarking Air Emissions Report, published
our NO and SO emission rates each by 46 and 71 percent, November 2023.
x x
respectively since 2019.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 71
Protecting Ecosystems
and Natural Resources
Our operational footprint includes large parcels of land with We utilize the World Resources Institute Aqueduct tool to our hydroelectric facilities to generate clean energy and
diverse flora and fauna that border various water bodies. We broaden our understanding of potential future water scarcity is returned to the river without adversely impacting water
embrace our responsibility to protect wildlife, maintain and risks caused by climate change and economic growth and quality. Moreover, Constellation removes an average of 600
improve habitats and enhance awareness of the surrounding how our operations may be impacted or may pose impacts tons of debris surrounding our Conowingo Dam in Maryland
biodiversity’s health. We do this through engagements with in these scenarios. Constellation’s largest water-consuming each year.
communities, experts, environmental organizations and sites are in low-medium-risk regions, while our operations
regulatory agencies. in high-water-risk areas use negligible amounts of water
and do not face water scarcity risks. Although Constellation
does not have significant water consuming operations in
Responsible Water Use
high-risk areas, our facilities maintain drought contingency
management plans documenting how facilities will manage
People, ecosystems and societies rely on water availability
water needs in the case of drought emergencies, where
and accessibility to survive. Water scarcity continues to
appropriate.
increasingly impact the world around us and poses a key
risk for our industry and our business. As climate change
To responsibly manage our water use, many of our facilities
progresses with evolving weather patterns and growing
implement consumptive water mitigation plans and we work
competition for existing resources, Constellation focuses
to minimize water use across our footprint through efficiency,
on effective water resources management as part of our
technology, best practices and operational improvements.
business strategy. We strive to minimize our consumptive
We also act at the site-level to address local water-related
water use and reuse and recycle water, where feasible. Our
challenges through engagement with government agencies,
commitment to responsible water stewardship is guided by
communities, agriculture and industry groups. Our solar, wind
our Water Resource Management Policy, which enables us to
and simple-cycle combustion turbine power installations
manage water-related risks and opportunities.
have negligible consumptive water use. Water flows through
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 72
Cooling Systems
Our nuclear and combined-
cycle natural gas generation Air & Water Condenser Water Source
Cool Water
facilities primarily use water
Water Source
Condenser Water Source
for steam generation and as a
Cooling Tower
cooling medium through the
OR Air Cooled
following processes: Recirculating Condenser (ACC)
Cooling Pond
Discharge Water
Water Basin
Condenser
Closed-cycle Dry condenser Open-cycle
cooling systems: cooling technology: cooling systems:
At some nuclear and combined-cycle natural gas We also use this technology to allow air to cool and Approximately half of our fleet uses systems where
facilities, we use a closed-cycle cooling system which condense steam at three of our largest combined-cycle water is withdrawn from nearby water bodies and
enables us to reduce our impacts on water resources natural gas generation facilities. This system requires used as a cooling medium. After the water is used, it
by reusing water, minimizing freshwater intake and little to no water use and saves approximately 80 is treated back to the proper water quality standard
reducing wastewater discharge volumes. In 2023, percent of the water normally used by a conventional required by applicable regulations and station-specific
our nuclear assets recycled more than more than water-cooled condenser. water discharge permits and discharged to local water
6.6 million megaliters of water through closed-cycle bodies such as rivers, lakes and seas, except for small
cooling systems. amounts of water discharged to municipal sewers.
Minor amounts of the water used in our open-cycle
cooling systems are lost to evaporation.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 73
Year-over-year fluctuations in our water withdrawal closely follow our enabling Constellation to minimize impacts to species when possible or
electricity generation from nuclear and natural gas facilities. In 2023, we relocate affected species.
withdrew 48 million megaliters of water. We closely monitor all water discharge
and have a strong history of complying with discharge permit requirements to Constellation is also focused on improving aquatic ecosystems where we
minimize impacts on aquatic biodiversity and local community access to clean operate hydroelectric and nuclear power plants. Our stewardship activities
drinking water. In 2023, 98.5 percent of our water withdrawal volume was include investing in habitat improvement projects, constructing oyster and
discharged to the source, and we have consistently achieved annual discharge freshwater mussel beds, creating artificial reefs, stabilizing river and stream
rates above 98 percent since 2019. For more information on Constellation’s banks, managing fish hatcheries and maintaining fish passages. To minimize
water-related metrics, please see the Sustainability Data Index & Factsheet. biodiversity impacts at our Conowingo hydroelectric power plant, which is
situated along the Susquehanna River, we monitor dissolved oxygen levels
below the dam for the health and protection of the river’s aquatic life. We
Protection of Local Biodiversity
also observe the minimum water flow requirements of our federal license to
maintain healthy water levels in the river to support biodiversity.
As we build and maintain our generation assets, we also focus on preserving
biodiversity and limiting our impact on the natural environment. Our We have collaborated for over 15 years with the Wildlife Habitat Council
commitment to environmental stewardship, along with our ongoing actions to (WHC) on various projects to enhance biodiversity and wildlife habitats at our
protect the species surrounding our operations, is guided by our Biodiversity generation sites. We have 14 program certifications, covering approximately
Policy. This policy is informed and managed through continuous engagement 140 projects across almost 34,000 acres that include pollinator gardens,
with stakeholders, such as expert and regulatory agencies, and through habitat restoration for a variety of species, fish and water management
activities such as research collaborations and community and employee projects, bat and insect houses, special events and more. Through an
educational opportunities. e-tool and objective oversight, WHC provides comprehensive guidance for
environmental education implementation and quality wildlife habitat creation,
Across our power-generating footprint, we employ the mitigation hierarchy monitoring and maintenance. Currently, 14 Constellation locations are
to avoid, minimize, restore or offset our operational impact on ecosystems. also certified through the National Wildlife Federation. These certifications
During the development and maintenance of capital projects, we conduct demonstrate our commitment to mitigating potential impacts of our
a thorough environmental review to assess potential impacts on birds, operations on habitats and species and incorporating protection measures
bats and terrestrial and aquatic species and habitats. When construction directly into our operations.
or operations may impact certain species and ecosystems, we follow site-
specific management plans and obtain any necessary incidental take permits,
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 74
Criterion Wind Bat Habitat
Conservation Program
In 2023, our Criterion Wind Bat Habitat Conservation program achieved Criterion Wind Bat Habitat
WHC’s Certified Gold Level, recognizing its significant conservation efforts for
the Indiana Bat species. Furthermore, two projects under this program earned
special recognition at WHC’s 2024 Conservation Conference, winning awards
in the Caves Project and Land Conservation Agreement project categories.
By protecting a vital bat hibernaculum and implementing a comprehensive
land use management plan, the initiative not only safeguards the habitat of
the Indiana Bat but also benefits other bat species reliant on the surrounding
forest ecosystem.
The hibernaculum is located adjacent to the Monongahela National Forest,
which provides thousands of acres of a continuous habitat corridor for
bats and addresses multiple threats to bat species, including White Nose
Syndrome, human disturbance and habitat loss and fragmentation. Over 50
species of plants that support bat life cycles are maintained in the hardwood
forest management area, and population surveys show the presence of seven
different species of bats utilizing the hibernaculum, highlighting the broader
ecological impact of the project.
KEY LINKS
Water Resource Management Policy
Environmental Stewardship & Impact
Biodiversity Policy
Sustainability Data Index & Factsheet
2023 CDP Water Response
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 75
Managing Our Waste
Responsibly
Overview At Constellation, we work to minimize our environmental Nuclear fuel is incredibly dense and produces tremendous At the end of its useful life, nuclear fuel assemblies are safely
impacts by first identifying ways to reduce the amount of amounts of clean energy. One uranium fuel pellet creates as moved to spent fuel pools at nuclear facilities, where they cool
operational waste we generate. We then look for opportunities much energy as one ton of coal, 120 gallons of oil or 17,000 under 20 feet of water over several years. Once cooled, the
to recycle or reuse materials to divert waste from landfills and cubic feet of natural gas. Because of its high density, the spent fuel is loaded into 16-foot stainless steel dry casks and
contribute to a more circular economy. We are also deeply entire amount of spent nuclear fuel ever produced in the U.S. stored inside 20 to 30-inch-thick reinforced concrete casks
focused on safely, securely and responsibly managing the since the late 1950s would fill one football field, ten yards at the facility’s independent spent fuel storage installations
nuclear waste we generate. For additional information on deep25. Spent nuclear fuel is a byproduct of power generation (ISFSIs)—safe, secure and well-proven technology. These
Constellation’s waste performance and metrics, please see at every nuclear power plant in the world and comprises casks are specifically designed and tested to withstand
the Sustainability Data Index & Factsheet. most of the high-level waste, while the remainder is low-level extreme events, such as earthquakes, projectiles and floods.
waste, generally considered to be any material that enters the We store spent nuclear fuel at all 14 of our nuclear stations,
containment area, such as gloves, plastics and scrubs. including the standalone ISFSI at our decommissioned
Nuclear Waste
Zion station, in strict compliance with the robust safety and
To minimize low-level radioactive waste generation and security requirements of the NRC to limit radiation exposure
The safety of our surrounding communities and environments
support the safe transport and disposal at off-site approved for our workers and the public.
is our number one priority. We diligently number, catalogue,
facilities, each of Constellation’s nuclear stations implements
track and isolate spent nuclear fuel used by Constellation
robust programs and procedures in full compliance with NRC For more information on our efforts to enhance nuclear plant
facilities, so we know where every ounce is located. Senior
requirements. Depending on job responsibilities, employees and public safety, please see the Promoting Health and Safety
management is responsible for safe operation of our nuclear
may receive additional training to help protect their safety section.
facilities, including the management of nuclear fuel, with
and the safety of the public, and all employees who handle
ultimate oversight from the Nuclear Oversight Committee
radioactive waste must complete annual radiation protection
of the Board of Directors. Our nuclear waste management
training. The radioactive handling training outlines required
practices are in full compliance with the stringent safety
safety procedures employees must execute when managing
and security requirements and oversight from the NRC. For
radioactive waste.
25 Source: Nuclear Energy Institute. Nuclear Waste.
more information on Board oversight of our nuclear safety
programs, please see the Board Governance section.
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 76
Nuclear Fuel Density
Nuclear fuel is incredibly dense and produces tremendous amounts
1 uranium pellet
of clean energy. One uranium fuel pellet creates as much energy as:
1 inch tall
17,000 cubic feet of natural gas 1 ton of coal 120 gallons of oil
= 1 uranium pellet = 1 uranium pellet = 1 uranium pellet
1 single nuclear fuel pellet generates enough energy to charge 1 single nuclear fuel pellet generates enough energy 1 single nuclear fuel pellet generates enough energy to power
approximately 400,000 iPhone 14s to power an EV for about 20,000 miles the American home for about 166 days
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 77
Nuclear Waste Advocating for Interim and Long-term Solutions for Spent adhere to all applicable local and regional waste regulations.
Fuel Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act (NWPA) of 1982, Our robust recycling programs target a large variety of
the DOE is responsible for the development of a permanent conventional materials like paper, plastic and metals, as well
geologic repository for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel and as non-conventional materials such as construction and
high-level radioactive waste from existing nuclear plants in demolition debris. We also streamline our waste and recycling
the U.S. Until the DOE proceeds with taking possession of pickup frequencies to reduce emissions from waste hauling
and relocating spent fuel to a federal centralized repository, vehicles. Additionally, we capitalize on opportunities to reuse,
our spent fuel will be stored safely and securely at our on- recycle or recover major asset components to divert these
site spent fuel pools and ISFSIs. We are working with federal materials from landfill. For example, in 2023 through our wind
lawmakers to support the government’s efforts to build a repowering project, we sent 84 fiberglass blades at the end of
permanent, centralized repository or interim storage facility their useful life to a reuse facility.
for spent nuclear fuel.
Hazardous Waste
Constellation supports efforts to consolidate spent fuel
storage to one or more interim sites that meet the NRC’s
Our nuclear and non-nuclear operations safely manage non-
rigorous safety and security standards. This would enable
radioactive hazardous waste in accordance with the Resource
infrastructure management and security protection of spent
Conservation and Recovery Act, a federal law which governs
nuclear fuel at fewer sites until the government develops a
the disposal of hazardous and solid waste in the U.S. At the
centralized repository. Constellation also supports efforts
site-level, when hazardous waste is generated, it is labelled
by the federal government and private sector to develop
properly, stored in designated waste accumulation areas
advanced fuel recycling technologies that maximize nuclear
and transported off-site using approved vendors. Hazardous
fuel’s potential energy and reduce the overall volume and
waste is tracked and managed vigilantly by site environmental
lifespan of disposed nuclear waste.
KEY LINKS
specialists and any Constellation site that generates large
quantities of hazardous waste submits biennial reports to the
Operational Waste Nuclear Safety
EPA per federal regulations. These robust hazardous waste
Environmental Stewardship & Impact
management procedures enable us to maintain compliance
Constellation implements facility-level waste management
with applicable regulations and protect the safety of our Sustainability Data Index & Factsheet
systems to actively manage our waste footprint and minimize
employees, communities and the environment.
our impact on local ecosystems and communities. We
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 78
About This Report
Sustainability The Constellation 2024 Sustainability Report details our
strategies, goals and initiatives to address key sustainability
Report 2024
issues across our entire operations and value chain. Unless Sustainability Data Provides KPIs and information on
otherwise noted, this report reflects our performance and our management approach for key
progress for the period of January 1, 2023, to December 31, Index & Factsheet sustainability topics.
2023. We reference disclosures from leading sustainability
frameworks in this report, including the 2021 GRI Standards
and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
Electric Utilities and Power Generators Standard.
Our commitment to transparency and accountability is
Reporting Frameworks Outlines how our existing disclosures
reflected in our annual external assurance process for our
align with the 2021 GRI Standards and
GHG emissions inventory. Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance,
Content Index the recommended metrics for the SASB
Inc. (LRQA), an accredited GHG verifier, verified our 2023
Electric Utilities and Power Generators
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions inventory to a reasonable
Standard.
assurance level, and our Scope 3 emissions inventory to a
limited assurance level. These verifications are in accordance
with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements
(ISAE) 3000 and ISAE 3410 standards.
External GHG Emissions Provides verification of
our Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG
Inventory Assurance
KEY LINKS emissions.
Statement
Previous Sustainability Reports
Investor Relations
Constellation Impact
INTRODUCTION CLEAN ENERGY GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2024 79
Constellation Energy Corporation
1310 Point Street
Baltimore, Maryland 21231
Website: constellationenergy.com/csr
