IMPACT REPORT 2024
Contents
OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
03 1 1 23 35 43
President & CEO Message Team Members Environmental Strategy Sourcing Food with Care About this Report
04 17 25 36 44
Darden Overview Communities Energy & Emissions Food Safety SASB Index
06 19 29 37 49
Governance Helping in Times of Need Water Conservation Supporting Animal Welfare TCFD Index
30 53
Waste Management Assurance Statement
31
Collaborating for
Improved Outcomes
3 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Message from our President & CEO
To Our Stakeholders,
As the largest full-service restaurant company in America ― employing Our collaborative approach extends to the many suppliers that share
more than 190,000 team members, serving more than one million meals our values and commitment to continuous improvement and excellent
a day and operating 2,000-plus restaurants across all 50 states ― we seek service. We work closely with them to maintain the highest standards
to nourish and delight everyone we serve. At Darden, we consider this our for food safety and quality. We also partner with our suppliers and others
higher purpose and also integral to achieving our mission to be financially across our industry to drive progress on challenges no single company
successful through great people consistently delivering outstanding food, or sector can tackle alone, such as climate change and animal welfare.
drinks and service in an inviting atmosphere, making every guest loyal. We focus our efforts where we believe we can have the greatest impact,
always guided by scientifically proven standards, data-driven programs,
Many actions we take to fulfill our mission happen well before our guests
and fiscal responsibility.
visit our restaurants. We support our team members, source food with care,
give back to our communities, conserve natural resources and operate with We also aim to contribute to the communities we serve in meaningful ways
honesty and transparency. This report highlights the efforts we are taking that align with our business and where we are equipped to make a real
on our journey to continually improve the ways we do that across three key difference. We have a longstanding commitment to helping fight hunger
areas ― People, Planet and Plate. through both food and financial donations. In addition, we support a range
of youth outreach, educational scholarships and industry educational
One of the things that sets Darden apart ― and inspires me every day
programs to expand access to opportunity in our communities.
― is bringing out the best in our team members as we work together to
create memorable guest experiences. We are proud of our inclusive and In closing, I want to thank all our stakeholders ― our team members,
supportive culture, as well as the ways we invest in our people’s success guests, shareholders, suppliers and industry partners ― for joining Darden
― from competitive pay and benefits to the broad range of training and on this journey. We hope you will see our commitment to collaboration
development opportunities we provide. Most importantly ― through and partnership reflected in these pages. We know there is more work to
mentorship, collaboration and a commitment to promoting from within be done and we look forward to joining together to drive progress.
― we consistently identify potential in our team members, spark their
Respectfully,
development and support career growth with Darden or wherever their
paths take them.
Rick Cardenas
President and Chief Executive Officer
Darden Restaurants
4 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
A FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANT COMPANY WITH...
1
Be financially successful through great people consistently delivering outstanding
food, drinks and service in an invitating atmosphere making every guest loyal.
MISSION
4
Significant Extensive Rigorous Strategic Results-Oriented
COMPETITIVE Scale Data & Insights Planning Culture
ADVANTAGES
BACK-TO-BASICS
1
Culinary Innovation Attentive Engaging Integrated
DRIVING
PHILOSOPHY & Execution Service Atmosphere Marketing
9
ICONIC
BRANDS
5 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Our Purpose Our Competitive Advantages Our Company
Nourish & delight everyone we serve. •
Significant Scale enables deep relationships with our supplier 190,000
partners and creates cost advantages our brands could
not achieve on their own. It also allows us to have our own
dedicated distribution network, ensuring an uninterrupted
TEAM MEMBERS IN
Our Values
supply chain to our restaurants. Further, our size enables us to
centralize shared support functions and the associated costs. 2,000+
•
Extensive Data & Insights ensure we continually meet our
BEING OF SERVICE
guests’ expectations and allow us to identify opportunities to
RESTAURANTS ACROSS ALL
improve the guest experience and drive incremental sales.
The rich insights we glean are shared across our brands and
INCLUSION & DIVERSITY 50 STATES
lead to smarter, faster and more impactful decision-making.
•
Rigorous Strategic Planning at the enterprise level ensures
RESPECT & CARING
we have the right portfolio of brands with a compelling, SERVING
logical fit. We align strategies and coordinate operations
INTEGRITY & FAIRNESS to maximize our portfolio’s value, and we capture the 420 MILLION
available synergies across our brands. At the brand level, we
determine the distinct advantages of each brand and their
TEAMWORK strategic role in the portfolio, develop a deep understanding GUESTS IN FISCAL 2024
of the competitive landscape, identify and cultivate a clear,
differentiated positioning for each brand, and ensure our
EXCELLENCE
brands have the right strategy in place to compete effectively
and grow share.
ALWAYS LEARNING, ALWAYS TEACHING •
Results-Oriented Culture strengthens our greatest asset:
our people. We constantly work to reinforce that every team
member matters and owns a stake in our success. Our culture
helps drive our growth, and we are focused on hiring, training,
rewarding and retaining the best talent in our industry.
6 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Governance
Darden is committed to maintaining best-in-class corporate governance and
upholding the highest ethical standards. Our governance framework is guided
by principles that promote integrity, fairness and responsible decision-making,
helping our company grow and succeed while generating value for stakeholders.
Darden Board Structure Board role in oversight of
risk management
The Board of Directors plays a critical role in Darden’s
success by overseeing management and ensuring that the Darden maintains a robust enterprise risk
long-term interests of shareholders are served. As noted in management process, guided by the Internal Audit
our robust Corporate Governance Guidelines, the Board sets team and Audit Committee, with oversight from the
strategic goals, monitors financial performance, selects the full Board. The Board assesses the major risks facing
CEO, provides counsel to and oversight of the CEO on the Darden at least annually and reviews options for
selection of the senior management team, and assesses mitigation. Each Board committee oversees key risk
major risks, including those related to human capital. areas relevant to the committee’s responsibilities
and reviews the policies and practices developed
Independence of directors and implemented by management to assess and
manage those risks. The areas of risk responsibility
Darden’s Board currently consists of nine directors, with at for each of the Board's Committees are described
least two-thirds required to be independent. The current in the respective Committee Charters. Selected
Chair of the Board, Cynthia T. Jamison, is an independent top risks are highlighted for deeper dives at every
director. All directors stand for reelection annually, and we quarterly Board meeting.
have a majority vote standard for uncontested elections.
Darden’s Corporate Governance Guidelines require Board
members to have complete access to management,
which strengthens governance and collaboration. The
independent directors meet in executive session, without
members of management present, at least at each
quarterly Board meeting.
7 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Committee Responsibilities
Management of climate-related risks
All Board committees are composed of only independent directors. Darden has a robust Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)
process for strategically identifying, prioritizing and managing
Nominating and Governance Committee: Audit Committee: Assists the Board in fulfilling risks to our business, including climate risks, which includes
Identifies individuals qualified to become Board its oversight responsibilities to shareholders. regular and appropriate Board oversight. The Nominating and
members, consistent with criteria approved by The Audit Committee oversees Darden’s Governance Committee is charged with discussing and reporting
financial reporting processes and internal
the Board and recommends to the Board a slate
to the Board annually on Darden’s major risk exposures and
controls, including the process for assessing
of director nominees for the next annual meeting.
management’s risk monitoring and mitigation activities related
the risk of fraudulent financial reporting and
This committee also oversees risks related to
to climate, environmental and social responsibility.
significant financial risk exposures, and the
Darden’s corporate governance, director succession
steps management takes to monitor, mitigate
planning, political and charitable contributions, The Darden FY2024 10-K discusses risk factors related to climate
and report those exposures.
insider trading, environmental and social change, severe weather conditions and natural disasters that could
responsibility, and reputational risk. Environmental adversely affect sales at Darden restaurants or the results of our
performance, including energy and climate metrics operations.
are reported to this committee annually.
In fiscal 2024, Darden partnered with BWD Strategic to assess
climate-related risks to our business. The assessment was
performed in accordance with guidance from the Task Force on
Compensation Committee: Oversees the Finance Committee: Helps ensure the company
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). The key climate-
company’s overall compensation programs and has a capital structure, including financing
philosophy, and determines or recommends strategy and financial policies, that is efficiently related risks that were identified as having the most potential
optimized to maximize returns to shareholders financial impact and likelihood of occurrence were:
compensation for the CEO, employee-directors
at an acceptable risk threshold. Also oversees
and executive officers, along with associated risks.
•
Darden’s major financial risk exposures and Potential impacts to our operations from extreme
management’s monitoring, mitigation activities weather events
and policies related to financial risk.
•
Potential impacts to our supply chain from extreme
weather events
•
Potential increased operating costs due to energy policy
•
Potential increased climate-related disclosure requirements
due to new regulations and/or stakeholder demands
8 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Board of Directors At-a-Glance
Shân Rick Juliana James Cynthia Nana William Charles Timothy
Atkins Cardenas Chugg Fogarty Jamison Mensah Simon Sonsteby Wilmott
Audit Committee Chair President & Nominating & Finance Committee Chair of the Board Finance Audit Committee Audit Committee Compensation
Nominating & Chief Executive Officer Governance Nominating & Committee Chair Compensation Finance Committee Committee Chair
Committee Chair
Governance Committee Governance Committee Compensation Committee Nominating & Finance Committee
Audit Committee Committee
Governance Committee
63 8YRS
89% 33% 22% Darden’s policy is to include women
and people of color in the candidate
Average age Average tenure Independent Women People of pool for every Board position.
color
5 4 6 Current or Former 3
Current or Former Former Certified
Restaurant or Hospitality
Chief Executive Officers Chief Financial Officers Public Accountants
Industry Executives
9 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Codes of Business Conduct & Ethics
Political Advocacy
Darden is committed to ethics and integrity throughout our organization. We bring that commitment to life through & Expenditures
codes of conduct for team members, the CEO and senior financial officers, members of the Board and suppliers.
We actively communicate with policymakers
regarding decisions at the local, state and federal
Darden code of conduct for team members Non-discrimination and non-harassment
levels that may significantly impact our business,
team members and guests. We are committed to
Darden is committed to our core value of integrity, and we Darden values differences in experience, age, race, length
transparency and accountability in our political
understand that fulfilling it requires a sincere commitment from of service, and religion, among other qualities, in our team
and advocacy activities, ensuring they are lawful
everyone. Our Code of Conduct describes our expectations for how members, guests, vendors and suppliers. Discrimination or
and consistent with our core values and protect
our team members engage with each other, guests, vendors and harassment in the workplace for any protected category violates
and enhance shareholder value.
suppliers, shareholders and all who have a stake in Darden’s success. our Code of Conduct and core values, as well as the law. For
further information, see the Non-Discrimination and Non-
Our policy engagement focuses on these areas:
Each team member is expected to be aware of our standards.
Harassment Policy.
They are required to acknowledge the Code of Conduct when they
join Darden and review and acknowledge it each year as part of
mandatory ethics training. Darden team members are responsible Additional codes of conduct
Food, beverage and nutrition
for knowing and following the Code of Conduct as well as related
policies. People leaders have an increased responsibility to serve Darden’s Code of Ethics for CEO and Senior Financial Officers
as an example of integrity and ethical decision-making. They provides policies in addition to the Code of Conduct.
Labor, benefits and employment
help ensure team members are aware of the Code and serve as
The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the
champions of compliance with our policies and the law.
Board of Directors is intended to focus the Board and each
In addition, all team members are responsible for raising ethical director on areas of ethical risk, guide directors to help them General business and tax
questions and promptly reporting concerns. Team members may recognize and deal with ethical issues, provide mechanisms
speak with their immediate supervisor; contact their Director of to report unethical conduct and help foster a culture of
Operations, Employee Relations, HR Business Partner, or the Dispute honesty and accountability.
Resolution Program; email the Ethics & Compliance team; or call the
For information on political advocacy, see the
Darden holds suppliers who perform work, deliver services or
toll-free Helpline to report a concern anonymously.
Darden Political Contribution Disclosures.
provide goods to us to the same standards team members
Darden has a zero-tolerance policy for anyone who threatens or takes must follow. In addition, our Supplier Code of Business
action against a team member for raising questions or reporting Conduct details all applicable human rights and labor laws and
concerns related to the Code of Conduct or for assisting in the regulations covering employee treatment.
handling or investigation of a good-faith complaint.
10 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
PEOPLE
Darden’s culture, our work ethic and our business are all about
being of service. This goes beyond the more than one million
guests we nourish each day – it also includes our team members
and the investments we make to help them build meaningful
careers. Our service also extends into the communities where we
operate, where we support our friends and neighbors beyond the
walls of our restaurants.
11 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Team Members
Our People Strategy
Darden’s team members are at the heart of everything we
1
Every team member matters and owns a stake in our success.
do. We only succeed when they succeed, which is why we
To thrive here you must have a desire to win, a passion to
invest in them every step of the way by providing excellent
UNIFYING serve, and the ability to build relationships along the way.
opportunities throughout their Darden experience. This CULTURE
includes pay and benefits, training and development, as
well as health and safety – all in an environment that is
welcoming, inclusive and supportive.
4
Build Teams That Build Guest Loyalty
HIRE TRAIN REWARD RETAIN
STRATEGIC
IMPERATIVES
5
GROW DEVELOP
GET BETTER
WINNING EVERY DAY INDIVIDUALS RELATIONSHIPS SIMPLIFY OWN IT
& TEAMS
BEHAVIORS
• Integrity & Fairness • Being of Service
7
• Respect & Caring • Teamwork
• Inclusion & Diversity • Excellence
CORE
VALUES • Always Learning, Always Teaching
12 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Offering Competitive Pay Providing Comprehensive Benefits
Our servers, bussers, cooks, dishwashers and the wage for our restaurant team members is $12 per We provide valuable programs beyond pay that support both our salaried and our hourly
rest of our hourly team members are the face of hour, including gratuities – but in practice our team members’ overall financial and physical well-being including:
our brands as they serve our guests. These roles are team members typically earn considerably more
not only critical for our operations, but also a source than that. In fact, across all our brands, our hourly
Immediately upon hire: After one year of service:
of our future leaders. We provide competitive pay team members earn, on average, more than $23
and career opportunities. The minimum hourly per hour, which includes tip income. • Paid Sick Leave • Paid Family & Medical Leave
•
• Access to Health Benefits
401(k) Savings
(when averaging 30 hours or more per week)
•
Employee Assistance Program
All Darden brands •
CULINARY Stock Purchase Plan
average hourly rate • Short-Term Disability (when averaging 20 hours or more per week)
$21.31
As of May 26, 2024, inclusive of tips •
Dining Discount
•
Medical Insurance*
•
Dental Insurance
OVERALL KITCHEN UTILITY $350M
•
Vision Insurance
$23.39 $17.75
•
Your Pay Today
in initiatives
(helps access earned income)
•
Fast Fluency Over the past five years, we have
BARTENDER BUSSER (English as a second language tools) invested more than $350 million in
initiatives such as paid sick leave,
$35.26 $19.21
bonuses and subsidized medical
*1 year, 30-hour average required for hourly team members.
insurance premiums directly
benefiting our workforce with
more than half going to hourly
team members.
SERVER HOST
$28.12 $15.62
13 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Listening and Promoting Pathways to Success
Responding to Team
To fill positions at each level within Darden, we In fiscal 2024, 65% of our restaurant managers The bonus is based on an annual target amount
Member Feedback
look first to our internal talent pipeline. Our were promoted from our hourly ranks, and their and is paid out quarterly.
hourly workforce is a primary source of talent average annual total cash compensation exceeds
The Diamond Club program recognizes the top
Our team members bring our brands to to fill management roles. In fact, we promoted $60,000 with an average tenure of nine years.
5% of restaurants across each of Darden’s brands.
life each day, and we know engaged team 1,100 hourly restaurant team members into
In addition to pay, we recognize and reward the Restaurants can achieve Diamond Club status
members are vital to creating great guest management in fiscal 2024 and we filled other
performance of our leaders as a key component when they excel in retaining team members,
experiences. We conduct engagement surveys leadership roles primarily with internal candidates.
of our results-oriented culture through incentives, delivering exceptional guest experiences and
with hourly team members and management
Each Darden restaurant is a multimillion- including: achieving financial success. Hourly team members
twice a year through Gallup, and Darden’s
dollar business led by a General Manager (GM) and managers at winning restaurants receive a
overall engagement is well above the average
Long-Term Incentives for GMs and MPs provide
or Managing Partner (MP). In fiscal 2024, all cash bonus, and the GM/MP and their guest are
for both U.S. and international companies as
rewards in the form of Darden Stock Units (DSUs).
of these critical leaders, who are responsible honored at an exclusive VIP celebration held at a
measured by Gallup. In fact, our most recent
These grants are awarded annually based on
for cultivating our culture and bringing our unique resort setting.
survey results showed that our overall level of
performance against established metrics. The
brands to life every day, were filled by internal
engagement is at an all-time high.
DSUs track with the price of Darden stock and are
candidates. On average, these leaders earn total
paid in cash when they vest.
cash compensation of approximately $100,000
annually and have an average tenure of 14 years.
The Operations Leader Bonus program rewards 65%
the entire restaurant management team for their
The GM or MP leads a team of three or more
performance against financial goals for the year. of all Restaurant Managers were
restaurant managers. These managers are
promoted from hourly ranks
responsible for overseeing the culinary team, the
service team and other front-of-house areas such
as the lobby, bar and off-premise dining.
100%
9,000+
of all General Managers/Managing
leadership positions across Partners were promoted from within
our restaurants
190,000
1,100 96%
hourly team members promoted of all Directors of Operations were
team members
into management promoted from within
14 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Training & Development Leadership Development
Opportunities
CASE STUDY
Nearly one in three Americans enters the workforce Our leadership training and development
Journey to Leadership
at a restaurant.1 This is one of the reasons Darden programs include:
plays an important role in helping shape the
•
Manager in Training (MIT) is an in-depth When Amber Messersmith applied for a hostess
broader workforce – by providing an on-ramp for
program that focuses on the processes involved position at Olive Garden, she was looking for
hundreds of thousands of people across the United
in running a restaurant, leadership development part-time work that could fit into her packed
States. Our training programs promote customer
and business acumen. It culminates with a schedule as a full-time college student at
service, teamwork and responsibility, in addition to
week of classroom and hands-on instruction UCLA. More than 20 years since that first hourly
the specific responsibilities of the team member’s
at our Restaurant Support Center in Orlando job and her college graduation, Amber now
role and the inner workings of a restaurant.
that includes separate leadership conversations works as a Divisional Vice President overseeing
For many, a job with one of our brands is the start hosted by Darden’s CEO and our Chief People & more than 90 Olive Garden restaurants in the
of a rewarding career with our company. For others, Diversity Officer. In addition, restaurant managers Pacific Northwest. Her journey demonstrates
it is a steppingstone to further education or other receive approximately 600 hours of training the benefits of Darden’s culture that prioritizes
pursuits. The skills and experience we provide help outside of MIT during their first year in the role. promoting from within.
our team members grow and succeed with Darden •
GM/MP Leadership Experience, a two-day
Thankfully, Amber’s first manager saw her
or wherever their paths take them.
learning program, focuses on critical skills needed “I always remember Bill Darden’s
potential and encouraged her to consider
to lead teams and achieve results. The program words of wisdom – that our team
Darden invests $40 million annually in a robust Darden as the pathway to a fulfilling career.
helps GMs/MPs transition into leading an entire members are our greatest competitive
training program that begins immediately upon As one of the many company leaders who
restaurant and its management team. Through advantage,” said Messersmith. “I am
hiring, regardless of role. On average, our new team began their careers as entry-level team
instructor-led classroom learning and role-play proof of the career opportunities that
members receive 40-80 hours of training (depending members, Amber understands the important
scenarios, attendees focus on topics such as are available to people who do good
on their role). As team members expand into new role that everyone at Darden plays in serving
Building Culture through Inclusion, Hiring for work and represent our values as we
roles and responsibilities, so does the training. customers and has been able to pay forward the
Success, Coaching Managers, Managing Difficult serve our guests.”
opportunity provided by that first manager as
Situations and Growing Sales & Improving
[1] America Works Here. she mentors new generations of Darden leaders.
Profitability. The program concludes with a Q&A
session hosted by our CEO.
•
GM or MP Conferences convened by each
brand are annual leadership events that
highlight business plans and build excitement
among their teams. These conferences also
feature content focused on the continued
development of GMs and MPs.
15 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Embracing Inclusion & Diversity
Our inclusion & diversity strategy
At Darden, everyone is welcome to a seat at our table. When Bill 85% of our hourly team members for the past
Darden opened his first restaurant in 1938, he employed anyone three years have been people of color
willing to work hard, work smart and grow with the company – We believe there is strength in bringing together a diversity of and/or women
without regard to race, gender or background. We carry this cultures, perspectives, backgrounds and ideas. Building inclusive
important legacy forward today. workplace cultures is a key tenet of our industry leading team
7 1 % of promotions into management for the
member engagement and retention. The result fuels our growth
past three years have been people of
as a company and creates great places to work for our team
color and/or women
members who extend that sense of welcome and belonging to
our guests.
To advance workplace diversity, we aim to: 36% of leadership across our restaurants and
• support center teams are people of color
Increase our pipeline of diverse leaders
•
Ensure all levels of our team reflect the diversity of talent
in our industry and communities
• Expand inclusive hiring and development best practices 44% of leadership across our restaurants and
across all our brands support center teams are women
To create an inclusive environment, we work to:
•
Expand inclusion and diversity awareness and training to
51%
of our Executive Leadership is comprised of
all team members
people of color and/or women
•
Equip all leaders with the tools and resources to foster an
inclusive environment for team members, vendors and guests
•
Leverage Employee Resource Groups to engage, educate, retain
33%
and positively impact our team member experience
of our Board of Directors are women
To build on our commitment to diversity, we intend to:
•
Make a positive impact in the communities we serve
22%
•
Continue to invest in diverse suppliers of our Board of Directors are people of color
16 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
A Culture of Inclusion
Our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) help engage,
educate, retain and support our team. Creating a
culture of inclusion not only promotes a positive work
environment, it also helps deliver business results.
Our ERGs support Darden’s efforts to help foster a
welcoming environment where every team member
matters and their unique perspectives are valued,
heard and celebrated.
Darden African American Network Darden Asian Network Hispanic or Latin American Network
Sharing the Past, Building the Future Embracing Asian Cultures Many Cultures, One Vision
Darden Pride Alliance Darden Serve Network Darden Women’s Network
Celebrating LGBTQ – Uniting All Proud to Serve Inspiring & Connecting Women
17 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Communities
®
Darden restaurants play an important role in our communities. In addition to offering
opportunities in the local workforce and places for friends and families to gather over a
People in every community across the collaboration with Penske Truck Leasing
good meal, we are honored to provide resources to help meet community needs.
United States face food insecurity. Feeding to donate 45 refrigerated box trucks
America estimates that more than 34 over the past four years. These donations
million people may face hunger. help provide reliable transportation and
Both the company and the Darden Restaurants, generations, helping in times of need and making a
operating funds to the Feeding America
Inc. Foundation (Darden Foundation) work together difference in our hometown. Over the last five years, We partner with Feeding America to
network of food banks, increasing access
to serve and invest in our communities in four key the Darden Foundation has donated more than $20 enhance access to nutritious food in
to fresh food by addressing transportation
areas that we believe are most aligned with our million to charitable organizations that support the areas with higher levels of food insecurity.
needs.
business and where we can have the greatest impact. communities we serve. One component of our partnership is a
These include: fighting hunger, investing in future
Fighting Hunger The Darden Foundation
donated $2 million to
BY THE NUMBERS
Thanks to the scale and scope of our
support Feeding America
family of restaurants, we are uniquely
$18M+ donated to Feeding America in fiscal 2024.
positioned to help fight hunger in
by the Darden Foundation
the communities we serve. Two key
since 2010
ways we do that are through our
ongoing partnership with Feeding
America™ and our Darden Harvest 5.4M
pounds donated through
food donation program.
Harvest in fiscal 2024
140M+ pounds of food donated
through our Harvest
program since its inception
18 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Investing in Future Generations
CASE STUDY
Expanding Access & Opportunities
We believe it is important to invest in the success of younger generations across
our communities. Darden Restaurants and the Darden Foundation support
The restaurant industry offers great opportunities Restaurant Ready is a growing national program
programs and organizations that help America’s youth realize their potential and
for young people as they enter the workforce. that currently partners with 75 community-
achieve their dreams.
To help provide young people and others access based organizations that serve people who
to the rewarding career pathways our industry have historically faced barriers to opportunity.
can provide, while developing the talent pipeline Restaurant Ready helps people acquire basic
Boys & Girls Clubs of America Educational Scholarships
our industry needs, the National Restaurant job and life skills and provides access to local
Association Educational Foundation (NRAEF) offers restaurant and hospitality employers along with
Darden and the Darden Foundation are In fiscal 2023, the Darden Foundation
innovative training and educational opportunities wrap-around services to support success.
proud to support the valuable contributions introduced the Next Course Scholarship
to prepare people for the restaurant, foodservice
made by the Boys & Girls Clubs of America program to provide scholarships for our
Apprenticeships offered through the Restaurant
and hospitality industry. The Darden Foundation
in communities across the country by team members’ children pursuing a & Hospitality Leadership Center provide
contributes $250,000 annually to support NRAEF’s
providing opportunities for young people to college education. In the first two years, accredited training programs for new and
four core programs:
discover their great futures. we awarded nearly 200 scholarships current employees. Apprentices participate in
®
worth $3,000 each. These scholarships ProStart is a two-year culinary arts and classes and on-the-job training to support career
At the national level, we are partnering with
helped team members and their families restaurant management program that introduces advancement. This program also strengthens
Boys & Girls Clubs of America to develop at 140 different restaurants across all of high school students to career opportunities in the employee engagement for restaurants.
training that will help youth of all ages restaurant industry and provides training on topics
our brands and 39 states.
Scholarships focus on supporting women, racial/
better understand inclusion and diversity ranging from culinary techniques to management
ethnic minorities and first-generation students
and combat racial discrimination. In fiscal The Darden Foundation has funded skills. The program reaches approximately 165,000
who are pursuing degrees in the industry. For the
2024, the Darden Foundation provided scholarships, fellowships and students in more than 1,800 schools each year.
2023-2024 school year, part of Darden’s annual
$500,000 to support the development professorships through more than $5.5
contribution helped to support a scholarship
and implementation of the Youth for million in endowments to universities
program that awarded $1 million in scholarships
Unity training curriculum, which provides across the country to promote careers
ranging from $2,500 to $10,000.
dynamic experiences and activities focused in the hospitality industry and provide
on combating racism and promoting financial aid for students to gain
equity. The curriculum will help foster the valuable experience.
next generation of leaders, problem-solvers
and advocates for change.
19 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Helping in Times of Need
Darden remains ready to provide help when disasters strike our communities
and our team members. We do this by supporting the American Red Cross and
through our Darden Dimes team member emergency assistance fund, as well as
by responding to community needs when they arise.
American Red Cross Darden Dimes
We are a proud member of the Our signature employee giving
American Red Cross Annual Disaster program, Darden Dimes, is an
Giving Program, which equips the Red emergency assistance fund that
Cross with support to immediately enables our team members to help
respond to individuals and families one another in times of need. Since
impacted by disasters anywhere in its inception in 1999, this program
the United States. This includes basic has played a critical role in providing
needs like warm meals, shelter, relief relief for our team members when
supplies and emotional support as they disaster strikes. More than $38
recover from unforeseen challenges. million donated by team members
The Darden Foundation's long-term has provided more than 83,000
partnership with the Red Cross began Darden Dimes grants since the
in 1997. Darden donates $500,000 program began.
annually to support this program.
Darden restaurants around the country are quick to take action to
support their communities by providing meals to first responders,
making donations to local organizations, volunteering and
lending assistance to victims of natural disasters.
20 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
SPOTLIGHT
Nourishing Our Communities
Darden Harvest food donation program breakdown
Darden Restaurants is in the business of feeding people –
4%
more than a million meals each day. We try to generate as
little food waste as possible for financial and environmental
DESSERT
reasons. Years ago, we realized our excess could feed
hungry people in our local communities. The key was to get & OTHER
30%
the food to the people who need it.
We do that through the Darden Harvest food donation PROTEIN
11%
program. We launched Harvest to get safe, high-quality
surplus food from our restaurants to those in need instead
PASTA &
of throwing it away. As of the end of fiscal 2024, that’s
BREAD
amounted to more than 140 million pounds.
This isn’t food off guests’ plates but rather items that were
intended to serve customers but not used. At the end of the
evening, team members in the back of the house prepare
surplus food for local charities – even after a long shift, they
want to give back to their community.
26%
Food Donation Connection (FDC), a national nonprofit
organization, serves as the liaison, linking Darden VEGETABLES
restaurants to shelters, soup kitchens, food pantries and
others in need.
29% With more than 2,000 restaurants, these contributions make
an immediate and positive impact on communities across the
country – and on our team members, who are energized by the
SOUPS &
knowledge they’re helping neighbors. Donations also divert food
SAUCES
waste from landfills, where it would otherwise create methane
gas and contribute to a municipality’s carbon footprint.
21 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
SPOTLIGHT
Food Donation Connection Helps
Darden Steward Resources
When FDC and Darden began discussing a company-wide commitment
to donating excess food to community organizations as part of the Harvest
program, the overwhelming benefits weren’t immediately obvious.
“The team was inspired at a shelter in Orlando when they realized the surplus
Darden was throwing away could benefit the people standing in line,” said
Jim Larson, Vice President of Development at FDC. “Through these donations,
Darden is helping charities reduce their food budgets so they can spend more
on their core missions – like providing temporary shelter, medical care, mental
health services, long-term housing and job training.”
Restaurants coordinate, weigh and track the items they provide, which
supports tax deductions for charitable donations. FDC ensures food that
Darden donates stays in the communities where we live and operate,
benefiting local families.
Darden is proud to help make a difference in people’s lives by sharing surplus
food while building team morale and being good stewards of the planet and
our resources.
Culinary trainees at the Knox Area Rescue
Ministries (KARM) prepare meals for hundreds
using ingredients donated by Darden restaurants
as part of the Harvest program. KARM helps
those struggling with homelessness, poverty and
addiction to build a better life. Food donations
offset costs for hunger relief and directly support
other services that the organizations provide.
22 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
PL ANET
Darden depends on energy and water to operate our restaurants, along
with the natural resources needed to grow, process and transport the
food that our guests enjoy. We recognize our responsibility to conserve
these resources and protect our planet for future generations. We do this
by incorporating environmental considerations into how we design and
operate our restaurants and by partnering with suppliers to increase the
sustainability of the food we source.
23 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Environmental Strategy
Our conservation efforts begin where we have the most direct control – the
2,000+ restaurants where we work to use energy and water efficiently and
minimize waste. We incorporate processes and behaviors along with equipment
and technology that drive conservation, and we incorporate best practices for
green buildings in the design of new restaurants.
While our efforts begin within our own associated with extreme weather events that may
operations, we are increasingly working to drive cause disruption to our own assets, our supply
improvements throughout our supply chain, chain and our guests, along with regulatory
where our analysis shows we have the greatest demands related to climate disclosures.
footprints. To identify opportunities to advance
Among our efforts to address those risks,
our strategy, we completed assessments of
we have increased the robustness of our
the climate and water environmental impacts
assessment and disclosures by aligning Darden’s
from our upstream and downstream value
environmental data collection for energy, water,
chain. We have assessed the energy and water it
waste and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions with
takes to produce food and to transport it to our
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
restaurants. As a result, we’re investing resources
(SASB) framework for the Food and Beverage
in working with suppliers in areas where we
Sector, beginning in fiscal 2023. As part of this
believe we can make the biggest difference.
effort, we work with a third party to verify our
Underpinning these efforts is our ongoing work GHG inventory for environmental disclosures to
to identify and mitigate the risks climate change a limited level of assurance each year.
poses to our business. We’ve identified risks
The Darden restaurant support center in Orlando is LEED Gold certified for new construction. Its
features include a 4,500-panel solar array that has a generating capacity of 1.1 megawatts (MW),
and the use of reclaimed water for restrooms and irrigation saves nearly two million gallons of
water annually.
24 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Our Approach
Darden strives for continuous improvement
in the environmental performance of our
operations and in our supply chain. We are
carefully evaluating our impacts, tradeoffs, risks
and opportunities related to environmental
issues including climate change, deforestation,
water, waste, nature and biodiversity. Our
strategic approach is built on three pillars:
1 2 3
IMPROVING DATA QUALITY TESTING IDEAS WITH PARTNERSHIPS
PILOT PROJECTS
We depend on data-driven, scientifically proven We’re testing programs and running pilots We scale our impact by collaborating with
strategies that align with our core business to evaluate ways to operate our restaurants suppliers, researchers, non-governmental
priorities. We’re aiming to provide actual data efficiently, such as subscribing to community organizations and other industry partners
for metrics on everything from emissions to solar programs and piloting energy-efficient in organizations like the U.S. Roundtable for
packaging rather than estimates based on kitchen equipment. Although every project isn’t Sustainable Beef (USRSB), Roundtable for
industry factors. Many of our supply chain a win, we move toward continuous improvement Sustainable Poultry and Eggs, and others. In
partners are just beginning to measure baseline by testing and learning before rolling out broader addition, we participate in regular meetings
GHG, water and other metrics, which is a key programs. with other members of the National
first step in ensuring that our actions make Restaurant Association’s Sustainability Expert
meaningful and measurable improvements. Exchange to address critical pre-competitive
issues and opportunities.
25 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Energy & Emissions
Energy Intensity
We aim to reduce energy consumption within our properties to save on
operating costs and to mitigate GHG emissions where possible. We do so
1600
primarily by increasing energy efficiency and conservation, as well as by
1,564
increasing our use of renewable energy.
1400
1,439 1,432 1,416
1,390
1,328
1200
In 2011, Darden began installing building standard times to power up equipment when
management systems in select restaurants it’s needed. For example, a fryer or grill will 1000
to help us monitor and control temperature, have instructions clearly visible to indicate the
lighting and refrigeration, and to use correct time and setting to use when ramping 800
energy more efficiently and cost effectively. up for dinner.
These systems are now installed at all new 600
We’re also focused on reducing energy
restaurants across all our brands.
consumption at the restaurant level by
400
In addition to increasing efficiency by using installing smart kitchen equipment. By using
less energy to perform the same tasks, we advanced thermostats and kitchen equipment
200
conserve energy by not using it when it’s that adjusts to changing needs in the kitchen,
not needed. Process improvements play an we use less energy. For example, managers can
essential part. “Power on, Power off” labels on monitor and adjust refrigerator and freezer FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2021 FY 2022 FY 2023 FY 2024
kitchen equipment in Darden restaurants list temperatures through an app on their phone.
Energy Consumption
2,843 GWh total energy 700,000+ KWh renewable
consumed in FY24 energy generated in FY24
tnaruatseR
rep
hWM
26 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Tapping into Renewable Energy
CASE STUDY
Darden Joins Community Solar Projects
As part of our efforts to reduce fossil fuel use and resulting
emissions, our energy strategy incorporates renewable
sources. For instance, Darden installed a 4,500-panel solar
Darden is reducing our carbon footprint and In addition, Darden signed a long-term contract to
array on the roof of our Restaurant Support Center in
supporting the development of renewable energy in support the installation of a battery storage power
Orlando, Florida. The panels have a generating capacity of 1.1
the communities where we live and work – all while station. This contract for the virtual power consumption
megawatts (MW) of energy.
reducing energy costs for 79 restaurants. for our restaurants helped seed the project, and we
received a discounted rate on the electricity. The system,
In 2023, Darden became an anchor tenant for two
which consists of a group of large batteries, stores
community-based solar projects. We subscribed to 15
electrical energy generated from solar panels so that it
community solar farms across New York and Illinois
can be consumed when needed.
that generate approximately 20 MW of renewable
energy and help power our local restaurants. These projects also make low-carbon energy more
accessible to community members who can’t implement
Each community solar project consists of several acres
on-site renewable energy.
of solar panels. The energy they produce flows to the
grid, replacing electricity from fossil fuels and reducing
emissions. The solar farms are projected to produce
more than 30 million kWh and reduce energy costs for
Darden while contributing to the expansion of local
renewable energy near our restaurants.
IL
NY
27 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Assessing GHG Emissions
Scope 1 & 2 emissions Emissions profile
We’ve analyzed and validated Scope 1 and 2
emissions from our operations and Scope 3
emissions from our supply chain. As the chart on
the far right shows, Scope 3 emissions account
for the vast majority of our total emissions. We
aim to improve the quality of this data over time,
which will allow us to refine our strategy for greater
82%
impact and to set meaningful goals.
We also performed a detailed, third-party verified
Scope 3 emissions inventory for all relevant
10%
upstream and downstream sources. Diligent
assessment and transparent reporting on Scope
8%
3 emissions are critical to developing a long-term FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2021 FY 2022 FY 2023 FY 2024
strategy to collaborate with suppliers on solutions
Scope 1 Scope 2
to environmental challenges. Darden’s Scope 3
emissions are calculated primarily by using best
available life cycle assessments and emissions Scope 1 & 2 GHG intensity - per restaurant Scope MT CO e
2
factors. Given the high portion of those emissions
in Category 1, Purchased Goods and Services, we
Scope 1 345,316
concentrate on these sources, particularly from
beef production given that beef and dairy make up
444
approximately 34% of all value chain emissions. 424 Scope 2 424,495
412 410
400
373
Darden is supporting our beef supply chain partners
in increasing the measurement and disclosure of Scope 3 3,512,851
GHG emissions and making continuous progress in
identifying and testing solutions for reducing the Total 4,282,662
impact from production.
FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2021 FY 2022 FY 2023 FY 2024
e
OC
snot
cirteM
tnaruatser
rep
e
OC
snot
cirteM
2
2
Based on FY22 data
800,000
700,000
600,000
500,000
442,354
400,000 424,495 426,924
470,107 472,882
405,977 300,000 358,938 375,763
345,316
313,827 301,316
277,317
200,000
100,000
500
450
400
350
300
250
200
150
MT CO e = metric tons
100 2
carbon dioxide equivalent.
50
28 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Scope 3 GHG Emissions Categories from our Value Chain
Based on FY22 data
Darden has screened its operations and supply chain for climate continue to reassess our entire value chain climate impacts as data
impacts periodically since fiscal 2022. The scope 3 emissions values quality and accessibility improve over time.
below represent the latest inventory assessment. Darden will
Category Emissions
Category 1 - Purchased goods and services 2,751,967
Category 3 - Fuel and energy-related activities 198,476
Category 4 - Upstream transportation and logistics 248,007
Category 5 - Waste generated in operations 91,334
Category 7 - Employee commuting 141,217
Other (Categories 2, 6, 12, 14) 81,489
Total 3,512,851 MT CO e (metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent)
2
37% NATURAL GAS
FUEL AND ENERGY-
PURCHASED GOODS RELATED ACTIVITIES
AND SERVICES %
6
UPSTREAM 9% REFRIGERANTS
TRANSPORTATION GHG Emissions
Scope 3 Emissions 7% AND LOGISTICS
78% Categories From Sources From <1% FLEET FUELS, PROPANE, STEAM
AND CHILLED WATER COMBINED
FY2022 3% WASTE GENERATED PURCHASED Operations FY2024
IN OPERATIONS 54%
ELECTRICITY
4
%
EMPLOYEE COMMUTING
2
%
OTHER
29 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Water Conservation
Water Intensity
3000
Our restaurants use water to cook, clean, serve our guests and create
inviting landscapes for our restaurants. Conserving this natural resource
2500
is critical. We have taken steps to optimize water use in our restaurants,
including installing low-flow fixtures, touchless faucets and water-
2000
efficient landscaping. In fiscal 2024, we assessed the water stress risk
across our operations in the United States and Canada and found that
36% of the water we consume is in regions with high or extremely high 1500
baseline water stress.
1000
500
FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2021 FY 2022 FY 2023 FY 2024
Water Consumption
4.83 billion gallons of 303,280 Kgals of reclaimed
water used in FY24 water used in FY24
Our partners need water to irrigate crops and manage livestock for the meals we
serve. So, in addition to effectively managing our direct water use, we are building
a foundation to engage suppliers and partners in both reducing water usage and
maintaining water quality. For instance, as members of the USRSB, we are exploring
ways to assess water use and nutrient management in beef production.
tnaruatseR
rep
lagk
2,661
2,468 2,497 2,453
2,360
2,152
30 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Waste Management
6%
We conducted detailed waste characterization studies to better understand
GLASS
1%
waste streams in our restaurants and opportunities for diversion. We
continue to track and monitor recycling rates across our restaurants and
METAL
continuously evaluate opportunities to optimize waste diversion.
Organic waste is the largest single component Darden Harvest program plays a crucial role in
of our waste stream, making up more than diverting food waste by donating unused food
one-third of our total waste by weight based to fight hunger.
on Darden’s waste studies. This includes scraps
generated during food preparation and guest Darden restaurants manage diversion and 13%
recycling based on state and local ordinances
leftovers. In addition to strengthening our
Restaurant
for managing waste streams.
forecasting efforts to minimize food loss, the PLASTIC
Waste
47%
Composition
Waste Diversion in Fiscal 2024
ORGANICS
17% approximate diversion rate*
100% of restaurants recycle used cooking oil
32%
69% of restaurants have solid waste recycling programs
PAPER
5.4 million pounds of surplus food donated to nonprofits
1%
*Represents landfill diversion rate at U.S.-owned and operated restaurants.
OTHER MATERIALS
Waste estimates are based on vendor-supplied data. Does not include surplus food donations per SASB guidance.
31 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Collaborating for Improved Outcomes
The complex and interconnected nature of environmental issues means no one
organization can solve them alone. That’s why we work closely with our suppliers and
others in our industry to drive broader change and address specific issues. Darden
is actively supporting progress with our supply chain partners in areas including the
following concerns.
Understanding Deforestation and Land Conversion Risk
Certain commodities Darden buys as ingredients in menu An assessment for fiscal 2023 determined that approximately
items or packaging for restaurants, including beef, palm 80% of Darden’s spend on these commodities had low to no
oil, soy, coffee, cocoa and wood fiber products, are linked risk based on geography and/or environmental certification.
to forest loss in some geographies. Since 2020, we have Based on the 2023 screening, Darden performed a deeper
performed periodic deforestation screening of our supply dive into the remaining gaps that included traceability for
chain and worked directly with suppliers to trace and livestock and aquaculture feed production, further processing
certify commodities with deforestation risk. of food and non-food products and other areas.
Our assessment is based on two factors. First, we look at In fiscal 2024, we expanded the evaluation of our largest
the region where a product was produced. For example, commodity with deforestation risk: beef. FAI Farms supported
almost all of our beef comes from North America, which an assessment of our beef supply chain that evaluated both
poses little to no deforestation risk related to grazing cattle. grazing lands and feed ration sources for all beef products. In
Second, we look at environmental sourcing standards fiscal 2024, 97% of Darden's beef supply was raised in North
and third-party environmental certification for items like America in areas without deforestation risk. Darden has
wood fiber and palm oil. These certifications confirm engaged direct and indirect partners in our supply chain to
that products come from sources with little risk, such as address the portion of our beef supply chain that is raised
sustainably managed forests. in Brazil. Our suppliers that source from Brazil provided
documentation indicating their beef is not sourced from
regions with deforestation risk.
32 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Focusing on the Beef Industry
CASE STUDY
We support best practices in all sectors of the beef industry. These efforts
The Darden Foundation Joins Forces to
are complicated by the many intricate steps in the beef supply chain – from
raising cattle on a ranch, to finishing on a feedlot, to processing into various
Restore Grazing Lands
products to sell through the food service market, to Darden restaurants. As
part of our commitment to continuous progress, we are also coordinating
with our suppliers and contributing to efforts to reduce the environmental The Darden Foundation provided grant funding to
impacts of the beef production process while contributing to the economic the Rocky Mountain Rangelands Program to restore
development of beef producers. grazing lands for wildlife. Partners included the National
Fish and Wildlife Foundation, the Department of the
Interior’s Bureau of Land Management, the USDA
Partnerships across the supply chain
Natural Resources Conservation Service, and Cargill.
The U. S. Roundtable for Sustainable Beef (USRSB) is a multi-stakeholder The program aims to protect and restore wildlife habitat
initiative developed to advance, support and communicate continuous and biodiversity, address invasive species and ensure
improvement of the U.S. beef industry. USRSB envisions the U.S. beef value wildlife has room to roam. The agencies work closely
chain as the trusted global leader in environmentally sound, socially responsible with private landowners who voluntarily conserve and
and economically viable beef. Darden is a member of a USRSB working restore habitat for wildlife adapted to harsh climates
committee that meets monthly and participates in person several times a year, that often require large open spaces. The projects have
visiting beef producers to collaborate on opportunities to drive progress in the potential to sequester up to 107,000 metric tons of
assessment, transparency and continuous improvement. carbon dioxide equivalents by 2030 to help promote
climate resilience, in addition to enhancing conservation
In 2023, Darden helped fund a cattle grazing research project developed
projects in this vital ecosystem.
through USRSB in partnership with Trust in Food. The beef supply chain
needs foundational data to assess its environmental footprint and work
toward solutions to improve it. The study focused on grazing management
plans, which ranchers use to ensure cattle graze in a way that meets their
nutritional needs but stays within the capacity of grasslands to be productive.
Grazing management plans address many issues including access to water,
nutritional supplementation, biodiversity, soil health, invasive plants and
animals, access to grasslands for migratory birds and other animals, water
run off mitigation and others. Darden supports efforts to improve grazing
management plans to promote healthy grassland ecosystems.
33 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Logistics Set Darden Apart
Behind the delicious meals served across our One of the key differentiators in Darden’s logistics The level of control and oversight across our emit fewer greenhouse gases. We can decrease
different brands is a large, sophisticated logistics strategy is that we purchase food directly from system also supports food safety and traceability. waste – particularly for perishables – when we can
network. Darden leverages both its scale and data the producers rather than from a restaurant Darden's team members evaluate and confirm accurately forecast and order only what we need,
intelligence to ensure needed food and supplies distributor. This approach gives us greater that our suppliers' food safety processes are when we need it.
are delivered safely and on time to each of its more control over the entire network and allows us working as intended.
Having more information about the products
than 2,000 restaurants across the United States. to provide quality, efficiency and consistency to
Darden’s focus on improving efficiency in logistics in our system gives us insight that allows for
Our network also helps to drive improvements our restaurants while lowering expenses and
also has environmental benefits including better decision-making and reduces risk. We
through increased efficiency that results in fewer improving service. Our scale gives us even more
decreased emissions and waste. When our use advanced technology to help us collect and
emissions and less waste while also playing a efficiency because we are able to service all of our
trucks are full and routed efficiently to serve analyze data for the 13,000 products that move
significant role in food safety. restaurants and restaurant brands with dedicated
our nationwide footprint, we use less fuel and throughout our network.
delivery vehicles, drivers and support.
Distribution overview
9 HUB 9 LAST MILE 56 FRESH PRODUCE 1 SMALLWARES 2000+
LOCATIONS DISTRIBUTION & FRESH SEAFOOD DISTRIBUTION RESTAURANTS
CENTERS DISTRIBUTION CENTER
SUPPLIERS
CENTERS
FULL
TRUCKS
34 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
PL ATE
Our restaurants help create memories for families, friends and
neighbors as they gather to celebrate life’s big and small moments.
Great food – which starts with quality ingredients – is central to
this experience. Food safety is always our top priority, and we have
best-in-class food safety and total quality programming in place at
our restaurants and with our suppliers. We also take great care to
understand where our ingredients come from and safeguard the
treatment of animals in our supply chain.
35 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Sourcing Food with Care
DARDEN BUYS APPROXIMATELY
We value the trust our guests place in us, which is why we have best-in-
class food safety and total quality programs in place at our restaurants $3 BILLION FROM IN 35
and with our suppliers. We know that safe and quality ingredients are
IN FOOD PRODUCTS 1,500
DIFFERENT
critical to maintaining that trust. We carefully source and prepare each
PER YEAR
component of the meals we serve. SUPPLIERS COUNTRIES
To ensure that our high standards for quality ingredients that meet our high standards for
ingredients are met, we work closely with our quality, wholesome food.
suppliers to understand where ingredients come TOP ITEMS IN OUR FOOD BASKET
We provide our guests with information about
from, how they are grown or produced, and how
nutritional content and allergens as part of our
they are processed and distributed. While always
commitment to empowering our guests to make
prioritizing food safety, we also insist on using
informed decisions about the food they eat.
BEEF PRODUCE SEAFOOD
24% 11% 9%
DAIRY POULTRY PORK
9% 8% 2%
Based on spend in fiscal 2024.
36 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Food Safety
Central to Darden’s rigorous food safety program are many safeguards in place
to ensure the quality and safety of the food we serve. Our dedicated team of
Total Quality experts maintains a program that spans our full supply chain and
100% of our 2,000+
operations to support food safety and restaurant cleanliness.
restaurants
are audited by a third-party every quarter to ensure that our food
safety protocols are upheld. Out of 293 Class 1 FDA and USDA
Maintaining Total Quality
Food Recalls in fiscal 2024, only six impacted our restaurants.
We do not take lightly the responsibility that We remain focused on maintaining food safety
Darden’s restaurants have in serving guests across and food quality standards through every step of
Members of Darden’s
the country every day. Our Total Quality program our supply chain. We work closely with suppliers
Total Quality team are all
helps us maintain the trust that is placed in us – to evaluate processes and products before we
Registered 90+%
and it starts well before we put food on the plate. agree to purchase them, and we remain engaged
Sanitarians
to ensure that our quality specifications are and
Darden’s highly qualified Total Quality team
continuously met. These specifications are based Environmental
of Darden suppliers are
includes food and nutrition scientists, Registered
on the level of risk associated with each individual Health specialists, certified to the Global
Environmental Health Specialists/Registered
product or ingredient.
Food Safety Initiative.
Sanitarians and former health inspectors. Beyond a prestigious credential from
our own team, we regularly partner with local We also follow the U.S. Food and Drug the National Environmental
health officials and regulatory agencies on food Administration’s comprehensive Hazard Analysis Health Association.
safety issues and consult with industry experts on Critical Control Point (HACCP) food safety
best practices. principles. These focus on preventing hazards
that could cause food-borne illnesses, and we
implement measures at every touchpoint from
farm to fork to protect against potential risk to our
guests and team members.
37 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Food Safety Throughout the Supply Chain
FARM AND PROCESSING SUPPLIER DISTRIBUTION CENTER RESTAURANT
• Third-party audits to help ensure • Rigorous evaluations to verify food • Annual food safety audits by third parties. • Thorough training on our robust food
that our safety and quality safety procedures and product quality. safety and restaurant cleanliness
• Daily monitored shelf life of all products
standards are met and that our practices.
• Partner accountability to our in each distribution center. We have three
Animal Welfare Policy is upheld.
Supplier Code of Conduct. separate groups evaluating inventory to • Twice-daily in-depth walk-throughs by
be sure we are always serving fresh, safe, management.
quality food and minimizing risk to our
• Quarterly third-party inspections at
business.
every restaurant.
• Technology that validates HACCP
measures and enables real-time
response by our Total Quality team
when needed.
38 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Industry Collaboration to Improve Food Safety
We collaborate with our industry peers to drive progress in food safety and to
remain at the forefront of advancements including:
Conference for Food Protection, a nonprofit organization, National Restaurant Association Quality Assurance
invites input from members of industry, regulatory bodies, Executive Study Group and Expert Exchange
academia, consumer and professional organizations regarding Gatherings convene food safety and quality assurance
food safety laws and regulations. Darden’s Total Quality team leaders in the restaurant industry. Darden participates in
lends their expertise to the food safety standards development these work groups regularly to discuss the latest insights
process and helps shape future guidance and regulation. from the Food and Drug Administration, emerging issues,
technological advancements and more.
National Retail Federation Food Safety Task Force provides
a forum for members to share best practices on food safety.
International Association for Food Protection helps
Most recently, Darden’s Total Quality leadership provided key
advance food safety worldwide through the ongoing
input on the Food and Drug Administration’s proposed rule
exchange of information to protect the food supply.
for traceability requirements on high-risk foods.
Retail Food Safety Advisory Group plays a key role in
advising the Association of Food and Drug Officials, National
Retail Food
National Environmental Health Association is Environmental Health Association, Conference for Food
a professional network committed to advancing Safety Advisory Protection, and the National Association of County and City
the field of environmental health. Group Health Officials. As an active participant, Darden helps represent
the retail food industry in advancing retail food initiatives and
activities to help decrease cases of foodborne illness.
39 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Supporting Animal Welfare
We have a responsibility to ensure that animals are treated with respect and care in the
process of providing the nutritious food that is served in our restaurants. We support
science-based animal welfare outcomes, and we consult with academic and industry
experts and organizations to remain aligned with best practices as they evolve.
Our goal is for Darden’s suppliers to contribute Each protein type presents different challenges
to measurable improvements in animal welfare and opportunities for the industry. The
outcomes. These efforts are led by our Animal maturity of Darden’s programs, including goal
Welfare Council, which is comprised of a cross- setting and measuring results, varies across
functional internal team along with external protein types. In addition to our Animal
industry and academic experts and consultants. Welfare Council, we collaborate closely
Under the council’s guidance, we work with with industry organizations that share our
our suppliers and industry peers to define commitment to continuous improvement.
appropriate metrics and to establish science-
Another way that we stay aligned with the
based frameworks in line with developments in
industry is through best-in-class training and
validated welfare measurement methods.
certifications from the Professional Animal
Darden is careful to work with suppliers who Auditor Certification Organization (PAACO).
share our commitment to animal welfare. Serving as the authority on animal welfare
We expect our suppliers to align with the auditing certification, PAACO trains and
internationally recognized principles of best certifies auditors for the swine, dairy, poultry,
care throughout the life of farm animals and to beef cattle and feedlot industries. Several
also provide a valid and verified animal welfare Darden Supply Chain leaders, sustainability
certification. For more details, see Darden’s full professionals and members of the Animal
Animal Welfare Policy. Welfare Council have completed auditor
training courses offered by PAACO.
40 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Assessing Animal Welfare
GOAL 2024 UPDATE INDUSTRY PARTNER
In fiscal 2024, Darden evaluated risks and issues in
each of our protein commodity supply chains that To drive improvements in Darden continued working to develop
covered environmental, economic, social and animal poultry farming that result in broiler chicken Key Welfare Indicators
welfare focus areas. Subsequent prioritization of healthy biological function, by engaging our suppliers. Darden has
these risks and issues has established focused expression of natural behavior partnered with FAI Farms to support
work with suppliers, supplier industry organizations and humane processing. the data collection and analysis
and industry peers. We have strategies in place POULTRY required to execute this pilot study. International Poultry Welfare Alliance
to support animal welfare across the key protein
categories found on our menus. We also work
closely with industry organizations to stay informed 100% cage free egg products We have achieved our goal – 100% of
and to help support industry-wide progress. for owned and operated the eggs purchased by Darden are
restaurants. International from cage free housing systems. Our
Darden’s strategy to address risks in our supply chain
franchises are on pace to international franchises are working to
includes direct engagement with suppliers and
source cage free egg products source only cage free eggs by the end
active participation in larger cross-sector industry EGGS
by 2027. of 2027. Roundtable for Sustainable Poultry and Eggs
organizations and collaborations.
Source pork from suppliers We worked with our suppliers and
Antibiotics Stewardship
with group housing systems industry associations on topics including
for pregnant sows as defined housing, other welfare focus areas and
Darden requires its land-based protein suppliers to by the American Association environmental management topics
comply with FDA guidelines and/or all applicable for Swine Veterinarians including GHG emissions, water usage
national regulations for antibiotics use. This means that also meet our culinary and waste management. Approximately
that antibiotics that are important in human specifications, high quality 56% of pork volume purchased by Darden
PORK
medicine may not be used with farm animals standards, and accessible was from suppliers with group housing
National Pork Board
for growth purposes, and those used by both pricing requirements. for sows, based on a mass balance
humans and animals are only used to treat, prevent approach and input from our suppliers. Meat Institute
and control disease in farm animals under the For several of our pork products, Darden Protein Pact
supervision of a veterinarian. Darden believes in specifications require group housing.
supporting best practices by farmers to address
emerging threats from antimicrobial resistance.
41 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Animal Welfare Council
Darden’s Animal Welfare Council, established in 2019, leads our in-depth, data-driven approach to The cross-functional team from Darden includes leaders from total quality, sustainability,
improving animal welfare and environmental stewardship across our supply chain. In addition to communications, government relations and legal. Critically, there are also supply chain purchasing
Darden’s own experts, which includes PAACO-certified animal welfare auditors, the council includes managers who specialize in pork, poultry, beef, eggs and dairy. External Council members include
leading academics and expert consultants who focus on the care of animals in food supply chains. In academic experts along with multidiscipline expert advisors.
particular, they are focused on humane housing, avoidance of pain, slaughter practices, farm animal
The Animal Welfare Council’s efforts are focused by working groups, which are subsets of the full
transportation and the responsible use of antibiotics.
council. Each working group helps lead Darden’s efforts to address specific issues related to each of
our primary protein sources.
Broiler Chicken Key Welfare Indicators
A key project undertaken by the Council is a multi-year effort to evaluate Key Welfare Indicators a pilot to begin collecting meaningful data from them. Launched in 2024, the pilot aims to establish a
(KWIs) for broiler chickens at suppliers’ facilities and to establish an ongoing process for measuring baseline that helps drive progress across our suppliers and our industry by measuring performance of
improvements. Our work builds on nationally recognized audit standards and international guidance outcomes-based KWIs from our broiler suppliers.
on welfare indicators from the International Poultry Welfare Alliance. These indictors include air
quality and flock conditions on the farm, processing effectiveness, transport and handling safety As a part of this pilot project, Darden is working with suppliers to measure key welfare indicators that
issues, and chick comfort at the hatchery, among others. reflect the health of the environment the birds live in, their quality of nutrition, and level of care from
hatch to processing. These KWIs include metrics such as footpad scoring, leg bruising, broken or
Beginning in 2022, we worked with experts to survey our suppliers to help identify the types of
dislocated wings, dead on arrivals, acceptable bird placement, method of stunning, stun effectiveness,
information available and feasible data collection processes. We conducted further analysis in 2023 to
knife effectiveness and postmortem inspection.
better understand the on-the-ground realities for our suppliers, and we used these insights to design
HATCHERY GROW OUT CATCHING & TRANSPORT PROCESSING PLANT
42 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
DATA
APPENDIX
43 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
About this Report Information About Forward-Looking Statements
This Impact Report reflects Darden’s ongoing commitment to Forward-looking statements in this communication regarding network, compliance with privacy and data protection laws and risks
transparency by sharing our performance and efforts on issues our expected earnings performance and all other statements that of failures or breaches of our data protection systems, the inability to
that are important to our stakeholders and our company. Similar are not historical facts, including without limitation statements successfully integrate Ruth's Chris Steak House operations into our
details, including our Sustainability Accounting Standards Board concerning our future economic performance, are made under the business, risks relating to public policy changes and federal, state
(SASB) index have previously been shared on our website, most Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform and local regulation of our business, intense competition, changing
recently for fiscal 2024. In response to stakeholder feedback, this Act of 1995. Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the consumer preferences, an inability or failure to manage the
report marks a return to publishing this information in a compiled date on which such statements are first made, and we undertake accelerated impact of social media, a failure to execute innovative
report format that includes our latest disclosures within the SASB no obligation to update such statements to reflect events or marketing and guest relationship tactics, climate change, adverse
framework. Unless otherwise noted, the data reflects fiscal 2024 circumstances arising after such date. We wish to caution investors weather conditions and natural disasters, long-term and non-
results for our U.S. operations. not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. cancelable property leases, failure to execute a business continuity
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and plan following a disaster, shortages or interruptions in the delivery
uncertainties that could cause actual results to materially differ from of food and other products and services, failure to drive profitable
those anticipated in the statements. The most significant of these sales growth, a lack of availability of suitable locations for new
uncertainties are described in Darden's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and restaurants, higher-than-anticipated costs to open, close, relocate
Form 8-K reports. These risks and uncertainties include: a failure or remodel restaurants, risks of doing business with franchisees,
to address cost pressures and a failure to effectively deliver cost licensees and vendors in foreign markets, volatility in the market
management activities, economic factors and their impacts on the value of derivatives, volatility leading to the inability to hedge equity
restaurant industry and general macroeconomic factors including compensation market exposure, failure to protect our intellectual
unemployment, energy prices and interest rates, the inability to property, litigation, unfavorable publicity, disruptions in the financial
hire, train, reward and retain restaurant team members, a failure markets, impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or other
to develop and recruit effective leaders, labor and insurance costs, intangible assets, changes in tax laws or unanticipated tax liabilities,
health concerns including food-related pandemics or outbreaks failure of our internal controls over financial reporting and other
of flu or other viruses, food safety and food-borne illness concerns, factors and uncertainties discussed from time to time in reports filed
technology failures including failure to maintain a secure cyber by Darden with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
44 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index
Reporting to the voluntary SASB Restaurants Sustainability Accounting Standard Version 2023-12 We are committed to continuous improvement and are actively working to improve our data collection
enables us to communicate our progress in a transparent and standardized manner for investors and and coordination across the organization. We look forward to continuing to identify ways to strengthen
other important stakeholders. All data is for Darden’s fiscal year 2024 unless otherwise noted. In certain our reporting processes and disclosures in the coming years.
instances, a specific SASB topic may be discussed in our reporting, but we do not currently report
A third-party assurance statement for relevant metrics in this table is included within this appendix.
progress on the corresponding SASB metrics. In these instances, we provide relevant data on the topic
below and/or link to the corresponding document or website where these topics and any relevant
performance data are discussed in greater detail.
TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC CODE RESPONSE
Energy Management (1) Total energy consumed, FB-RN-130a.1 (1) 2,843 GWh
(2) percentage grid electricity and (2) 41% grid electricity
(3) percentage renewable
(3) 0.03% renewable
Water Management (1) Total water withdrawn, FB-RN-140a.1 (1) 4,826,875 kGals
(2) total water consumed, percentage of each in regions with (2) 36% in regions with High or Extremely High Water Stress
High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Food & Packaging Waste Management (1) Total amount of waste, FB-RN-150a.1 (1) 381,239 metric tons
(2) percentage food waste, and (2) Approximately 48% based on waste characterization studies at Darden Restaurants
(3) percentage diverted (3) 17% diversion rate at U.S.-owned and operated restaurants
Managing Waste
(1) Total weight of packaging, FB-RN-150a.2 These data points are not aggregated in a manner consistent with the indicator guidance.
(2) percentage made from recycled or renewable materials, and Managing Waste
(3) percentage that is recyclable, reusable, or compostable
45 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC CODE RESPONSE
Food Safety Percentage of restaurants FB-RN-250a.1 (1) 100% of Darden’s owned and operated restaurants are inspected by local health departments.
They are also audited by a third party on a quarterly basis.
(1) inspected by a food safety oversight body, and
(2) This data point is not currently publicly disclosed.
(2) receiving critical violations Our Total Quality Department helps ensure that all restaurants provide safe, high-quality food in a clean
and safe environment. Through rigorous supplier and risk-based product evaluations, we purchase only
products that meet or exceed our product specifications. We rely on independent third parties to inspect
and evaluate our suppliers and distributors. Suppliers that produce “high-risk” products are subject to a
food safety evaluation by Darden personnel at least annually. We require our suppliers to maintain sound
manufacturing practices and operate with comprehensive Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point
(HACCP) food safety programs and risk-based preventative controls adopted by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration. These programs focus on preventing hazards that could cause food-borne illnesses by
applying scientifically-based controls to analyze hazards, identify and monitor critical control points, and
establish corrective actions when monitoring shows that a critical limit has not been met.
Third party auditors inspect each restaurant regularly throughout the year to assess food safety and
sanitation practices. Our total quality team verifies the application of preventative controls through on-site
support visits ensuring an effective and robust food safety system. Total quality managers provide support to
operations staff with education and training in food safety and sanitation. The team also serves as a liaison to
regulatory agencies on issues relating to food safety.
Ensuring Food Safety & Quality
2024 Annual Report
(1) Number of recalls issued and FB-RN-250a.2 (1) Of 293 Class 1 FDA and USDA recalls, only 6 impacted Darden
(2) This data point is not currently publicly disclosed.
(2) total amount of food product recalled
Ensuring Food Safety & Quality
Number of confirmed foodborne disease outbreaks, percentage FB-RN-250a.3 There were 0 confirmed foodborne disease outbreaks during the reporting period.
resulting in public health authority investigation
Ensuring Food Safety & Quality
46 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC CODE RESPONSE
Nutritional Content Percentage of FB-RN-260a.1 These data points are not aggregated in a manner consistent with the indicator guidance.
(1) meal options consistent with dietary guidelines and
(2) revenue from these options
Percentage of FB-RN-260a.2 Several brands maintain different menus across their trade areas to reflect geographic differences in
consumer preferences, prices and selections, as well as a smaller portioned, lower-priced children’s menu.
(1) children’s meal options consistent with
These data points are not aggregated in a manner consistent with the indicator guidance.
dietary guidelines for children and
(2) revenue from these options
Percentage of advertising impressions FB-RN-310a.1 These data points are not aggregated in a manner consistent with the indicator guidance.
(1) made on children and
(2) made on children promoting products that meet
dietary guidelines for children
Labor Practices (1) Voluntary and FB-RN-310a.1 (1) Restaurant hourly employees: 80%; Consolidated restaurant management: 15.5%
*Does not include Ruth’s Chris Steakhouse.
(2) involuntary turnover rate for restaurant employees
Darden’s consolidated turnover rate for hourly team members during fiscal 2024 was 80%, one of the lowest
rates in the restaurant industry. Each of our brands experienced a turnover rate during fiscal 2024 that was
lower than the most recent relevant casual dining or fine dining turnover rate for their segment of the
industry as reported in The People ReportTM by Black Box Intelligence.TM
2024 Annual Report
(2) This data point is not currently publicly disclosed.
(1) Average hourly wage, by region and FB-RN-310a.2 (1) $23.39 USD in the United States and Canada, inclusive of earned gratuity
(2) This data point is not currently publicly disclosed.
(2) percentage of restaurant employees earning minimum
Investing in Their Success
wage, by region
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings FB-RN-310a.3 These data points are not currently publicly disclosed.
associated with
(1) labor law violations and
(2) employment discrimination
47 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC CODE RESPONSE
Supply Chain Percentage of food purchased that FB-RN-430a.1 (1) 100% of suppliers of land-based protein that handle animals have submitted third party animal welfare audits.
Management & Food Sourcing (1) meets environmental and social sourcing standards, and (2) 100% of land-based protein suppliers that handle live animals passed third party animal welfare audits in FY24.
(2) is certified to third-party environmental or social standards Supplier Code of Conduct
Percentage of FB-RN-430a.2 (1) 100% of all eggs purchased by Darden meet our specification that all egg products are from cage
free housing systems.
(1) eggs that originated from a cage free environment and
(2) Approximately 56% of all pork purchased by Darden was from suppliers with group housing for sows.
(2) pork that was produced without the use of gestation crates
Caring for Farm Animals
Animal Welfare Policy
Discussion of strategy to manage environmental and social FB-RN-430a.3 The sustainability of our food sources and restaurant operations is a key component of providing great
risks within the supply chain, including animal welfare service and food to our guests. During fiscal 2024, we remained focused on our climate strategy, restaurant
sustainability metrics and Darden’s Animal Welfare Council. We will continue to adapt our sustainability
approach with development or enhancement of integrated and strategic priorities in the near term across
the enterprise, from the food we source to the operation of our restaurants.
Darden manages energy and water conservation within our restaurant operations and engages with
our supply chain partners on sustainability topics including climate, deforestation and animal welfare. In
fiscal 2024, Darden accelerated the reporting cycle for environmental metrics to be consistent with our
financial results. Previously, environmental performance metrics were reported for the prior year.. Additional
environmental indicators, including energy and water consumption, waste generation and diversion, as
well as Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, are reported on our website at www.darden.com/our-impact/
communities/sustainability.
We shared Darden’s Food Principles in 2016 to outline our commitment to guests in areas of sustainable
sourcing, nutritional disclosure, food safety and animal welfare. Darden’s Food Principles connect each
of these strategic business efforts in a guest-centered platform, including sourcing and ingredient
commitments to our guests. We have set commitments related to the following food attributes: animal
welfare, chickens raised without medically important antibiotics, cage free eggs and gestation crate free
pork. We continue to work with our supplier partners to make progress toward these commitments and we
provide annual updates on our efforts in the Sustainability section of our website, www.darden.com.
Building on our Food Principles, Darden established an Animal Welfare Policy that adopts an outcomes-
based approach to continue to ensure high level of care for farm animals in the food supply chain. To
implement this policy, we established an Animal Welfare Council consisting of leading academics and
thought leaders with expertise in the care of animals in food supply chains. The Council advises and
supports the Company on our efforts to advance strategy and implementation of an outcomes-based
approach to animal welfare, from supplier collaborations to reporting improvements.
More information about our sustainability strategy, our commitment to our guests on Food Principles and
our progress to date is available at www.darden.com.
Caring for Farm Animals | Animal Welfare Policy | Living our Food Principles
48 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
TOPIC ACTIVITY METRIC CODE RESPONSE
Operations Number of FB-RN-000.A (1) 2,031 company-owned restaurants
(1) entity-owned and (2) 146 franchised restaurants
(2) franchise restaurants
Number of employees at FB-RN-000.B (1) 191,000 team members (hourly and salaried)
(1) entity-owned and (2) This data point is not currently aggregated in a manner consistent with the indicator guidance
(2) franchise locations We provide our EEO-1 report and additional details about our inclusion and diversity programs on
our website at www.darden.com.
49 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index
The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) aims to develop voluntary, consistent climate-related financial risk
disclosures for use by companies in providing information to investors, lenders, insurers, and other stakeholders. The following
index highlights our key public disclosures on climate change, in alignment with the TCFD recommendations.
GOVERNANCE: the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities.
DISCLOSURE RESPONSE
a) Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. The Nominating and Governance Committee is charged with discussing and reporting to the Board annually on Darden’s major risk exposures and management’s risk
monitoring and mitigation activities concerning environmental and social responsibility. Environmental performance, including energy and climate metrics, are reported to this
committee annually.
b) Management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related Darden has a robust Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process for strategically identifying, prioritizing and managing risks to our business, including climate risks, which
risks and opportunities. includes regular and appropriate Board oversight. The Company’s management maintains a robust enterprise risk management process, guided by oversight of the overall
ERM process from the Audit Committee and risk management philosophy direction from the entire Board. The process also includes regular reports by management to the
full Board on top risks identified by the process and periodic reports on other risks to relevant Committees of the Board. In the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines,
oversight of risks relating to environmental and social responsibility are allocated to the Nominating and Governance Committee, and the metrics reported by management
and monitored by the Board are the source and structure for the metrics and data that management discloses externally.
In fiscal 2024, Darden conducted a climate risk assessment for its operations and supply chain based on guidance from TCFD.
50 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
STRATEGY: the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning where such information is material.
DISCLOSURE RESPONSE
a) Climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has Climate change, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters could adversely affect our restaurant sales or results of operations.
identified over the short, medium and long term. The long-term effects of climate change and global warming will result in more severe, volatile weather or extended droughts, which could increase the frequency and duration
of weather impacts on our operations.
Adverse weather conditions have in the past and may continue to impact guest traffic at our restaurants, cause the temporary underutilization of outdoor patio seating and, in
more severe cases such as hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires or other natural disasters, cause property damage and temporary closures, sometimes for prolonged periods, which
could negatively impact our restaurant sales or costs.
Climate change and government regulation relating to climate change, including regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, could result in construction delays and increased
costs, interruptions to the availability or increases in the cost of utilities, and shortages or interruptions in the supply of or increases to the costs of food items and other supplies.
We may lose sales or incur increased costs if our restaurants experience shortages, delays or interruptions in the delivery of food and other products from our third party
vendors and suppliers.
b) Impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the Supply Chain
organization’s businesses, strategy and financial planning. We have a limited number of suppliers and distributors for certain of our products and services. Shortages, delays or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to
our restaurants may be caused by severe weather; natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, droughts, wildfires and earthquakes; macroeconomic conditions resulting
in disruptions to the shipping and transportation industries; labor issues such as increased costs or worker shortages or other operational disruptions at our suppliers, vendors or
other service providers; the inability of our vendors or service providers to manage adverse business conditions, obtain credit or remain solvent; or other conditions beyond our
control. Such shortages, delays or interruptions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of the items we buy and the operations of our restaurants. Supply chain
disruptions have increased some of our costs and limited the availability of certain products for our restaurants and may continue to do so.
If we increase menu prices as a result of increased food costs or remove menu items due to shortages, such responses may negatively impact our sales. If we temporarily close
a restaurant or remove popular items from a restaurant’s menu, that restaurant may experience a significant reduction in sales during the time affected by the shortage or
thereafter as a result of our guests changing their dining habits.
Regulation
We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials. There also has
been increasing focus by United States and overseas governmental authorities on other environmental matters, such as climate change, the reduction of greenhouse gases
and water consumption. This increased focus may lead to new initiatives directed at regulating a yet to be specified array of environmental matters. Legislative, regulatory or
other efforts to combat climate change or other environmental concerns could result in future increases in the cost of raw materials, taxes, transportation and utilities, which
could decrease our operating profits and necessitate future investments in facilities and equipment.
Severe Weather
Severe weather and similar conditions may impact sales volumes seasonally in some operating regions. The performance of individual restaurants may also be adversely
affected by factors such as demographic trends, and severe weather including hurricanes.
Energy Costs
Our restaurants’ operating margins are also affected by fluctuations in the price of utilities such as electricity and natural gas, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise, on
which the restaurants depend for their energy supply.
c) Resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration Darden is currently modeling opportunities and engaging supply chain partners, industry organizations and top thought leaders to support development of a strategy. We aim
to develop a comprehensive understanding of how different scenarios may impact our operations and strategy.
different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.
51 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
RISK MANAGEMENT: how the organization identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks.
DISCLOSURE RESPONSE
a) Organization’s processes for identifying and assessing Darden has a robust Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process for strategically identifying, prioritizing and managing risks to our business, including climate
risks, which includes regular and appropriate Board oversight. The Company’s management maintains a robust enterprise risk management process, guided
climate-related risks.
by oversight of the overall ERM process from the Audit Committee and risk management philosophy direction from the entire Board. The process also includes
regular reports by management to the full Board on top risks identified by the process and periodic reports on other risks to relevant Committees of the Board.
In the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, oversight of risks relating to environmental and social responsibility are allocated to the Nominating and
Governance Committee, and the metrics reported by management and monitored by the Board are the source and structure for the metrics and data that
management discloses externally.
In fiscal 2024, Darden conducted a climate risk assessment for its operations and supply chain based on guidance from TCFD.
b) Organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks. Severe Weather
Darden’s severe weather task force supports our restaurants that are projected to experience severe storms. The safety of our team members and guests is our
top priority, and that is why we have a dedicated team to help restaurants prepare for severe weather and reopen safely once it passes. This cross-functional
Task Force works with a weather intelligence firm to forecast storm activity and model data to predict their impact on our restaurants.
This allows the Task Force team to provide 24/7 coordinated support for operations leaders and their restaurant teams across all our brands. The team includes
experts from: Communications, Corporate Security, Facilities & Construction, Finance, Accounting & Payroll, Government Relations, Human Resources &
Employee Relations, Information Technology, Supply Chain and Total Quality.
Regulation
Darden has publicly reported performance in key environmental focus areas including the greenhouse gas inventory for our operations (Scope 1 and 2) since
2020 in our annual reports on Form 10-K. We have reported key metrics including energy and water usage, waste reduction and diversion of food through our
Harvest program on our corporate website since 2012, and we update those disclosures annually. We began disclosing estimates for emissions from our supply
chain (Scope 3) on our corporate website in 2022. Darden has aligned its disclosures of environmental metrics with guidance from the Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board (SASB 2018-10) for the food and beverage sector.
Energy Costs
Darden installed a 4,500-panel solar array on the roof of our Restaurant Support Center in Orlando, Florida. The panels have a generating capacity of 1.1
megawatts (MW) of energy.
Darden is reducing our carbon footprint and supporting the development of renewable energy in the communities where we live and work. In 2023, Darden
became an anchor tenant for two community-based solar projects. We subscribed to 15 community solar farms across New York and Illinois that generate
approximately 20 MW of renewable energy and help power our local restaurants.
c) How processes for identifying, assessing and managing Darden has a robust Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process for strategically identifying, prioritizing and managing risks to our business, including climate
risks, which includes regular and appropriate Board oversight. The Company’s management maintains a robust enterprise risk management process, guided
climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s
by oversight of the overall ERM process from the Audit Committee and risk management philosophy direction from the entire Board. The process also includes
overall risk management.
regular reports by management to the full Board on top risks identified by the process and periodic reports on other risks to relevant Committees of the Board.
In the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, oversight of risks relating to environmental and social responsibility are allocated to the Nominating and
Governance Committee, and the metrics reported by management and monitored by the Board are the source and structure for the metrics and data that
management discloses externally.
52 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
METRICS AND TARGETS: the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material.
DISCLOSURE RESPONSE
a) Metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and Energy consumption, energy consumption per restaurant, renewable energy generation and consumption, water consumption and waste diversion.
opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process.
b) Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas Darden currently measures annual Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions annually and Scope 3 emissions bi-annually. Beginning in FY22, Darden has utilized a third party to
emissions, and the related risks. verify greenhouse gas emissions inventories and other environmental metrics.
c) Targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks Darden continues to assess our climate impacts and developing strategies accordingly.
and opportunities and performance against targets.
Additional industry-specific metrics:
Total water withdrawn. 4,826,875 kGals
Total water consumed. 4,826,875 kGals
Percent of water withdrawn and consumed in regions with high or 36%
extremely high baseline water stress.
53 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE STATEMENT
To: The Stakeholders of Darden Restaurants, Inc.
Introduction and objectives of work
Apex Companies, LLC (Apex) has been engaged by Darden Restaurants, Inc. (Darden) to provide limited assurance of its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and sustainability data
for fiscal year 2024. This assurance statement applies to the data and information included within the scope of work described below.
This information and its presentation are the sole responsibility of the management of Darden. Our sole responsibility was to provide independent assurance on the accuracy of the
reported data and information, and on the underlying systems and processes used to collect, analyze and review the information.
Scope of work
The scope of our work was limited to assurance over GHG emissions and sustainability data for the period June 1, 2023 to May 29, 2024 (the “Subject Matter”).
 Energy
 Waste
 Water
 Scope 1 GHG emissions
 Scope 2 (location-based) GHG emissions
Data and information supporting the sustainability data, Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions were primarily historical in nature.
Reporting Boundaries
The following are the boundaries used by Darden for reporting sustainability data:
 Operational Control
 Worldwide
Reporting Criteria
The reporting criteria for greenhouse gas emissions was the World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas
Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 1 and Scope 2).
WATER • ENVIRONMENTAL • HEALTH & SAFETY • COMPLIANCE & ASSURANCE • INFRASTRUCTURE
Page
Apex Companies, LLC • (800) 733-2739 • www.apexcos.com
1 of 5
54 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
The reporting criteria for sustainability data was the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Accounting Standard (Food & Beverage Sector: Restaurants)1.
Limitations and Exclusions
Excluded from the scope of our work is any assurance of information relating to:
 Activities outside the defined verification period of Reporting Year 2024
 Activities outside Darden’s operational control
This assurance engagement relies on a risk based selected sample of data and the associated limitations that this entails. The reliability of the reported data is dependent on the
accuracy of metering and other production measurement arrangements employed at the site level, which are not addressed as part of this assurance. This independent assurance
statement should not be relied upon to detect all errors, omissions or misstatements that may exist.
Responsibilities
The preparation and presentation of the data and information are the sole responsibility of the management of Darden.
Apex was not involved in the drafting of the Report or of the Reporting Criteria. Our responsibilities were to:
 obtain limited assurance about whether the Subject Matter has been prepared in accordance with the Reporting Criteria;
 form an independent conclusion based on the assurance procedures performed and evidence obtained; and
 report our conclusions to the Stakeholders of Darden.
Assessment Standards
 We performed our work in accordance with Apex’s standard procedures and guidelines for external Assurance and International Standard on Assurance Engagements
(ISAE) 3000 Revised, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (effective for assurance reports dated on or after Dec. 15,
2015), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. Greenhouse Gas Emissions were verified in accordance with ISO Standard 14064-3 (Second
edition 2019-4) Greenhouse Gases - Part 3: Specification with guidance for the verification and validation of greenhouse gas statements. A materiality threshold of ±5-
percent was set for the assurance process.
Summary of Work Performed
As part of our independent assurance , our work included:
1. Assessing the appropriateness of the Reporting Criteria for the data and information;
2. Conducting interviews with relevant personnel of Darden and its consultants regarding data collection and reporting systems;
3. Reviewing the data collection and consolidation processes used to compile Subject Matter, including assessing assumptions made, and the data scope and reporting
boundaries;
1Version 2023-12
WATER • ENVIRONMENTAL • HEALTH & SAFETY • COMPLIANCE & ASSURANCE • INFRASTRUCTURE
Page
Apex Companies, LLC • (800) 733-2739 • www.apexcos.com
2 of 5
55 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
4. Reviewing documentary evidence provided by Darden;
5. Verifying a selection of the data and information to the corresponding source documentation;
6. Reviewing Darden’s systems for quantitative data aggregation and analysis; and
7. Assessing the disclosure and presentation of the data and information to ensure consistency with assured information.
Conclusion
Sustainability Data Statement
On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above, it is our opinion that:
 The sustainability data and information reported by Darden is presented in accordance with the Reporting Criteria and is, in all material respects, fairly stated.
 Darden has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of quantitative data within the scope of this assurance.
GHG Emissions Statement
On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above, it is our opinion there is no evidence that the data and information:
 is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of the GHG emissions data and information; and
 has not been prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 1 and 2).
A summary of data within the scope of assurance for 2024 is attached.
WATER • ENVIRONMENTAL • HEALTH & SAFETY • COMPLIANCE & ASSURANCE • INFRASTRUCTURE
Page
Apex Companies, LLC • (800) 733-2739 • www.apexcos.com
3 of 5
56 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Statement of Independence, Integrity and Competence
Apex is an independent professional services company that specializes in Health, Safety, Social and Environmental management services including assurance with over 30 years
history in providing these services.
Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards among staff in their day-to-day business activities.
No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with Darden, its Directors or Managers beyond that required of this assignment. We have conducted this verification
independently, and there has been no conflict of interest.
The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes, has over 20
years combined experience in this field and an excellent understanding of Apex’s standard methodology for the assurance of sustainability related assertions.
Thomas U. Jones, Lead Verifier Trevor Donaghu, Technical Reviewer
ESG Program Manager ESG Director
Apex Companies, LLC Apex Companies, LLC
Tampa, Florida Pleasant Hill, California
July 31, 2024
This assurance statement, including the opinion expressed herein, is provided to Darden and is solely for the benefit of Darden in accordance with the terms of our agreement. We consent to the release
of this statement to the public or other organizations, but without accepting or assuming any responsibility or liability on our part to any other party who may have access to this statement.
WATER • ENVIRONMENTAL • HEALTH & SAFETY • COMPLIANCE & ASSURANCE • INFRASTRUCTURE
Page
Apex Companies, LLC • (800) 733-2739 • www.apexcos.com
4 of 5
57 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
Summary of 2024 Data Subject to Assurance
Metric Units2 2024
Energy
Total energy GWh 2,843
Grid electricity % of total energy % 41.09
Renewable energy % of total energy % 0.03
Waste
Total waste MT 381,239
Food waste % 48
Diverted waste % 17
Water
Water withdrawn
Total water withdrawn Kgal 4,826,875
Water withdrawal in water stressed regions3 Kgal 1,759,594
Water withdrawal in water stressed regions3 % 36
Water consumed
Total water consumed Kgal 4,826,875
Water consumed in water stressed regions3 Kgal 1,759,594
Water consumed in water stressed regions3 % 36
GHG Emissions4
Scope 1 GHG emissions MT CO2e 375,763
Scope 2 GHG emissions (Location-Based) MT CO2e 442,354
2 Unit abbreviations: Gigawatt hour (GWh), Metric ton (MT), Thousand gallons (Kgal), Metric ton of carbon dioxide equivalents (MT CO2e)
3 High or extremely high water baseline stress regions.
4 Types of GHGs: CO2, N2O, CH4, HFCs
WATER • ENVIRONMENTAL • HEALTH & SAFETY • COMPLIANCE & ASSURANCE • INFRASTRUCTURE
Page
Apex Companies, LLC • (800) 733-2739 • www.apexcos.com
5 of 5
58 OUR APPROACH PEOPLE PLANET PLATE DATA APPENDIX
CORPORATE OFFICE Learn more online at:
1000 Darden Center Drive Darden.com
Orlando, FL 32837
407-245-4000
