2024 ESG REPORT
Impact Through
Innovation
Contents
A Message from our CEO 03
Our Company 04
2023 Performance Highlights 05
Our Goals 06
Our People 08
Governance and Trust 15
Tech for Good 20
Environment 23
Our Communities 27
Appendix and Key Data 28
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
A Message from our CEO
By nearly every measure, 2023 was a The goal of this report — Impact through
tremendously successful year for Dayforce. Innovation — is to highlight our performance
Our industry-leading innovation and strong last year across each of the five pillars of our
value proposition allowed us to reach several sustainability strategy: Our People, Governance
major, new milestones. This included $1.5 and Trust, Tech for Good, Our Communities,
billion in annual revenue, nearly 6,400 and the Environment. As you read through
customers, and over 6.8 million employees it, you’ll see the many ways in which we’re
live on the Dayforce platform. working to maintain our commitment to long-
term value creation through acting responsibly
These accomplishments required strong and operating sustainably.
execution, the ability to drive market
leadership and differentiation, and delivering While we recognize that much more work
quantifiable value to our customers. But lies ahead of us, we are deeply proud of the
importantly, achieving them was only progress that we’ve made. Positive feedback
possible because of our organization’s unique from key stakeholders as well as new
combination of dynamism, drive, and integrity. recognitions from JUST Capital, Newsweek, USA
TODAY, Forbes, CDP, and others are signs that
Dayforce has the heart of a startup and the we’re getting some of the important things right.
footprint and reach of a global company. We
are guided by the six values we call Our Way: We’re grateful for your interest in learning
Customer Focus, Shared Ambition, Agility, more about the latest chapter of our
Equity, Optimism, and Transparency. The talent sustainability journey.
and dedication of our community of more than
9,000 Daymakers makes all that we do possible.
They work tirelessly each and every day to fulfill
our brand promise to make work life better.
While financial metrics are incredibly
important, they are far from the only way we David Ossip
define and measure success. Chair and CEO
22002244 DDaayyffoorrccee EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 33
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Our Company
Our Way Business Performance
Our values at Dayforce are core to our culture and the essence of our beliefs. They Dayforce innovations delivered simplicity at scale to help customers create better experiences,
are the basis for success, the guiding standards for how we run both as teams and as a strengthen compliance, and embrace an open and connected approach to work. In 2023, we
global organization – and they include always acting ethically. They provide a road map delivered strong revenue growth rates, a record level of operating cash flow, and improvements
for delivering our brand promise. We call these values “Our Way.” across all key measures of profitability.
Financial and Customer Data
Customer Focus Shared Ambition
97 36.3
We put the customer at the We win, learn, and grow %+ %+
center of everything we do. together. We’re individually
Dayforce customer gross Dayforce recurring revenue
We deliver quantifiable value and collectively accountable revenue retention¹ annual growth
through actionable insights. and empowered.
$1.25B
$1.5B (+20%)
Optimism Transparency (+21.5%)
Cloud annualized recurring
Total revenue and annual growth
Optimism drives success. We are open, honest,
revenue and annual growth
Preparation leads to and respectful.
knowledge, knowledge leads
to confidence, and confidence
6.8M
27.1
leads to optimism. %+
Equity Global employees live on the
Adjusted EBITDA margin
Dayforce platform¹
We are building a culture of
Agility
diversity, inclusion, and belonging.
We are a global enterprise We ensure all employees – of any
6,393 1,860
(+6.7%) (+28%)
company with the heart race, ethnicity, age, gender, sexual
of a startup that embraces orientation, identity or expression, Dayforce customers live and Customers signed onto Dayforce
innovation, doesn’t fear change, religion, or ability status – can annual growth¹ Wallet and annual growth
and values adaptability. achieve their full potential.
1. Excluding the 2021 acquisitions of Ascender and ADAM HCM.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 4
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
2023 Performance Highlights
Our Pillars
Our People
Established internal
50 employee Net 92% global equity and
and external pay
Promoter Score (eNPS) inclusion score Our People
transparency
Employee Wellness and Engagement
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI)
Governance and Trust Developed our
Artificial Intelligence BitSight for Dayforce Suite Risk Recon Learning and Development
(AI) Governance 790 – Advanced A (9.9/10)
Framework
Governance and Trust
Ethics and Transparency
Tech for Good
Surpassed $2 billion in earned wages Data Security and Privacy
Launched Dayforce Career Explorer
delivered through Dayforce Wallet
Business Continuity and Resilience
Tech for Good
Environment
Responsible AI
Launched our Reduced Scope 1 and Reduced Scope 3
Earned a first-
Responsible 2 (location-based) economic emissions A New World of Work
ever ''B'' from
Sourcing emissions by 65% intensity by 30%+
CDP
Initiative (RSI) since 2019 since 2019
Environment
Climate Change
Our Communities Our Communities
Achieved 50% of employees giving and Doubled annual employee volunteer
volunteering annually hours to 10,000
Giving and Volunteering
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 5
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Our Goals
Environment 2023 Our Communities 2023 Tech for Good 2023
Reduce absolute Scope 1 and
Increase the percentage
2 emissions from Dayforce’s Increase the percentage of People Analytics customers
-98% of employees giving and 50% 13%
operations by 42% before using Dayforce DEI Dashboards to 15% by 2026
volunteering to 50% by 2025
2030 from a 2019 baseline
The ongoing consolidation of our physical footprint We exceeded our annual target and achieved The Dayforce Talent team refined this goal to focus on access to DEI Dashboards. This
continues to drive meaningful reductions of our a 50% employee giving and volunteering rate is informed by prioritization at Dayforce of meeting the high and growing demand for
Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Since 2019, we have seen globally. This is attributed to the expansion of DEI reporting and analytics capabilities from customers. They decided that the best
a 65% decline in combined Scope 1 and Scope our annual volunteer campaign from a week to a way to enable our customers was to include DEI Dashboards in our People Analytics
2 (location-based) emissions. Total reductions full month, an increase in the number of several package, which allows immediate access to valuable DEI data. Given this, the
since that year reach 98% when accounting for our in-person and virtual volunteering opportunities, customer use metric for this goal area is now defined as the percentage of customers
annual purchasing of renewable energy attribute and the incorporation of new tactics during our with People Analytics that access DEI Dashboards at least once annually. The team
certificates (EACs), which are part of the company’s annual giving campaign. plans to achieve the goal of 15% by 2026 by continuing to enable customers through
100% renewable electricity commitment. the People Analytics package, which simplifies adoption and deployment.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 6
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Our People 2023
Achieve gender parity (50/50) in senior management
35.9%
roles globally by 2028²
Increase underrepresented minority (URM) representation
10.4% URM
in management roles in the U.S. by 50% by 2028³
Governance and Trust 2023
Although we did not see progress in pursuit of our workforce diversity goals, the DEI team
implemented a number of new initiatives to set us up for success in 2024. This included
doubling the number of annual cohorts for the Achieving Corporate Equity (ACE) program,
Increase Dayforce's uptime to 99.99% by 2025 99.95%
launching a required inclusive hiring training for all people managers in the U.S., and
expanding the executive mentorship program and leadership lecture series to further
empower diverse talent. They are also introducing a new leadership dashboard for the
executive team to track department-level performance against our two workforce diversity
Although we did not see progress in achieving this goal last year, the Cloud Operations team
goals on a monthly basis.
took several steps last year to improve service availability in 2024. This includes infrastructure
standardization, infrastructure automations, and aggressively eliminating customer-impacting
problems from our products.
Maintain our employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS) at
50
or above 40 annually through 2025
Maintain zero material data breaches annually through 2025⁴ 0
We exceeded our annual target with an eNPS score of 50, which is a 13-point increase from
the previous year. This is consistent with strong performance in other key metrics — including
our Leadership Net Promoter Score (LNPS) and Employee Intent to Stay. Overall, this data We achieved this annual goal by successfully preventing all external attacks from becoming
and other insights from our annual survey reflect high employee satisfaction, pride in the material breaches. The Information Security team continued to mature the cybersecurity
company and its values, and confidence in our senior leadership team. program that is consistently rated best-in-class within our peer group.
2. Senior management roles are defined as vice president-level roles and above.
3. Management roles are defined as manager-level roles and above. At Dayforce, URM (underrepresented minorities) are defined as Black and African American, Hispanic and Latino, American Indian and Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander.
4. A material breach is defined as a security event in which an unauthorized third party obtains access to personal data and that has a material impact on Dayforce's business.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 7
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Our People
Global North America EMEA APJ
9,084
North America
4,563
Canada Germany
China
Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA)
1,615
Japan
Asia Pacific and Japan (APJ)
2,906
Philippines
United Kingdom
Malaysia
Vietnam
United
India
States
Australia
Thailand
Singapore
Mauritius
Mexico New Zealand
Data as of 12/31/2023
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 8
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Connection and Engagement
Encouraging a shared sense of community and connection among our
colleagues is integral to our success as an organization and what we
stand for. In 2023, our Employee Experience team took new actions
focused on designing and delivering innovative programs that meet the
needs of our people and support our business objectives.
This included:
Launching a Flexible Work Location program to allow employees
seeking to explore working abroad with an opportunity to be
temporarily based in one of 17 countries globally.
Forming Connect @ Dayforce committees in all countries in
which we operate to foster greater collaboration and a sense
of community.
Developing a Team Refresh program to empower senior
executives across the organization to provide up to eight days off
annually to their teams so they can rest and recharge together.
Launching a people-first framework called Life at Dayforce
that delivers programs to enhance our people’s development,
empowerment, and sense of belonging.
The results of these efforts are reflected in the very positive feedback
we’re received from our employees. This includes a phenomenal
eNPS score of 50 — which exceeds our annual target of 40 — as well
as notable improvements across nearly every index and category
compared to results in 2022.
22002244 DDaayyffoorrccee EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 99
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Learning and Development Talent and Succession Planning
Organizations have a responsibility to Dayforce is committed to creating,
help their people grow and develop as developing, and retaining a diverse pipeline
professionals. At Dayforce, we aim to of talent who will deliver profitability and America's Most Loved Workplaces 2023
create a culture of continuous learning and innovation and grow our competitive
empowerment in which our people are advantage. Our strategic approach to
provided many opportunities to enhance their talent planning in 2023 resulted in more
skills. Last year, we launched more than 150 than 90% of employees reviewed as part
programs to help our employees succeed both of our talent assessment, and actionable Global Most Loved Workplaces 2023
in their current roles as well as others in the development planning throughout the
future. This included delivering more than 300 organization. Last year, almost 100 high
hours of professional skills training, providing performing employees, identified through
more than 5,000 hours of leadership talent assessments, participated in our
development, and facilitating more than 700 Global Development Program, an immersive UK’s Top 100 Most Loved Workplace 2023
hours of team effectiveness workshops. In 10-month business and organizational
total, Dayforce colleagues from around the leadership education initiative for senior
globe participated in over 200,000 hours of leaders. More than 300 employees have
professional and career development learning participated in top talent programs, and we
and growth opportunities in 2023. In addition, plan to expand our offerings to include mid-
we relaunched and expanded our multi-track level leaders in 2024. In addition, we have
career development program that focuses on completed succession planning for all roles
the engagement, exploration, and leadership on our senior leadership team, and we will Canada's Best Employers 2023
development of our people through job continue our efforts to do the same for all
shadowing and job rotations. critical roles across the organization.
Best Places to Work in IT 2023
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 10
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Pay Equity and Transparency Benefits Wellness and Safety
We believe that our employees deserve We believe in supporting our people not just as employees, but as individuals, In addition to providing benefits that our
to be paid fairly and equitably for their spouses, parents, and caregivers. Last year, our Total Rewards team added a employees need and deserve, we continue to
contributions to our company’s success. In number of new offerings to the robust suite of benefits and policies we provide focus on safeguarding our employees’ physical
that spirit, we took two new steps over the to many of our employees. and mental health in other critical ways. Last
past year to provide our people with more year, we added new employee-led Health
information about how Dayforce approaches and Safety Committees in our Kuala Lumpur
Cleo provides a digital support system to working families who are navigating
compensation for current and prospective and Manila locations. Our Health and Safety
a variety of topics, including birth plan development, return to work
employees. The first was starting to post team also more effectively integrated internal
transitions, finding childcare, eldercare and financial planning for college.
salary ranges for all open roles in the U.S. data with our partner AlertMedia to allow
and Canada. The second was to provide all instantaneous, multi-channel communication
current employees in the U.S. and Canada with colleagues who may be impacted by
RethinkCare gives parents access to tools and resources to help them
with information on their job’s pay grade natural disasters and other events. In addition,
better understand, teach and communicate with children who have
and salary range. This work builds on our they completed the development of a new
learning and developmental disabilities.
pay equity analyses and market adjustments support program to provide employees
in 2021 and 2022 to reduce or eliminate impacted by crisis events with temporary
known disparities based on gender and race housing, paid leave, benefits support, and
Vori Health grants access to specialized doctors and therapists to address
within our workforce. other types of assistance offerings. We also
musculoskeletal pain and ailments.
hosted our second annual Mental Health
Summit last year, with more than 700
employees in 15 countries participating.
Visana Health is a comprehensive virtual women's health clinic that
provides medical care and integrated whole person support for a wide
range of women's health conditions.
Oshi Health provides gastrointestinal care with personalized support
from a dedicated team of GI providers.
↗
Twin Health helps individuals living with prediabetes and type 2 diabetes Please visit the Benefits section of the
achieve normal blood sugar levels, lose weight and reduce or eliminate appendix to review the list of offerings
condition-specific medications. that we provide to our employees.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 11
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI)
Programs
One of Dayforce’s Our Way values is Equity, and our DEI team worked tirelessly over the past
year to turn that intention into reality. They strengthened several of our existing programs to better
foster a sense of inclusion, belonging, and empowerment within our workforce.
This included:
Increasing the number of annual cohorts in our award-winning Achieving
Corporate Equity (ACE) program. The initiative helps high-potential talent from
underrepresented and underserved communities rise within our organization, with
two-thirds of participants receiving promotions last year.
Expanding our executive mentorship program and leadership lecture series for
diverse talent to equip them with new skills to successfully advance in their careers
both at Dayforce and beyond.
Widening the focus of our employee resource groups (ERGs) to include skill-building
workshops, certifications and trainings, and other career development opportunities,
all with the goal of boosting internal mobility for employees from diverse backgrounds.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 12
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Dayforce DEI
Overall, the DEI program saw notable Workforce Diversity
progress in several key areas. Over 1,200
employees participated in our in-person LGBTQ+ employees and allies
Building a diverse and inclusive workforce is both the right
and virtual DEI workshops that covered
thing to do and the smart thing to do. That’s why we have
psychological safety, cultural awareness
two ambitious goals to increase the number of women
Ignite
and understanding, and other topics. In
and underrepresented minorities⁵ in management roles
our annual Dayforce Speaks survey, 88%
Asian employees and allies within our company. Although we have not yet realized
of employees shared they can be their
the progress we hoped for, we took new steps last year
authentic selves at work, and over 92%
that we believe will help us meaningfully move the needle
said that the company treats people from Impact in the coming months and years.
all backgrounds fairly and equitably. Our
Employees with disabilities, caregivers, and allies
company earned a number of recognitions
This included:
for the DEI team’s efforts, such as being
named one of Canada's Best Employers for
Illuminate
Diversity by Forbes, special recognition for A leadership dashboard for our executive team to
our ACE program from Seramount, and the Native and Indigenous employees and allies track department-level performance against our
two workforce diversity goals on a monthly basis.
inclusion of Dayforce in both the Bloomberg
Gender Equality Index, and the Alliance for
Empower
Global Inclusion Index.
A mandatory training for all people managers so
Women employees and allies
they can more effectively hire diverse talent.
Unite
Greater participation by our recruiters at
Latin and Hispanic employees and allies
conferences featuring diverse talent, including
Elevate Festival and Queer Tech.
Embrace
Parent and caregiver employees and allies
Partnering with Arizona State University, Georgia
Institute of Technology, and Virginia Tech to
increase visibility for open roles as Dayforce with
Rise
candidates from communities of color.
Black employees and allies
5. At Dayforce, URM (underrepresented minorities) are defined as Black and African American, Hispanic and Latino, American Indian and Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian
and Pacific Islander. Senior management roles are defined as vice president-level roles and above. Management roles are defined as manager-level roles and above.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 13
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Talent
In this era of profound workplace Impact In Mauritius
transformation, the ability to effectively
attract and retain top talent is perhaps more
important to organizational success — and
more challenging — than ever before. To
meet this moment, our Talent Acquisition Nigeria
India
team matured our Early Talent Program
with a nearly 50% annual increase in interns
Cameroon
hired globally. In addition, they partnered
with York University’s Lassonde School
of Engineering to provide students in its Uganda
Work Integrated Learning (WIL) program an Ghana
opportunity for real-world work experience
at Dayforce while pursuing their studies.
Kenya
I joined Dayforce soon Zimbabwe
after I arrived from
Botswana
Cameroon in search
of better professional
opportunities. It’s a
South Africa
diverse and empowering
workplace that has
allowed me to advance
my career and fulfill my
passion for learning new
technologies.
„ Another area of note is our company's ongoing participation in the government of
Mauritius’ Occupational Permit (OP) program. The initiative gives foreign nationals from
around the world the chance to develop new skills, improve their career development,
Dimitri Egolo Ntsoli
and contribute to the local economy. In total, nearly four dozen employees from nine
Senior Software Developer
countries have joined the Dayforce team through the program.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 14
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Governance and Trust
A Culture of Ethics Training and Awareness
Operating ethically and transparently is critical to our current and future success as a company. Last year, we deployed new trainings for
Our broad array of stakeholders — including our employees, our customers, our business partners, our Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption,
and our investors — rightfully expect that our actions reflect our ongoing commitment to remain and Insider Trading and Tipping policies
a responsible organization. Over the past year, our Legal team has relentlessly focused on that presented critical information to our
maturing our already strong Ethics and Compliance program. This includes improving efficiency by employees in a more user-friendly and
automating pre-clearance procedures for key compliance processes and ensuring that our policy accessible way. They covered topics
processes and overall governance framework meet the demands of a fast-growing global business. including business ethics, anti-competitive
practices, corruption and bribery, among
several other areas. We also developed a
Policy Enhancement
new ethics toolkit specifically for managers,
increased management's visibility into Maintaining the highest
training completion rates, and we hosted a
We revamped our Code of Conduct to include expanded sections on government interactions, standards of corporate
company-wide fireside chat on ethics and
usage of artificial intelligence, responsible innovation, and human rights. In addition, we
governance is one of
compliance with our General Counsel.
developed new policies and enhanced others that cover key areas of activity by our business
our company’s top
and our employees.
priorities. Stakeholders
rightly believe we should
This included:
always act ethically and
responsibly, and we work
Corporate Use of Public AI Tools Policy Insider Trading and Tipping Policy
tirelessly to meet their
expectations and preserve
Delegation of Authority Policy Records Retention Policy their trust in us.
„
↗
Please visit the Governance section of the Sarah Burt
Disclosure Policy Sanctions Compliance Policy
appendix to review relevant governance
Senior Legal Counsel
data, policies, and principles.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 15
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Responsible AI
AI Ethics Principles
We believe that artificial intelligence (AI) in
general and machine-learning (M/L) specifically
Social Good
have the potential to fundamentally transform
We develop technology that empowers and
human capital management. In this new era
helps people.
of innovation, we aim to deploy advanced
data capabilities that deliver not only greater
efficiency at scale for our customers, but also
improved outcomes for their employees. That’s
Privacy and Security
why we implemented a new AI Governance
Privacy and security are always top of mind.
Framework last year that evaluates the potential
use of AI through all key stages of the product
development lifecycle. From ideation to release,
internal leaders leverage a scoring rubric and
Transparency
other tools to assess the benefits and tradeoffs
of the proposed use across the following criteria: All technology must be explainable and
understandable.
Generative AI and machine learning will drive
Legal Compliance transformational change in many organizations and across
User Need the entire global workforce. We recognize our profound
Inclusion
Data Quality and Limitations responsibility to develop and deploy these technologies in
We strive to always prevent bias and
ways that minimize risk, mitigate bias, and always put the
Inclusion of Diverse Expertise
provide technology for all to use.
outcomes of people first. „
Bias Reduction
Risk and Audit
David Lloyd
Reliability
Societal Implications
Chief Data Officer
We prioritize dependability in our
technology services.
This rigorous internal process continues as we
regularly review post release models led by our
Product organization and supported by our AI
Accountability
and Data Science team, conducted in partnership
We act with integrity at all stages of our
with Customer Success, Legal, and Information
development lifecycle.
Technology. We also engage third-party audit
services as an additional validation point.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 16
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Data Security Privacy
Effective stewardship of customer data is We achieved best-in-class security scores Safeguarding data privacy is one of our most
our highest priority as an organization. Our from third-party ratings agencies (BitSIght important responsibilities as a business,
Data Security team is relentlessly focused and Risk Recon). and Dayforce customers trust us to handle
on preventing data breaches and stopping some of their employees’ most sensitive
cyberattacks from being successful or personal information. In 2023, our Privacy
impacting our business. In 2023, they worked team further strengthened our policies and
to meet this challenge by making strategic practices in several new ways.
investments in new tools and technologies,
This included:
expanded expertise, and improving already
strong internal processes and procedures.
Securing certification to the EU-US Data
Privacy Framework, the UK Extension to
This included:
the EU-US Data Privacy Framework, and
the Swiss-US Data Privacy Framework.
Conducting four tabletop exercises
with executive leadership, the board of
directors, and global functional leaders. Appointing a Data Privacy Officer (DPO)
in the United Kingdom.
Building a new threat intelligence program
Strengthening control assurance by
in partnership with Threat Connect.
expanding the application of privacy-by-
design assessments and reviews across
business processes and offerings.
Leveraging expertise from CyberGRX
to establish a new supply chain risk
management program.
Launching an inaugural Data Privacy
Awareness Week to raise awareness
across the organization and supplement
Growing the Data Security Team by 20%.
our annual mandatory employee training.
↗
Continuing to invest in cybersecurity at a
Please visit the Data Security section
rate of 1.5% of revenue.
of the appendix to review our overall ↗
program strategy as well as relevant Please visit the Privacy section of the appendix to review our overall program strategy as well as
policies and certifications. relevant policies and certifications.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 17
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)
We believe that successful management of enterprise risk is a requirement for our company to
operate effectively and achieve our business’ key objectives. Through our fact-based, globally
integrated model, our approach to ERM is built on the twin goals of continuous improvement as well
as execution of a rigorous risk identification, analysis, and mitigation process. Last year, our team
made significant progress in ensuring global consistency, maturing existing controls and procedures,
and increasing our employees’ awareness of this work and the critical role they play in its success.
This included:
Globalizing our Enterprise Risk Management Policy.
Ensuring key stakeholders have greater clarity of their roles and responsibilities.
Maturing our scoring rubric to provide a more standardized, consistent, and objective
approach to risk identification and assessment.
Integrating stronger assessment scoring and intake capabilities into our tooling,
including real-time and continual conversations with risk owners.
Deploying an employee training to improve understanding of their responsibilities as
part of an effective ERM program — with a completion rate of more than 80%.
↗
Please visit the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) section of
the appendix to review our overall program strategy.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 18
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Business Continuity and Resilience
Our approach to operational resilience ensures the continuity of business-critical processes in
response to natural disasters, cybersecurity events, technology failures, and other disruptive
incidents. This provides our customers confidence that they will have uninterrupted availability of
the necessary products and services they rely on. The team that leads our Business Continuity
Management Program (BCMP) took several actions last year to further strengthen our company’s
operational resilience.
They conducted a three-part series of cross-functional tabletop exercises consisting of crisis
management, technology, and cybersecurity incident scenarios that included leaders from Product
and Technology, Information Technology, Global Managed Services, Payroll Trust, Facilities,
Human Resources, Cybersecurity and Enterprise Risk Management. In addition, they performed
a tabletop exercise with senior leaders and members of the Audit Committee of our Board of
Directors that was a culmination of the scenarios included in the cross-functional exercises. They
also matured the resilience of critical money movement and tax and payment business processes.
As part of this work, the team developed new or updated existing:
24 business impact assessments.
business continuity plans covering 20 potential scenarios, with 22 actively
22
deployed in response to incidents.
disaster recovery plans covering 37 separate applications were documented,
25
tested, and approved.
The work of our ERM and Business Continuity and Resilience teams is overseen by our Chief Risk ↗
Officer Todd Simmons in coordination with our senior leadership team. This brings together a Please visit the Business Continuity and Resilience section
cross-disciplinary group of leaders to establish management accountabilities and direct initiatives. of the appendix to review our overall program strategy.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 19
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Tech for Good
Dayforce Wallet
The results showed:
High inflation, interest rates, and energy
costs have prevented millions of workers
Over 90% of users said having access
and their families from enjoying the financial
to money quickly through Dayforce
wellness and freedom they deserve. From
Wallet when there is an emergency is
paying for groceries and filling up with
important to them — with over 80%
gas, to covering unplanned or emergency
saying that it’s very important.
expenses, Dayforce Wallet provides people
fast access to their earned pay on demand
whenever they need it most. Its clear
financial wellness benefits are one of several
Over 80% said that the product
reasons that we’ve seen significant growth in
helps them both buy enough food
Dayforce Wallet is
its use for businesses and their employees.
for their families as well as pay most
Last year, we saw a 28% increase in the total a powerful tool that
of their other bills on time.
number of customers currently signed up promotes financial wellness
for Dayforce Wallet, a 31% increase in the
and gives employees the
percentage of Dayforce Wallet customers
flexibility and choice they
live, and surpassed $2 billion in earned 70% of users said that it helps them
deserve. Our research
wages delivered through Dayforce Wallet pay for medicine and healthcare for
their families, with 67% saying the shows that on-demand
since its launch.
same for covering childcare costs. pay helps them pay their
We engaged SSRS last year to conduct bills, reduce their debt,
third-party research to better understand and put more money into
how our product is tangibly helping Two-thirds said that Dayforce
savings each month.
„
employees and their families. Wallet not only helps them pay off
some of their credit card debt, but
Deepa Chatterjee
also decreases the likelihood of
Chief Operations Officer,
them borrowing money from friends
Dayforce Wallet
and family.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 20
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Dayforce Career Explorer Dayforce Engagement
In today’s world of work, businesses The saying is as trite as it is true: you
recognize that attracting and retaining can’t manage what you can’t measure.
top talent is essential to their success. Equity, inclusion, and wellness are
Prospective candidates and current front and center in conversations about
workers expect that any employer should today's world of work, and organizations
provide them meaningful ways to learn need accurate and effective tools
new skills, grow as professionals, and to understand how effective — or
rise internally into more senior roles. ineffective — their strategies are for
That’s exactly why we developed Career ensuring their employees feel heard,
Explorer — a new Dayforce module seen, and supported. Our Dayforce
Leader in the Gartner Magic Quadrant™ for Cloud HCM that gives people greater autonomy to Talent team has developed new features
Suites for 1,000+ Employee Enterprises develop new skills and identify their within Dayforce Engagement to do just
next career step within the organization. that. Rather than follow a traditional
Powered by the Dayforce Skills Engine, annual cadence, this tool allows leaders
Career Explorer gives employees access to evolve beyond just the traditional
Ranked #1 for the North American Compliance Suite 1,000+ Employees Use Case
to data-driven career pathing, provides annual cadence and use event-based
job notifications for open internal roles triggers to measure sentiment at key
that match their interests and abilities, moments in any employee’s journey. This
Ranked #1 for the North American Compliance Suite 2,500+ Employees Use Case and creates more equitable opportunities capability is strengthened by advanced,
and actionable steps to help them new pre-built surveys on financial
reach their career goals. We believe wellness, belonging, and other topics
this product will help organizations that help organizations build a culture of
Co-ranked #1 for Overall Product Satisfaction
foster a stronger culture of learning and inclusion, respect, and appreciation.
development and ensure that employees
feel empowered and engaged.
22002244 DDaayyffoorrccee EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 2211
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Work Energy Dashboard
Dozens of surveys over the past year
have all pointed to a systemic problem
that countless businesses are currently
facing: their employees are experiencing
burnout. This can directly contribute to
increased employee dissatisfaction, reduced
productivity, and increased turnover. That’s
why we have built a new Dayforce module
to help managers identify their employee’s
work energy and how best to address it.
Our dashboard features an organization-
wide view of workforce energy trends, giving
you a glance into where in your organization
employees may be having different
experiences, with the ability to pinpoint by
department, tenure, gender, or location.
Suggested ideas for how to improve
exhaustion and efficacy are also included.
This dashboard gives managers the insight to
measure how effective, or ineffective, their
strategies are to address root causes and
create a healthier workplace with improved
outcomes for employees.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 22
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Environment
Every employee deserves
a workplace that supports
Direct Operations
their health, fosters
strong connections with
We take our responsibility to help safeguard footprint by over 250,000 square feet in 2023,
colleagues, and operates
the planet very seriously. That’s why our resulting in a more than 740,000 square-foot
sustainably, regardless of
Sustainability team worked cross-functionally reduction since 2019.
physical location. We're
over the past year in taking several new actions
to further reduce the overall environmental Importantly, we further embedded green proud of the strides we've
impacts of our direct operations. This included leasing principles into our facility selection and made in providing this
a new Environmental Sustainability Policy renewal processes, with prioritization given environment to more
to guide Facilities, IT, Cloud Infrastructure, to buildings with regional sustainable building
employees, whether in
and other departments in improving energy certifications. One result of this effort to operate
our physical offices or
efficiency, reducing consumption, and managing more efficiently and decrease our environmental
remote settings, all while
waste. This was supplemented by a new impacts was right-sizing our workspaces and
company-wide employee training to highlight a shift to more sustainable buildings in Ebene, improving efficiency
their responsibilities to make our organization Mauritius and Sydney, Australia. and reducing our
more sustainable and the ability of every person
environmental footprint.
to make a meaningful difference.
„
Judy Rozal
Through the implementation of these initiatives,
Vice President, Facilities
we made significant progress last year in
and Capital Budget
decreasing the overall environmental impact of
our direct operations. This included the near-
Nearly 150 rooftop solar panels
complete phase-out of direct print operations
Ebene
Rainwater capture for restroom use
in North America. Print operations closed at
Mauritius
three facilities in 2023, with the final location Submeters to monitor and track electricity consumption
set to close in 2024. We also closed a large,
multi-use facility in Atlanta that accounted
for approximately 36% of our entire global
Sydney Climate Active Carbon Neutral Standard for
electricity consumption last year. With these
Australia Buildings Certification by NABERS
changes alongside the closure of several other
office facilities globally, we reduced our physical
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 23
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Addressing Climate Change We made progress in reducing our carbon
footprint last year, and we have continued to
drive significant reductions since 2019.
We know that climate change poses an
existential threat to the health and well-being
This included:
of humanity today and for future generations.
That’s why we are fundamentally committed
to doing our part to address it. We have
A 20% annual reduction in Scope 1
been actively working toward meeting our
and 2 (location-based) emissions.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions reduction target,
and we also took a number of additional
steps over the past year that reflect our
ambitions to decarbonize our value chain.
A 65% reduction in Scope 1 and 2
They included: (location-based) emissions since 2019.
Setting a new near-term Scope 3
emissions reduction target.
Our decarbonization strategy
A 30%+ reduction in Scope 3 economic
emissions intensity since 2019. focuses on where we can
make the greatest impact,
Committing to having our targets
including pursing aggressive
validated by the Science Based
Our climate strategy and progress has led us near-term emissions reduction
Targets Initiative (SBTi).
to be recognized as one of America’s Greenest
targets, sourcing 100%
Companies by Newsweek, one of America’s
renewable electricity annually
Climate Leaders in 2023 by USA TODAY, and
for our global operations, and
Maintaining 100% renewable earned us our first-ever “B” from CDP (formerly
electricity for our global operations launching a new procurement
the Carbon Disclosure Project).
in 2023.6 program to drive value chain
We have developed a strong plan to meet emissions reductions.
„
our new near-term Scope 3 emissions target.
This includes advancing our decarbonization
Megan Parker
strategy through the implementation of two
Senior Manager, Sustainability
new programs that address two of our largest
climate impact areas: our supply chain and
business travel.
6. Achieved 100% renewable electricity in 2023 through purchasing 10,697 MWh of Energy Attribute Certificates (EACs).
22002244 DDaayyffoorrccee EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 2244
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Responsible Sourcing Initiative (RSI)
The first program is our new Responsible Sourcing Initiative, known as RSI, that we believe will drive further
supply chain emissions reductions and help us achieve our near-term Scope 3 emissions target. We believe that
sustainable supply chains are more resilient and efficient — that building them is not only the right thing to do,
but the smart thing to do. As a company, we want to align ourselves with other businesses that make labor and
human rights, diversity and inclusion, and environmental stewardship organizational priorities. The overall goal
of RSI is to work with current vendors and select new ones that are consistent with the following four principles:
Safeguard labor and human rights in their operations and supply chain.
Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and improving their environmental impacts.
Improve workforce gender diversity globally and racial and ethnic diversity in the U.S.
Are owned and operated by diverse leaders from underserved and underrepresented groups.
We’re focused on building a supply chain that’s efficient,
resilient, and sustainable. Our priority is finding and
partnering with vendors that are safeguarding human
rights, advancing diversity and inclusion, and meaningfully
reducing their climate impact.
„
Sharita Elston
Vice President, Procurement
22002244 DDaayyffoorrccee EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 2255
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Internal Carbon Price
Last year, we took a number of steps to integrate the RSI program into every stage of the The second program supporting our Scope 3 emissions reduction target is the creation of an
procurement life cycle. internal price on carbon for business travel emissions. We now charge $50 per ton of emissions,
with proceeds used to fund new carbon removal projects in the coming year. Our new business
This included: travel booking portal displays the carbon impact of flight and hotel choices to employees when
they book their travel to enable better purchasing decisions upfront.
Developing a new Environmental Sustainability Policy that guides how
departments across the business should select vendors that meet specific criteria.
Strengthening our Vendor Code of Conduct that sets out new expectations and
requirements for all of our vendors to follow.
Adding vendor performance on RSI priorities into the RFP (request for proposal)
process to guide how we choose new vendors and new language to vendor
contracts highlighting new expectations.
Expanding our Global Sourcing and Procurement Policy and training our vendor
managers to evaluate RSI data so they can incorporate sustainability performance
into their evaluation processes.
Beginning collecting key data annually from all current and new vendors to evaluate
their current performance and where they needed to improve in the future.
In the coming year, we aim to use last year’s performance baseline to set quantitative and
timebound targets to increase our overall spend – both as a percentage as well as total dollars
spent – with suppliers that meet our standards in our four priority areas.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 26
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
In 2023, our volunteering surged to a new level. We expanded our
cornerstone volunteer event to a month of in-person and virtual
activities globally, and integrated volunteering year-round. It was
uplifting to join so many colleagues for a park clean-up day in the
community where I grew up and still live. „
Our
Rajesh Kulkarni
Communities IT Leader, Asia
Giving and Volunteering
One of our missions at Dayforce is Alongside these efforts is a robust program
to be a force for positive change. to encourage our people to give their time
Through corporate donations as well as and resources to impactful organizations
harnessing the passion and generosity around the world. Last year, nearly 50% of
of our employees, every day we try to our workforce donated or volunteered for
make a meaningful difference in the over 1,200 causes on five continents. Over
communities where our employees live 1,500 more employees participated this year
and work. One significant way we do this than in 2022, and the number of volunteer
is through Dayforce Cares, our employee- hours doubled from 5,000 to 10,000. This
driven foundations in North America included nearly 130 in-person and nearly 30
and Mauritius. Since its inception, we’ve virtual volunteer events to support schools,
provided more than $6.5 million in direct food pantries, park cleanups, and other
grants to over 4,500 families in the U.S. meaningful causes. Our teams also actively
and Canada to help cover their basic supported various relief initiatives around
needs and improve their quality of life. In the world, including helping the victims of Village of Hope Lalbagh Park Children's Environmental
addition, our foundation in Mauritius helps Typhoon Doksury in the Philippines, massive Lawrenceville, Georgia Bengaluru, India Awareness and Action
underprivileged children and families by earthquakes in Turkey, Syria, Afghanistan and Foundation (CEAAF)
supporting local NGOs and schools. Morocco, and the Israel-Hamas war. Manila, Philippines
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 27
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Appendix
Stakeholder Engagement
Our Approach Stakeholder Groups
At Dayforce, we define stakeholder As a large and fast-growing global organization,
engagement as our efforts to incorporate we have a wide array of stakeholder groups.
the opinions and perspectives of individuals
and organizations that are impacted by These include:
our activities as a business into our overall
Customers Employees
corporate strategy. We believe that they
deserve an opportunity to express their
point of view, and it is our responsibility to NGOs Partners
ensure their voices are heard. Ultimately,
learning from the unique insights and Government agencies
feedback of our stakeholders will make
us a stronger, more resilient business that
Industry and financial analysts
can make a positive difference for people,
society, and the planet.
Some examples of how feedback from
stakeholders is regularly solicited include
monthly conversations with our industry
analysts, quarterly email surveys of our
employees, and annual stockholder
engagement meetings with many of our
largest investors. Because transparency
and accountability are so important to us,
we are exploring the formation of a new
stakeholder advisory panel this year that
would inform our overall ESG strategy and
would include representatives from some
of the above groups.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 28
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
SASB Table Accounting Metric SASB Code 2020 2021 2022 2023
97,137 GJ; 68,595 GJ; 49,148 GJ; 39,190 GJ;
(1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid
Environmental Footprint TC-SI-130a.1 88%; 89%; 91%; 98%;
electricity, (3) percentage renewable
0% 0% 0% 0%
(1) Total water withdrawn TC-SI-130a.2 17 TCM 7 TCM 6 TCM 9 TCM
Discussion of the integration of environmental
considerations into strategic planning for data TC-SI-130a.3 Environment
center needs
Data Privacy and Freedom Description of policies and practices relating to
TC-SI-220a.1 Privacy
of Expression behavioral advertising and user privacy
Number of users whose information is used for
TC-SI-220a.2 This information was not tracked.
secondary purposes
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of No material
TC-SI-220a.3 No material monetary losses. $3.49 million7
legal proceedings associated with user privacy monetary losses.
(1) Number of law enforcement requests for Law Enforcement Law Enforcement Law Enforcement
user information, (2) number of users whose This information was Requests Reports: Requests Reports: Requests Reports:
TC-SI-220a.4
information was requested, (3) percentage not tracked. June 2021 and January-June 2022 and January-June 2023 and
resulting in disclosure December 2021. July-December 2022. July-December 2023.
List of countries where core products or services
are subject to government-required monitoring, TC-SI-220a.5 None
blocking, content filtering, or censoring
7. In 2022, Dayforce reached a class action settlement of approximately $3.49 million relating to Illinois’ Biometric Information Privacy Act (“BIPA”).
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 29
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
SASB Table Accounting Metric SASB Code 2020 2021 2022 2023
(1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage
TC-SI-230a.1
Data Security involving personally identifiable information (PII), No material data breaches.
SV-PS-230a.3
(3) number of users affected
Description of policies and practices relating to
collection, usage, and retention of SV-PS-230a.2 Privacy
customer information
Description of approach to identifying and
TC-SI-230a.2
addressing data security risks, including use of Data Security
SV-PS-230a.1
third-party cybersecurity standards
Recruiting and Managing a Global, Percentage of employees that are (1) foreign
TC-SI-330a.1 1.8%; 21.1% 2.8%; 23.1% 0.32%; 48.7% 0.42%; 50.5%
Diverse, and Skilled Workforce nationals and (2) located offshore8
TC-SI-330a.2
Employee engagement as a percentage 76% 75% 74% 77%
SV-PS-330a.3
Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group
TC-SI-330a.3
representation for (1) management, (2) technical Representation
SV-PS-330a.1
staff, and (3) all other employees
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of
Intellectual Property Protection
legal proceedings associated with anticompetitive TC-SI-520a.1 No material monetary losses.
and Competitive Behavior
behavior regulations
Managing Systemic Risks from Number of (1) performance issues and (2)
TC-SI-550a.1 17; 143 18; 182 30; 267 31; 241
Technology Disruptions service disruptions
Description of business continuity risks related to
TC-SI-550a.2 Enterprise Risk Management
disruptions of operations
Description of approach to ensuring
Professional Integrity SV-PS-510a.1 Governance and Trust
professional integrity
8. 2022 data includes Ascender and Excelity employees for the first time.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 30
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Materiality Assessment
In 2021, Dayforce partnered with the
nonprofit BSR to lead our first-ever third-
party materiality assessment. We sought to
understand the key material environmental,
social, and governance issues that are
most important to our business success
and our key stakeholders. From the outset,
it was imperative that a broad array of
stakeholders was included to provide
feedback and insight on this work and our
direction as a company. For that reason,
the team conducted stakeholder interviews
and surveys with customers, investors,
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs),
Importance to business success
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 31
sredlohekats
ot
ecnatropmI
w
o
L
hgiH
Dayforce's 2021 Materiality Matrix
Employees/social
Trust/governance
Environment
hgiH
including Oxfam America and the World
Benchmarking Alliance, dozens of senior
leaders at Dayforce, and hundreds of
our employees globally. In addition, BSR
Data privacy and security
consulted a number of other sources in its
assessment, including prominent reporting
standards and frameworks such as the IFRS
Financial wellness Ethical business practices Foundation's SASB Standards. The Global
Future of work Reporting Initiative (GRI), and the United
Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
Business continuity and resilience Workforce development
Following the completion of the project,
Diversity, Equity,
Dayforce evaluated the results and built a
Emerging technology and ethics and Inclusion
new ESG strategic framework with five key
Energy and climate Tech for good Employee health, safety, pillars and 10 priority topics.
and well-being
Universal
Digital divide Dayforce is a member of
human rights
Responsible
innovation and
Freedom of product use
expression
Relationships with
law enforcement
Water and waste
agencies
management
Supplier diversity
Sustainable procurement
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
U.N. Sustainable Development Goals
Dayforce's commitment to the five pillars of our ESG
strategic framework and our goals will help ensure
that we always act responsibly and sustainably. It is our
road map to continue being a leading corporate citizen
as well as a thoughtful and accountable partner to key
stakeholders. Successful performance on each of most
materials topics will result in some progress toward
achieving several United Nations SDGs.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 32
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Board of Directors
Board Composition Committee Structure
9 total members Acquisition and Finance
89% are independent Audit
25% of board committees are chaired by women Compensation
5 new directors since 2018 Corporate Governance and Nominating
62 average age of directors
6.7 years average board tenure
100% of board committees are fully comprised of independent directors
44% are women or people of color
Areas of Expertise
Corporate finance
C-Suite or senior management leadership
Cybersecurity
Enterprise risk management
ESG
Financial literacy
Global business background
Human resources and talent management
Industry background
Mergers and acquisitions
Public company board service
Strategic transformation leadership
Technology or software experience
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 33
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
ESG Oversight
The Board’s Corporate Governance and (ii) Chair of our Corporate Governance
Nominating Committee provides oversight and Nominating Committee; and/or (iii)
of Dayforce policies and programs on key members of our management team
issues of overall corporate governance, participated in meetings with stockholders
social responsibility, and environmental holding approximately 63.8% of the
sustainability. It is committed to best-in- outstanding Common Stock of the Company
class governance, and it is highly engaged as of June 30, 2023.
in ensuring that Dayforce creates long-
term value for all of its stakeholders. On a
In addition to the above meetings, our
quarterly basis, its members receive updates
executive team regularly met with investors
about the company’s ongoing ESG efforts
and stakeholders throughout 2023 to
and provide direct feedback and guidance
discuss company performance, corporate
to leadership about the path ahead.
governance, and ESG initiatives. These
meetings offer investors and stakeholders
a forum to engage in constructive
Stockholder Engagement
conversations with management around the
and Feedback aforementioned topics.
Stockholder engagement is a key part of Our Board continues to value stockholder
our oversight efforts and good corporate input and tries to incorporate the feedback
governance practices. Over the past year, received from stockholders directly into its
we reached out to stockholders holding decision-making. As of our 2024 Annual
approximately 84.2% of our outstanding Meeting of Stockholders, we will have
Common Stock as of June 30, 2023, in implemented majority voting for the election
order to better understand their feedback of directors and fully transitioned to annual
on executive compensation, corporate director elections. In addition, all of our
governance, and ESG matters. Our (i) Lead directors served on three or fewer additional
Director and Chair of our Audit Committee; public company boards as of the end of 2023.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 34
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Governance
Size of board 9 Annual board and committee evaluations Yes
Number of independent directors 8 New director orientation program Yes
Percentage of directors who are independent 89% Anti-Corruption Policy Yes
Fully independent committees Yes Anti-Fraud Standards Yes
Independent lead director Yes Corporate Records Retention Policy Yes
Average age of directors 62 Delegation of Authority Policy Yes
Average director tenure 6.7 Disclosure Policy Yes
Mandatory retirement age No Insider Trading and Tipping Policy Yes
Number of female directors 3 Sanctions Compliance Policy Yes
Number of ethnically diverse directors 1
Number of board and committee meetings in 2023 31
Policies and Principles
Number of directors attending less than 80% of meetings in 2023 0
Periodic executive sessions Yes Anti-Corruption Policy
Annual election of directors Yes Anti-Fraud Standards
Majority voting in director elections Yes Code of Conduct
Poison pill No Corporate Records Retention Policy
Stockholder ability to call special meeting No Delegation of Authority Policy
Stockholder right to act by written consent No Disclosure Policy
Compensation recovery (“clawback”) policy Yes Human Rights Statement
Annual say-on-pay vote Yes Insider Trading and Tipping Policy
Stock ownership guidelines for directors and executive officers Yes Modern Slavery Statement
Corporate governance guidelines Yes Sanctions Compliance Policy
Director “overboarding” guidelines Yes Vendor Code of Conduct
Related person transactions policy Yes AI Ethics Principles
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 35
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Trust
Privacy Strategy
We recognize that maintaining stakeholder trust is essential to our license to operate and our
success as a business. That is why we maintain a robust global privacy management program that
allows us to meet these high expectations. In addition to a commitment of continuous improvement,
our areas of focus include:
Clear policies, guidance, and procedures that foster accountability in our enterprise
and that reflect legal requirements and best practices
Ongoing workforce training and communication to ensure an always-on privacy mindset
Privacy by Design assessments of our operations and offerings
Ongoing monitoring of privacy posture and risk
Integration of metrics and scorecards
Third-party processor management
B2B customer management
Transparency and management of individual rights
↗ Global Privacy Statement ↗ Cookie Statement ↗ Biometric Statement
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 36
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Data Security Strategy Certifications and Attestations
Cloud Security
At Dayforce, we believe that effective security Leveraging cloud posture management solutions to meet compliance and security The Dayforce data security program
detection and response depends upon the requirements and exceed industry benchmarks for cloud security, and investing in attack closely aligns with a variety of industry
deployment of analytics, automation, and surface management solutions to monitor and secure our Dayforce cloud footprint. standard frameworks. This is reinforced by
highly skilled professionals. We know that a requirement to have independent reviews
strong data governance and data-centric of our supporting controls and provides the
needed transparency for our customer to have
security are also critical to maintaining our Identity and Access Management
confidence we take the protection of their data
already high levels of compliance, privacy, Security starts with strong access controls, and Dayforce continues to invest in phish
very seriously. The following certifications and
and customer protection. resistant multi-factor authentication, access governance solutions to limit entitlements, and
attestations are in place for Dayforce:
the management and security of non-human identities that are a growing attack vector.
To combat a growing number of data
security threats and an enhanced level of ISO/IEC 27001 ISO/IEC 27017
sophistication, Our Data Security team Product Security
ISO/IEC 27018 ISO/IEC 27701
is focused on six priority areas in the Security and privacy by design are at the core of our product development life cycle.
intermediate term. Beginning with ideation all the way to implementation, security and privacy are completely
ISO/IEC 27036 ISO/IEC 22301
embedded into our research and development processes.
SOC 1 Type 2 SOC 2 Type 2
NIST 800-171 (SOC for Cyber)
Advanced Analytics and Automation
Safeguarding data across our cloud applications and endpoints starts with understanding
the data. Our advanced analytics enable automated processes and improve our data
Our ISO 27001 certification had no
security capabilities.
major or minor nonconformities
Our NIST attestation had no controls
that were considered not met
Risk-Aware Workforce
Equipping our employees with the proper education through ongoing security awareness
Our SOC 2 Type 2 audit report had no
training is essential to our practice. Reducing the risk of social engineering and phishing is of
exceptions found
paramount importance in today’s cyber landscape.
To ensure effective oversight and management
of our data security program, our Chief
Strong Data Governance Information Security Officer Colin Anderson
Managing data throughout the entire life cycle is a core business objective. This includes strong briefs the senior leadership team twice a
↗ Information Security statement data retention policies and practices, as well as enabling customers to self-manage their data. quarter and the Audit Committee of the Board
of Directors on a quarterly basis.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 37
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Enterprise Risk Management
(ERM) Strategy
Effective risk management is a critical Our Enterprise Risk Framework guides the Our Enterprise Risk Process outlines our Our overall ERM program has three
component of Dayforce’s success as an overall direction and operations of the program. lifecycle and method of identifying, assessing intermediate-term priorities:
organization. We have deeply embedded and prioritizing, and responding to enterprise
our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) It features an enterprise risk taxonomy for risks to successfully achieve our strategic
program into company-wide decision- categorizing risks and developing actionable organizational goals and objectives, minimizing Ongoing cross-functional evaluation
and prioritization of mission-critical
making and how we approach performance insights for leaders and departments across any potential negative impact should they be
risks at the enterprise level to
improvement, encourage innovation, and the organization. It focuses on 12 capability- realized. It also includes our collaborative risk
ensure accuracy of Dayforce’s global
pursue our strategic goals and objectives. based enterprise risk themes: assessment process. Frequent touchpoints
risk profile.
Our program is based on two global throughout the year are conducted through
Business and Operational Resilience
standards — the COSO Enterprise Risk interviews with identified SMEs from each Quarterly discussions around
Management Framework and ISO 31000 — functional group within the business to identify emerging and significant risk
Commercial Strategy
and it aims to do the following: emerging risks that could impact our ability exposure identification and review
of controls, mitigation strategies, and
to meet our strategic goals and objectives as
Cybersecurity Resilience response effectiveness, along with
a company, specifically in the following four
Identify and assess risk across the action to mitigate in a timely manner.
impact categories:
organization, prioritizing mitigation
Data Governance and Stewardship
efforts to address mission-critical
Financial Ongoing review of our global ERM
enterprise risks.
Environmental Stewardship program and opportunities for
continual improvement and maturation.
Legal/Compliance
Assess current controls and capabilities
Financial Performance and Accountability
to protect and increase stakeholder
value, promoting continuous, Operational
sustainable improvement across the Global Strategy, Readiness and Execution
To ensure effective oversight and management
organization globally.
Strategic
of our risk management program, our Chief
Human Capital/People
Risk Officer Todd Simmons briefs the senior
Ensure decisions are made with
sufficient awareness and transparency leadership team regularly and the Audit
Legal and Compliance
around risk and opportunity. Committee of the Board of Directors on a
(Corporate, Product, Operational)
quarterly basis.
Our strategy has two core components: Money Movement/Tax and Payment
our Enterprise Risk Framework and our
Enterprise Risk Process. Product and Technology Innovation
Third-Party and Partner Reliance
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 38
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Business Continuity and Resilience
Strategy
The Business Continuity Management The Emergency Response discipline is Our Disaster Recovery (DR) discipline
Program (BCMP) contributes to Dayforce’s responsible for the first 20 minutes of an aims to ensure the continuity of critical
overall resiliency and ability to continue incident with a primary focus on life safety. business technology in the event of a
delivery of products or services at It is the immediate and coordinated initial disruptive incident, such as natural disasters,
acceptable, predefined levels following a response to an unexpected or potentially cyber-attacks, or equipment failures. Our
disruptive incident and ensure that critical dangerous situation or event. The goal of disaster recovery plans are designed to
functions and processes are continually emergency response is to ensure employee minimize downtime, ensure the integrity
evaluated and improved upon. The Dayforce safety, communicate with employees to and availability of critical data during and
BCMP provides the necessary steps to develop situational awareness, coordinate after a disaster, and comply with industry
be taken to prepare to respond, recover, required resources, and evaluate facility regulations and compliance standards.
restore, and return to normal operations safety when applicable.
following a significant business disruption.
Incident Management
The program has four disciplines:
The Business Continuity discipline is
responsible for the recovery of all critical
We have a Major Incident Management
business processes to an acceptable
Crisis Management team at Dayforce that works to enhance
degraded level until the situation returns to
the company's resilience, protect its assets,
normal. Business continuity considerations
and ensure the continuity of operations.
Emergency Response are evaluated immediately after the initial Their aim is to effectively respond to and
response of an unpredicted event, and
resolve significant incidents related to
Business Continuity Plans (BCP) outline the
technology, privacy and cybersecurity that
Business Continuity actions taken to minimize impact and continue
can have a severe impact on operations,
business function operations following
services, or reputation. This can minimize
a disruptive event by enacting business
the impact of such incidents by restoring
Disaster Recovery
continuity plans that detail the recovery steps,
normal operations as quickly as possible
controls, and resources required.
while ensuring effective communication,
The Crisis Management discipline is coordination, and decision-making
responsible for the process of preparing throughout the incident response process.
for, responding to, and recovering from
an unexpected event or situation that
poses a significant threat to Dayforce, its
stakeholders, or the public.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 39
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Human Capital Metrics
Our People Annual Required Employee Training Courses Offered to All Employees
Global employees 9,084 Code of Conduct
North America employees 4,563 Anti-Corruption
APJ employees 2,906 Creating a Respectful Workplace (including anti-discrimination, harassment, and workplace violence topics)
EMEA employees 1,615 Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
2023 new employee hires 2,215 Information Security and Cybersecurity
Percent of open positions filled by internal candidates 16.7% Privacy Essentials
Voluntary employee turnover rate 10.3% Insider Trading and Tipping
Average training hours per employee 20.26
Leadership Development and Professional Development Courses Offered to Employees
Average amount spent per FTE on training and development $82.55
Activate: Required 2-day program for people leaders including performance management, effective
Percent of FTE <30 years old 21.56%
communications and coaching, and promoting DEI.
Percent of FTE 30-50 years old 57.4%
Cultivate: Required 2-day program for leaders of leaders including leading high-performance teams,
Percent of FTE >50 years old 21.1% ethical leadership, and talent and personal development.
Percent of workforce covered by trade unions/collective agreements 0% Catalog of available professional development courses are available on-demand to all employees.
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)9 0 Team development workshops offered at request of teams.
Data as of 12/31/2023
9. TRIR is defined as the total number of recordable incidents at the company per 200,000 hours worked (equivalent to 100 full-time employees annually).
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 40
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Benefits
Benefits U.S. Canada Benefits U.S. Canada
Basic Life Insurance Yes Yes Employee Stock Purchase Plan Yes Yes
Optional Life Insurance Yes Yes Time Away From Work Yes Yes
Basic AD&D Yes Yes Sick Time Program10 Yes Yes
Optional AD&D Yes Yes Holidays Yes Yes
Health Insurance Yes Yes Bereavement Yes Yes
Dental Insurance Yes Yes Voting Time Off Yes Yes
Vision Insurance Yes Yes Flexible Working Hours Yes Yes
Health Savings Account Yes N/A Working-from-home Arrangements Yes Yes
Flexible Spending Account Yes N/A Paid Parental Leave11 Yes Yes
Flex Benefit Program N/A Yes Backup Child Care Yes No
Health Care Spending Account N/A Yes Dependent Care Reimbursement Yes N/A
Short-Term Disability Yes Yes Adoption Reimbursement Yes Yes
Long-Term Disability Yes Yes Fertility/Family Building Benefit Yes Yes
Employee Assistance Program Yes Yes Breastfeeding/Lactation Facilities Yes Yes
Critical Illness Insurance Plan Yes Yes Fitness Benefit Yes Yes
Hospitalization Indemnity Plan Yes N/A Business Travel Accident Yes Yes
Accident Insurance Plan Yes No Pet Insurance Yes Yes
Virtual Expert Medical Consultations Yes No Home/Auto Insurance Yes Yes
Diabetes Reversal Program Yes No Legal Plan Yes No
Nicotine Cessation Programs Yes No Dave McKay Volunteer Day Yes Yes
Cancer Support Programs Yes No Scholarship Program Yes Yes
Behavioral Health Programs Yes No Tuition Reimbursement Yes Yes
Retirement Yes Yes Ergonomics Assessments Yes Yes
10. Dedicated 80 hours of sick leave provided
11. For primary and non-primary caregivers in excess of the minimum legal requirement. For new and expecting parents, our paid parental
leave policy includes 17 weeks for all foster, adoption, and biological parents, regardless of their gender or caregiver status.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 41
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Representation | All Employees
Employee level Female Male
Senior management 35.9% 64.1%
2023
Management and above 43.8% 56.2%
Tech 37.1% 62.9%
All employees 49.8% 50.2%
Employee level Female Male
Senior management 38.0%
2022
62.0%
Management and above 43.7% 56.1%
Tech 36.0%
63.8%
49.4% 50.4%
All employees
Employee level Female Male
Senior management 37.6% 62.2%
2021
Management and above 43.4% 56.6%
Tech 36.9% 63.1%
All employees 48.9% 51.1%
Data as of 12/31 of corresponding year
2022 and 2023 data includes Ascender and Excelity employees
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 42
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Representation | U.S. Employees
American Indian or Alaska Native Asian Black or African American Hispanic or Latino
Employee level 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023
Senior management — — — 12.8% 19.0% 15.6% 7.0% 5.3% 5.2% — 2.1% 3.1%
Management and above 1.1% 0.6% 0.4% 10.2% 12.4% 11.4% 6.7% 6.4% 5.4% 4.5% 4.6% 4.6%
Tech 0.1% 0.2% 0.2% 17.3% 24.4% 18.7% 16.6% 10.7% 11.2% 4.5% 6.0% 7.1%
All employees 0.3% 0.2% 0.2% 10.8% 15.0% 12.4% 13.9% 11.8% 11.4% 5.9% 6.2% 6.3%
Two or More Races Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander White No Answer
Employee level 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023
Senior management 2.3% 2.1% 3.1% — — — 74.4% 71.6% 71.9% 3.5% — 1.0%
Management and above 1.5% 1.7% 2.4% — — — 73.4% 73.3% 72.7% 3.0% 1.0% 3.0%
Tech 2.9% 2.6% 2.8% 0.4% 0.3% 0.3% 56.0% 52.7% 57.9% 2.2% 3.1% 1.9%
All employees 2.4% 2.3% 2.7% 0.4% 0.3% 0.2% 64.5% 62.3% 64.7% 2.0% 2.0% 2.1%
Data as of 12/31 of corresponding year
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 43
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
EEOCStandardForm100(SF100)
U.S.EQUALEMPLOYMENTOPPORTUNITYCOMMISSION (EEOC) Revised08/2023
EMPLOYER INFORMATIONREPORT (EEO-1 COMPONENT 1) OMBControlNumber:3046-0049
Expiration Date: 08/31/2024
SECTIONA–TYPEOFREPORT
SECTIONB–EMPLOYERIDENTIFICATION
OFSCOMPANYID EMPLOYERNAME
ADDRESS CITY/TOWN STATE ZIPCODE
SECTIONC–HEADQUARTERSORESTABLISHMENT-LEVELIDENTIFICATION(ifapplicable)
HQ/ESTABLISHMENT-LEVELUNITID HEADQUARTERSORESTABLISHMENT-LEVELNAME
HEADQUARTERSORESTABLISHMENT-LEVELADDRESS CITY/TOWN STATE ZIPCODE
SECTIOND–EMPLOYERIDENTIFICATIONNUMBER(EIN)
SECTIONE–EMPLOYERFILINGELIGIBILITY
□ YES (EmployerIs Eligible to File)□NO (EmployerIs Not Eligible to File) □ EMPLOYERNOLONGERINBUSINESS
SECTION F –FEDERAL CONTRACTOR DESIGNATION (ifapplicable)
Unique Entity ID(UEI):
□ YES(Single-EstablishmentEmployerisFederalContractor)□ YES(Multi-EstablishmentEmployerisFederalContractor)
□YES (Headquarters is Federal Contractor) □ YES(Non-HeadquartersEstablishmentisFederalContractor)
□YES (One orMore Non-Headquarters Establishments is Federal Contractor)
SECTIONG–NAICSINFORMATION
SECTIONH–WORKFORCEDEMOGRAPHICDATA
JA Race/Ethnicity
Hispanic NotHispanicor Latino
orLatino Male Female
Row
JOBCATEGORIES Total
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 44
elaM elameF etihW
nacirfA
rokcalB
naciremA naisA
ro
naiiawaH
evitaN
rednalsIcificaPrehtO
ronaidnInaciremA
evitaN
aksalA
secaReroMroowT
etihW ro kcalB
naciremAnacirfA
naisA
ro
naiiawaH
evitaN
rednalsIcificaPrehtO
ronaidnInaciremA
evitaN
aksalA
secaReroMroowT
EEO-1
EEOCStandardForm100(SF100)
U.S.EQUALEMPLOYMENTOPPORTUNITYCOMMISSION (EEOC) Revised08/2023
2022 2022EMPLOYER INFORMATIONREPORT (EEO-1 COMPONENT 1) OMB Control Number: 3046-0049
ExpirationDate: 08/31/2024
SECTIONK–OFFICIALCERTIFICATIONOFSUBMISSION
CONSOLIDATED REPORT EMPLOYERIDENTIFICATION
OFSCOMPANYID EMPLOYERNAME
7359044 Ceridian HCM Inc.
7359044 Ceridian HCM Inc. ADDRESS CITY/TOWN STATE ZIPCODE
3311 East Old Shakopee Road MINNEAPOLIS MN 55425
3311 East Old Shakopee Road MINNEAPOLIS MN 55425
CERTIFICATIONCOMMENTS(optional)
No Certification Comments Provided
593228107
X
Not Applicable
541511 - Custom Computer Programming Services
Executive/SeniorLevelOfficialsandManagers 1 1 52 1 9 0 0 1 22 5 6 0 0 1 99
First/Mid-LevelOfficialsandManagers 7 13 159 7 29 0 0 6 173 21 18 0 2 3 438
Professionals 38 50 383 69 86 1 0 16 468 131 108 1 1 25 1377
Technicians 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 CERTIFICATIONSTATEMENT
SalesWorkers 10 6 106 4 5 0 0 4 83 7 1 0 0 5 231 “Icertifythatthe information, including any workforce demographic data, providedinthisreportiscorrect and truetothe bestofmy knowledge
AdministrativeSupportWorkers 8 18 33 18 14 2 0 5 81 41 19 1 1 0 241 and was prepared in conformity with the directions set forth in the form and accompanying instructions.”
CraftWorkers 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Knowinglyandwillfully false statements on thisreportare punishablebylaw,USCode, Title 18, Section 1001.
Operatives 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
LaborersandHelpers 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 DATEOFCERTIFICATION
ServiceWorkers 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
1/5/2024 11:43 AM [EST]
CURRENT 2022 REPORTING YEAR TOTAL 64 88 733 99 143 3 0 32 827 205 152 2 4 34 2386
EMPLOYER’SCERTIFYINGOFFICIAL
NameofEmployer’sCertifyingOfficial TitleofCertifyingOfficial
PRIOR 2021 REPORTING YEAR TOTAL 53 83 679 97 121 4 2 25 821 225 125 4 4 30 2273
SECTIONI–WORKFORCESNAPSHOTPERIOD Donnebra McClendon VP, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
10/1/2022 - 10/31/2022
SECTIONJ–HEADQUARTERSORESTABLISHMENT-LEVELCOMMENTS(optional) EmailAddressofCertifyingOfficial TelephoneNumberofCertifyingOfficial
Not Applicable
PRIMARYPOINTOFCONTACT(POC) FOR EEO-1COMPONENT1REPORTING
NameofPrimaryPOC TitleandEmployerofPrimaryPOC
Donnebra McClendon VP, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Ceridian HCM
EmailAddressofPrimaryPOC TelephoneNumberofPrimaryPOC
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Environmental Data
% Change % Change
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
from 2019 from 2022
Megawatt hours (MWh) 29,402 23,846 16,896 12,459 10,689 -64% -14%
Electricity
Gigajoules (GJ) 105,847 85,846 60,825 44,852 38,480 -64% -14%
Renewable Electricity (MWh) 0 0 0 12,459 10,689
Total Energy (GJ) 125,738 97,137 68,595 49,148 39,190 -69% -20%
Diesel (Gallons) 135 154 132 1,590¹² 82 -39% -95%
Energy
Natural Gas (Therms) 179,806 106,831 73,476 38,512 6,182 -97% -84%
Refrigerants (lbs) 397 276 226 200 212 -47% 6%
Scope 1 and 2: Total 13,119 10,341 7,840 340 265 -98% -22%
• Scope 1 1,241 731 525 340 265 -79% -22%
• Scope 2: Location-based 12,128 9,695 7,026 5,434 4,334 -64% -20%
• Scope 2: Market-based 11,877 9,610 7,315 0 0 -100% 0%
Scope 3: Total 51,272 37,721 31,273 42,818 54,639 7% 28%
• Scope 3: Purchased Goods and Services 31,979 28,950 23,645 32,738 36,454 14% 11%
Emissions (mtCO2e) • Scope 3: Fuel- and Energy-Related Activities 2,931 2,264 2,377 1,837 1,543 -47% -16%
• Scope 3: Upstream Transportation and Distribution 252 209 161 160 615 144% 284%
• Scope 3: Waste Generated in Operations 1,078 286 119 103 148 -86% 44%
• Scope 3: Business Travel 3,692 582 316 2,877 10,474 184% 264%
• Scope 3: Employee Commuting 10,210 2,704 1,006 779 1,175 -88% 51%
• Scope 3: Remote Work 768 2,503 3,348 4,150 4,022 424% -3%
• Scope 3: End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products 362 223 301 174 208 -43% 20%
Water Water Withdrawals (Gallons) 16,643,250 4,407,813 1,843,516 1,632,177 2,304,343 -86% -41%
Waste Total Tonnage (U.S. Tons) 2,074 549 230 199 385 -81% 93%
12. Total diesel usage in 2022 was significantly higher than in previous years due to the need for emergency generators during a power outage that affected one facility.
This year, Dayforce used the Watershed climate platform to calculate its 2023 annual greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. This included updated calculations for its Scope 3 emissions from Purchased Goods and Services emissions for 2019 - 2022
Our total Scope 3 upstream GHG emissions in 2023 were 54,431 mtCO2e and total Scope 3 downstream GHG emissions in 2023 were 208 mtCO2e..
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 45
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
STATEMENT Verification Criteria Assurance Opinion
• World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development Based on the verification process conducted by DNV, we provide a Limited Assurance of the
(WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 1 GHG Emissions Inventory for Dayforce. DNV found no evidence that the assertion:
Introduction
& 2)
DNV Business Assurance USA, Inc. (DNV) has been commissioned by the management of • is not materially correct;
• World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development
Dayforce, Inc. (Dayforce) to carry out an independent verification of its GHG emissions (Scope 1, • is not a fair representation of the GHG emissions information; and
(WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and
2 and 3). These assertions are relevant to the 2023 calendar year. • is not prepared in accordance with the Reporting Criteria
Reporting Standard
Dayforce has sole responsibility for preparation of the data and external report. DNV, in
• ISO 14064-3:2019: Greenhouse gases - Part 1: Specification with guidance at the
performing our assurance work, is responsible to the management of Dayforce. Our assurance Independence
organization level for quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and
statement, however, represents our independent opinion and is intended to inform all
stakeholders including Dayforce.
removals
DNV was not involved in the preparation of any part of Dayforce’s data or report. We adopt a
balanced approach towards all stakeholders when performing our evaluation.
Verification Objective Verification Protocols
The objective of this verification is to verify conformance with applicable verification criteria, • ISO 14064-3:2019 Greenhouse gases - Part 3: Specification with guidance for the verification
DNV Business Assurance USA, Inc.
including the principles and requirements of relevant standards or GHG programmes, within and validation of greenhouse gas statements
April 04th, 2024
the scope of the verification; The organization's GHG inventory of GHG emissions; any
significant changes in the organization's GHG inventory since the last reporting period; and the
Operational Boundary
organization's GHG-related controls.
• Operational control
Verification Scope • Global sites Lead Verifier Technical Reviewer
• Reporting Period: 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2023
2023 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions inventory Scope 1, 2, and 3 (Category 1 – Purchased Kyle Silon Ke Karl Song
Goods and Services, Category 3 – Fuel and Energy Related Activities, Category 4 – Upstream
Transportation and Distribution, Category 5 – Waste Generated in Operations, Category 6 Data Verified
– Business Travel, Category 7 – Remote Working, Category 7 – Employee Commuting, The purpose of the DNV group of companies is to promote safe and sustainable futures. The USA & Canada Sustainability team is part of DNV
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Business Assurance, a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, helping customers to build sustainable
Category 12 – End-of-life Treatment of Sold Products)
Scope 1 Emissions 265 MtCO2e business performance. www.dnv.com/sustainability
Scope 2 Emissions (Location based) 4,333 MtCO2e
Scope 2 Emissions (Market based) 0 MtCO2e
Verification Level of Assurance
Scope 3 Emissions
The verification was conducted by DNV to a limited level of assurance with the qualification
reported in the below Verification Conclusions. o Category 1 – Purchased Goods and Services 36,454 MtCO2e
o Category 3 – Fuel and Energy Related Activities 1,543 MtCO2e
Materiality Level o Category 4 – Upstream Transportation and Distribution 615 MtCO2e
Errors / omissions which represent, single or aggregated, the 5% of total emissions are o Category 5 – Waste Generated in Operations 148 MtCO2e
considered material.
o Category 6 – Business Travel 10,474 MtCO2e
o Category 7 – Remote Working 4,022 MtCO2e
o Category 7 - Employee Commuting 1,175 MtCO2e
o Category 12 – End-of-life Treatment of Sold Products 208 MtCO2e
DNV Business Assurance USA, Inc., 1400 Ravello Drive, Katy, TX 77449
STATEMENT NO. DNV-2024-ASR-685285 Page 1 of 3
DNV Business Assurance USA, Inc., 1400 Ravello Drive, Katy, TX 77449 DNV Business Assurance USA, Inc., 1400 Ravello Drive, Katy, TX 77449
STATEMENT NO. DNV-2024-ASR-685285 Page 2 of 3 STATEMENT NO. DNV-2024-ASR-685285 Page 3 of 3
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 46
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Independent Assurance Report ScopeandApproachContinued BasisofOurConclusionContinued ResponsibilitiesofDayforce
cW oe n p cll uan sin oe nd ,sa on td hp ae tr tf ho erm rise kd oo fu tr hw iso cr ok nt co luo sb iot nai bn et ih ne ge inv i ed re rn oc re is w ree dc uo cn es did be ure td non te rc ee dss ua cr ey dt to op vr eo rv yid loe wa .b Aas ‘ris eafo sor no au br la es ls eu vr ea ln ’c oe f • Reviewingthattheevidence,measurementsandthescopeprovidedto usby andDNV
assurancewouldhaverequiredadditionalworkatheadquartersandsitelevelstogainfurtherevidencetosupportthebasisof DayforcefortheSelectedPerformanceInformationis preparedinlinewiththe
DNVBusinessAssuranceUSA,Inc.(DNV)hasbeencommissionedbythemanagementofDayforce,Inc.(Dayforce)tocarryoutan ourassuranceconclusion.DNV’sassuranceengagementsarebasedontheassumptionthatthedataandinformationprovided agreed-uponproceduresandcriteria Dayforcehassoleresponsibilityfor:
independentlimited-levelassuranceengagementofSelectedPerformanceInformationforcalendaryear2023.Theassurancewas bytheclienttousaspartofourreviewhavebeenprovidedingoodfaith.Thisincludes,butisnotlimited to,salesand • ReadingtheReportandnarrative accompanyingtheSelectedPerformance • Preparingandpresentingthe
Informationwithinitwithregardtothecriteria SelectedInformationin
carriedoutduringJanuary-April2024. acquisitions,square footage,occupancyrates,datacoverage, propertytype,and financial/ operationalcontrol.Financialdata, accordancewiththecriteria
includingfinancialdatathatfeedsintothecalculationoftheSelectedPerformanceIndicators,isoutsideofthescopeofthe
assurance. Inadditiontotheabove,specifictotheenvironmentalindicators,thefollowing • Designing,implementing,and
stepswereconductedfortheWaterandWaste: maintainingeffectiveinternal
OurConclusion: DNVexpressly disclaimsanyliabilityorco-responsibility foranydecisionapersonoranentitymaymakebasedonthis controlsovertheinformationand
Basedontheprocedureswehaveperformed andtheevidencewehaveobtained,nothinghascome to IndependentAssuranceStatement. Water: data,resultinginthepreparation
ourattentionthatcausesustobelievethattheSelected Performance Informationis notfairly stated • Reviewofthewaterwithdrawalmethodology; oftheSelectedInformationthatis
andhasnotbeenprepared,inallmaterialrespects,inaccordancewiththecriteriastated.This AssuranceMethodology • Reviewofcalculationsandwaterper-capitaassumptions. freefrommaterialmisstatements
conclusionrelatesonlytotheSelected PerformanceInformationandistobe readinthecontextof this The environmentalfootprintinventorieshave beenevaluatedagainstthe followingreportingcriteria: • Measuringandreportingthe
AssuranceReport,inparticular,theinherentlimitationsexplainedbelow. • WorldBusinessCouncilforSustainableDevelopment (WBCSD)/WorldResourcesinstitute(WRI)Greenhouse GasProtocol, Waste SelectedInformation
CorporateAccountingStandardREVISEDEDITION • Review ofthewasteestimationmethodology; • Contentsandstatements
• WBCSD/WRICorporateValueChain(Scope3)AccountingandReportingStandard(Scope3) • Reviewof calculationsandwaste per-capitaassumptions. containedwithintheReportor
ScopeofAssurance DNVusedarisk-basedapproachthroughouttheassuranceengagement,concentratingontheareasthatwebelievearemost websites
materialforbothDayforceanditsstakeholders.DNVappliedamaterialitythresholdoffivepercentforGHG(Scope1and2) AssuranceOpinion
• ReportingBoundary-AllglobaloperationsunderDayforce'soperationalcontrolpertheoperationalcontroldefinitionofThe emissions,energyconsumption,waterwithdrawal,andwastegenerated.Thefivepercentmaterialitythresholdforassurance Basedontheprocessesandproceduresperformed,DNVfoundnoevidencethatthe Inperformingourassurancework,our
GHGProtocol,ACorporateAccountingandReportingStandard,RevisedEdition. doesnotapplytototalScope3emissions. claims and assertions listed are not materially correct and are not a fair responsibilityistothemanagementof
• TimePeriod–Calendaryear2023 representationofdataandinformationandhavenotbeenpreparedinaccordance Dayforce;however,ourassurance
2023EnvironmentalData Verified withthereportingcriteriaandcalculationmethodreferenced. r oe pp ino ir ot nre ap nr des isen ints teo nu dr ei dnd te op ie nn fod re mnt all
SelectedPerformanceInformation stakeholders. DNVwasnotinvolvedin
The scopeandboundaryofourworkisrestricted tothefollowingperformance indicators(the Selected Performance 2023Energy Independence thepreparationofanystatementsor
Information): TotalEnergyConsumption 39,190GJ dataincludedintheReportorwebsite
DNV’sestablishedpoliciesand exceptforthisAssuranceStatement.
EnvironmentalDataVerifiedforJanuary1sttoDecember31st, 2023 Ourcompetence,independence, FootprintSubcategory QuantityUnit p thr ao tce Dd Nu Vre ,s itsar pe erd se os nig nn ee ld anto d,e wns hu er re e
and qualitycontrol Diesel 82Gallons applicable,othersaresubjectto
2 • • 20 02 23 3T FooE Wotn a t ae pl tr E r eg in n ry e tr Sg uy bC co an tesu gom rp iet sion p aD D prN No pV Vc lie’ , cs d i ate u bss r lp et ea e ,sb r osali tos r heh n ee nd rd e se ls ap ai rgo n enl di ec s,i d ue w bs t h jo ea e cn e r ted n ts ourethat N Ela et cu trr ia cl itG yas 10,66 81 88 ,7M 97M kB WTU
h
p a rin ened qdre s uop m irne ean n did e nle btan yo ic nf re eo i lt n er he d veq aer nu pe ti er n ne et dm ti ht eie ine cn cs at e ls of w(i Dn hNc el rVu e)ding F K Ao a pr t ry ia l,n 0Td 4e to x ha ,n s 2b 0e 2h 4alfofDNVBusinessAssuranceUSA,Inc. D DNN VV BB uu sis ni en se ss As sA sus rs au nr ca en isce
aglobal
• TotalWaterWithdrawals independencerequirements(including requirements. Thisengagementwork providerofcertification,verification,
personnelofotherentitiesofDNV)and OtherSources 44MMBTU wascarriedoutbyanindependent assessmentandtrainingservices,
2 •023 ToW taa ls Wte
asteGenerated
m bya rin et lea vin anin td ee tp he icn ad le rn ec qe uirw eh me ere ntr se .q Tu hir ie sd t pe ra om feso sif os nu as lt sa .inabilityassurance h be ul sp inin eg sscu ps et ro fom rmer as nt co e.buildsustainable
engagementworkwascarriedoutbyan 2023Water
independentteamofsustainability https://www.dnv.us/assurance/
ScopeandApproach assuranceprofessionals.DNVwasnot TotalWaterWithdrawal 2,304,343Gallons KyleSilon KarlSong
involvedinthepreparationofanypartof
Weperformedalimited levelassuranceengagementinaccordancewiththe LeadVerifier TechnicalReviewer
Dayforce'sdataorreport.Thisisour
InternationalStandardonAssuranceEngagements(ISAE)3000–‘Assurance
EngagementsotherthanAuditsandReviewsofHistoricalFinancialInformation’ fourthyearofprovidingassurancefor 2023Waste
Dayforce.Weadoptabalancedapproach
(revised),issuedbythe InternationalAuditingandAssuranceStandardsBoard.This
towardsallstakeholderswhen TotalWasteGenerated 385UStons
s thta en ad sa sr ud rare nq ceui ere ns gath ga et mw ee ntco tom op bly taw init lh ime it th ei dc a al sr se uq ru ai nr ce em .entsandplanandperform performingourevaluation. ThisStatementisforthesoleuseandbenefitofthepartycontractingwithDNVBusinessAssuranceUSA,Inc.toproducethis
Statement(the“Client”).AnyuseoforrelianceonthisdocumentbyanypartyotherthantheClientshallbeatthesoleriskofsuch
DNVappliesitsownmanagementstandardsandcompliancepoliciesforquality BasisofOurConclusion party.Innoeventwill DNVor anyofitsparentoraffiliatecompanies,ortheirrespectivedirectors, officers, shareholders,employees
control,inaccordancewith ISO/IEC17029:2019-ConformityAssessment Wearerequiredtoplanandperform ourworkinordertoconsidertheriskofmaterialmisstatementoftheSelected orsubcontractors,beliable toanyotherpartyregardinganystatements,findings,conclusionsorothercontentinthisStatement,or
Requirementsforbodiesprovidingauditandcertificationofmanagement PerformanceInformation;ourworkincluded,butwasnotrestrictedto: foranyuseof,relianceon,accuracy,oradequacyofthisStatement.
systems, andaccordinglymaintainsacomprehensivesystemofqualitycontrol • ConductinginterviewswithDayforce'smanagementtoobtainanunderstandingofthekeyprocesses,systemsandcontrols
includingdocumentedpoliciesandproceduresregardingcompliancewithethical inplaceto generate,aggregateandreporttheSelectedPerformanceInformation;
requirements,professionalstandardsandapplicablelegalandregulatory • PerforminglimitedsubstantivetestingonaselectivebasisoftheSelectedPerformanceInformationtocheck thatdatahad
requirements. beenappropriatelymeasured,recorded,collatedandreported;
StatementNo.DNV-2024-ASR-685285 StatementNo.DNV-2024-ASR-685285 StatementNo.DNV-2024-ASR-685285
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 47
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We use certain non-GAAP financial We define these non-GAAP financial EBITDA is net income before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, and Adjusted
measures in this report including cloud measures as follows: EBITDA is EBITDA, as adjusted to exclude share-based compensation expense and related
annualized recurring revenue (“ARR”), employer taxes, and certain other items. Adjusted EBITDA margin is determined by calculating
annual Dayforce revenue retention rate, and Cloud ARR is calculated by starting with the percentage that Adjusted EBITDA is of total revenue.
Adjusted EBITDA margin. We believe that recurring revenue at year end, excluding
these non-GAAP financial measures are revenue from Ascender, subtracting the The following table presents a reconciliation of the GAAP results to the non-GAAP financial
useful to management and investors as an once-a-year charges, annualizing the measures EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EBITDA margin:
indicator of customer satisfaction and future revenue for customers live for less than a full
revenues and as supplemental measures to year to reflect the revenue that would have
Year Ended December 31, 2023
evaluate our overall operating performance been realized if the customer had been live
including comparison across periods and for a full year, and adding back the once- Depreciation
Interest Income tax Share-based Adjusted Net profit Adjusted
Net income and EBITDA Other13
with competitors. These non-GAAP financial a-year charges. We have not reconciled expense, net expense compensation EBITDA margin EBITDA margin
amortization
measures are not required by, defined Cloud ARR because there is no directly
(Unaudited, Dollars in millions)
under, or presented in accordance with, comparable GAAP financial measure.
accounting principles generally accepted
$54.8 $36.1 $41.2 $132.5 $264.6 $137.1 $8.5 $410.2 3.6% 27.1%
in the U.S. (“GAAP”), and should not be
considered as an alternative to our results Annual Dayforce revenue retention rate
as reported under GAAP, have important is calculated as a percentage, excluding
limitations as analytical tools, and our use Ascender, where the numerator is the
of these terms may not be comparable to Dayforce ARR for the prior year, less the
similarly titled measures of other companies Dayforce ARR from lost Dayforce customers
in our industry.. Our presentation of non- during that year; and the denominator is the
GAAP financial measures should not be Dayforce ARR for the prior year. We have
construed to imply that our future results not reconciled Annual Dayforce revenue
will be unaffected by similar items to those retention rate because there is no directly
eliminated in this presentation. Please refer comparable GAAP financial measure.
to Dayforce’s full financial results, including
further discussion of non-GAAP financial
measures, on the Investor Relations portion
of its website at investors.dayforce.com.
13. The Other column includes $4.7 million of restructuring consulting fees, $4.3 million related to the impact of the fair value adjustment for contingent consideration related to the
2021 acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of DataFuzion HCM, Inc., $0.1 million related to the net impact of certain leased facilities, and $0.6 million of foreign exchange gain.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 48
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
About the
Report
Reporting Year and Scope Third-Party Assurance Forward-Looking Statements
Unless otherwise specified, this report Dayforce engaged DNV for third-party This report contains statements, estimates, of operations, plans, objectives, future
focuses primarily on activities during verification of our Scope 1, 2, and relevant or projections that constitute “forward- performance, and business. Forward-
calendar year 2023. All references to a Scope 3 GHG emissions, water withdrawals, looking statements” as defined under U.S. looking statements are subject to certain
“year" refer to calendar years. Dayforce’s waste tonnage, and energy usage for 2023. federal securities laws. All statements other risks and uncertainties that could cause
fiscal years coincide with calendar years; Seven Scope 3 categories were included— than statements of historical fact or relating Dayforce’s actual results to differ materially
therefore, information relating to financial Purchased Goods and Services, Fuel- to present facts or current conditions from its historical experience and present
performance is referring to calendar and and Energy-related Activities, Upstream included in this report are forward-looking expectations or projections, including those
fiscal years, which are the same. Transportation and Distribution, Waste statements. These statements may include risks discussed in Dayforce’s filings with
Generated in Operations, Business Travel, words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” the Securities and Exchange Commission
Unless otherwise specified, the scope of this Employee Commuting and Virtual Work, “expect,” "assume", “project,” “seek,” “plan,” (the “SEC”), which are available from the
report refers to the entirety of Dayforce’s and End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products. “intend,” “believe,” “will,” “may,” “could,” SEC. For the reasons described above, you
global business operations. Dayforce has The firm completed its limited assurance “continue,” “likely,” “should,” and other words should not rely on any forward-looking
acquired a number of companies over the verification in April 2024, and a copy of its and terms of similar meaning in connection statements. Any forward-looking statement
past few years, including Riteq in 2019, letter is available in this report’s Appendix. with any discussion of the timing or nature made by Dayforce in this report speaks only
Excelity in 2020, and Adam HCM, Ascender, of future operating or financial performance as of the date on which it is made. Dayforce
DataFuzion assets, and Ideal in 2021, or other events, but not all forward-looking undertakes no obligation to publicly update
among others. Wherever applicable, data statements contain these identifying words. or revise any forward-looking statement,
from their activity is included from their Forward-looking statements give Dayforce's whether as a result of new information,
acquisition date onward. In several sections, current expectations and projections future developments or otherwise, except as
information is presented relating only to relating to its financial condition, results may be required by law.
Dayforce’s U.S. companies and those are
referenced accordingly.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 49
☰
Our Goals Our People Governance and Trust Tech for Good Environment Our Communities Appendix and Key Data
About Dayforce
Dayforce is a global human capital
management (HCM) software company.
Dayforce, our flagship cloud HCM platform,
provides human resources, payroll,
benefits, workforce management, and
talent management capabilities in a single
solution. Our platform helps you manage the
entire employee life cycle, from recruiting
and onboarding, to paying people and
developing their careers. Dayforce provides
solutions for organizations of all sizes, from
small businesses to global organizations.
Makes Work Life Better
The Dayforce brand promise is to make
work life better. It is our purpose, and it
embodies who we are, what we believe,
and what we stand for. We live our promise
and purpose by aiming to improve the work
lives of our customers, their employees, and
our own teams at Dayforce every day and
with everything we do.
2024 Dayforce ESG Report 50
DDaayyffoorrccee mmaakkeess wwoorrkk lliiffee bbeetttteerr.. EEvveerryytthhiinngg wwee ddoo aass aa
gglloobbaall lleeaaddeerr iinn HHCCMM tteecchhnnoollooggyy iiss ffooccuusseedd oonn iimmpprroovviinngg
wwoorrkk ffoorr tthhoouussaannddss ooff ccuussttoommeerrss aanndd mmiilllliioonnss ooff eemmppllooyyeeeess
aarroouunndd tthhee wwoorrlldd.. OOuurr ssiinnggllee,, gglloobbaall ppeeooppllee ppllaattffoorrmm ffoorr HHRR,,
ppaayyrroollll,, ttaalleenntt,, wwoorrkkffoorrccee mmaannaaggeemmeenntt,, aanndd bbeenneefifittss eeqquuiippss
DDaayyffoorrccee ccuussttoommeerrss ttoo uunnlloocckk tthheeiirr ffuullll wwoorrkkffoorrccee ppootteennttiiaall aanndd
ooppeerraattee wwiitthh ccoonnfifiddeennccee.. TToo lleeaarrnn hhooww DDaayyffoorrccee hheellppss ccrreeaattee
qquuaannttiififiaabbllee vvaalluuee ffoorr oorrggaanniizzaattiioonnss ooff aallll ssiizzeess aanndd iinndduussttrriieess,,
vviissiitt ddaayyffoorrccee..ccoomm..
ddaayyffoorrccee..ccoomm
↗
Contact Us
responsibility@dayforce.com
dayforce.com/who-we-are/corporate-responsibility
3311 East Old Shakopee Road
Minneapolis, MN 55425-1640
Phone: (952) 853-8100
©© 22002244 DDaayyffoorrccee
