Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Limited
1/485 Kingsford Smith Drive
Hamilton, QLD, Australia 4007
ACN: 010 489 326
www.dominos.com.au
18 August 2021
The Manager
Market Announcements Office
Australian Securities Exchange
4th Floor, 20 Bridge Street
SYDNEY NSW 2000
Dear Sir
Sustainability Report for the year ended 27 June 2021
Please find attached for immediate release the Sustainability Report for the Company for the year
ended 27 June 2021.
For further information, contact Nathan Scholz, Head of Investor Relations at
investor.relations@dominos.com.au or on +61-419-243-517.
Authorised for lodgement by the Board.
Craig Ryan
Company Secretary
END
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021
DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LIMITED
OUR
PIZZA
BRINGS
PEOPLE
Acknowledgements
EDITORIAL
Dennis Van Dalfsen (Benelux)
Rhiannon Frater (Australia)
Guillemette Le Goascoz (France)
Marianne Kemps (Benelux)
Mahia Lai (France)
Daniel Marting (Germany)
Nathan Scholz (Investor Relations)
Marika Stegmeijer (ESG)
Shizue Suzuki (Japan)
Kellie Taylor (Denmark)
Yvonne Thynne (New Zealand)
DESIGNERS
Jessica Carwardine
Benedict Fahs
Dieter Fisch
Dave Tiedemann
CONTENTS
Chairman’s & CEO’s message 5
Executive summary 6
Our Company 8
Our Purpose 10
Our Values 10
Business model 11
Risk Management 12
Our ESG approach 13
Our commitment to responsible
business conduct 18
Our People 22
Our workplace supports equal
opportunities and non-discrimination 22
Employee engagement 26
Help people grow and prosper 28
People health and safety 29
Employee rights and payment 30
Franchisee profitability 32
Our Food 34
Our food philosophy 34
Food quality 34
Food safety 37
Supplier quality and audit 38
Animal welfare 38
Next steps 39
Our Customers 40
Our marketing is responsible 40
Customer engagement 40
Customer ESG survey 40
Our (data) security strategy 42
Our Environment 44
Corporate footprint baseline
measurement 44
Our current environmental
efforts and targets 45
Our Community 48
We support the communities in
which we operate 48
Our own charity program:
Give for Good 48
Feed the Knead 50
Next steps 51
Moving forward 52
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
SUSTAIN
ABILITY
REPORT
4
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
& CHAIRMAN’S
CEO’S
MESSAGE
On behalf of Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd (Domino’s) to enable us to achieve measurable, transparent, and
team members across our nine markets, we are proud meaningful progress in our ESG journey. Next year’s
to present the first edition of our Sustainability Report. sustainability report will be based on the outcome of this
It was noted at the outset of this year’s Annual Report that assessment.
Domino’s performance this year was a direct result of our Understanding that we are still in the early stages of our
focus. At the centre of our focus is a clear understanding ESG journey, our recent efforts in this field have already
of our Purpose as a global enterprise and the Values that helped us to improve as a company. We intend to
make Domino’s the organisation we are today. demonstrate continuous improvement over time, which
This document is a reflection of our Purpose and Values, means the measurements we use will be as important
and of the journey of continuous improvement we are as the targets we set. This will allow Domino’s, and
making to live up to those values. our stakeholders, to assess both the progress we are
making, and the outcomes we achieve.
At Domino’s, we have captured this approach in one
of our core values: ‘Do the right thing, because it is the We look forward to providing further updates to our
right thing to do’. Doing the right thing is not new to shareholders and communities on our progress.
Domino’s – throughout our history, we have provided
sponsorships, in-kind support and disaster relief; from
our stores, from Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd, and
Jack Cowin,
from our registered charity Give for Good. It has been a
Chairman Domino’s Pizza
source of pride for our team members knowing that in
times of disaster, Domino’s is the last kitchen to close, Enterprises Ltd.
and the first to reopen.
Doing the right thing includes taking care of our
Don Meij,
environment and what kind of food we source from our
CEO and Managing Director,
suppliers and serve to our customers. While we have
taken important steps in this field, such as transitioning Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd.
towards e-delivery and natural ingredients, we
increasingly recognised that we not only need to do the
right thing, but to also be transparent about our efforts
and the outcomes of these efforts. We believe that
with this report, we take another important step in that
direction and demonstrate the progress we have made
this financial year.
While we recognise there are some gaps in this
document: we intend to address these gaps moving
forward. It also reflects that Environmental, Social
and Governance (ESG) is an ongoing journey for
our company, with a commitment to continuous
improvement in everything we do.
2021 marked the start of a new phase in our efforts
to do the right thing. In the past couple of years, we
commenced consultations with investors and other
stakeholders on what they expect from us in this space.
These consultations have led us to better understand the
importance of a more strategic and structural approach
towards sustainability and measuring its progress in
a transparent way. For this reason, we determined to
present our sustainability efforts under the umbrella
of ESG criteria. To ensure the essence of these efforts
is easily understandable by all stakeholders, we have
called this approach: “Domino’s for Good”.
We understand there is an increasing desire to have a
sustainability report presented in one of the established
reporting frameworks. While there are many, and each
has its strengths, we will determine our approach after
a careful assessment of our different stakeholders’
expectations and what we consider most beneficial
5
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
EXECUTIVE
SUMMARY
Our people.
We made progress with our target to achieve proportional
gender distribution across our business, already reaching
our target at Board level and in our German market.
We have further integrated (workplace) safety into
our operations and undertook immediate actions on
COVID-19 to ensure the safety of our employees. We also
continued our efforts to ensure all our team members are
rewarded fairly, including ensuring the sustainability and
profitability of our franchisees.
Our food.
We achieved substantial progress in ensuring the quality
and sustainability of our food: we are the first company in
our industry to have achieved that all of our products are
free of artificial ingredients in Japan, this year we have
already reached 99% of our European markets’ 2022
target for food free of artificial colours and flavours, and
96% of our Australian menu is free of artificial additives.
Food safety remains our priority and despite COVID-19
challenges we continued our regular safety and quality
inspections at our stores. This year we also entered
into partnerships with animal welfare organisations and
signed the European Better Chicken Commitment.
Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd is the largest franchisee
of the Domino’s brand outside the United States of
America, operating almost 3,000 stores across nine
markets and three continents and employing 86,000
people across our corporate operations and our
franchised network combined. Strongly driven by our
Purpose to bring people closer and our drive to do the
right thing, because it is the right thing to do, we took
meaningful steps this year in further implementing ESG
into our business.
Important governance milestones this year are the
appointment of our first Group Chief ESG Officer, the
commencement our Corporate Footprint baseline
measurement, a revised Business Partner Code of
Conduct and publishing our first Modern Slavery
Statement.
Based on our 2019 ESG materiality assessment and
stakeholder consultations, we identified 20 materiality
topics that we divided among five pillars: our people,
our food, our customers, our environment and our
community. Out of the 20 materiality topics, we then
identified five topics that are considered most material
to us: food safety and quality, customer data privacy and
security, workplace safety, customer experience and
engagement and culture, ethics and trust. This report
provides an update on our progress this year for each
pillar and the five most material topics.
6
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Our customers.
In the past 12 months we served more than 29.88 million
unique customers, about 8.8% of the population of our
markets or about 21% of all households. Our global ESG
customer survey showed us that the vast majority of
our customers agree on the importance of ESG, and
they expect us to prioritise action on our food and our
environment. According to the survey we are taking the
right actions but need to inform our customers more
actively about our efforts. Our solid security strategy and
operations ensured the data privacy of our customers,
resulting in zero information security breaches or other
security breaches.
Our environment.
This year we commenced our global corporate footprint
baseline measurement which covers our greenhouse
gas emissions, our water impact, our impact on land
use change and the quality of ecosystem (biodiversity).
Based on this data we will set science-based targets and
develop an implementation strategy next year. E-delivery
has already become the dominant way of delivery in our
European markets and other markets have made good
progress. We have further progressed in reducing our
waste and the sustainability of our packaging, resulting in
a reduction in transport and carbon emissions.
Our community.
Our own charity Give for Good in Australia achieved a
milestone of 8 million customer microdonations, which
combined to deliver more than $2.4 million in donations,
that were invested in projects in education, disaster
relief, regional and rural communities and future leaders.
This year we successfully launched our Feed the Knead
program in several markets, with 400,000 donated
pizzas to those in need in Japan alone.
Moving forward.
Looking ahead at FY22 we intend to: ensure that we
have a global ESG vision and strategic approach; expand
our baseline measurement for all our five ESG pillars;
strengthen our understanding of ESG related legislative
requirements and risk management; and to communicate
and engage more on ESG with our key stakeholders.
...we are the first company in our
industry to have achieved that all
of our products are free of artificial
ingredients in Japan...
7
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
OUR
COMPANY
Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd is the largest franchisee
of the Domino’s brand outside the United States of
America, operating almost 3,000 stores across nine
markets: Australia, New Zealand, Belgium, France,
The Netherlands, Japan, Germany, Luxembourg, and
Denmark. In 2021, Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd
announced that it had reached a binding agreement
to acquire the rights to operate Domino’s stores in its
10th market, Taiwan. The Domino’s brand is owned by
Domino’s Pizza, Inc, a listed US company. Domino’s has
both corporate-owned and franchisee-owned stores.
Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd currently employs
86,000 people, across our nine markets and our
corporate operations and our franchised network
combined. In the past 12 months we served more than
29.88 million unique customers, about 8.8% of the
population of our markets or about 21% of all households.
Traditionally our people, from our store team members
to our head office employees, have sought to be
responsible community members, to provide employment
and serve our customers hot, fresh, quality meals every
day of the week and supporting our communities.
This first sustainability reports reflects the progress
we have made this year by bringing our Purpose and
Values further to life by serving the needs of all of our
stakeholders; our people, customers, communities,
shareholders and our external partners.
8
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
9
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Our Purpose
Consultations with our stakeholders in 2019 first identified After discussions with team members around the world
that Domino’s has not traditionally published the principles about who we are and why we exist, we concluded that
and expectations of our business. In October 2019, we pizza is a shared experience accessible to all. It answers
established our new Purpose and Values for all markets, an enduring human need - a need for connection in
which were released at our AGM in 2019, and are further the face of growing aloneness, fracturing communities,
explained below. increasing division and it solves that need by bringing
people together over the world’s best sharing food –
Our Purpose: Our pizza brings people closer
pizza, made accessible by Domino’s High Volume
We recognise that we are here to sell more pizza and
Mentality (HVM), see further explanation on the next page.
have more fun … but we also believe there is something
bigger we can all be a part of. With HVM, we smash the prevailing wisdom that says
you can’t have Quality, Speed and Affordability. We put
the world’s most delicious and versatile bonding food
within reach of every person.
Our Values
Our Purpose is accompanied by five core values that are instilled in our franchisees, store managers and team
members. We are confident that our Purpose and Values lead to stronger teams, stronger outcomes, and a stronger
business.
BE GENEROUS AND PROVIDE HELP PEOPLE GROW AND
JOYFUL EXPERIENCES PROSPER
Fun is in our DNA. It makes our people We make people better off:
happier. Helping them provide a joyful Team members, franchisees, our
customer experience. Our empathy, company, and the communities in
generosity and optimism are catching. which we live. We have a strong
They spread outwards - starting with entrepreneurial spirit. Balanced with
us. Crucial because we’re really selling a determination to give our team
happiness and connection - that just rewarding experiences, opportunities,
happens to come in pizza form. and a great place to work.
CRUSH CONVENTION DO THE RIGHT THING BECAUSE
We think outside-the-box and IT’S THE RIGHT THING TO DO
deliver experiences that make our We behave well, with a great
customers say, “How did they do sense of responsibility to our
that!” We defy the convention which team, our customers, communities,
identifies three main drivers: Fast, partners and investors. We hold
Affordable and Good Quality and ourselves to a high standard
believes you must settle for any two. of integrity - recognising how
We’re unbeatable when we deliver valuable, yet fragile, trust can be.
all three seamlessly.
Again. And again. And again.
INVEST TO CREATE DEVOTION
We want customers for life.
Our obsession is providing an
outstanding Domino’s experience.
Set the bar high - to delight the most WE RECOGNISE WE ARE
demanding people. HERE TO SELL MORE PIZZA
That guides everything we do - AND HAVE MORE FUN…
including the way we do innovation
BUT WE ALSO BELIEVE THERE
and efficiency programs and the
reason and way we use data. IS SOMETHING BIGGER WE
CAN ALL BE A PART OF.
10
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Business Model
Our senior management has deep experience in franchise operations, many
having previously been successful multi-unit franchisees themselves. As
a result, our business is passionate about the strengths of the franchising
model and the opportunities it creates for ambitious entrepreneurs and their
team members. At the core of our success is a proven pathway for talented
store managers to purchase their own stores, often with the support of their
franchisee or Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd.
Underpinning Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd is the business philosophy
High Volume Mentality (HVM). Rather than exporting flavour preferences
and menus to the world, Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd has exported High
Volume Mentality; training team members passionate about customer
service how HVM delivers benefits across the value chain.
High Volume Mentality is about identifying the barriers, physical or
attitudinal, to increasing sales throughout a small-footprint pizza kitchen.
By increasing sales, while keeping fixed and semi-fixed costs relatively low,
unit economics and franchisee profitability is enhanced, and the benefits of
increased efficiency can be passed on to customers. The result is a focus on
value: high quality meals, delivered safely and fast, at an affordable price.
It is exemplified by Domino’s value “Crush Convention” – every Domino’s
team member knows that customers don’t have to choose between fast,
high quality and affordable - at Domino’s customers can receive all three.
Supporting Domino’s growth over the past decade has been expertise in
digital delivery – serving record customer numbers, increasingly ordering
online, and often delivered directly to the customer’s home. Domino’s Pizza
Enterprises Ltd has embedded its OneDigital technology platform into each
of the markets it operates.
Domino’s competes with other pizza restaurants and quick service restaurants,
aiming to provide superior Product, Service and Image, at an affordable price.
More importantly, it competes with every opportunity a customer has to enjoy
a meal, whether another fast-food offering, a frozen or ready-to-eat meal, a
home cooked dinner, and even a night out at a restaurant.
Domino’s business is pizza – as is reflected in our Company’s purpose “Our
Pizza Brings People Closer”. Other meal offerings (side items) are frequently
ordered by customers, but these are typically to complement a pizza purchased
for a shared occasion with friends or loved ones. Popular side items vary by
market, but often include garlic bread, chicken dishes, desserts, and salads.
These offerings are prepared by Domino’s kitchens and designed for delivery.
This provides Domino’s stores a competitive advantage against other
businesses that seek to retrofit their offering to add delivery to their service,
having recognised the growing importance of convenience to their customers.
11
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Risk Management Our audit and risk management
committee (Committee) oversees
our company’s risk management
framework. The committee is
responsible for:
(a) e valuating the adequacy and
effectiveness of the corporate
reporting processes, including
internal financial and other
controls used by the Company to
ensure the accuracy and integrity
of all information provided to the
Board and to others outside the
Company; and
(b) w here the Committee considers
it necessary, enquiring into the
resources, systems, and controls
of the Company as they affect
the audit, financial management,
risk or compliance functions or
the integrity of the systems and
controls relating to those functions,
and will make any resulting
recommendations to the Board.
In this reporting year, we focused on
reviewing our existing controls and
risks related to Modern Slavery and
identifying opportunities to strengthen
controls in the future. This review
involved mapping controls for key
risk areas across our business units,
assessing the controls that we currently
have in place, and evaluating system
functionality and data quality. Greater
formalisation to consider Modern
Slavery risk within our procurements
across business units was identified
as a key area of improvement we will
focus on going forward.
12
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Our ESG approach
We truly believe in our Values and do our utmost to live
them every day. With respect to our ESG approach, we
have achieved important progress in determining what
‘doing the right thing’ means for Domino’s and how we
should integrate this in our business.
Important milestones this financial year are the
appointment of our first Group Chief ESG Officer, the
establishment of a global ESG working group, the start
of developing our ESG strategy and our Corporate
Footprint baseline measurement and tackling key
governance topics in several statements and policy
documents. The section below provides further details.
ESG governance structure
It is our strong belief that our ESG approach will Crucial to this is building an ESG governance structure
only be successful if we integrate this into the core that enables us to put our ambition into practice. Our
of our business and culture - from our Board to our governance structure is further explained below.
franchisees and team members in our stores.
BOARD COMPANY SECRETARY FRANCHISE STORES
The Board is responsible for guiding The company secretary is responsible In relation to our franchise stores, it
and monitoring us on behalf of our for advising on governance matters, is our strong preference to recruit
shareholders. The Board seeks to monitoring Board and committee franchisees from internal candidates.
identify regulatory obligations and policies and procedures, and other These candidates have a good
areas of significant business risk, responsibilities in co-ordinating understanding of our business and our
ensuring arrangements are in place board functions. Purpose and Values. We nevertheless
to adequately manage those risks. ensure we apply standard screening
MANAGEMENT UNDER LEADERSHIP
This includes monitoring compliance and onboarding procedures, which
OF SENIOR EXECUTIVES
with our Values and Codes of includes a franchisee training program,
Conduct and meeting our obligations Our management is responsible for to all candidates.
(for instance Modern Slavery as implementing strategic objectives, Our franchisee agreements mandate
was shown by the publishing of our day to day running of our company, compliance with respective market
Modern Slavery statement). and timely and accurate reporting labour legislation and standards.
to the Board. The Chief Executive
This financial year we also We also have monitoring and audit
Officer and the Global Leadership
established regional Boards to ensure procedures in place that, for instance,
Team are responsible for leading by
that the directors are more closely monitor if a store complies with our
example, instilling our Purpose and
connected to our business operations food quality standards. To ensure
Values throughout our business and
across our different markets. We have our standards are being met and to
for oversight of matters relating to
also broadened our Audit Committee. support our franchisees, franchisees
for instance Modern Slavery, ESG
It now specifically includes overseeing receive centralised support from head
risk management and compliance
our corporate risk. offices, including regular training and
and ESG reporting.
supply chain management services.
BOARD COMMITTEES
BUSINESS UNITS
While the board retains full
Most functions conduct their own
responsibility in discharging its
procurement, with oversight from
stewardship, it also makes use of
Finance and Corporate, and report
committees, including the nomination
on operations through established
and renumeration and audit and
risk committees. The audit and management channels.
risk committee, for instance, is
responsible for monitoring the culture
and effectiveness of the Group’s risk
and compliance, and internal controls
and systems.
13
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
ESG management
To further strengthen our
commitment towards ESG, we
appointed an inaugural group Chief
ESG Officer in February. The Chief
ESG Officer is a member of our
Global Leadership Team and directly
reports to our Group CEO.
Earlier on in this financial year we
also established a global ESG
working group, which consists of
representatives from each market.
The working group provides regular
updates to the Chief ESG Officer,
ensures company-wide alignment
and knowledge exchange, supports
with ESG data collection, and helps
to identify gaps in our ESG approach.
14
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
ESG strategy and framework
This financial year we have started to develop a global
ESG strategy and framework. A first important step is
determining our ESG vision and strategic focus for our
five ESG pillars (see further explanation in our materiality
assessment section on the next page). Our ESG vision
is currently being developed by the Global Leadership
Team in close consultation with key internal stakeholders
such as the ESG working group, regional department
heads, and franchisee and team member representatives
from our markets. As recognition of its importance to our
business, it will be approved by our Board and shared
with our communities.
Another milestone in developing our ESG strategy is
the commencement of our corporate footprint baseline
measurement project in May. As part of this project,
sustainability consulting firm Quantis is helping us
set Science Based Targets to address our corporate
footprint. This measurement not only looks at our
greenhouse gas emissions (carbon footprint), but also
includes other key environmental impact areas (see ‘Our
environment’ for further explanation). The first phase of
this project is to better understand our ESG hotspots,
which are determined by reviewing our 2019 materiality
assessment (see further information on the next page)
and conducting a global industry peer benchmark.
At the end of this financial year, we also initiated an ESG
customer survey in all of our markets with the objective
to better understand what consumers feel is important,
from an ESG perspective, and how we currently perform
in their view. More details on this are provided in the Our
customers section of this report.
Our ESG vision, combined with the outcome of our
corporate footprint baseline measurement, the ESG
materiality assessment review, peer benchmark and
customer survey will be our starting point in determining
appropriate targets and actions for the coming years.
ANOTHER MILESTONE
IN DEVELOPING OUR
ESG STRATEGY
15
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
This report explains the policies, targets and
results for each pillar in a separate chapter.
Materiality assessment
In 2019, we undertook a materiality assessment. The review identified 20 topics that could be considered
Our consultations included a wide-ranging review most material to us, which were initially classified
to identify areas of focus for our industry and peers; according to four ESG pillars outlined at our Annual
investor consultation through a survey and interviews; General Meeting in November 2019: Our Community,
engagement with Domino’s leadership; and an Our Environment, Our Food and Our People. In our
assessment of community expectations, including a last annual report, we introduced a fifth pillar “Our
thorough media analysis. Customers” as this better reflects our longstanding,
The purpose of this was to assess which of the many customer-centric approach. This report explains the
ESG priorities globally should be a strategic focus for policies, targets and results for each pillar in a separate
Domino’s. To determine this, the review considered chapter. The table below provides an overview of the
our Purpose and Values (and associated employee 2019 materiality assessment outcome.
expectations), as well as the expectations of investors,
customers and other community members.
2019 materiality assessment outcome –
20 most material topics classified
according to five pillars:
Our People Our Food
♦ Culture, ethics and trust ♦ Ethical sourcing
♦ Workforce labour rights and wage compliance ♦ Food nutrition
♦ Workplace diversity and inclusion ♦ Food safety and quality
♦ Workplace safety ♦ Food innovation
♦ Workplace health and wellbeing
♦ Talent attraction and retention Our Customers
♦ Franchisee engagement ♦ Customer data privacy and security
♦ Innovating for a digital future
Our Community ♦ Customer experience and engagement
♦ Community prosperity and local partnerships ♦ Marketing to children
Our Environment
♦ Animal welfare
♦ Energy efficiency and carbon footprint
♦ Waste reduction and sustainable packaging
♦ Water use
16
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
2019 materiality assessment outcome – Of the 20 topics, five topics can be considered
20 most material topics classified most material for us and our stakeholders combined,
according to five pillars: based on their importance and urgency:
Food safety and quality Customer experience and engagement
Ensuring our food safety and quality standards are Every customer wants their pizza made fresh and hot
world-class and that every team member in every country out of the oven. Meeting customer expectations and
understands the importance of safe food storage, improving satisfaction in the design and delivery of
preparation, and handling requirements. Progress is our products, services, and experiences. Progress is
explained in ‘Our food’. explained in ‘Our customers’.
Customer data privacy and security Culture, ethics and trust
Maintaining responsible management of information Conducting the business with ethics, integrity and in
technology as we grow our digital capabilities to protect compliance with our Values and with the law. Developing
the privacy of workforce, operations and customer a positive working environment through engaging and
information and maintain defences against cyber security supporting our workforce, franchisees, and business
breaches. Progress is explained in ‘Our customers’. partners. Progress is explained in several sections of this
report, including ‘Our company’ and ‘Our people’.
This year, our report includes the first quantifiable updates
Workplace safety
and targets on these five priority topics as is explained in
Protecting and promoting the safety of our employees,
the next chapters.
franchisees, and contractors through enabling a strong
safety culture supported by risk management, systems
and processes, and the tone from the top. Progress is
explained in ‘Our people’.
17
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Our commitment
to responsible
business conduct
Our Values underpin our commitment to ensure fair
and ethical standards through every channel of our
value chain and business on a daily basis. We want
to collaborate with our partners based on mutual
respect, transparency, and trust. To further strengthen
our commitment and ensure our partners’ commitment
towards responsible business conduct, we formalised
our obligations in a number of key policy instruments
which include, but are not limited to:
♦ Our Company Governance Code of Conduct
♦ Our Business Partner Code of Conduct
♦ Our Whistleblower Policy
These policy documents are further explained in the
next sections.
Company Governance Code of Conduct Business Partner Code of Conduct
Our Governance Code of Conduct (Code) outlines the This year we revised our Business Partner Code of Conduct
standards of behaviour in the workplace that we expect (BP Code). This BP Code outlines our Values and our e
of each employee on a range of issues to promote a xpectations of our business partners, and their supply chain,
culture of fair and ethical behaviour. in providing any goods and services to Domino’s Pizza
Enterprises Ltd. It more specifically sets out our expectations
The Code sets the standard to which each director,
for our business partners on human rights, diversity and
executive and employee must adhere while conducting
non-discrimination, environmental management, workplace
their duties, and is supported by our Whistleblower
health and safety, business integrity, anti-bribery and
Policy. The Code states that unlawful or unethical
corruption, and animal welfare. Together with our business
behaviour must be reported, and that the identity of the
partners, we aim to achieve continuous improvement in
reporting individual will remain confidential. The Board
our business operations and value chain, while respecting
has responsibility to investigate, and take appropriate
that our suppliers are independent businesses and the
action in relation to, all complaints or allegations which
exclusive employers to their employees.
indicate that there may be illegal or unethical conduct by
the company or any of its employees. We expect and request our business partners to hold
their supply chain, including any subcontractors or third-
The objectives of this policy are to guide behaviour,
party labour agencies, to the same standards contained
enhance investor confidence in our company, and to
in our BP Code.
demonstrate our commitment to ethical standards and
practices. As an example, we returned $700,000 of Job Next financial year we will further embed our BP Code in
Keeper funding to the Australian government this year, our procurement processes globally. Also, we will revise
because we did not believe receiving this money would standard contracts and terms and conditions globally
be the right thing to do for our company to align with our BP Code. It is our intention to annually
review our Code.
18
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Human Rights and Modern Slavery
We respect Human Rights as set out in the United Nations Universal Declaration of
Human Rights and recognise the International Labour Standards maintained by the
International Labour Organization (ILO), which is further described in our BP Code.
This year we specifically focussed on improving our understanding of Modern Slavery
in our value chain and prioritizing our actions on this important topic, as is further
explained below.
Modern Slavery
This year we conducted our first In relation to our own workforce,
Modern Slavery risk assessment we have had a significant focus on
across our operations and supply underpayment of wages in the last
chains, and we submitted our first few years, particularly for casual and
Modern Slavery statement, which part-time employees in our franchise
was published on the Australian stores in Australia. In minor cases, we
Modern Slavery Register in May. have found inadvertent underpayment
In preparing for our first Modern due to technical issues with award
Slavery Statement, our risk rates applied or isolated cases of not
assessments and internal engagement reporting overtime worked, which
focused predominantly on our were rectified. More severe cases
Australian operations and supply have involved deliberate coercion and
chains. In future years we will assess illegal underreporting of hours worked
risks across other geographies. in order to save on franchisee labour
costs. We take these matters very
According to this year’s Modern
seriously and are aware that instances
Slavery risk assessment for our
of underpayment can be indicators of
Australian operations, approximately
more severe labour exploitation.
2% of suppliers, corresponding
to around 7% of our procurement We have undertaken significant
spend, fell into a high priority work in 2020 to identify our Modern
category , which were rated as Slavery risks and review our current
both high risk magnitude and high risk management framework and are
leverage. We will focus on these committed to continuing to develop
higher risk suppliers for further our approach into the future. We are
engagement on Modern Slavery exploring options to better assess
to reduce and manage risk. These effectiveness of our Modern Slavery
suppliers mostly provide goods risk management as part of the action
with agricultural inputs, primarily plan we will develop in FY22.
pizza ingredients, as well as printing
consumables and packaging,
uniforms, and appliances.
19
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Anti-bribery and corruption
Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd and its subsidiaries We also have adopted an Anti-Bribery and Corruption
are committed to preventing bribery and corruption; Policy, which sets out a number of matters for our Board
operating within the laws of each jurisdiction in which and all of our employees. A copy of the Company’s
we do business and respecting the Organisation for Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy can be found on the
Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Company’s website – see: https://investors.dominos.com.
Convention on Combating Bribery and the US Foreign au/corporate-governance.
Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibit us or any business The Board will receive periodic reports containing
partners from making a payment to a foreign official summary information in relation to concerns raised under
with a corrupt motive in order to gain or keep business. the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy. This may include,
We are committed to operating in a way that is for example, a summary of the number, nature and
consistent with our Governance Code of Conduct and outcome of matters that have been raised under Anti-
the expectations of shareholders. We also expect the Bribery and Corruption Policy. The Board may also be
same standards from our business partners as is further provided with additional information about any material
explained in our BP Code. incidents raised.
20
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Via our wage assistance
hotline in Australia/New
Zealand, we received 48
complaints this year.
Whistleblower protection
We are committed to whistleblower protection as outlined
in our Whistleblower Policy. We protect whistleblowers
and encourage them to raise any concerns they have
around their employment or in their business relationships
with us. Our Whistleblower Policy sets out our commitment
to a culture of corporate compliance, honest and ethical
behaviour, and strong corporate governance and the
Reportable Conduct Procedure where stakeholders may
notify us on a Reportable Conduct.
This financial year our Whistleblower protection system
and Wage Assistance Hotline were fully in place in
Australia and New Zealand. Our other markets have
finalised their Whistleblower Policy and reporting system
(Germany, Japan) at the end of this year or are in the final
stages of formalising their respective local Whistleblower
policies and reporting system according to the applicable
local market legislation (France, The Netherlands,
Belgium, Luxemburg, Denmark).
Whistleblower complaints Australia New Zealand Total
FY20 51 2 53
FY21 42 6 48
21
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
OUR
PEOPLE
Our company has grown rapidly over the past few years. some markets leading the way in innovative ideas whilst
We currently employ 86,000 people, across our nine other markets are still developing into their own. It is our
markets and our corporate operations and our franchise intention to further align our people and culture policy
network combined. We are a people focused business across all of our markets and develop this towards a
and we are committed to providing our people in all of global standard. Nevertheless, we ensure that all of our
our markets with a safe, fair and equitable workplace markets maintain our key employment standards and
with competitive conditions and benefits. Currently, work towards achieving the same global targets. This
each of our markets are at different maturity levels with chapter provides further details.
Our workplace supports equal
opportunities and non-discrimination
At Domino’s, we have always been about bringing Domino’s is proud to be an equal opportunity employer
people closer; breaking down barriers and connecting and is committed to eliminating discrimination and
communities through the world’s best bonding food. fostering inclusion throughout the workforce.
We believe that to do this our business must accurately This year we made substantial progress in strengthening
reflect the communities in which we operate, with our commitments and actions towards safeguarding an
employees from all backgrounds and walks of life. inclusive culture.
Domino’s is committed to proportional gender distribution
In November 2020, Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd committed to achieving gender
equity for the Board, Global Leadership Team and country/regional leadership,
with a target of achieving 40% Female, 40% Male and 20% any gender
representation by 2030. The commitments below further formalised this target:
30 Percent Club: We had previously joined the 30 Percent Club, whose global
mission is to reach at least 30 per cent representation of all women on all boards.
40:40 vision: In 2020 we pledged our support for 40:40 Vision, regarding
achieving gender balance in leadership roles within the business by 2030.
We also comply with the Workplace Gender Equality Act and report our
performance in this area to the Workplace Gender Equality Agency.
We are committed to making our plans public to employees, shareholders,
investors and the business community and to report annually on how we are
tracking against our targets, as shown in this sustainability report.
breaking down barriers and
connecting communities
through the world’s best
bonding food.
22
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
PROGRESS RESULTS
This year we surpassed our target at Board level, and we
made progress on our Global Leadership Team, European
Leadership team and our ANZ leadership team level (see
graph below). We also made progress on improving gender
diversity at other levels. Key highlights are:
Non-Executive Director (NED) Managers (Head Office) – Germany Corporate Store Managers – overall
representation improved 10% from has 60% female representation results have improved from 17% to
40% in January 2020 to 50% in followed by ANZ and France, with 20% in 2021 with great improvement
January 2021. Leadership Team – good improvement in ANZ and shown in ANZ with an increase from
we have split out the Global LT from France over the last 12 months. 14% to 21% in 2021.
the ANZ LT and included a category
of European LT and Denmark.
Franchisees – globally we have Drivers/Instore – we have seen a
Denmark leads the pack with 60%
improved representation from 10% large improvement from 2020 – with
representation, followed by Benelux
to 12% in 2021 – with Japan having an increase from 12% to 20% with
on 30%, France 25% and ANZ 25%.
its first female franchisee join in notable improvement in Germany
December 2020. (increased from 10% to 25%).
% Female Leaders
Leadership team & non executive directors
43 %
Non-Executive
Directors 50 %
11 %
Global LT
14 %
0 %
Japan LT
0 %
29 %
Europe LT
29 %
27 %
ANZ LT
25 %
0 % 10 % 20 % 30 % 40 % 50 %
August 2021
February 2021
23
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Domino’s takes action to stimulate diversity and inclusion
NEW DOMINOID
Employment at Domino’s is based solely on a person’s Under the Anti-Discrimination Act, and through our
merit and professional competence. Domino’s does not Governance Code of Conduct and induction training, we
discriminate against any employee or applicant because are very clear that discrimination on the grounds of age,
of race, age, religion, gender, sexual orientation, disability, disability and ethnicity is prohibited in all our workplaces.
marital status, or any other basis protected by law. Because Harassment and abusive behaviour are also prohibited at
@HEAD Q UARTER
it’s the differences in who we are, what we’ve experienced, Domino’s as emphasised through training, work contracts
and how we think that makes our business stronger. And, and our Governance Code of Conduct.
more importantly, because it’s the right thing to do.
And, more importantly,
because it’s the
right thing to do.
WORKPLACE GENDER EQUALITY ACT 2012: AUSTRALIA
In Australia, non-public sector employers with 100 or The latest report submitted by Domino’s shows
more employees are required to submit an annual report improvement in some gender pay gaps and female
to the Workplace Gender Equality Agency. The aim of management promotions, however, in our largest
the Agency is to develop a detailed picture of the state workforce (labourers) the wage gap has increased
of gender equality in Australian organisations. Australia between male/females. Focus is now on this area to gain
is currently finalising their 2020/2021 report. This report a deeper understanding of what is occurring in this group
includes head office and corporate store staff as well as and develop strategies to address this.
our two subsidiaries – Construction, Supply and Service
and IPG Marketing Solutions.
24
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
This year several global and market
initiatives took place to foster an
inclusive culture. The markets for
instance organised several events,
initiated diversity teams and several
team member focused female and
LGBTIQ networks were established.
INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAY
(IWD) 2021: GLOBAL
The 2021 theme for IWD was
#ChoosetoChallenge, which set the
tone for an online social campaign
that saw individuals raise their hand
to show commitment in calling out
inequality and to help forge an
inclusive world. The ANZ People &
Culture team coordinated two virtual
IWD events on 8 March 2021 and
more than 200 employees tuned
into the events. Prior to the event,
employees were asked to take a
picture of themselves raising their
hand as a commitment to choosing
to challenge (see image). Two
hundred photos were submitted from
team members in Japan and ANZ.
NEW DOMINOID
@HEAD Q UARTER
25
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Employee
engagement
Although our team members are
spread across the globe and do not
always speak the same language, we
believe they are all part of our unique
Domino’s culture and team spirit.
In order to engage with our
colleagues and to stay connected to
the brand, we traditionally organize
annual rallies in several markets.
Due to COVID-19 restrictions this
was not possible this year, our 2021
annual ANZ Rally was therefore held
virtually with Rally parties held across
Australia and New Zealand. Last
year The Netherlands also hosted
a successful virtual Rally and Award
show, see case study.
To further ensure we are doing office/commissary employees and which is the target. Once the results
the right things for our people, some store-based staff In Japan, are available, Managers share
we measure our employees’ Germany and Denmark. The results scores with their teams and create
engagement via bi-annual (Glint) are displayed as a positive or action plans to improve applicable
engagement surveys in each negative score when compared areas. This year’s engagement
market. The survey covers all head to the global benchmark standard, results are displayed below.
Netherlands/
Country ANZ Japan France Germany Denmark*
Belgium
Employee
Satisfaction 76 % 64 % 78 % 89 % 74 % 47 %
Rating
Response
90 % 85 % 66 % 66 % 65 % 15 %
Rate
Benchmark 72 % 72 % 72 % 72 % 72 % 72 %
* Denmark do not use Glint, however, they run team member surveys twice a year via Survey Monkey.
We have seen improvement in employee satisfaction in a majority of markets, noting that there is a natural bias in
Japan to score lower in engagement surveys compared to other countries. We are working hard to improve results in
markets where the response rate or employee satisfaction rating are below benchmarks. In FY 22 we plan to expand
the survey to include store-based employees where possible.
26
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Celebrating
our people
The people of Domino’s are our strength –
celebrating the success and lesson of our best,
helps to make our teams stronger.
Unfortunately, bringing people together physically
often isn’t the right thing to do during COVID-19 –
but our people decided this shouldn’t be a barrier to
some of our most anticipated group events.
In multiple countries this year Domino’s Pizza
Enterprises Ltd organised virtual events, which
brought our pizza closer, albeit remotely.
In the Netherlands, our team organised a complete,
internally-focused, television show – with the studio
audience limited to award winners and fastest pizza
maker contestants who had returned a negative
COVID-19 test.
The result, shared online, was three hours of
entertainment and Domino’s culture – available to
every team member in the country.
A Domino’s ‘Rally’ is a key of our culture – an in-
person conference that is part-awards show, part-
rock concert, part-sports event (including a race to
make Domino’s fastest pizza).
In Australia/New Zealand, the team delivered the full
Rally experience from a purpose-built television studio
in head office – streamed to homes, hotels and
conference rooms across Australia and New Zealand.
No component was missed – ANZ Rally 2021:
FORWARD featured on-demand workshops by
top performing franchisees, presentations by the
business’ leaders, and even a motivational speaker
who rallied our team members.
Domino’s online events are a clear example of
our team crushing convention to overcome the
challenges of COVID-19.
27
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Help people grow
and prosper
We invest in our people to ensure they are A key strength of the Domino’s system is our
motivated and have access to training and proven success in identifying talented pizza
development opportunities. We believe we store managers and assisting them to purchase
aren’t just a pizza business – we are a people their first franchised store and to provide
business. We see it as our responsibility that profit share structures that allow a franchisee
a wobble-boarder, pizza maker or delivery to access capital that may not be available
expert of today has the opportunity, tools, and through traditional banks until they have
resources to become a leader of tomorrow as expanded their business.
so many have before them.
Our People Development strategy is built on
three core principles:
1. For many, Domino’s is their entry into the
workforce. We must ensure they develop
skills and attitudes that enable them to
prosper inside and outside our company.
2. Every team member must be provided the
opportunity to develop and grow.
3. We must identify and accelerate the
development of hungry, talented team
members and invest in their leadership
journey.
28
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Our COVID-19 Response
The COVID-19 pandemic placed unprecedented demands on
our operations across the globe. At Domino’s our primary focus
has been on the safety of our customers and team members.
Some of the immediate actions we undertook included:
♦ Ensuring social distancing requirements were met in all our
People health
workplaces
and safety ♦ Providing our office-based team members with flexible work
arrangements
♦ Introducing zero contact delivery (ZCD) and take-away
services, including car park delivery
♦ Enhanced cleaning and sanitisation in our workplaces
At Domino’s, we are committed to
♦ Provision of appropriate personal protective equipment to our
providing a safe and healthy work
team members
environment for all team members,
franchisees, contractors, and visitors
by promoting a positive attitude
toward health and safety as part of
our business undertakings.
We continue our safety journey by Workplace Safety
focusing on the health and safety
of all our team members. Safety
One of the challenges of operating across different countries
is integrated into our operations
and markets is the difference in measuring safety performance.
globally through dedicated safety
We are working with each of our teams in these markets to
professionals and as a responsibility
standardise reporting. This will be a key focus in FY22, and
of all our leaders and managers.
we hope to be able to share global reporting in our next
With a globally dispersed workforce sustainability report.
we are conscious of the work health
For FY21 we did not have any workplace accident resulting in
and safety legislation and framework
the death of a team member – a statistic we will work hard to
in each of the countries that we
achieve every year.
operate within.
We have invested in several
initiatives to promote safety in our ROAD SAFETY INITIATIVES
workplace including the rollout We are aware of the potential dangers our drivers encounter
of our GPS Driver Tracker across on the road and have initiated several projects and policies
many of our markets together with to enhance the safety of our employees. Domino’s Pizza
the introduction of safe systems of Enterprises Ltd Australia and New Zealand for instance
work and work health and safety increased enforcement relating to its Speeding and Safe Driving
programs. Compliance Policy in January 2021. The policy had been in
place from April 2015, with local franchisees taking action
against speeding drivers as appropriate. A dedicated resource
at Head Office was appointed in December 2020 to monitor the
enforced policy based on speed detection reports generated
from the GPS Driver Tracker system.
The policy is designed to ensure appropriate disciplinary action
is taken when a team member is detected travelling more than
15km/h over the speed limit, including not allowing drivers back
on the road if a speeding breach is detected on shift.
NEXT STEPS
Workplace safety is a key issue for us to manage, both in the
short and long term. It has become apparent that not all relevant
safety incidents are reported to Domino’s Pizza Enterprises
Ltd, in some cases, because these are reported directly to
government, in others, due to local privacy laws. Regardless,
what gets measured, gets managed. Our next steps in improving
our management of workplace safety, therefore, includes:
♦ Implementing and reviewing a health and safety policy and
corporate strategy on a global level.
♦ Establishing robust reporting structures for work related
incidents (from our offices, corporate stores to franchisees) to
gain confidence that all incidents are captured and reported.
♦ Ensuring employees and franchisees are appropriately
trained in relation to health and safety.
♦ Undertaking risk assessments and updating when necessary.
♦ Undertaking internal and external audits of the safety
management system, and reporting on the number and
percentage of employees covered by the system.
29
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Employee rights and
payment
We ensure that our labour standards ensure that we comply with local and For example, employees are
are fair and equitable and at least international laws and regulations frequently attracted to casual store-
meet or exceed ILO standards, and regarding forced labour, child labour based roles because they provide
comply with both local laws and and children’s rights. flexibility around study, and we give
regulations and local standards. A Domino’s also works hard to provide employees input into rosters, which
large part of our workforce consists our people with secure employment accommodate their personal needs
of young people, it is our priority to that is flexible for individual needs. outside of the workplace.
Wage compliance
We support freedom of association and the right to We conduct regular inspections in our stores to ensure
collective bargaining for all our employees. Depending the (franchise) stores meet our strict compliance criteria.
on the market, either government mandates wages or The table below shows the number of inspections and
collective bargaining agreements apply. compliance breaches in the last two years. It is important
Domino’s is a people business, so we ensure our team to note that not all compliance breaches relate to the
members are rewarded fairly for their contribution with deliberate underpayment of wage. For example, this
a living wage. Some countries require a ‘minimum’ or may relate to requirements to document changes to an
‘award’ wage, that we meet, or exceed. employee’s rostering arrangements, or to keep records
relating to any agreed payroll deductions. However,
Since 2014, we have been proactively working with
Domino’s intends to be best practice in our industry, so
franchisees and within our corporate-owned stores to
each is taken seriously and addressed as part of the
reduce the risk of labour rights issues in our operations,
compliance program.
including underpayment. Our franchisees are required
to operate in full compliance with all applicable laws and Domino’s takes a strict approach to workplace
regulations and to uphold the Domino’s brand values as obligations: where a franchisee is identified as
part of our agreement with them. The Sub-Franchisee deliberately underpaying team members, action can
Agreement mandates compliance with employment law include termination of a franchise agreement. Domino’s
and we provide training in accordance with these laws. has policies in place to ensure team members affected
receive their due entitlements as part of this process.
WAGE COMPLIANCE AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND
Investigations undertaken
FY20 274 121
FY21 101 44
Number of inspections performed
FY20 220 21
FY21 375 30
Compliance breaches
FY20 121 10
FY21 94 7
Franchisees terminated
FY20 7 0
FY21 3 0
Wages recovered and paid to team members
FY20 AUD $160,176 NZ $5,444
FY21 AUD $192,512 NZ $22,535
30
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
We provide secure employment
When it comes to business structure and staffing We are working towards a global HR solution that will
requirements, we work within legislative frameworks enable us to report on turnover using common levels and
around business restructuring. There have been no large- coverage of our head office and corporate store team
scale redundancy programs in recent years. We are focused members. At present our systems are disaggregated
on providing continuous employment as far as possible. and we are unable to report this data using a common
For example, when store closures occur, we arrange framework.
wherever possible for redeployment to other stores.
In addition, while Domino’s does engage with a number
of external delivery services, only Domino’s delivers –
every time a customer orders a Domino’s meal, it is
prepared and delivered by our team members, not third-
party contractors.
we ensure our team members
are rewarded fairly for
their contribution
31
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Franchisee profitability
Shared success is key to the growth of Domino’s Pizza On an individual store level, Domino’s will provide financial
Enterprises Ltd, both the growth to date, and for the support (for example rental support) where local trading
future. Franchisee sustainability and profitability is at the conditions require – for example where a shopping
core of this approach, and Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd centre is undergoing refurbishment and reducing foot
management and the Board receive regular updates on traffic. At a market level, Domino’s will from time-to-time
franchisee profitability. Franchisees are either required provide targeted support, which can be linked to specific
(where local regulations allow), or encouraged, to submit operational or network improvement goals.
monthly profit and loss statements. Domino’s also tracks, These can include incentives for improved customer
on a daily basis, the average cost of goods measured satisfaction scores, reduced average delivery times, as
against menu and promotional prices. just two examples. This year, management in Australia/
This calendar year Domino’s has published, for the first New Zealand determined additional incentives would be
time, aggregated group franchisee profitability with established to reward franchisees determined to grow
the release of the Full Year Market presentation. It is their store networks as is further explained in the case
proposed this will be updated on a semi-annual basis. study on our Ignite Project.
32
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Project Ignite
Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Limited has introduced “Our overall goal is to accelerate our growth and
Project Ignite, a multi-million dollar stimulus package to optimise our store operations. Project Ignite allows us
drive store growth and profitability. The announcement to grow our business through customer acquisition,
will help solidify the success of our franchisees well equipment, and investing in our people,” Mr. So said.
into the future as we strive towards the target of 1,200 Franchisees Nathan Quiring and Vanessa Van Der Ryst
stores in Australia and New Zealand by 2025-28. currently own and operate six stores across New South
The four-year program commenced on 1 July 2021, Wales and recently opened their first new store in
delivering a decrease in operating costs for our Woolgoolga.
franchisees and introducing incentives to open new “The reduced costs of building a new store, coupled
stores in opportunity markets. with the Option Deed interest rate covering some
Franchisees Stefan and Susan So have already principal when executed were most exciting to us. This
taken advantage of the program to expand their means we can grow our store count whilst maintaining
network from three to five stores with their sights a profitable business model,” Ms. Van Der Ryst said.
set on adding another two. Reinvestment in our franchisees illustrates Domino’s
dedication to live by our Values: to help people grow
and prosper, invest to create devotion, and do the
right thing, because it’s the right thing to do.
33
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
OUR
FOOD
Our food philosophy: Food quality:
food without regret targets and results
What people put in their bodies matters. It is our belief In more recent years we have achieved further progress
that in order to truly serve our customers, we need to and improved the quality of our food under the umbrella
provide good food that is also still an indulgence. Good of what we call ‘Our food philosophy’. As part of this
food for us means food that is good for our bodies, our philosophy, in 2019 we set the following target for our
customers, for our people, and for our environment. European markets:
Our customers tell us they appreciate our food because it is
a treat, an indulgence with which they celebrate milestones,
We want to achieve 100% clean label by the end of 2022
connect with friends, and reward themselves after exercise.
We intend to do this by ensuring:
We want to ensure that our food remains an indulgence,
with rich flavours, but nevertheless we believe that we 1. G ood food quality: We believe that to really enjoy our
can offer indulgent health, where these rich flavours pizzas, all ingredients have to be sourced in an honest
need not come at the expense of health or quality. way and they have to be real. Therefore, we strive for
authentic, natural food and work towards making
For some time, we have demonstrated we are
good quality products that are 100% free of artificial
responsive to customers’ taste and dietary preferences.
additives. From dough to topping.
For example, when reducing fat was a customer priority,
we made huge strides with reducing fat while retaining 2. S ustainable choices: What good food means is
flavour. We worked hard to remove preservatives, and individual and based on personal interests, mood and
celebrated “the taste of colour”, with menu changes that moment. That is why we offer a choice for everyone.
customers loved across multiple markets. We have a wide range of pizzas. With or without
meat, extra vegetables or 100% vegan. Our menu is
We worked to create gluten-free crusts, adapted to be
still growing with other dishes and more sustainable
one of the first quick service restaurants to offer vegan
options.
cheeses, doughs and proteins. All these initiatives lifted
the quality of our food, made it taste better, made it 3. T ransparency: By being transparent about our
better for the customer, made us more relevant and, products, the ingredients, and the nutritional value, we
therefore, separated us from the pack. In the process, help our customers to make their own choice.
in many cases, customers were happy to reward us for 4. Ethical sourcing: We strive for ethical sourcing of
these products. our ingredients and take environmental and social
Sustainability in our food and the ingredients we use impacts into account when sourcing our products.
begins with farmers and their practices. It is important Our products are locally sourced where currently
for us to understand their processes and help support feasible and beneficial. Together with our partners
them to find ways to be more sustainable for the long- and suppliers, we are working for better welfare
term. We also work with our direct suppliers to support standards for chicken, pork, beef and tuna. Our shared
and encourage sustainable and ethical sourcing expectations are included in our recently updated BP
practices throughout our whole supply chain. In Europe, Code of Conduct.
for instance, our Chocolate Lava Cakes consist of UTZ
sustainably sourced Cacao as of April 2021.
We are proud of the milestones we have achieved, at the
Initiatives to implement this approach include our same time, we realize that there is still more to do: Product
Business Partner Code of Conduct, Supply Agreements, innovation is a continuous journey, see case study.
ingredient initiatives (for example, the Roundtable on
Sustainable Palm Oil), and continuous supplier reviews.
34
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Our Food
Philosophy:
clean menu
The food philosophy team in Europe is on a mission to
exclusively use authentic and natural ingredients and
achieve a “clean-label” menu by the end of 2022.
The concept of clean-label ingredients means using
products that are 100% free from artificial flavours,
colours and preservatives.
This ambitious goal was set back in 2017 and
redefined in 2019, presenting challenges for storage,
logistics and the use of certain cheese ingredients.
Domino’s stores across the Netherlands, Belgium,
France and Germany collaborated with suppliers on
product testing and are well placed to achieve 99% of
our target by the end of 2021. Domino’s Netherlands
currently leads the way with a 92% clean-label menu.
A simple process of continual evaluation and refinement,
coupled with the desire to consistently transform the
most challenging products to a clean-label standard,
have been key to the progress of this initiative.
Multigrain dough, veggi
chrunchy chicken and
Veggironi.
99% of out menu is
Our core products:
free from artificial
dough, cheese, sauce and 100% pure menu: free
colours and flavour.
vegetable are 100% free across all own products &
from artificial colours, Partnership with CIWF ingredients, of artificial
Reduction of salt: flavours and preservatives. Expand vegetarian and vegan and sign the Better preservatives.
salt is purely functional. options with introduction of Chicken commitment.
plant based chicken. Roadmap and standards
for pork, beef and tuna.
Introduction
Consumer communication: Nutri Score.
Domino’s tastes 5x better to
Introduction vegan Next step clean menu explain more about our food. Expand Domino’s plant
cheese and vegan other ingredients and based options: Veggi
pizza’s. toppings: 85% of our Chrunchy Chicken (V-DCC)
menu is clean label. and Veggironi.
We have also worked hard to reduce the use of artificial colours, flavours and preservatives in other markets.
In Japan all pizzas and side items are completely free of artificial preservatives, flavours and colours since May
this year. This makes Domino’s Pizza Japan the first in our industry to ensure that all of our products are free of
artificial ingredients. In Australia, 96% of our menu is free of artificial additives.
In recent years we have made significant improvements in reducing the fat and sodium content of our products
in all markets. We also do not include any genetically modified organisms (GMO) products in our food. Our pizza
dough is vegan friendly, free of sugar, and GMO and MSG (monosodium glutamate) free.
Some other food improvements we have delivered include, in Australia:
♦ • A 25 per cent decrease in the fat content of our cheese.
♦ • A 40 per cent decrease in the fat content of our seasoned chicken.
♦ • A 60 per cent reduction in the fat content of our ham.
Our strong preference is to not use palm oil in our food. However, if used we ensure it is 100% sustainably
sourced and meets the standards of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO).
We do not contribute to the depletion of global fishing stocks, instead using farm-grown seafood where
possible. Where seafood is wild-caught, for example Tuna, we only buy seafood that does not use ‘fish
aggregator devices’ (FAD-free Tuna) that reduces bycatch.
We are proud of the quality of our products, and we are always seeking out opportunities for continuous
improvement. A great achievement in this space is for instance the PETA Vegan award we received for our
vegan pizza in Germany, see case study.
35
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
PETA Vegan award
and Four Paws Atlas
Challenge
Domino’s Germany has partnered with leading animal
welfare organisation, Vier Pfoten (Four Paws), to
permanently offer a vegan or vegetarian pizza option
with every third or fourth promotional campaign.
Domino’s Germany has already incorporated the
change into its July 2021 promotion even though
full implementation is only scheduled for 2024.
The shift has seen meat and fish reduced in
special promotion pizzas by 25-33%, with
increases in plant-based alternatives. The
product development team has successfully
kept quality and taste at the forefront with
the new creations, ensuring that the new
vegetarian and vegan pizzas can be enjoyed
by all, regardless of dietary preference.
The initiative culminated in Domino’s
Germany’s Vegan BBQ pizza being
awarded the crown of ‘Best Vegan
Pizza’ in the 2021 PETA Vegan Food
Awards. The accolade has inspired
renewed motivation within the team to
continue exploring new and innovative
vegetarian and vegan products.
36
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Food safety
Food safety is a priority for all of our team members every Despite COVID-19 related movement restrictions, Domino’s
day, and Domino’s has a strong track record in food operations team members have kept up a regular pace
safety. A comprehensive food safety program operates of food safety, quality and hygiene inspections. The table
in every market, which is supported by additional, below displays the data that we recorded this year, there
independent audits conducted by Domino’s Pizza Inc. are some variances in recordings between markets as not
Our internal audit team conducts regular audits according all markets currently record the inspections in the same way.
to our Domino’s Operations Evaluation Report (OER) system,
Food Safety/Hygiene inspections and Quality inspections.
Australia New Japan France Belgium* Netherlands Germany Denmark Luxemburg*
Zealand
Number
of store
inspections
FY20 5332 929 2197 1524 - 1145 2802 19 -
FY21 5651 1148 2453 3501 - 1132 2707 98** -
Inspections
per store
FY20 7.6 7.0 3.72 8 - 6 8.9 2.4 -
FY21 7.9 8.3 4.01 8 - 7 7.7 6 -
*No data available (yet). ** Half year data per 1/1/21
In addition to regular food safety inspections, Domino’s We also have thorough traceability and product recall
operations teams will respond rapidly to issues of systems in all the markets in which we operate. In
concern raised from customers and the community, addition, all Domino’s commissaries are third party
taking swift action while any concern is investigated. certified to FSSC (Food Safety System Certification)
This system ensures objectivity in identifying issues and 22000, have Five-Star certification and certification by
opportunities for continuous improvement. We have Domino’s Pizza International.
rigorous processes in place to identify any food quality Lastly, our thorough Hazard Analysis and Critical Control
issues (even where not a food safety issue). Point (HACCP) plan assures product safety for our customers.
37
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Supplier quality and audit Animal welfare
All our suppliers complete a supplier approval Our BP Code of Conduct outlines our strong expectations
questionnaire. Suppliers considered ‘high risk’ are of our suppliers when it comes to animal welfare.
audited every one-to-two years and ‘medium risk’ are All markets adhere to local laws regarding animal welfare
audited every two-to-three years. All suppliers are standards. In some markets, work is advancing to introduce
required to have HACCP or equivalent food safety animal welfare measures that are better than industry
certification, which ensures third party auditing takes standard. In Europe, for example, we entered into
place as well. Domino’s does not audit indirect suppliers, partnerships with animal welfare organisations,
however, our suppliers require their own suppliers to including the Four Paws in Germany (see case study)
have HACCP/Food Safety Certifications in place. and Compassion in World Farming (CIWF), through their
Domino’s approach to non-compliance, is that where Better Chicken Commitment (BCC) to address concerns
problems are detected, automatic termination of contracts about animal welfare, sustainability, and food safety, see
is not the best outcome. This is especially true regarding case study. In other markets we are in discussions with
human or labour rights issues, as contract termination is relevant animal welfare bodies.
known to result in poor outcomes for vulnerable parties in
the supply chain. Domino’s response in the first instance
is to work with suppliers to rectify any non-compliance
issues identified through regular audits.
Reporting on incidents and their follow-up is part of
Domino’s recall plans and where non-compliance is
identified, all suppliers and distribution centres have
recall procedures in place.
38
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Better Chicken
Commitment
Doing the right thing has always been central to our Values
and is highlighted in Domino’s Europe’s partnership with animal
welfare organisation, Compassion in World Farming (CIWF).
The partnership, commenced in November 2020, will deliver
better welfare standards for animals and commit new sourcing
standards for our European stores by 2026.
All stores across Europe are now signatories to CIWF’s Better
Chicken Commitment (BCC), which ensures that 100% of our
chicken meat is from suppliers that comply with the regulations.
A BCC supplier tender process is underway, in addition to
ongoing collaboration with CIWF on improved welfare standards
for pork, beef and tuna.
Although we are still in the initial stages of the commitment,
we are confident in the work of our purchasing and product
development teams to fulfil our promise.
Europe and Australia/New Zealand have also committed to not purchasing caged eggs by 2025. The table below
shows the progress we have achieved so far.
New Belgium/
2020 Australia Japan France Netherlands Germany Denmark Total
Zealand Luxemburg
Number of products
containing free range 1 1 0 8 5 5 5 5 30
or enriched eggs*
Total number of
products containing 11 11 12 15 11 10 21 8 99
eggs
% of free range or
9% 9% 0% 53% 45% 50% 24% 63% 30%
enriched egg products
New Belgium/
2021 Australia Japan France Netherlands Germany Denmark Total
Zealand Luxemburg
Number of products
containing free range 1 1 0 9 5 5 10 5 36
or enriched eggs*
Total number of
products containing 11 11 12 14 9 10 25 8 100
eggs
% of free range or
9% 9% 0% 64% 56% 50% 40% 63% 36%
enriched egg products
*According to guidelines for enriched eggs set by CIWF, see https://www.ciwf.org.uk/farm-animals/chickens/egg-laying-hens/#enrichedcages
Next steps
We want to ensure a global standard for animal welfare In order to increase our transparency towards our
across our business, and next year intend to formulate customers and the choices we are offering them, we
our vision across all of the animal proteins on our are investigating possibilities to join the Nutri-Score
menu, starting with Europe where we intend to develop system in Europe next year.
animal welfare standards for pork, beef and tuna. This Furthermore, we aim to further investigate possibilities for
will ultimately enable us to report our progress for all more local sourcing in our markets and we gradually shift
proteins, we are currently investigating our options to towards more organic products, for example by switching
publish an animal welfare report next year. Next year to organic tomato sauce in France next financial year.
we will also continue to work towards increasing the
number of cage free eggs together with our suppliers
and we will take further appropriate actions to meet our
Better Chicken Commitment.
39
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
OUR
CUSTOMERS
In the past 12 months Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd has served more than 29.88 million unique
customers, about 8.8% of the population of our markets or about 21% of all households. In a large
proportion of these customers, we have served them many times.
Our marketing is responsible Customer ESG survey
Domino’s is passionate about ethical marketing A crucial step in doing the right thing for
practices. We pride ourselves on marketing, our customers is to better understand their
which is truthful, accurate, balanced and never expectations of us in the field of ESG. We
misleading, unsubstantiated, derogatory, therefore conducted an ESG customer survey,
degrading or offensive. covering all of our markets, this year.
Strong advertising guidelines govern many of The survey showed us that the majority of our
the markets in which we operate, and we are customers (including potential customers) agree
proud members of advertising boards in many of that ESG is important. The survey found there
these markets. Our advertising is always clearly were few differences based on differences in
identifiable as advertising, and not presented as markets, age groups, gender or education.
research or other published formats. However, our current ESG activities are not well-
Domino’s does not market to children, and this known among our (potential) customers.
is reflected in our company policy. We do not The survey found when thinking about ESG and
provide items such as toys or games to appeal Domino’s, customers expect us to prioritise our
to children. actions on two of our five ESG pillars:
Customer engagement ♦ Our food: food safety and quality are
important. Suggested actions include:
Engaging with our customers is a priority for
♦ Transparency regarding how our food is
Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd and we actively
made (open kitchen, preparation online)
engage with our customers through social
media. Our management approach to ensuring ♦ Clearly mention local sourcing of the
our customers receive a world class experience ingredients
involves: ♦ Participate in global initiatives and
♦ Innovating service offerings to meet prominently mention these as consumers
changing customer expectations touchpoints
♦ Committing to respond to customer complaints ♦ Our environment: waste reduction and
This financial year we commenced integration sustainable packaging are key drivers.
with Critizr as a single, global platform to Suggested actions include:
manage all customer feedback. This includes ♦ Use recyclable and eco-friendly packaging
feedback from multiple sources, such as our
♦ Find ways to minimise packaging
own online forms or reviews posted to third-
party platforms. ♦ Leverage e-bike and eco-friendly
transportation
The platform provides a central location for
The survey confirms that we are taking the
our franchisees and in-store team members to
right actions with our current ESG efforts, but
easily view feedback and respond to customers
an important point of attention for us moving
quickly. Targeted alerting and reporting allow
forward in our ESG journey is to find ways to
for greater focus on improving customer
better communicate our our ESG initiatives
satisfaction, responsivity, and retention. For the
to our customers as they are not well-known.
first time we are also collecting feedback in a
According to the survey, customers need to
globally aligned way and have made updates to
be actively informed about our ESG efforts and
our feedback collection to improve internal and
we need to make these efforts as tangible and
external benchmarking, and for greater insights
concrete as possible.
into the reasons behind the feedback. Japan is
the final market to be onboarded to the Critizr We will include these learnings into our
platform and we are working on a roadmap of customer communication and engagement
enhancements to bring further value to our team activities moving forward.
members and customers in the use of this tool.
40
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
41
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Our (data) security strategy
The data privacy and security of our As a company that fulfils the vast
customers is crucial to them, and majority of orders and payments
to us. What customers order, when online, continual vigilance and
they order, how they order, even the development is essential.
name they choose to display in our
restaurants when their order is ready –
these matter.
PROGRESS
In our last report, we outlined that ♦ An ongoing program of Business Although there is an extensive
Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd is Continuity Planning and Disaster understanding of online retail within
aligned to the NIST CSF Version Recovery, that commenced Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd, we
1.1 (CyberSecurity Framework). Our this financial year, assists in recognise that this is an evolving
work around this includes identifying identifying those systems, space and ongoing training, and
security threats, putting in place services and data that are critical development is required. Accordingly,
preventative processes, up-to-date to the operation of our business our Chief Information Security Officer
monitoring, clear response protocols, and work, adding a program of undertakes a model of continuous
and procedures to recover if a cyber- risk mitigation for any risks that training programs to enhance staff
attack occurs. may be present. skills, both within the security team
For security reasons, exact details of We conducted regular testing to and across the organisation.
actions taken in each of these five identify data or processes that could Furthermore, as part of a skills matrix
areas must remain confidential – all be compromised or stolen, so that assessment of the Board we ensure
large organisations must maintain we can formulate a response to that there is representation with a
an active awareness of how the close any vulnerabilities. deep understanding of the online
information they publish could be used Due to our strict data security policy retail environment and the cyber
by those with ill-intent. Nonetheless, and systems, we did not have any security responsibilities associated
Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd has information security breaches or with that environment.
continued to make progress against all other security breaches, including Our Business Continuity Plan (BCP)
five of these areas. those related to customer personally and Disaster Recovery Planning has
Our progress this financial year identifiable information, this financial identified areas of risk mitigation that
includes: year. we are systematically tackling, to
♦ Enhancing our capability for Our security system ensures that build greater redundancy across our
managing the security of data 144 million emails per month are organisation.
with data mapping exercises protected by DMARC (Domain-Based Cyber and data security is the
conducted across the group Message Authentication, Reporting responsibility of every team member,
and ensuring that appropriate and Conformance) Secure Email senior management, and the Board.
governance is put in-place to Authentication, (see case study). Cyber Risks are communicated to
protect any sensitive data. More than 10 million online Ordering the board and senior leadership
♦ Securing administrative accounts Customer Accounts across ANZ and team either directly or via the Group
and those that have access EU were protected this financial year CFO via either quarterly or half
to large volumes of data with from Account Takeover attacks. On yearly reporting with a cyber maturity
second-level authentication i.e. average, 60 million Security ‘insights’ presentation to the board on a yearly
Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA). are processed every day, generated basis.
from more than 26 different systems
♦ Enforcing password complexity There are a number of cutting-edge
and services that we log and monitor.
both technically and in policy, with tools that are being utilised across
Techniques such as machine
regular reviews to ensure that only the group to improve the ability to
learning are being used to analyse
‘good’ passwords are utilised. detect and prevent attacks against the
these insights and generate alerts
organisation using multiple layers of
to the internal Security Operations
security and a team of dedicated
Team when required.
security staff responding to potential
alerts.
2Breach: an event that resulted in a reportable loss of customer
information that resulted in formal action from a relevant body
over the last year.
42
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
DMARC
Customers need to know that To help in this effort, starting in The project protects not only our
when they entrust their private January 2020 Domino’s security customers and the public, but also
information with Domino’s Pizza team reviewed all key email the Domino’s brand, and increases
Enterprises Ltd, we take all domains used by the business and the likelihood genuine Domino’s
necessary steps to protect it. third-party partners to determine emails will be delivered.
Equally, it’s important when how email was being handled. The The project was completed in March
customers receive an email team then implemented special 2021, protecting and verifying more
purportedly from Domino’s that ‘DMARC’ records that clearly than 51 email domains and more
it’s actually sent by our teams, identified who could send emails than 144 million emails a month. It
not by someone pretending to be on our behalf. This was then means Domino’s has helped protect
Domino’s – a significant issue in monitored, before progressing to the general public, including our
the online retail world. ensure only external systems with customers, from fake Domino’s
approval from Domino’s could send phishing attacks.
emails on our behalf.
Next steps
Domino’s will continue to invest in ensuring these are
best-in-class, that new vectors for cyber-attack are
identified, and that risk mitigation procedures are put in
place to prevent or minimise their impact.
We intend to strengthen our already robust partnerships
with vendors, governmental entities as well as other
private organisations.
CyberInsurance is an essential part of an organisation’s
disaster recovery in the event of a cyber-attack –
Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd works closely with
our insurance provider to ensure they are informed
about our risk profile and to share best practice in this
continually, and rapidly, evolving space.
43
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
OUR
ENVIRONMENT
Domino’s is on a journey to improved sustainability.
We have taken important steps that are beneficial for
our environment, our communities and our stores.
Equally, we recognise more needs to be done. We also
recognise the science, and urgency, of addressing
climate change, and we want be part of the solution.
To further strengthen and structure our commitment,
we initiated a global corporate footprint baseline
measurement project this year. This will help us to not
only measure our company’s footprint, but also to set
science-based reduction targets.
This year we also implemented initiatives to reduce
packaging in our supply chain, to rethink how we
transport food to reduce freight mileage and to phase
out single use plastics. We will continue to share our
progress as we develop and expand these practices.
Corporate footprint
baseline measurement
In May we started our corporate footprint baseline 1. G reenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG): Climate is the biggest
measurement project, which is coordinated by our risk faced by the world today; we consider it imperative
external partner Quantis. Quantis is a leading worldwide to reduce our emissions to limit global warming.
sustainability consultancy firm. They help us to set a 2. Water impacts: Water availability and quality is an
credible baseline for an ambitious and science-based important impact factor for food producing companies.
environmental strategy. The project includes a hotspot We understand that the hotspots of our water impacts
assessment, footprint measurement, the development will vary between regions and will in many cases be
of a climate strategy and roadmap, and internal local. We believe that better understanding our water
communication and engagement program. impact and adequately addressing this, together with
While most companies usually focus on greenhouse gas our suppliers, is key for the resilience of our company
emissions to measure and reduce their environmental now and in the future.
impact, the measurement of our footprint consists of four
3. Land use change (LUC): Land use is one of the main
elements that each are key for the food industry:
GHG drivers of food and agricultural companies.
Deforestation assessment goes hand-in-hand with LUC
assessment. Understanding this part of our footprint will
therefore be essential in our efforts to reduce our impact.
4. Quality of ecosystem – biodiversity: Biodiversity has
become a key issue for consumers and investors,
driven by scientific research results that underline the
importance of restoring nature. Understanding where
our impact is in this field is the first step for a consistent
holistic biodiversity strategy for our (entire) value chain.
This project is an important foundation in determining
the steps we will need to take in the coming years. It
is our intention to report on our progress in setting our
science-based targets, our climate strategy and the
results we achieve.
44
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Our current
environmental efforts
and targets
We are always looking for opportunities to reduce We are working towards increasing the use of green
our energy consumption. We choose equipment and electricity in our offices and stores and are currently
appliances based on energy efficiency and look for investigating the possibilities for this, especially with
other ways to improve the efficiency of our operations. regard to offering an attractive solution to franchisees.
This also includes our local stores and initiatives led by E-delivery has become the dominant way of delivering
various departments such as our commissaries, see also our pizzas across our European markets, in Denmark
case study included in this chapter. we already have a 100% electric delivery fleet. In our
In 2020 we set our first environmental targets which are: Australian market, we currently operate around 1,600
e-bikes. Japan has significantly increased the number
♦ Target: We will reduce the emissions of the European
of e-bike deliveries, our nationwide e-bike delivery
Supply Chain Centre fleet by 20% by 2025.
is currently 28.4% whereas it was 14.56% in 2018.
♦ Target: By 2030, we intend for the electricity
New Zealand operates 55 e-bikes and 67 UBCO’s
supply to all stores to be carbon neutral.*
(e-scooters).
A significant reduction in supply chain emissions per
store was already achieved in the last two years through
route optimisation and upgrading to the first Compressed
Natural Gas (CNG) Truck. *Our European target is 100% e-delivery by 2025.
Less is
more
A desire to think outside the
‘cardboard’ box and reduce
waste drove Domino’s France to
revolutionise its supplier product
packaging.
With cardboard the primary waste
culprit, the Domino’s France team
was determined to decrease the
amount of cardboard waste in
stores by offering cardboard-free
supplier product delivery.
Plastic crates were identified as a
potential product carrier option,
similar to those already used
to transport dough balls. After
overcoming a few obstacles, a
suitable, foldable crate was found
that had the right dimensions and
was light enough for staff to carry.
The impact was substantial, with
450 tonnes of cardboard recycled
into the supply chain centre this
year compared to 60 tonnes last
year, savings in truck delivery
space of 11%, extra turnover of EUR
600,000, and improved time and
storage efficiencies.
In September 2020, 30
Gennevilliers stores in France
carried out the first test before
extending the initiative nationwide
in March 2021. Domino’s
Netherlands will implement it next
in October 2021, with Domino’s
Germany planning to follow suit.
45
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Our efforts to reduce our waste Our packaging is recycled and recyclable
To ensure we are environmentally responsible and to For many years, we have strived to reduce as much
operate financially efficiently, we continually work to packaging as possible.
reduce food wastage in our stores – which, per meal, is We report on our packaging levels through the Australian
typically lower than the average household. Packaging Covenant Association (APCO). Our 2020
Within our own departments we continuously look for APCO Annual Report and Action Plan received very
ways to improve our operations and reduce our waste, positive feedback on the advances we have made in
such as we did this year with project Less is More improving packaging sustainability, particularly in plastic
(see case study). We also initiated a project in France reduction and improvements in materials efficiency.
called project Golf; with this project we increased the Wherever local laws allow, our pizza boxes are made
number of dough balls we can transport in each crate, of 100% recycled cardboard, and we encourage our
expectedly significantly reducing transport movements customers to recycle these boxes in line with local laws.
and subsequent carbon emissions. Where local laws do not allow 100% recycled cardboard,
we use the maximum allowable amount of recycled
materials. For example, in France, 70% of the paper used
in pizza boxes is made from recycled paper.
These initiatives are having a positive result. For
example, in France we have reduced the equivalent
paper consumption in packaging by more than 265
tonnes/year, equivalent to 3180 trees.
Domino’s is working to phase out single-use plastics. In
several markets in which we operate, this is consistent
with local laws, however, in many cases we are also
ahead of legislation as we are constantly looking for
innovations in this field. In Australia, for instance, we
phased out single-use plastic in more than 710 stores
nationwide by 30 June 2021 and we initiated a project
to remove plastic bag liners from suppliers’ cartons,
see case studies. In Japan, single-use plastics were
already phased out from 1 July 2020 and in France we
phased out single use plastics ahead of official European
legislation which was officially enforced on 3rd July 2021.
Single Use Plastics
Domino’s Australia rallied its Single-use plastic items have now Domino’s Australia is proud to take
710 stores nationwide to phase been replaced with biodegradable positive steps towards improving
out single-use plastics from its paper straws, wooden spoons, its environmental footprint and
distribution network by 30 June recycled sundae packaging and recognises this as an opportunity
2021. polyethylene terephthalate thick to drive significant change in
The removal of all plastic straws shake cups. reducing plastic consumption.
and spoons will expel more than The program places Domino’s
two metric tonnes of plastic per Australia well ahead of the
year and reduce the circulation Australian Government’s National
of single-use plastic by up to Waste Policy Action Plan deadline
2.85 million pieces annually. of 2025, when use of problematic
and unnecessary plastics will cease.
46
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Linerless box
Domino’s Australia’s linerless box project resulted After overcoming challenges around the defrosting
from our mission to remove all single-use plastic whilst of products, initial testing results demonstrated that
minimising commercial impacts. the concept was fit for purpose. These positive results
Commencing in October 2019, this project focused on have created opportunities for further reducing plastic
removing plastic bag liners from suppliers’ cartons, across other areas of the business within the local and
eliminating at least 300 meters of plastic per year. international supply chains.
To implement the project, Domino’s Australia The project is still working through several trials with
partnered with a supplier that already had the the goal to be fully launched in the Australian market
technology to provide a suitable and functional box. within the next 12 months, before potentially rolling
out in all global markets.
47
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
OUR
COMMUNITY
We support the communities in
which we operate
Domino’s is a proud supporter of the communities
in which we operate. We are passionate about our
responsibility to improve the communities and people
around us. We make this possible through a number of
giving initiatives:
♦ Give for Good (Australia) – our registered charity
focused on building strong and resilient communities
through investment in education and disaster relief.
Major partners we are working with in this space
include Lifeline, The Smith Family and Rural Aid.
♦ Partners Foundation (Australia, New Zealand, Japan)
– team members support team members in need.
♦ Store fundraising programs – Domino’s and our
franchisees give back to local community groups
through initiatives including ‘Doughraisers’ and ‘Feed the
Knead (see case study)’, where contributions are given
in cash or kind to local organisations and individuals
(Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Germany), or other
non-government organisations including ‘Eet met je hart’
(Netherlands) or Voedselbank (foodbank) (Belgium).
♦ Programs for customers to donate to charitable
initiatives, including ‘Round up for Charity’ (Australia),
where customers can make small donations at the
end of the ordering process.
Our own charity program:
Give for Good
We contribute to ethical, responsible and sustainable Launched in 2016, Give for Good Limited is a registered
business practices through our Give for Good Program charity and is run by an independent Board of Directors.
in Australia. Our objective is to build strong and resilient Around a third of our employees contribute via payroll to
communities by investing in education, disaster relief, Give for Good, as do customers through our ‘Round-Up
regional and rural communities and future leaders. We for Charity’ program. This year marked the milestone of
aim to be partners with the best and most reputable 8 million microdonations received.
organisations that deliver on these goals. To date, Donations are outlined below:
some of these include The Smith Family, The Australian
Scholarship Foundation, Monash University and the
University of Tasmania.
Give for Good Round Up – customer donation Workplace giving DPE donations
FY20 $959,463 $31,303 $69,678
FY21 $1,029,174 $57,586 $26,519
48
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Give for Good
Making a difference in the lives of those doing it tough in
our communities continues to be the motivation behind
Domino’s registered charity, Give for Good.
Starting in October 2020, Give for Good will contribute
$750,000 over three years to Australia’s national suicide
prevention charity, Lifeline, to help fund the phased roll-out
of a nationwide text support service.
In February 2021, Give for Good participated in a state-wide
‘doughraiser’ held in Western Australia to support those
impacted by the Wooroloo and Hills bushfires. The event
raised $50,000 in addition to donating much-needed hot
meals to first responders, volunteers and evacuees.
As record-breaking rain caused severe flooding and mass
evacuations on the New South Wales coast in March 2021,
Give for Good donated $20,000 to the Australian Red Cross
NSW Floods Appeal.
Domino’s Round Up for Charity initiative continues to
strengthen, reaching its eight millionth microdonation in May
2021. Incredibly, more than $2.4 million was raised, which all
goes towards supporting Give for Good’s various initiatives.
To qualify for support from Give for Good, organisations
and individuals must meet very specific criteria which
align with our Charter.
Other markets are in advanced stages of implementing
their respective local charity initiatives, next year we
expect to launch this in at least France, Germany and
New Zealand.
49
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Feed the Knead
In late 2020 we launched our
community-based program “Feed the
Knead” in Australia and New Zealand
and more recently in other markets
like Japan. This program, which is run
by local Domino’s stores, provides
support in the form of free pizza to
those who are doing it tough.
It generated a positive shift in
perception of our brand in Japan
as it showed our commitment to
our value of ‘Doing the right thing,
because it is the right thing to do’,
see case study. Feed the Knead
has also been successful in other
markets, in France for instance, we
donated more than 30,000 pizzas
this year and in Germany 9,510.
50
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
Feed the
Knead
Pizza can’t solve all the world’s
problems, but it can certainly bring a
small slice of joy, particularly in times
of stress and uncertainty.
That’s the rationale behind Domino’s
Feed the Knead program, which
allows individuals to nominate
someone they know who is doing
it tough to receive free pizza. The
program has donated more than
13,000 pizzas to those in need across
Australia and New Zealand and has
been an incredible success in our
Japanese market where we donated
over 400,000 this year alone. The
program has been strongly
embraced in all of our markets
and it shows how we can remain
connected to our communities and
support them in times of need.
Multi-unit franchisee Rishi Sharma
owns and operates several stores
in the Wellington region of New
Zealand and said that giving back to
those in need was a big focus for him.
“We have so many people in our
community who are under stress
at any given time for a variety of
reasons. With Feed the Knead we Volunteering
can show how much we care by
Domino’s also provides one
sharing the joy of pizza, hopefully
volunteering day per year to
making their day a little brighter,”
employees to support a charity or
Mr. Sharma said.
not-for-profit in their community during
In Japan we have received hundreds working hours in our Australian and
of appreciation letters, that for New Zealand markets. Our other
example said: markets are currently in different
“We have enjoyed the hot meals stages of implementing this as well.
together with all of our staff. All of us
really appreciate and respect your
kindness. Domino’s pizza gave us
a lot of energy to move vigorously
forward starting tomorrow.” Next steps
“Thank you very much for so many Our current community giving
free pizzas. All children were so excited efforts vary among markets. It is
by so many kinds of pizza. Really our intention to further align our
appreciate your wonderful gift to us.” approach and develop a global
giving strategy as part of our overall
Domino’s considers it a privilege
ESG strategy next year. This will
that it can continue to deliver safe
include a global framework for
and hot meals in challenging times.
donations and guidelines and criteria
In return, Domino’s does everything
for markets initiatives.
possible to live up to that privilege
and give back to our communities.
51
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
MOVING
FORWARD
This first sustainability report showed the progress we
have made this past year with regard to our ESG journey.
Compared to last year, we achieved considerable
progress, but we of course intend to further improve our
performance next year.
Our initial materiality assessment was an important
step for our business and our people. It identified that
this framework extends beyond a singular focus on the
environment, or ‘green’ initiatives. As we are further
progressing in our ESG journey, we will also regularly
review our materiality assessment. In the coming year:
♦ We will broaden our consultation to ensure we
consider the widest possible set of opinions across
our organisation and from our external stakeholders.
♦ We will review our peer group, to identify any areas
considered best practice, to ensure that Domino’s
always aims to be a leader in our field.
♦ We will carefully examine the regional nuances
inherent in a multinational organisation. For instance,
we will consider the impact of upcoming European
Union (EU) legislation as part of the EU Green Deal.
Ultimately, this may lead to a further prioritisation of
material topics and targets per region.
♦ Based on these findings we will re-categorise and
further clarify our most material topics at a group
level. We will also look to reduce the overall number
of materiality topics and to further align our ESG
materiality topics with Domino’s Pizza Inc. to ensure
global consistency.
Looking ahead at FY22, our focus for this period can be
summarised in four main points:
1. E nsure that we have a global ESG vision and 2. C reate a solid measurement framework –
strategic approach that is aligned with our core what gets measured, gets done.
business.
T his year marked the start of reporting on our ESG
A s part of developing our ESG strategy, we believe data, so while we do not have a complete overview
it is important to first have a better understanding of of all relevant data yet, it is our intention to further
what really drives us and what distinguishes us from improve our ESG data collection and overall baseline
our competitors. Our ESG vision needs to be aligned measurement next year. This will allow us to formulate
with our Purpose and Values and our key internal targets, measure our performance and report on our
and external stakeholders, including our franchisees, progress moving forward.
customers and investors.
52
| |
DOMINO‘S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2021 YEAR IN REVIEW
3. E nsure compliance and risk management for crucial 4. C ommunicate and engage with our stakeholders.
ESG topics. We want to make sure that our vision is well-known and
U nderstanding that the ESG field is relatively new for understood by our people, that they are motivated by it,
us, we want to further strengthen our understanding and are able to translate this to their daily jobs. Therefore,
of the current and upcoming legislative requirements next year we will roll out an internal ESG engagement
on ESG related topics and risk management in all of program. This will also allow us to collect feedback on
our markets and our global value chain. We are aware our ESG progress and to further improve our efforts.
of the risks we face, for instance, within our global
value chain related to Human Rights as explained
in our Modern Slavery Statement and we will take
further action next year. Other priorities are addressing
(potential) risks related to health and safety, the quality
of our food, and data privacy.
We also intend to share our vision with a
wider external audience later in FY22.
53
