DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LIMITED
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT FY22
INDEX
Chairman & CEO message 8 Our Environment 60
Corporate footprint measurement 63
FY22 Key Highlights 10 Climate roadmap and Science Based Targets 68
Environmental achievement highlights 69
Our Company 12
Mission, Purpose and Values 14 Our Community 74
Our business model 16 Domino’s Partners Foundation 76
Key trends 18 Our charities & partnerships 77
Stakeholder engagement 20 Fundraisers and helping those in need 80
Materiality assessment 21 Volunteering 81
Domino’s for Good 22
Corporate governance 82
Our People 24 ESG governance framework 84
Our workplace supports diversity and Our commitment to responsible
equal opportunities 27 business conduct 87
Editorial: Design:
Amanda Harper (NZ) Jessie Sanders (NL) Talent attraction and retention 32 Risk management 89
Bronwyn Spencer (AU) Sarah de Jong (NL) Workplace health and safety 36
Candice Cummings (AU) Doris Broekhuizen (NL) Franchisee prosperity 37 Moving forward 90
Daniel Marting (DE)
Our Food 40 Supplementary information 92
Dennis van Dalfsen (NL)
Food safety and quality 42 About this report 92
Guillemette le Goascoz (FR)
Responsible sourcing 45 Acronyms and key definitions 94
Jilze Gerritsen (BE)
Food nutrition and innovation 48
Mahia Lai (Partnerships)
Appendix 1 – Performance Tables
Marianne Kemps (NL)
Our Customers 50 Appendix 2 – GRI reference table
Marika Stegmeijer (ESG)
Customer experience and engagement 53 Appendix 3 – SASB reference table
Mila Hvilshøj (DK)
Data security & privacy 57
Natalie Chen (Reporting)
Nathan Scholz (Corporate Affairs)
Rebecca Chao (TW)
Rhiannon Frater (AU)
Shizue Suzuki (JP)
Sonia Tsai (TW)
6 7
DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
“DOMINO’S INTENDS
TO WORK WITH OUR
COMMUNITIES TO DEVELOP
MEASURABLE TARGETS IN THE
AREAS IMPORTANT TO THEM.
THE NEXT STEP IN DELIVERING,
starts now.
”
CHAIRMAN &
– Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd Annual Report, 2019
CEO MESSAGE
Domino’s is a business focused on the This Sustainability Report is just the next step in • Delivering a menu in Australia, 100% free of We have more to do – to improve our sustainability
long-term, with a clear understanding of our reporting to our stakeholders the progress we are artificial flavours and colours. and in reporting our progress – and we intend to
responsibility towards present and future making to build a more resilient, long-term focused • Receiving the Corporate Philanthropist of the deliver.
generations. business, for the benefit of all: our customers, year award as a result of the support offered
our community, our people, our investors and the through our registered charity Give for Good in In our communities and the broader economy there
We recognise there is a significant opportunity environment. Australia. are challenges ahead. At Domino’s, we are proud
available to grow our business in Europe and • Founding our own charity in Japan and providing of our culture, which has consistently risen to every
the Asia-Pacific. To deliver on this opportunity Since making the commitment above in 2019, grants to organisations that support farmers in challenge presented to us, most recently through a
requires a business model, supply chain, people Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd has made agriculture and forestry. pandemic.
development and unit economics that can perform significant progress on our journey to becoming
over the long-term, living up to the trust people the dominant sustainable delivery Quick Service ESG is not the responsibility of one part of our We’ve always taken pride in our ability to anticipate,
place in the Domino’s brand, regardless of changes Restaurant in the markets in which we operate. business, but instead is increasingly a shared innovate and crush convention, and we know this
in economic conditions, regulatory requirements or responsibility for all of us. stands us in good stead as we embark on the
community expectations. We are still in the early stages of our strategy, ambitious journey ahead.
but this second Sustainability Report reflects that We recognise the increasing importance of
Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd’s Board, significant progress. Some highlights for Domino’s ensuring our stakeholders can measure and Jack Cowin
management and franchisees are committed to this year include: benchmark our progress. This requires companies Chairman
building a sustainable business, one that earns to align their reporting to one of the existing Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd
the continued support of all stakeholders as we • Submitting our Science Based Targets and international frameworks. With this year’s report we
continue to grow. This approach is not because it developing our environmental strategy and have started to reference the GRI (Global Reporting Don Meij
is mandated, but because it is a good investment, climate roadmap. Initiative) and SASB (Sustainability Accounting CEO and Managing Director
and a deeply embedded part of our values: to do • Approaching our 2030 target of 40% female Standards Board) reporting frameworks. We intend Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd.
the right thing, because it’s the right thing to do. leadership across all regions. to work towards further alignment with these
• Making strong advances on animal welfare reporting frameworks and to move forward on
Our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) through new initiatives and partnerships, our TCFD (Task-Force on Climate Related Financial
approach, Domino’s for Good, is about being a work in Europe has been recognised by PETA Disclosures).
responsible business aligned with our values. and CIWF.
8 9
1| CHAIRMAN & CEO MESSAGE DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
LET’S KEEP IT SHORT
FY22 KEY HIGHLIGHTS
100%
29%
FOSSIL FREE
(E)-DELIVERY
1,042
IN DENMARK
19%
FRANCHISEES
DONATED 97% of our carbon footprin t FY21 FY22
across our markets, 11% are female
are scope 3 emissions – indirect emissions
APPROXIMATELY generated within our value chain Total female leadership increased
from 19% in FY21 to 29% in FY22
206,500
The cacao
PIZZAS
used for our lava cake
CAGE
IN EUROPE IS 100%
85%
FREE
Rainforest Alliance (UTZ) certified Carbon
footprint of AWARD of our products sold in Denmark
1.55 million for leading the ftrhaeet con traina engggs aere meaggde osf
Our menu in
metric tonnes movement to
PETA VEGAN of CO 2 end the caging of
equivalent in animals in Europe
AUSTRALIA IS 100% FREE
AWARD IN
FY22
from artificial colours and flavours, our menu in
GERMANY
Europe is 85-90% free from artificial colours, flavours
for our vegan pizza offering
and preservatives and our menu in Japan is
Around
100% free from all artificial ingredients
Corporate philanthropist of the
100,000
ouyrea r oawwarnd w cinhnear writihty
EMPLOYEES
GIVE FOR GOOD
Established an additional 66% to 80% of our across our entire
3 charities in France, (potential) customers network, including our IN AUSTRALIA
Germany and Japan consider a company’s franchised network
focus on ESG
important to
very important
of total carbon emissions are derived
50%
All our stores have on average been
from purchased goods, mostly dairy
audited at least 4 times
and animal based proteins
10 11
2| FY22 KEY HIGHLIGHTS DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
This is what we stand for
OUR COMPANY
With almost 3,400 stores across ten markets, Domino’s Pizza
Enterprises Ltd (DPE) is the largest franchisee of the Domino’s brand
outside the United States of America. The Domino’s brand is owned
by Domino’s Pizza Inc, a listed US company.
In 2022 DPE announced it had reached a binding agreement to acquire the
rights to operate Domino’s stores in three additional markets: Singapore,
Malaysia and Cambodia.
In the past 12 months we have served more than 32 million unique customers,
which represents around 10% of the total population of our markets1.
From our in-store teams to our corporate employees, our common goal is
to serve our customers hot and fresh meals every day of the week, provide
employment opportunities and support the communities in which we operate.
At a glance as at FY22:
Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd Total number of stores:
Headquarters, Brisbane, Australia 3,387
Publicly traded on the Australian Stock
Exchange as DMP 613 corporate and
2,774 franchised stores
100,000
Total number of corporate
employees, commissary
employees, store employees
across the entire DPE network is
Direct operations in Australia, Belgium, Denmark, estimated to be approximately
France, Japan, Germany, Luxembourg, Taiwan,
New Zealand and The Netherlands.
1. This excludes our Taiwan market as we don’t have full year data on this market yet.
12 13
3| OUR COMPANY DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
MISSION, PURPOSE
AND VALUES
Company mission
Our mission is to be the dominant sustainable
delivery Quick Service Restaurant in every market BE GENEROUS AND PROVIDE CRUSH CONVENTION
in which we operate. That’s why we’ve launched JOYFUL EXPERIENCES We think outside-the-box
Domino’s for Good – we believe in a better slice Fun is in our DNA. It makes and deliver experiences that
for everyone. It is our ESG roadmap to achieving a our people happier. Helping make our customers say, “How
measurable positive impact for all our stakeholders them provide a joyful customer did they do that!” We defy the
by 2030. experience. Our empathy, generosity convention which identifies three
and optimism are catching. They spread main drivers: Fast, Affordable and Good Quality
Together with our people and our business outwards – starting with us. Crucial because and believes you must settle for any two.
partners, we believe we can achieve this mission we’re really selling happiness and connection We’re unbeatable when we deliver all three
across all our markets through a clear strategy, – that just happens to come in pizza form. seamlessly. Again. And again. And again.
investment in new technology and innovations,
understanding stakeholder priorities and
developing our people.
Purpose
We recognise we are here to sell more pizza
and have more fun… but we also believe there is INVEST TO CREATE DEVOTION HELP PEOPLE GROW AND
something bigger we can all be a part of. We want customers for life. PROSPER
At Domino’s, we’ve always been about bringing Our obsession is providing an We make people better off:
people closer, connecting them through the world’s outstanding Domino’s experience. team members, franchisees,
best bonding food: Pizza. Simply put… our pizza Set the bar high – to delight the most our company, and the communities
brings people closer. In this divided world, we’re demanding people. That guides everything we in which we live. We have a strong
determined to break down the barriers between do – including the way we do innovation and entrepreneurial spirit. Balanced with a
our customers, and the food they love to share. efficiency programs and the reason and way determination to give our team rewarding
we use data. experiences, opportunities, and a great
Our values place to work.
Our purpose is achieved through five core values
that are instilled in our head office team members,
franchisees, store managers and other team
members:
• Be generous and provide joyful experiences
“WE RECOGNISE
• Crush convention DO THE RIGHT THING
• Invest to create devotion BECAUSE IT’S THE RIGHT WE ARE HERE TO
• Help people grow and prosper THING TO DO SELL MORE PIZZA
• Do the right thing, because it’s the right thing to We behave well, with a great
AND HAVE MORE
do sense of responsibility to our team,
FUN… BUT WE ALSO
our customers, communities, partners and
investors. We hold ourselves to a high standard BELIEVE THERE IS
of integrity – recognising how valuable, yet
SOMETHING BIGGER
fragile, trust can be. We are confident that our
WE CAN ALL BE A
purpose and values lead to stronger teams,
stronger outcomes, and a stronger business. PART OF.”
14 15
3| OUR COMPANY DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd is a pizza business, reaching customers who are closer to their stores, Trusted supply chains keep us resilient
managed by pizza people. Our business model allowing them to reinvest in better service, or a Domino’s revenues are driven by higher, profitable
is straightforward – strong unit economics allows more affordable meal. food sales, which delivers increased royalties
for Domino’s and our franchisees to open more throughout the system. Our robust supply chain is
stores which are closer to customers. This grows In addition to being guided by Domino’s Pizza the best place for our franchisees to source their
an additional local customer group of carry-out Enterprises Ltd’s purpose and values, management ingredients and other supplies because it creates
customers, and allows for quicker, more consistent applied the principles of ‘High Volume Mentality’ competitive pricing, sustainability, resilience and
delivery experiences. (HVM) throughout, as our people have done since strong relationships with trusted, ethical suppliers.
the formation of the Company. HVM requires team
Delivery customers account for more than half members to challenge physical and mental barriers The importance of strong supply chains has never
of Domino’s sales and we know they are more that lie in the path of increasing sales. been more evident than during the COVID-19
likely to reorder from us after a positive customer pandemic. While other businesses were at the
experience. A shorter distance between the store By increasing sales, while keeping fixed and mercy of global supply chains that saw significant
and our customers provides this experience, semi-fixed costs relatively low, unit economics delays that impacted their ability to operate,
because they receive a hotter, fresher meal. and franchisee profitability is enhanced, and the Domino’s was able to continuously supply
Meanwhile, franchisees have fewer costs in benefits of increased efficiency can be passed on customers a high quality product at an affordable
to customers. The result is a focus on value: high price through our partnerships with large, well-
quality meals, using cheese, vegetables, wheat, resourced suppliers. We view our suppliers as
proteins and other ingredients responsibly sourced business partners. We apply our value of ‘investing
from world-class partners, delivered safely and to create devotion’ to our suppliers, and these solid
Proximity to customers
allows for quicker, fast, at an affordable price. It is exemplified partnerships were key to keeping our business
more consistent by Domino’s value “Crush Convention” – strong during this time.
delivery experience
every Domino’s team member knows that
customers don’t have to choose between We still faced extraordinary challenges in the past Digital delivery drives our future
Improved fast, high quality and affordable - at year, but our partnerships teams rose to each Supporting Domino’s growth over the past
customer
Fortressing experience Domino’s customers can receive all of them. We worked through natural disasters decade has been expertise in digital delivery
brings us closer drives Customer three. and conflict which affected the supply of key through the implementation of our OneDigital
to Customers Lifetime Value.
ingredients and packaging. In some cases, our technological platform into every market. We are
And lower run
times reduce A lower cost base, coupled with suppliers were forced to declare ‘force majeure’ on serving a record number of customers who are
Cost of Delivery customers who order more frequently existing, long-term fixed price contracts. This rapid increasingly ordering online with delivery to their
and continue to order from Domino’s change limited Domino’s ability to pass on costs, homes. Embedding a strong technological platform
over the longer-term, drives strong which impacted margins in Europe in H2 22. ensures a smooth experience which also allows
unit economics. This flywheel delivers us to understand our customers preferences. By
ongoing benefits to our franchisees using OneDigital across multiple markets, we can
and Domino’s Pizza Enterprises develop and apply technology at a Group level,
Profitable Higher Customer Ltd. Indeed, it represents the best of applying the efficiencies of scale tailored to local
Lifetime Value and
stores Domino’s values, including helping our preferences. This includes innovations such as
lower Cost of “DOMINO’S WAS ABLE
Delivery fuels people grow and prosper. delivery guarantees, and the ability to choose how
TO CONTINUOUSLY
Profitability customers prefer their meals to be delivered.
SUPPLY CUSTOMERS A
HIGH QUALITY PRODUCT Convenience is our advantage
While our core business is, of course, pizza,
AT AN AFFORDABLE
our customers also enjoy our other offerings to
PRICE THROUGH OUR complement their pizza, such as garlic bread,
PARTNERSHIPS WITH chicken dishes, desserts and salads.
These offerings are prepared by Domino’s kitchens
LARGE, WELL-RESOURCED
and are designed for delivery and we know they
SUPPLIERS”
add convenience to our customers’ experiences.
They give our stores a competitive advantage
against other businesses who retrofit their offering
to add delivery to their service.
16 17
3| OUR COMPANY DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
KEY TRENDS
Domino’s continues to navigate extraordinary upheaval in the communities we serve.
COVID-19 still impacts our team members, their families and communities. While
fortunately the impact of COVID-19 is lower than during the pandemic’s peaks, our
franchisees have largely been able to effectively operate their stores, serving customers
hot fresh meals with industry-leading delivery times. It’s a testament to their resilience and
the devotion of our people.
Age of Delivery Inflation Shifting customer preferences
The COVID-19 pandemic brought forward the ‘Age As the world moves into a challenging period We are seeing an increased customer focus on
of Delivery’ with significant growth in delivered of heightened inflation and global conflict, sustainability. Research tells us that 60% of consumers
food, including in the Quick Service Restaurant Domino’s team members continue to rise to are willing to pay more for products and services
(QSR) category. This trend has not declined as these extraordinary challenges. In the short term, offered by socially and environmentally responsible
the world moves on from the COVID-19 pandemic Domino’s stores are experiencing the effects of brands. 75% of consumers say that they are more
and every week the number of delivery customers inflation, most notably through the rising cost of likely to recommend socially and environmentally
increases for our stores. Competitors are also ingredients, labour and energy. Our approach to responsible brands to friends and family2. As consumer
growing the total market for delivered food these challenging times is rooted in the lessons preferences change over time, Domino’s will meet
globally. Domino’s anticipates this will increase we’ve learned in the past. We’re focused on them. We have already reduced artificial flavourings,
pressure on the availability of labour over the increased efficiency to reduce costs for stores, and colourings and preservatives, and added vegan and
medium- to long-term. Our strategy to open passing on costs where we can continue to deliver plant-based options to the menu to meet evolving
more stores, closer to customers, gives us the value at an affordable price through a combination customer expectations. More recently, Domino’s has
opportunity to employ more people through of superior product, service and image. We are formed partnerships including the Better Chicken
industry leading efficiency, specifically through our capitalising on challenging times by honing Commitment to ensure the ethical supply of food and
delivery experts able to service more customers our focus on customer loyalty. We are crushing materials into our business.
each hour than our competitors. convention by offering inflation-busting prices that
offer quality food to customers feeling the strain of Domino’s will continue to be agile in responding to
Supply chain disruptions increasing cost pressures in their everyday lives. customer preferences, to break down barriers that
Domino’s approach to building long-term would otherwise prevent our stores from serving more
partnerships with global suppliers has Climate change customers, and more occasions.
seen our stores continue to serve a full Recent catastrophic weather events around the
menu throughout unprecedented world have emphasised the need for urgent action As we enter the Age of Delivery, Domino’s has the
global supply chain issues. We to limit and reverse the impacts of climate change. store network, menu, strategy, responsible supply
demonstrated reliability during There has never been a more important time for chain and most importantly the people, to maximise our
the pandemic, and continues businesses to lead change and act responsibly. As opportunity.
now as we experience inflation, a food producing company with a reliance on dairy
increasing energy costs and and animal based proteins, we recognise our role You can read more about risk management in
supply chain disruptions. in creating greenhouse gas emissions. Our science- Governance.
Domino’s stores have based targets demonstrate our commitment to
experienced unavoidable building and investing in a sustainable future for 2. Barkley + Jefferies, The Purpose Action Gap, The Business Imperative
cost increases in our our industry and society, through climate action led of ESG, 2021
supply chain during this by science.
period, but our network has
avoided significant disruption
of services through the
unavailability of materials during
this time.
18 19
3| OUR COMPANY DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
We believe that in order to create a better slice for everyone, we need to understand what a In 2019, we undertook our first materiality assessment
‘better slice’ looks like for our stakeholders. We actively engage with our stakeholders through to understand our stakeholders’ views on the topics
a range of channels and on different levels in our company. Below are our key stakeholders that should be considered most important to us and to
and the range of ways we engage with them. identify the areas where we have an impact on people, the
economy and the environment. The assessment consisted of a
wide-ranging review of our industry and peers; investor consultation
Main stakeholders Definition Our engagement (examples)
through a survey and interviews; engagement with Domino’s
Our own team members Employees who work in our stores, Employee engagement surveys, internal leadership, and an assessment of community expectations, including
offices, commissaries and other communication and engagement activities a thorough media analysis. This first assessment resulted in a list
owned entities of twenty topics, of which five were considered most material: food
safety and quality, customer privacy and data security, workplace
Our franchisees The owners of the franchised stores Franchisee engagement surveys, internal
safety, customer engagement and experience and culture, ethics and
within our network communication and engagement activities
trust.
Our customers Everyone who buys our pizza or (Global) ESG customer surveys, social media and
other products via carry-out or campaigns, post order feedback via our online In 2021 we reviewed the results of the 2019 assessment by
delivery ordering and direct engagement performing a global ESG customer survey, an independent third party
ESG materiality assessment gap analysis and a peer benchmark. We
Our business partners Our suppliers and any other type of Business Partner Code of Conduct and Modern
also consulted our main investors in 2021. These results have been
partner that we conduct business Slavery questionnaire, engagement with our top
reviewed and approved by members of our Global Leadership Team.
with suppliers on our environmental strategy
Our shareholders The owners of our company ESG investor roadshows The outcome resulted in a list of ten material topics, divided into three
categories ranging from immediate (fundamental and key) to more
longer term (emerging) importance (see supplementary information
Our communities The communities in which we Local fundraisers and charity programs
for the full list of definitions):
operate our stores, offices and
commissaries
Fundamental Key Emerging
Not for profit organisations Environmental experts and Consultations via external experts such
and other specialist groups scientists, animal welfare as Quantis (environmental strategy) and • Food safety and • Responsible • Talent attraction and
organisations, universities and Compassion in World Farming (animal welfare) quality sourcing retention
other educational institutions
• Workplace safety • Customer • Food nutrition and
Governments The official representatives of the Domino’s engages with government either experience and innovation
markets in which we operate directly or via industry associations. This includes engagement
the submission of feedback to government
• Customer data • Footprint
reviews of the QSR industry, or aspects of our
privacy and reduction
business such as modern slavery
security • Franchisee
Regulators/industry groups This includes bodies such as the Domino’s frequently engages with regulators prosperity
Australian Securities Exchange and industry groups, including through
• Community
(ASX), Australia Securities and panel discussions, responses to requests for
prosperity
Investments Commission (ASIC), information or insights, and through actively
the Fair Work Ombudsman, the participating in groups that promote improved
The ESG materiality assessment review, combined with the outcome
Australian Taxation Office and trade trade relations between markets in which
of our corporate footprint baseline measurement, has been our
organisations Domino’s operates (such as the Australia/Taiwan
starting point in determining our ESG strategy for the coming years.
Business Council).
In addition to the groups listed above, we regularly engage with other for-profit organisations and other
specialist groups on various topics to further develop and improve our ESG approach.
20 21
3| OUR COMPANY DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
WE ARE DOMINO’S
FOR GOOD – THE
WORLD SHOULD
BE BETTER OFF AS
A RESULT OF OUR
PRESENCE
DOMINO’S FOR GOOD
At Domino’s, our commitment is to do the right We are Domino’s for Good – the world should be ESG framework
thing, because it’s the right thing to do. Using our better off as a result of our presence. We believe
business as a force for good is in our DNA. We in a better slice for everyone. In practice, it means Our ESG framework Domino’s for Good includes our five pillars,
want to be proud of the company we are and the every stakeholder gets a better piece of the pie 2030 ambition, materiality topics and main KPIs.
food we serve, today, tomorrow and many years and no one benefits at the expense of another.
from now.
Domino’s for Good includes many goals, but most
We recognise that our operations impact the importantly it means that by 20303 we aim to: We believe in a
everyone
environment and society in the markets in which • Be on a pathway to reduce our emissions, better slice for
we operate. Taking care of our people, delivering including our franchisees’ emissions, in line with
fast, high quality and affordable food to our limiting global warming to 1.5°C before 2050
customers while we substantially reduce our as part of our commitment to Science Based Net Zero 2050 Food without regret Safest delivery Pathway for our
company in the world team members
corporate footprint is our key focus and integrated Targets4
into our ESG strategy. We call this Domino’s for • Provide food without regret – all our food is
Good - our strategy to focus on the issues that are high quality, ethically and sustainably sourced,
We believe in our We are serious about our We cherish our We are mindful of the We take care of our
most material for our business and where we can delivered fast, affordable, but still considered an people food customers environment communities
achieve the greatest impact. indulgence
• Be the safest delivery company in the world
Through Domino’s for Good we want to stand for – putting the safety and wellbeing of our
something that is more than ‘just pizza’. We want employees first by applying the highest safety
to be ahead of our competitors – and while doing standards in our operations
so, stimulate a change that extends beyond our • Provide a pathway for our team members,
company, our supply chain, and our customer base. whether a part-time role or a career, we provide
We aspire to be the company that people admire, every team member with lifelong learning and Workplace safety Food safety & quality Customer experience & Footprint Community
engagement reduction prosperity
parents want their children to work for, suppliers opportunities. Franchisee prosperity Responsible sourcing Customer data
Talent attraction & Food nutrition & privacy & security
want to work with, and shareholders want to retention innovation
invest in. We have developed a framework to help us
structure our approach, focus on what’s important
and deliver on our purpose and growth strategy.
3. It is our ambition to reach our goals by 2030 or earlier if this is feasible.
4. Our Science Based Targets are currently being validated by the Science Based Target initiative. We will communicate them once they are validated.
22 23
3| OUR COMPANY DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
We believe in
OUR PEOPLE
We continue to see rapid growth in our workforce, with approximately 100,000
team members working across our ten markets, including our corporate and
franchised network. FY22 has been a challenging year for our team members
with each of our markets suffering the impacts of COVID-19 and more recently
the war in Ukraine. We are and will remain a people-focused business
committed to providing a safe, fair and equitable workplace with competitive
conditions and benefits.
24 25
4| OUR PEOPLE DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
2030 AMBITION
At Domino’s, we want to enrich people’s lives and propel them forward. We
want all our people – our corporate staff and franchise partners – to share in the
challenge to achieve a better slice for everyone. Key elements for this ambition Over the past twelve months we have continued to “FRANCHISEE
are: align our people practices across our markets. We
PROFITABILITY IS KEY
• Fun is in our DNA – it makes our people and franchise partners happier. regularly survey our team members in our major
• We help our people to grow and prosper and invest in them to create devotion. markets and regularly review our policies and TO THE CURRENT AND
• At Domino’s we create unlimited possibilities – we propel you forward to practices to make sure that we are contemporary FUTURE SUSTAINABILITY
become the best that you can be – a multi-unit franchisee or CEO – your and competitive in the markets we operate. Our
OF OUR BUSINESS.”
success is our reward. business has grown organically and through
• We cherish the diversity of our workforce and want to offer our employees a acquisition and in FY22 we committed to investing
working environment where they can be themselves, are treated equally and in a global Human Resources Information System Franchisee profitability is key to the current and
rewarded fairly. (HRIS). Funding has been allocated for FY23 future sustainability of our business. Accordingly,
• We do the right thing because it is the right thing to do – this drives our culture and the project has commenced to source an we continuously improve our marketing, product
and our decision making including our aim to become the world’s safest appropriate vendor to allow us to measure our and technology innovation to build the brand for
delivery company. people performance more accurately. the betterment of our franchisees. We also continue
to improve the insights and support we provide
During FY22 we commenced global reporting franchisees to identify areas of improvement in
of workplace incidents and accidents and their own business, from targeting inefficiencies to
implemented a whistleblower hotline/system in improving their customer service.
all our major markets. We continue to ensure that
all our markets maintain our key employment This chapter provides further details.
standards and work towards achieving the same
global targets.
OUR WORKPLACE SUPPORTS DIVERSITY
AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES
At Domino’s, we have always been about bringing our responsibility to provide a respectful and safe
people closer, breaking down barriers and work environment. To enable this, we actively
connecting communities through the world’s best encourage our team members to report any sign of
bonding food. We believe our business should harassment or discrimination via our whistleblower
reflect the communities in which we operate, with systems.
employees from all backgrounds and walks of
life. Domino’s is proud to be an equal opportunity We continue to focus on improving the diversity of
employer and is committed to eliminating our workforce and to providing equal opportunities
discrimination and fostering inclusion throughout to all our team members. This year several global
the workforce. and market initiatives were launched to continue
to foster an inclusive culture. This included the
Employment at Domino’s is based solely on a creation of diversity teams and special events
person’s merit and professional competence. to celebrate diversity. Domino’s is committed to
Domino’s actively supports and encourages investing in diversity initiatives in all our markets
the differences in who we are and what we’ve to demonstrate our support and ensure our team
experienced, because it is the right thing to do and members have equal opportunities.
makes our business stronger too. We take seriously
26 27
4| OUR PEOPLE DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
CASE STUDY
DIVERSITEAM PROMOTES INCLUSIVITY
Our DiversiTeam is active in the Domino’s Germany community to
raise awareness of the potential for discrimination and exclusion in our
workplace. The DiversiTeam also ensures staff know what to do if they
experience discrimination or observe it happening to someone else.
The team asked colleagues to participate in a survey to understand
attitudes and experiences of discrimination, from age, sexuality and
religion to gender, disability or mental illness. After sharing the results
with staff, the DiversiTeam created a safe and respectful environment
for affected employees to speak openly about their experiences with
their colleagues to raise awareness of the potential for discrimination.
Staff can contact the DiversiTeam anonymously around any issues of
discrimination they encounter.
The team was particularly proud to demonstrate Domino’s support
of the LGBTQIA+ community at Christopher Street Day (CSD) 2022 in
Hamburg and signed the principles of the Charta der Vielfalt which
promotes the recognition, appreciation and inclusion of diversity in
CASE STUDY the workplace.
FRANCE WORKING TO #STOPE WORKPLACE SEXISM We are proud of the work of our DiversiTeam in bringing to life
As part of our commitment to a diverse workplace free of Domino’s value of helping people grow and prosper through an
discrimination, Domino’s France has joined the #StOpE (stop inclusive and safe workplace.
everyday sexism in the workplace) initiative, which aims to
share and promote good practices to counter sexism at work.
Already a signatory of the Diversity Charter, a commitment
which goes beyond legislative frameworks for discrimination,
Domino’s joined the #StOpE initiative because it encourages
dialogue on sexism, promotes an inclusive culture at work,
gives the opportunity to share best practice with companies
who share the same commitments and provides a framework
for measurable actions.
A working group has formed internally and has started work
to educate others on sexism, what it is, why it is important to
talk about it, examples of sexism and Domino’s position on
the issue. Work has begun at the Domino’s headquarters in
Gennevilliers, including the commissary and corporate stores
and will be further rolled out to franchisees.
28 29
4| OUR PEOPLE DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Domino’s is committed to
proportional gender distribution
We are committed to achieving and maintaining gender equity in all markets and operational
levels. Domino’s is a member of the 30 Percent Club and we are committed to the 40:40
Vision. We also comply with the Workplace Gender Equality Act in Australia and report our
performance in this area to the Workplace Gender Equality Agency (Australia).
Our target is to achieve 40% female, 40% male and 20% any gender representation by 2030
for the Board, Global Leadership Team and regional/market leadership.
% Female Leaders
Leadership team & non executive directors
43 %
Board
50 %
CASE STUDY
11%
Global LT
8%
TAIWAN WOMEN LEADING IN PARTICIPATION
50 %
As our top market for female leaders, our Taiwan leadership team comprises 70%
29%
Europe LT women. With a commitment to creating a safe and welcoming environment for women,
43%
the Taiwan team has a high retention rate of females returning after having children,
0% particularly through flexible work hours. Store staff also receive equal pay regardless of
Asia LT
41% gender.
27%
ANZ LT Our Taiwan market continues to be a beacon of equal opportunity and female
33%
participation – ensuring our people grow and prosper regardless of gender.
0 % 10 % 20 % 30 % 40 % 50 %
FY21 FY22
In FY21 we surpassed our target at Board level. This year we improved female leadership
in our APAC region and we are closing in on our 40% female leadership target across all
regions. The number of female leaders in our Global Leadership Team (GLT) remained the
same in FY22, the team was however expanded to include additional roles which were filled
in by male leaders. We have seen an improvement in total managers (Head Office) from 34%
in FY21 to 40% in FY22. Globally representation of female franchisees has remained at 11%.
Our total female leadership team numbers increased globally from 19% in FY21 to 29% in
FY22.
30 31
4| OUR PEOPLE DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
TALENT ATTRACTION
AND RETENTION
Employee engagement employees and some store-based staff in Japan
Our team members drive our success. Although and Germany. The results are reported as a
they are spread across the globe and do not positive or negative score when compared to our
always speak the same language, they are all part target global benchmark standard. When results
of our unique Domino’s culture and team spirit. are available, managers share scores with their
teams and create action plans for improvement
Bringing our people together areas. A comparison of the FY22 and FY21 results
We want to create an inclusive and empowering are provided below. Most markets have seen a
work environment. We regularly facilitate activities slight fall in engagement largely driven by the
and in-person events to cultivate belonging ongoing impacts of COVID-19 and the lack of
and enable stronger connection to our brand. connection that naturally occurs when people are
Most markets host an annual ‘rally’, an in-person working in the same office. Each CEO reviews
conference that is part awards show, part rock the results of the engagement survey with their
concert, part sports event (including a race to make teams in order to focus on key areas where
Domino’s fastest pizza). Our rallies are a key part of improvement is required. As an example, a prior
our culture to celebrate our successes. survey in Australia and New Zealand identified that
technology resources were required by certain
We also host a number of in-person events team members and this was quickly rectified.
across our markets and several online ‘All Hands’ With the move to a global HRIS, we will be able
meetings. These global All Hands meetings bring to broaden the use of the survey to include more
together team members across all our markets at store-based employees and alignment in timing
the same time, despite working across different of the survey. We are proud of our 79% response
time zones. rate in FY22 as it demonstrates a high level of
engagement in the survey process.
Listening and learning
To further ensure we are doing the right things for We’ve also conducted franchisee engagement PATH TO EXCELLENCE
our people, we measure employee engagement surveys in some markets, franchisee engagement
via regular surveys in each major market. The is on average 78.6%. At Domino's we are committed to providing
survey covers all head office/commissary world-class personal and professional
development to all team members across our
store and corporate services communities. This
commitment underpins our mission – to be the
Employee engagement best retail business in the world at training and
developing people.
COUNTRY AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND JAPAN FRANCE GERMANY NETHERLANDS
FY 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 OUR COMMITMENT
• Every team member has access to quality
Employee
Satisfaction 76% 75% 73% 75% 64% 60% 78% 67% 89% 87% 74% 73% learning, training and development that
Rating (ESat)
builds competence and facilitates career
Difference -1% +2% -4% -11% -2% -1%
progression.
Response 90% 86% 100% 90% 85% 82% 66% 73% 66% 84% 65% 62% • Learning, training and development is
Rate
delivered using a blend of modern techniques
Difference -4% -10% -3% +7% +18% -3%
and solutions to ensure every team member’s
ESat Benchmark 72% learning style and preference is met.
• Train team members in our business to
become quality trainers within their own
teams.
32 33
4| OUR PEOPLE DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
In 2022, we introduced Path to Excellence (P2E) – Employee rights and payment
a bespoke personal and professional development
platform delivered via customised mobile app and We ensure that our labour standards are fair Labour rights issues
desktop interface. P2E will provide a consistent and equitable. We comply with both local laws, Since 2014, we have proactively worked with
People Development framework and experience standards and regulations. Young people are franchisees and our corporate-owned stores
for team members across all markets, while a significant part of our workforce and it is our to reduce the risk of labour rights issues in
maintaining content relevant to each market’s priority to ensure that we comply with local and our operations, including underpayment. Our
specific language, cultural and operational international laws and regulations regarding forced franchisees are required to operate in full
requirements. labour, child labour and children’s rights. compliance with all applicable laws and regulations
and to uphold the Domino’s brand values as part
The Path to Excellence takes team members We firmly believe better trained and remunerated of our agreement with them. The Sub-Franchisee
through nine levels of learning, training and employees are more engaged, motivated and Agreement mandates compliance with employment
development – from new starter to influential deliver better customer service, leading to higher law and we provide training in accordance with
leader within the business. Each level has a customer satisfaction and stronger profits for these laws.
specifically curated range of classes, eLearning franchisees.
modules, on-the-job training activities and learning We conduct regular inspections in our franchise
assignments. This means team members have Working together for flexibility stores to ensure they meet our strict compliance
access to learning and training when they need it, Domino’s works hard to provide our people with criteria. It is important to note that not all
and ensures our people are constantly growing, secure employment that is flexible for individual compliance breaches relate to the deliberate
with the next step never too far away. needs. For example, employees are frequently underpayment of wages. For example, this may
attracted to casual store-based roles because relate to requirements to document changes to
Path to excellence is also designed to give rich they provide flexibility around study, so we give an employee’s rostering arrangements, or to keep
data and analytics to empower Learning and employees input into rosters to accommodate their records relating to any agreed payroll deductions.
Development teams, field trainers, managers and personal needs outside of the workplace. However, Domino’s intends to be best practice in
franchisees. our industry, so all breaches are taken seriously
Domino’s is committed to providing continuous and addressed as part of the compliance program.
It also digitises many of the training guides, employment. We work within relevant legislative
observation checklists, learning assignments frameworks for business restructures and staffing Domino’s takes a strict approach to workplace
and operations challenges – making it easier for requirements. When a store closes, we arrange obligations. Where a franchisee is identified as
managers and franchisees to drive learning and wherever possible for redeployment to other deliberately underpaying team members, action
training within their stores. stores. can include termination of a franchise agreement.
Domino’s has policies in place to ensure team
P2E is loaded with a range of gamification All orders from Domino’s menu, even those placed members affected receive their due entitlements
features, designed to provide a more personalised through third party delivery-only services, are only as part of this process. We believe there is decline
experience and drive engagement. These prepared and delivered by our team members. in wage investigations as a result of a general
include interactive maps, personalised profiles, improvement in compliance, and through the
leaderboards, badges and trophies registration. completion of specific compliance projects across
the network. Our focus on identifying issues of
We conducted a first trial in our Australian underpayment remains important, these issues
corporate and franchise stores with the however only represent a very small fraction of our
expectation to fully roll out the program later in wages bill.
our other markets throughout FY23.
“ALL ORDERS FROM
DOMINO’S MENU, EVEN
THOSE PLACED THROUGH
THIRD PARTY DELIVERY-
ONLY SERVICES, ARE ONLY
PREPARED AND DELIVERED
BY OUR TEAM MEMBERS.”
34 35
4| OUR PEOPLE DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
WORKPLACE HEALTH FRANCHISEE PROSPERITY
AND SAFETY
Our franchisees are partners in our future Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd drives increased
success, and custodians of the Domino’s brand. profitability through new product development
We are strongly focused on the health and safety Domino’s preference is to provide a pathway for including new pizza recipes and accompanying
of our team members. Every market has a team team members to grow and prosper, taking on side items, new technology development
of leaders who focus on the safety and wellbeing management responsibilities within a store, before (particularly to enhance the customer experience)
of team members. With a globally dispersed becoming a franchisee. and large marketing campaigns including those
workforce we comply with the workplace health online and through our own channels. Our
and safety legislation and framework in each of the This ensures our franchisees have a strong franchisees also have the responsibility and the
countries that we operate within. We have invested understanding of the Domino’s business, and the opportunity to drive increased profit through their
in several initiatives to promote safety in our purpose and values of our company. Whether store, through carefully managing the costs in their
workplace including the rollout of our GPS driver franchisees develop within Domino’s, or join from businesses. This also comes from sales growth;
tracker across many of our markets. We have also an external role, we apply standard screening from local store marketing, community engagement
introduced safe systems of work and workplace to support our team members. As an example, and onboarding procedures, which includes a and, most importantly, lifting customer satisfaction
health and safety programs. we surveyed the wellness of some of our team franchisee training program, to all candidates. as measured by increased ‘Net Promoter Scores’,
members in Australia to understand how the through safely reducing delivery times and
We recognise the requirement of ESG reporting company can better support their physical and Franchisee profitability customers rating their meals highly.
frameworks such as GRI and will continue to psychological wellbeing, resulting in a number of Franchisee profitability is crucial to our current and
refine our data collection and reporting capability key changes including the extension of a wellness future success.
to report on this area in the future. We currently allowance from a once off to annual allowance that
operate more than 45 HR systems globally which can be used for gym, yoga, meditation and other Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd management and
makes reporting our people metrics both time wellness support activities. the Board receive regular updates on franchisee
consuming and challenging. As a result, the profitability. Depending on local regulations,
collection of people data is in its early stages and Road safety initiatives franchisees are either required or encouraged,
we have focused our attention on key metrics that We are aware of the potential dangers our drivers to submit monthly profit and loss statements.
can help and inform our leadership on key drivers encounter on the road and have initiated several Domino’s also tracks, on a daily basis, the average
of our safety and performance. projects and policies to enhance the safety of cost of goods measured against menu and
our employees. We are focused on having all our promotional prices.
In FY22 we commenced collecting information drivers complete our training modules, and adhere
on safety incidents at a global level from all our to the safe driving requirements On an individual store level, Domino’s will provide
markets. The advisory boards are provided with financial support (such as rental support) where
detailed information on safety incidents and trends local trading conditions require – for example
in each market on a regular basis and we look where foot traffic is reduced as a result of a
NEXT STEPS
forward to being able to provide more detailed shopping centre undergoing renovations. At a
information when our global HRIS is operational. Workplace safety is a key issue for us to manage, market level, Domino’s will, from time-to-time
both in the short and long term. It has become provide targeted incentives, which can be linked
Our COVID-19 Response apparent that not all relevant safety incidents are to specific operational or network improvement
Moving to a COVID-19 normal environment – we reported to us because they are reported directly goals. For example, this could include incentives
have adapted our approach to bring us in line with to government or are not visible to us due to local for improved customer satisfaction scores or
government and regulatory advice and to align with privacy laws. Regardless, what gets measured, reduced average delivery times.
good business practice. This has meant the gradual gets managed and we are taking steps to improve
return to normal operations in some countries, our management of workplace safety, including:
“OUR FRANCHISEES ALSO
while maintaining the option of zero contact
delivery (ZDC) and the provision of additional • Expanding the use of GPS driver tracker HAVE THE RESPONSIBILITY
personal protective equipment where necessary. in countries where this is permitted as this
AND THE OPPORTUNITY TO
The pandemic has had a significant impact on our promotes a strong safety culture.
DRIVE INCREASED PROFIT
team members, both physically and psychologically • Ensuring employees and franchisees are
and we are providing the necessary options appropriately trained in health and safety THROUGH THEIR STORE”
policies and procedures.
• Undertaking risk assessments and updating as
necessary.
• Undertaking internal and external audits of
the safety management system and reporting
on the number and percentage of employees
covered by the system.
36 37
4| OUR PEOPLE DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Inflation and profitability at a higher price point and a sustainable profit
In FY22 our stores faced historically high levels of margin, and giving customers a product they rate These are some examples of the promotional offerings but, as outlined above, profitability does not rest
inflation of the costs of key ingredients, coupled more highly than the pizzas they replaced. solely in the hands of Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd, but our franchisees working in partnership in their
with increases in the cost of labour for team businesses. Accordingly, our operations team members are providing focused information to franchisees
members. This continues in FY23. Domino’s has recognised that, in order to on areas for improvement in their business, including opportunities to reduce food wastage, improve
successfully offset inflation, we will provide rostering, and reduce the cost of delivery.
Our approach to offsetting inflation, to protect customers choices as part of our ‘barbell’ menu
franchisee profitability, remains aligned with strategy; lifting prices where necessary, while In France for example, Domino’s has been providing training and workshops to reinforce the mastery of
the strategies listed above. Initially, Domino’s continuing to provide terrific value when customers KPIs within the store network, delivering business reviews to identify the strengths and weaknesses of
implemented ‘More for More’ strategies, where compare their options for their next meal choice. stores, and developing and implementing action plans to enhance profitability. In Germany, in addition to
customers were enticed to choose items that Examples of this approach include the extension of pricing and promotional changes, Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd has been focusing, in partnership with
delivered increased ticket for our stores, at a the ‘Any Pizza for €2’ offering in Germany, which franchisees, on optimising delivery territory areas, to reduce delivery costs, improve driver efficiency, and
profitable margin, that also delivered a product allows customers to choose a second pizza for deliver a hotter, fresher pizza for customers.
that customers enjoyed and recognised as being €2 after purchasing a menu-priced pizza. While
great value. Examples included the addition of the the menu price has increased for this offering in
Value Max range in Australia, which replaced a response to inflation, the value offering remains.
Group franchisee weighted average
large number of the previous Value range pizzas Indeed, Domino’s Germany has expanded this
company EBITDA ($AUD) cc ‘000S
with enhanced offerings that had significantly promotion to four days a week in Germany in FY23
more toppings, for only $3 more. The results were – which delivers customers greater value when 2.5
successful, giving franchisees a new product range other meal options are increasing in price. 2.4
2.2
$384.9
$309.2
$231.1
12-MONTH ROLLING Q3 20 12-MONTH ROLLING Q3 21 12-MONTH ROLLING Q3 22
EBITDA $ STORES PER FRANCHISEE
GROUP FRANCHISEE COMPANY EBITDA - IS CALCULATED ON THE BASIS OF MULTIPLYING GROUP WEIGHTED AVERAGE STORE
EBITDA SUBMITTED TO DPE, BY GROUP AVERAGE NUMBER OF STORES PER FRANCHISEE, EXCLUDING TAIWAN
NEXT STEPS
We will continue to make progress towards our 2030 Ambition in our
People Pillar with focus on workplace safety, attraction and retention
and franchisee profitability. Key focus areas for FY23 include further
strengthening of our workplace safety reporting to allow us to monitor
trends and address safety issues and incidents. We aim to finalise
the selection and commence implementation of a global HRIS, that
will allow us to streamline our people reporting practices and provide
a world class people experience for our team members, in FY23.
We also intend to continue the roll out of our Path to Excellence
program across all our markets. Lastly, we intend to continue to strive
towards our diversity and inclusion targets in all our markets and keep
reporting progress against these targets.
38 39
4| OUR PEOPLE DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
We are serious about
OUR FOOD
What people put in their bodies matters. Our customers tell us they appreciate
our food because it is a treat, an indulgence with which they celebrate
milestones, connect with friends, and reward themselves after exercise. We
want to ensure that our food remains an indulgence, but we also believe rich
flavours need not come at the expense of health or quality. Together with
our suppliers and business partners we are working hard to implement more
sustainable production methods, eliminate human rights abuses and improve
animal welfare standards in our value chain.
40 41
5| OUR FOOD DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
2030 AMBITION
CASE STUDY
Our food is for sharing. We want it to be as good for our taste buds as it is for our
conscience and planet. Our food should make our people proud, because it is:
• 100% authentic, non-artificial, quality food that tastes really good - as judged by our EUROPE TURNS DIGITAL FOR FOOD SAFETY
customers. All ingredients are 100% free of artificial additives - from dough to topping. Food safety is a priority for Domino’s, and in Europe we’re rolling out
• Food without regret - an indulgent choice: we aspire to provide good, nutritious food new technology to improve our safety standards while also reducing
for our customers, our people and the environment. Our food is an indulgence, but we food waste and eliminating paperwork to make our stores more
believe that this does not need to come at the expense of health or quality. efficient.
• Ethically and sustainably sourced: we ensure that our products are sourced in a
socially responsible and environmentally sustainably way through active, long term Joining forces with EPack, we’ve started the implementation of a
relationships with our business partners. By jointly addressing risks and fostering digital tool which automatically monitors refrigeration temperatures,
innovation in our value chain, we ensure that all workers and animals are treated manages online forms, cleaning checklists, labelling products for
ethically, and all ingredients are grown sustainably. secondary shelf life and tracking for product traceability.
• Our food standards are world class: every team member in each market understands
and operates according to our food safety standards. The tool also helps to save space by saving store paperwork online
rather than physically in store, while also allowing franchisees and
supervisors to access store reports remotely, making documents
easier to verify during audits and inspections.
While the tool does add a cost for franchisees, savings are easily
FOOD SAFETY AND QUALITY realised through strengthened hygiene and food safety management
as well as reduced waste through constant temperature measurement
of refrigeration systems and alarms if temperature ranges are
Food safety In addition to regular food safety inspections, breached.
Food safety is a priority for all our team members Domino’s operations teams respond rapidly to
every day, and Domino’s has a strong track record issues of concern raised from customers and the The tool has now been trialled or rolled out through our European
in good food safety. A comprehensive food community, taking swift action while a concern is market, and Australia is currently considering a trial of the system.
safety program operates in every market, which investigated. This system ensures objectivity in
is supported by additional, independent audits identifying issues and opportunities for continuous
conducted by Domino’s Pizza Inc. Our internal improvement.
audit team conducts regular audits according to
Number Average
our Domino’s Operations Evaluation Report (OER)
of stores inspections
system and food safety and hygiene inspections. inspections per store Food quality Zealand (ANZ), there were two instances where
Our stores are also audited by external auditors (internal and (internal and Domino’s has rigorous processes in place to undercooked protein was identified and withdrawn.
external)
on a regular basis. Stores who do not meet the external) identify food quality issues. We have thorough As our protein is always passed through an oven
agreed standards, are given actions to remedy and Food safety product safety and quality traceability and product before being sold on a pizza the risk was low and
if actions are not followed this could lead to the & Quality FY22 FY22 recall systems in all the markets in which we no customers were at risk, but as it did not meet
termination of the franchisees contract or closure operate. In addition, all Domino’s commissaries are specifications, we chose to withdraw it as soon as
Global 19,278 6.1
of the store. third party certified to FSSC (Food Safety System it was identified. In Europe, three of the reported
Certification) 22000, have five-star certification six instances were related to dough production
Australia 4,243 5.8
Despite COVID-19 related movement restrictions, and Domino’s Pizza International certification. In issues which were blocked once identified. Two of
Domino’s operations team members have kept up New Zealand 705 5.0 addition, our thorough Hazard Analysis and Critical the withdrawals related to our chicken products in
a regular pace of food safety, quality and hygiene Control Point (HACCP) plan assures product safety Germany, where the related batches were found
Netherlands 1,957 5.8
inspections. On average every store across our for our customers. to contain bones/cartilage or soft plastic and
network was inspected at least four times this BeLux1 556 4.3 were removed from the system before impacting
year. This is lower than the average last year In FY22 we voluntarily withdrew some products customers. The final instance in France, was due
France 3,385 7.3
due to COVID-19 lockdowns which limited store to guarantee the safety of our products to our to a non-conforming Listeria level in a batch of
inspections in for instance Australia and New Germany 3,342 8.5 customers. A food withdrawal is when action is merguez sausage. This was identified by the
Zealand. voluntary taken by the company to remove food supplier and blocked at the supply chain centre
Denmark1 147 6.5 from the supply chain where there is no public reception. With all instances no customers were
health and safety issue. In Australia and New impacted.
Japan 4,015 4.6
Taiwan 928 10.9
1) Half Year data for BeNeLux in
F22 and for Denmark in FY21
42 43
5| OUR FOOD DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
Supplier product safety and quality audits
In ANZ, all Domino’s suppliers complete a supplier We are focused on sourcing our products in an base. As a next step, we are planning to assess
approval questionnaire, which determines their ethical, socially responsible and environmentally the risks of our business partners across all our
potential risk. Suppliers considered ‘high’ potential sustainable way. We refer to this as ‘responsible markets on human rights, sustainability, animal
risk are audited every one-to-two years and sourcing’ and an important part of this is to work welfare and the other topics covered in our
‘medium’ potential risk are audited every two-to- closely with our suppliers to ensure workers Business Partner Code of Conduct.
three years. The supplier’s risk level is determined involved in making our products are safe and fairly
by the nature of their products set by a global treated. Given its importance in reducing our environmental
standard and considers the risk of pathogenic impact, we have identified responsible sourcing as
bacteria growth, ready-to-eat foods, time and In FY22 we rolled out our renewed Business one of the three focus areas of our environmental
temperature control amongst other elements. In Partner Code of Conduct across all our markets. strategy and we’ve established a global Centre
ANZ, 40% of suppliers are considered high, 10% We released our second Modern Slavery statement of Excellence for this field (see ‘Our Environment’
medium and 49% low potential risk suppliers based in December and we engaged with our partner for more detail). Sustainability in the ingredients
on the types of products they provide. All suppliers, Ethixbase to assess business partners in our we use begins with farmers and their practices. It
regardless of potential risk level, are required to Australian operations. is important for us to understand their processes
have HACCP or equivalent food safety certification, and help support them to find ways to be more
which ensures third party auditing takes place as We simultaneously conducted internal research sustainable for the long-term. We work with
well. In Europe, all food and packaging suppliers on responsible sourcing to determine the scope our direct suppliers to support and encourage
are GFSI (Global Food Safety Initiative) certified of our global responsible sourcing policy and due sustainable and ethical sourcing practices
as this is a minimum requirement for existing and diligence process. This approach will help us to throughout our whole supply chain. In Europe,
new suppliers. Domino’s does not audit indirect identify, assess, mitigate and prevent human rights for instance, our Chocolate Lava Cakes consist of
suppliers, however our suppliers require their own and environmental risks across all our operations, Rainforest Alliance UTZ sustainably sourced cacao.
suppliers to have HACCP/food safety certifications markets and our complete global business partner
in place.
Domino’s approach to non-compliance is not to CASE STUDY
automatically terminate contracts where problems
are detected, as this does not result in the best SUSTAINABLE CHOCOLATE CREATES GUILT-FREE TREATS
outcome. This is especially important for human The legendary Domino’s lava cakes are a popular indulgence and can
or labour rights issues, as contract termination is now be enjoyed guilt free. In cooperation with our business partner
known to result in poor outcomes for vulnerable Boncolac, we focussed on sourcing certified cacao. We are proud that
parties in the supply chain. Domino’s response to all European customers can enjoy their favourite desserts made from
non-compliance is to work with suppliers to rectify 100% Rainforest Alliance UTZ certified cocoa and free range eggs.
the issues identified through regular audits. This is great news for those enjoying the phenomenal 2.2 million lava
cakes sold every year. Next stop – investigating sustainable options to
Reporting on incidents and incident follow- reduce the packaging used in this product.
up is part of Domino’s recall plans and where
non-compliance is identified, all suppliers and
distribution centres have recall procedures in Our efforts in responsible sourcing
place. are not limited to cacao. Our strong
preference is to not use palm oil in
our food. However, if palm oil must be
NEXT STEPS used, we ensure it is 100% sustainably
sourced and meets the standards of
From 2023 all high potential risk suppliers will be the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm
required to have GFSI (our European markets are Oil (RSPO). We also use farm-grown
already compliant with this requirement). Without seafood where possible. Where seafood
this certification, suppliers will be audited by a third such as tuna is wild-caught, we aim to
party to ensure they are achieving the required only buy products that do not use ‘fish
food safety standards. aggregator devices’ (FAD-free tuna) that
reduces bycatch unless there is a global
product shortage and FAD-free tuna is
unavailable.
44 45
5| OUR FOOD DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Animal welfare these animal welfare standards for chickens and We have committed to stop purchasing caged eggs by 2025 in all markets,
We are committed to high animal welfare they exceed the current national animal welfare except Taiwan. In 2022 we made progress in Europe to reach our goal to
standards. In addition to adhering to local standards. We have now also expanded our animal only purchase products containing free range or enriched eggs, by updating
animal welfare laws, our Business Partner Code welfare commitment in Europe and launched our the type of eggs used in the recipes or removing the eggs and or products
of Conduct outlines our strong animal welfare Domino's Pork Commitment, to be achieved by from the menus entirely. In ANZ we did not make the same progress in 2022
expectations of our suppliers. 2026. We are the first Quick Service Restaurant as the focus was more on securing supply during the challenging year than
in the world to introduce this type of standard. updating our recipes. Next year we are confident on our progress towards
In Europe, we have adopted the European We are working closely with our chicken and pork this target.
Better Chicken Commitment, the highest chicken suppliers to create a clear roadmap on how we will
welfare standard. As part of this commitment, we reach these commitments by 2026. At the moment, We are proud to have been recognised for our commitment to improving
entered a partnership with non-profit organisation although progress has been made, our business animal welfare, receiving the Cage-Free Award in June 2022 from CIWF for
Compassion in World Farming (CIWF) to agree on a partners have not yet fulfilled these commitments leading the movement to end the caging of animals. We were
set of targets which we have committed to achieve 100% therefore our KPIs remain at 0%. We look also delighted to receive the PETA Vegan Award for our
by 2026. In FY22 we expanded our partnership forward to sharing our roadmap and our progress vegan pizza in Germany for the second year in a row.
with CIWF for the Better Chicken Commitment in this area. This is the result of our partnership with leading animal
to include Australia and New Zealand. In New welfare organisation, Vier Pfoten (Four Paws), with whom
Zealand we were the first company to introduce we partner to permanently offer a vegan or vegetarian
pizza option with every third or fourth promotional
campaign.
% of free range or enriched egg products*
100
90
80
e
g 70
a
t n 60
e
c 50 r e
p 40
30
20
10
AU NZ JP FR NL BE/ DE DK Total
LU
2020 2021 2022
*According to guidelines for enriched eggs set by CIWF,
see https://www.ciwf.org.uk/farm-animals/chickens/egg-laying-hens/#enrichedcages
%9 %9 %8 %9 %9 %9 %0 %0 %0
%35
%46
%38
%54
%65
%08
%05 %05
%08
%42
%04
%34
%36 %36
%58
%03
%63
%05
*According to guidelines for enriched eggs set by CIWF, see https://www.ciwf.org.uk/farm-animals/chickens/egg-laying-hens/#enrichedcages
NEXT STEPS
We are working towards the finalisation of our better animal welfare roadmap across all animal proteins
(chicken, pork, beef and seafood) and expand our animal welfare commitments to include more markets.
Moving forward, we plan to annually report on our progress on animal welfare for all the protein
commitments in our sustainability report.
We continue to finalise our responsible sourcing policy, with a key focus on traceability and align it to our
Business Partner Code of Conduct. We plan to provide further training on responsible sourcing policies and
procedures to team members, and we continue to collaborate with our suppliers while also working with
risk assessment and compliance experts.
46 47
5| OUR FOOD DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
FOOD NUTRITION AND INNOVATION
Domino’s has long been committed to be and our drive to transform to a clean-label
responsive to customers’ taste and dietary standard. Domino’s is now in the process of trialling
preferences. For example, when reducing fat the removal of preservatives in meats. Removing
was a customer priority, we made significant nitrates is particularly challenging as they have
advancements in reducing fat content while been used for hundreds of years to preserve meat,
retaining flavour. We have worked hard to remove especially pork.
preservatives and added more fresh ingredients,
with customers responding positively to menu We also made significant improvements in
changes across multiple markets. reducing the fat and sodium content of our
products in all markets. In FY22 we reduced the
We worked to create gluten-free crusts, adapted salt in our dough in Europe to a purely functional
to be one of the first Quick Service Restaurants to level2. Our pizza dough is vegan friendly and
offer vegan cheeses, doughs and proteins. These MSG (monosodium glutamate) free. Our European
initiatives have lifted the quality of our food while markets follow guidelines on Nutri-Score and the
also making it taste better. In turn, this provides majority of our meals are aligned with A – C levels
more options for our customers and giving us the on this scoring system (see ‘Our Customers’). We’re
edge over our competitors. In the process, in many also investigating healthier dough options to offer
cases, customers rewarded us through loyalty for our customers more choice.
offering these products.
All our vegetables (tomatoes, peppers, mushrooms,
A cleaner menu onion and spinach) in Europe and our cheese are
In more recent years we have made significant locally sourced. This ensures the freshness or
progress in improving the quality of our food. In our products, helps to support local farmers and
2017 our European team set a target to achieve improves the efficiency of our supply chain.
100% clean label1 for our menu in our European
markets by the end of 2022 and although we have Moving forward, with respect to our company
fallen short on this timeline the teams are working mission, all our product innovations are assessed
hard to find solutions for the final products. Our according to three main criteria: design to be
approach was to analyse our menu and engage delivered, Domino’s X-factor (pizzaness) and
with our suppliers to reduce artificial ingredients sustainability.
and seek non-artificial alternatives. With food
safety the priority, the team has delivered a menu
now 85-90% free from artificial colours, flavours DESIGNED TO
BE DELIVERED
and preservatives. The team in Australia also
worked hard to reduce artificial ingredients and has
managed to deliver a menu 100% free of artificial
colours and flavours.
We have encountered significant challenges along
the way, mostly relating to storage and logistics for OUR
certain products. Reducing preservatives in meat NEXT STEPS
and sauces proved to be the most challenging INNOVATION
change as they provide prolonged shelf life and We are proud of our achievements, but we know there is still more to do
TRIANGLE
increase food safety. We have made significant - we view product innovation as a continuous journey. We are committed
inroads through continuous evaluation and to finding solutions to become 100% clean label in ANZ and Europe.
refinement, collaborating with our suppliers We are also developing more sustainable meat alternatives to reduce
the need for animal products and the environmental impact of intensive
SUSTAINABILITY 12-MONTH ROLLING Q3 2D0 OMINO’S farming. We anticipate that this will extend to pilot innovation projects on
X-FACTOR regenerative agriculture or alternative sustainable solutions for our dairy,
tomatoes, flour and beef. We have already started investigating a dairy
initiative to drive a sustainable and ethical dairy supply chain and plan to
1: Clean label: products that are 100% free from artificial flavours, colours and preservatives to the extent possible from a food quality and safety
perspective and respecting applicable food legislation take further action on this in FY23.
2: Functional level: the yeast in our dough requires salt for fermentation.
48 49
5| OUR FOOD DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
We cherish our
CUSTOMERS
The definition of ‘good food’ is different for every individual and is based on
personal interests, moods and moments. This is why we strive to offer choices
for everyone. Our wide range of pizzas can be altered to suit personal tastes,
but we don’t compromise on quality. We know how important convenience
is for our customers, and we consider delivery and a great and secure digital
experience key to the success of our business. We actively engage with
our customers through social media and share our journey of continuous
improvement openly and honestly - the milestones we’ve achieved, the
barriers we face and how we plan to address them. We also place strong
emphasis on responding to customer complaints and continuously improving
our service and image.
50 51
6| OUR CUSTOMERS DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE
2030 AMBITION
AND ENGAGEMENT
Customer
We want to surprise and delight the people we serve, creating fans for life
• We ensure a generous and joyful experience: we want customers for life and what Every customer wants their pizza made fresh and Lifetime Value
they buy from us should be a treat and provide convenience. hot out of the oven. Meeting customer expectations
• We ensure inclusive and affordable choices for all customers: everyone should be and improving satisfaction in the design and delivery An important element of customer
able to buy the pizza they crave at all our stores worldwide. of our products, services, and experiences are engagement and experience is our
• We ensure transparency: customers know what they buy from us, what the key to the success of our business. Our customer Customer Lifetime Value (CLV) approach.
ingredients are, where they are sourced, our products’ nutritional value and the engagement is built on the foundation of ease, A CLV mindset in our view is crucial to the
environmental footprint, and the sustainability of our product’s packaging. value and consistency. Read on for examples of our best customer experience because it looks
• We ensure privacy and security is a priority: we are passionate about protecting our innovations to meet their needs. beyond a single transaction or point-in-
customers’ privacy by providing a secure and convenient digital experience. time, and instead focuses on the lifetime
Mobile Pizza Kitchens relationship a customer has with our
In FY22 we launched our first ‘Mobile Pizza Kitchen’ brand. It comes as no surprise that when
(MPK) in Australia. This is not just a food truck – it is our customers have a great experience,
a fully functional Domino’s store that takes delivery they return to purchase again. And our
to otherwise inaccessible locations. Each MPK has most satisfied customers return to order
unique delivery territories and provides food to areas many times throughout the year, which
that are hit by disasters. They act as ‘part-time’ stores leads to higher sales. We also know that
in smaller communities and are able to replace the our Net Promoter Score (NPS) is correlated
services of existing stores that temporarily have with Customer Lifetime Value.
to close, such as our Australian stores which were
impacted by severe flooding in early 2022. In FY22 we further investigated the drivers
of CLV and NPS. Our research showed us
More for more that we can improve customer experience
This year we improved value for customers with by focusing on great delivery, delicious
our ‘More for more’ strategy by upgrading menu food, and great service and friendly
offerings while adding incremental pricing. This staff. With our CLV approach we’re also
delivers better value for customers, increases sales better able to track reason for customer
for stores, offsets some of inflationary pressures and detractors.
above all, provides joyful experiences.
MOBILE APPLICATION LAUNCHes
Consistent feedback To further improve the customer
In FY22 we continued the integration of Critizr as experience, we launched our new mobile
a single, global platform to manage all customer application (iOS and Android), which
feedback. This includes feedback from multiple is now available in Australia and New
sources, such as our own online forms or reviews Zealand and most European markets. This
posted to third-party platforms. The platform provides new application was a significant digital
a central location for our franchisees and in-store investment which will deliver benefits for
team members to easily view feedback and respond our customers and Domino’s. Our data
to customers quickly. Targeted alerting and reporting shows that app-using customers
allow for greater focus on improving customer spend more annually, order more
satisfaction, responsiveness and retention. frequently and are less likely
to stop ordering Domino’s.
This year, Critizr helped us to collect feedback in a Importantly, the app also
consistent, aligned way across our markets. It also provides customers with
provided us further insights to help improve internal a seamless and more
and external benchmarking and the contents of modern customer
feedback. All markets now use Critizr as the main experience.
feedback tool. However, with just four percent of
digital orders leaving feedback, we know there is
significant room to improve the insights we receive
from customers.
52 53
6| OUR CUSTOMERS DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Offering our customers choice and transparency We provide information on the calories of our
We want to ensure our customers have all the menu, aligned with national legislation in our
Customer demand and ESG information they need to make decisions around respective markets. We’ve worked hard to improve
In many markets, especially in Europe, we have witnessed the food choices they make. To ensure they have all the quality of our ingredients (see ‘Our Food’) and
increased customer demand to provide more vegan or plant the facts, we are working towards full transparency we’re communicating more to our customers about
based offerings. We know that in many cases this is driven by around our ingredients, nutritional value and the the origin of our ingredients. For example, in The
a demand for more ‘climate friendly’ products; products with environmental footprint of the products they buy Netherlands we created a video about the origin of
a lower environmental footprint. In general, customers have from us. our tomatoes.
high expectations of companies to be responsible operators.
Between 66 and 80% of our customers across all our markets To meet the changing requirements of our Launching our innovative nutritional
told us that they considered a company’s focus on ESG to customers, in Europe we’re now offering an scoring system
be important or very important1. This research also showed extensive range of vegan products. This includes To further enhance our commitment to transparency
us that although we know we have an enormous focus on 100% vegan dough, vegan cheese, fully vegan for our customers and the choices we offer, we’ve
improving ESG in our business behind the scenes, we need to pizzas, plant-based protein alternatives such as introduced the Nutri-Score system in most of our
better inform our customers about our plans and achievements. We vegan options for crunchy ‘chicken’, plant-based European markets this year. We were the first Quick
took these learnings into account and included them in our customer ‘chicken’ and a ‘Vegeroni’ which we’ve developed Service Restaurant to introduce this system in the
engagement and experience strategy. We now communicate more for our Dutch market in cooperation with the Benelux and Germany. The Nutri-Score makes
about the sourcing of our ingredients and explain how our food is Vegetarian Butcher. it easier for customers to understand nutritional
made for example with the ‘5 x beter’ (Five times better) campaign in information and comes in addition to the display of
The Netherlands. In Japan, we introduced a fully transparent kitchen, In Germany, our new vegan pizzas developed in nutritional values. The information is easily available
we’ve enhanced the communication about the recyclability of our consultation with animal welfare organisation Vier in all our stores and on our website.
Watch video
packaging in Australia and we promoted our e-delivery progress in Pfoten (Four Paws) demonstrates the commitment
France. of our product development team to offer vegan
products without compromise on quality or taste.
1. Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd, Global ESG Customer Survey, 2021
CASE STUDY
NUTRI-SCORE INNOVATION GIVES CUSTOMERS
TRANSPARENT NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION
Domino’s introduced the Nutri-Score system to ensure our
customers in the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxemburg, Germany
and France receive objective information on the nutritional value
of our products. Nutri-Score was developed by independent
scientists commissioned by the French government. The system
allocates points for nutritious ingredients including protein, fibre,
vegetables and fruit while deducting points for ingredients such
as sugars, fat and salt. Based on these points, each product is
awarded a grade from a dark green ‘A’ as the most responsible
choice to a dark orange ‘E’ as the least favourable choice. This
gives customers a reliable, independent system to choose
the product that best suits them. It’s another example of our
commitment to investment and innovation to ensure customers
receive an outstanding experience.
READ MORE
54 55
6| OUR CUSTOMERS DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Product environmental footprint
To meet changing customer expectations and because it’s the right thing to do, we’ve developed a product
environmental footprint calculation tool in partnership with environmental sustainability consultancy
Quantis. This tool enables us to calculate the footprint of the pizzas on our menu in Denmark. This also
anticipates future European legislation on the transparency of product environmental footprints.
As a next step, we plan to communicate the environmental footprint of our pizzas to our customers in
Denmark in FY23. We intend to roll this tool out across our markets as part of our focus on Sustainable
Product Innovation (see ‘Our Environment’).
DATA SECURITY AND PRIVACY -
Our marketing RESPONDING TO OUR CHANGING
is responsible THREAT LANDSCAPE
As a responsible business, Domino’s adheres to
ethical marketing practices. We are committed The data privacy and security of our customers Anticipating cyber security issues
to marketing that is truthful, accurate, balanced, is crucial to them, and to us. We know that the To sustain our focus on privacy and cyber risk
substantiated, inclusive and not misleading, information on what they order, when they order, we continue to utilise the NIST Cyber Security
derogatory, degrading or offensive. Strong how they order, even the name they choose to Framework (CSF) to identify future initiatives and
advertising guidelines govern many of the markets display in our restaurants when their order is ready, apply a consistent framework to measure our
in which we operate, and we are proud members is important to our customers. And as a company progress. This year we have improved our ability
of advertising boards in many of the countries in that fulfils the vast majority of orders and payments to prevent and detect cyber events, respond and
which we operate. Our advertising is always clearly online, we have robust systems in place to monitor, recover from them, which has in turn seen maturity
identifiable, and not presented as research or other detect and respond to data security threats. improvements across all our markets.
published formats.
Our cyber security focus this financial year has
“WE ARE COMMITTED
In line with our company’s policy, Domino’s does included:
not market to children. We do not provide items TO SAFEGUARDING THE • building on identity protection of our users at
such as toys or games to appeal to children. PERSONAL DATA OF OUR work and at home.
• a program to replace our existing endpoint
CUSTOMERS, EMPLOYEES,
Our goal is to ensure that Domino’s advertising protection capability to give us a solid
FRANCHISEES AND
practices build meaningful, trusting relationship foundation for future capability particularly
with our customers. PARTNERS.” around data protection.
• the consolidation and simplification of our
network infrastructure, and
• finalising our disaster recovery planning and
At Domino’s we are guided not only by our legal testing of our recovery plans.
NEXT STEPS obligations but also by our values.
Moving forward, we plan to develop a dedicated Domino’s for Good section on our Rigorous testing keeps data secure
customer ordering platforms across all our markets to better inform our customers The world is in a period of global and economic As part of our security assurance program, we
about our efforts in this field. We will roll out our product environmental footprint instability, and with this comes cyber risks. We are have implemented rigorous testing exercises
tool across our markets and introduce an eco-label in some pilot markets to help our committed to safeguarding the personal data of our throughout the year that allow us to test our
customers understand the environmental impact of our products. We also intend to customers, employees, franchisees and partners. physical, procedural and electronic defences
expand our Nutri-Score system to other markets and our pizza customisation program against sustained real world attacks. In addition to
in our European markets. To ensure we proactively identify current and the more traditional testing processes we conduct,
potential cyber threats, we have strengthened our we have also adopted a continuous testing model
We continue to look for opportunities to engage with our customers and increase partnerships with vendors, private organisations for our key online ordering platform to identify data
feedback to help us improve our service and products. and governments. or processes that could be compromised or stolen.
56 57
6| OUR CUSTOMERS DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
More than 10 million online ordering customer
accounts across all our markets were protected
from account takeover attacks this financial year.
Using technology to monitor threats
We continue to increase our level of visibility across
the business and monitor around 133.2 million
insights every day from multiple systems and
services, including our newer endpoint software.
Automation and the use of machine learning has
been a top priority to ensure that we focus on the
threats to our business and protect the well-being
of our dedicated cyber staff.
CASE STUDY
HELPING CUSTOMERS CAST ASIDE PHISHING NEXT STEPS
To ensure our customers and members for the public do not fall prey to phishing scams on
email, Domino’s has worked on a global solution to ensure emails can be quickly identified as We are rolling out training to increase the cyber awareness of our staff,
legitimate. franchisees and store members and interactive scenario-based cyber
exercises with our senior leaders.
Using a new technology called Brand Indicators for Message Identification (BIMI), and building
on the previous year’s work for DMARC (Domain-Based Message Authentication, Reporting We are also strengthening working partnerships with our franchisees to
and Conformance) records, we can now place a Domino’s improve the security of their stores to allow them to protect their business
logo to appear next to messages in a user’s inbox, helping and their employees.
recipients to quickly identify that the email came from
Domino’s and is not part of a phishing scam. These logos Domino’s has started work towards ISO27001 accreditation to ensure a
provide a stamp of authenticity and cannot be reproduced sharper focus on security governance across our business and we are
by malicious actors. also refining our existing standards and frameworks.
A collaboration between our cyber security function and As we now have a workforce that is no longer protected by the traditional
IT, we began implementing BIMI in Australia and New office perimeter network and associated security controls we will continue
Zealand and plan to have all regions deployed by the end to focus heavily on the security of every individual user of our systems
of 2022. and services by enhancing our identity and Access Management.
58 59
6| OUR CUSTOMERS DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
We are mindful of the
ENVIRONMENT
In recent years, Domino’s has made significant progress to reduce our
environmental footprint by implementing initiatives such as green electricity in
our offices and stores, e-delivery, waste reduction and sustainable packaging.
We choose equipment and appliances based on energy efficiency and
constantly worked towards improving energy efficiency in our operations.
Our science-based approach
We recognise the science, and urgency, of addressing climate change, and we
want be part of the solution by linking our business to Planetary boundaries1
with an initial focus on climate. In FY22 we committed to and submitted our
targets to the Science Based Target initiative (SBTi). These form part of our
environmental strategy and climate roadmap.
As part of our corporate footprint baseline measurement, we’ve identified other
important environmental impact areas on nature and we are working towards
setting targets in these areas.
60 61
7| OUR ENVIRONMENT DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
2030 AMBITION CORPORATE FOOTPRINT MEASUREMENT
We want to give as much as can for the good of our planet, not Partnering with environmental sustainability consultancy Quantis, in FY22 we completed our first global
as little as we can get away with. We are taking action now to corporate footprint baseline measurement with FY21 as a baseline year. The footprint is calculated
reduce our impact on the environment and we want to go beyond according to the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol and it included our impact on climate, water, land
by having a positive impact2. We will do this by: use and biodiversity. We’ve also conducted the same measurement for our corporate footprint in FY22.
Compared to FY21, we’ve increased our greenhouse gas emissions in FY22 with 7%, this is due to an
• Reducing our emissions, including our franchisees increase in order counts and the growth of our business in terms of stores, which includes the addition of
emissions: starting today and in line with limiting global our Taiwan market.
warming to 1.5°C before 2050.
• Reducing deforestation to zero in our supply chain before Carbon footprint by scope & FY
2025.
• Regenerating and protecting natural habitats in lands used
+7%
to source our ingredients.
1.55
• Reducing our pressure on the watersheds where we operate.
MTCO2eq
1.45 1% Scope 1
Our primary focus in the short term is on our climate targets (see
MTCO2eq
below). We intend to further investigate how we can go beyond Scope 1 1% 2% Scope 2
reducing our emissions by for instance investing in carbon
removal projects inside or outside our supply chain. Scope 2 2%
Scope 3 97% 97% Scope 3
FY21 FY22
Corporate footprint baseline results Our main hotspots on all impact categories are:
Our FY21 corporate footprint baseline and our • Purchased goods: production of commodity and
FY22 measurement still contains gaps, but the non-commodity ingredients (dairy, meat, flour,
overall data quality and completeness shows etc), packaging materials (corrugated cardboard,
promise for the early stage we are in. We plastic food film etc).
understand that it generally takes up to three • Utilities: purchased energy (electricity, natural
years to get to a complete overview of all actual gas, water).
footprint data, and we are putting actions in • Logistics: inbound transportation (to
place to improve data maturity accordingly. Our distribution centres), outbound transportation
baseline results show that our corporate footprint (to restaurants), delivery and pickup (to/by
is dominated by Scope 3 categories (indirect customers).
emissions generated within our value chain),
representing 97% and 99.7% of total footprints for Other emissions include capital goods, employee
1. Planetary boundaries: a concept born in 2009 from the Stockholm Resilience Institute. They have identified 9 planetary boundaries which, carbon and water respectively in FY21. commuting, business travel, operational waste
if respected, will enable our future population to grow sustainably. Climate change is one of these boundaries. Since the Paris Climate
Agreement was adopted at COP 21 in 2015, The Climate’s Planetary Boundary is correlated to capping the increase in temperature associated disposal and end of life.
with global warming to below 2°C compared to pre-industrial levels, now strengthened to 1.5°C. The Science Based Targets trajectories are
based on this concept and on the findings from the IPCC report.
2. This is our ambition, we want to further investigate the possibilities and target year for this.
62 63
7| OUR ENVIRONMENT DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Carbon footprint and land use change
CLIMATE WATER LAND USE CHANGE
CO
2
100%
100%
100%
9%
18%
23%
93%
50% 93%
MTCO2eq3 MTCO2eq3 Hectares
Period: FY 2021 PURCHASED GOODS UTILITIES LOGISTICS OTHERS
Purchased goods carbon footprint by category, LUC contribution
kt CO2e, DPE, FY2021
The main contributors to our carbon footprint are purchased goods (50%), utilities (23%) and
logistics (18%). Purchased goods are also the main contributor to land use change in our value
chain (93%). FOOD INGREDIENTS FOCUS ON TOP 10
200
Purchased goods
The procurement of food ingredients is the highest contributor to our carbon footprint,
24%
accounting for 91% of total procurement emissions. This is mainly driven by dairy (29%) and
other animal-based proteins (47%) (beef, pork and chicken). Our top 20 suppliers account for 150
75% of total supplier emissions, and we are focused on strong engagement and collaboration
with this group as a priority.
100
GHG emissions associated with land use change are linked to the destruction of carbon sinks,
mostly deforestation, and decreased soil carbon sequestration capacity. A handful of our 76%
sourced commodities account for most land use change, driven by agricultural expansion which
50
causes deforestation. Beef is our largest contributor due to extensive rearing practices (ranges)
and the production of its feed-mix such as soy. Pork and chicken use less area for growth but
need to be fed with crops that may lead to deforestation.
0
CHEESE BEEF PORK CHICKEN FLOUR TOMATO SHRIMP CREAM DESSERT DOUGH
SAUCE
LUC EMISSIONS OTHER EMISSIONS
64 65
7| OUR ENVIRONMENT DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Utilities
Electricity is the main contributor to our utility
consumption; it accounts for 78% of utility
emissions. Franchised stores are responsible for
79% of emissions linked to utilities.
Other environmental impacts
Logistics
Delivery and pick-up from franchised stores Our baseline measurement also included our impact on water and
generate roughly 63% of our logistics emissions. biodiversity on group level. With additional market-specific data, we
Inbound and outbound transport contributes to intend to set additional targets for these environmental impact categories.
22% of our logistic emissions mainly generated by
(refrigerated) truck transport. Water3
Our highest impact on water scarcity and carbon emissions is through
our use of dairy and animal based proteins, this is associated with the
upstream production of (animal) feed-mix. Our sauces also have high
LOGISTICS CARBON FOOTPRINT BREAKDOWN
water consumption, this is specifically associated with tomato cultivation
and processing. Our other vegetables have a low to moderate water
KTCO2eq
consumption footprint during crop cultivation. Dough ingredients,
although high in volume, have a low water consumption impact which
22%
indicates relative efficiency in the production of flour and oils.
KTCO2eq
Owned 7%
Biodiversity
The main drivers of biodiversity loss in our value chain seem to be linked
to the use of land and deforestation, mainly in animal products. The
Franchised second contributor representing the emissions of pollutants in the air, soil
37%
and water is mainly driven by terrestrial acidification linked to nitrogen
KTCO2eq spreading for crop production and marine acidification due to the excess
Owned 7% of CO 2 in the atmosphere. The third largest contributor is climate change,
mainly driven by the impact of agricultural practices of purchased goods.
The remaining <1% impact on biodiversity loss is caused by the impact of
Franchised
26% water use on ecosystems.
TOTAL INBOUND & DELIVERY PICK-UP 3. Our approach to calculating our water consumption is aligned with the GHG protocol and accounts for water scarcity.
OUTBOUND
TRANSPORT
66 67
7| OUR ENVIRONMENT DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
CLIMATE ROADMAP AND ENVIRONMENTAL
SCIENCE BASED TARGETS ACHIEVEMENT
HIGHLIGHTS
We believe that our science-based targets will Our internal targets already include the latest
help us do the right thing and help us to measure guidance from the SBTi’s Forest, Land and
and report on our progress consistently over time. Agriculture project (SBTi FLAG).4
We announced our commitment to Science Based CASE STUDY
Targets during our AGM in November 2021 and Our corporate footprint baseline measurement
submitted our targets to the SBTi in June 2022. identified three main areas we can directly FIRST GLOBAL DOMINO’S FOR GOOD
These are now being validated by the SBTi. influence and have the most potential to reduce AWARD WINNER
our emissions. In our climate roadmap we’ve In FY22 we introduced our global Domino’s
All targets and actions are designed to deliver included targets and actions for these three focus for Good award. Through this award we want
an emissions reduction pathway consistent with areas: to celebrate those stores that truly embrace
the 1.5° C ambition of the Paris Agreement. They our Domino’s for Good values and encourage
are aligned with the latest Science Based Targets • Sustainable Stores & Operations others to do the same. The award demonstrates
guidelines and include intermediate targets • Responsible Sourcing that positive movement towards ESG goals
for 2030 and reaching science-based net-zero • Sustainable Product Innovation are achievable by individual stores and team
emissions by 2050. members, rather than being something that is
just driven by Domino’s Head Office.
We were proud to announce Dutch franchisee
2030
Sjoerd Hendriks as our inaugural global Domino’s
SBT ALIGNED
for Good award winner. His store in Oldenzaal
(The Netherlands) has 52 solar panels on its
ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY
roof that generate approximately 16,000 kWh of
3 KEY FOCUS AREAS
electricity per year, which is around the same as
the energy used by five houses. The store has its
SUSTAINABLE STORES RESPONSIBLE SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT own charging poles for electric cars which can
& OPERATIONS SOURCING INNOVATION also be used by the community.
• E-delivery in all our markets • Responsible sourcing policy • Footprint reduction of cheese
per pizza in the menu in all
• Low carbon energy • Traceability for our top markets
commodities
• Energy efficiency in our • Low impact ingredients
operations, stores and offices • Zero deforestation top products on the menu
high-risk commodities
• Waste management in our • Customer transparency
operations, stores and offices • Sourcing core ingredients from for all products
low impact agricultural
• Sustainable store design practices or from alternatives • Sustainable consumer facing
packaging in all markets
• Less carbon intensive
transport modes and fuel
As above, for each focus area we have identified the main actions and a phased implementation across
our markets. Global Centres of Excellence are dedicated to the task of identifying sustainable innovations
that can be implemented across our markets, reduce our environmental impact and ensure they are an
attractive solution for our franchisees.
4. As released by Science Based Target initiative’s Forest, Land and Agriculture project (SBTi FLAG) on 28th September 2022. The FLAG criteria aim to
Watch video
cover the current gap identified with the current science-based targets as only few businesses account for AFOLU (Agriculture, Forest and other Land
Use) emissions or removals in their targets or disclosures, mostly because of a lack of available standards, guidance and methods.
68 69
7| OUR ENVIRONMENT DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
E-DELIVERY CASE STUDY Waste reduction
E-delivery has become the dominant way of To ensure we are environmentally responsible and Last year we also initiated project Less is More,
delivering our pizzas across our European markets. E-DELIVERIES REDUCE OUR FOOTPRINT IN creating financial efficiency, we continually work to a project focused on reducing packaging in our
In Denmark we already boast a 100% electric JAPAN reduce food wastage in our stores and operations. supply chain. With this project we’ve managed to
delivery fleet. Japan has significantly increased As we expanded our presence in Japan with Our food waste per meal is typically lower than the recycle 700 tonnes of cardboard, eliminated 15
the number of e-bike deliveries with a nationwide 134 new organic store openings in FY22, we average household. This year we’ve implemented tonnes of plastic and reduced delivery waiting time
e-bike delivery coverage increasing to 30% in FY22 also increased the use of electric motorbike project Golf, with this project we increased the by 50% through improved efficiency in 18 months.
from 14.86% in 2018. deliveries to reduce CO emissions. With 30% number of dough balls we can transport in each
2
of deliveries in Japan and more than 51% in crate. You can read the case study to see how we
This increase in e-bike usage resulted in more the Tokyo metropolitan area now adopting achieved our goal.
than 8 million kilometres on the road sustainably e-delivery (electric bicycle and motorcycle), we
converted to e-bikes that were previously powered aren’t just reducing our CO emissions, we’re
2
by fossil fuels. also reducing delivery costs through reduced
costs of petrol. At our Kogane Dori store, a small
delivery territory, all deliveries are done by
e-bikes, reducing carbon dioxide emissions by
128kg per month for this store alone.
Domino’s was proud to participate in ‘e-ride
Tokyo’, an initiative of the Tokyo Metropolitan
Government which promoted the use of electric
motorbikes to public and corporate users. The
project ran from December 2021 to March
2022, with electric motorbikes rented to users
and facilities provided to recharge batteries.
The Tokyo Metropolitan Government aims
to make 100% of new motorbikes sold in the
city utilizing EV, FCV (Fuel Cell Vehicles) and
Hybrid by 2035 to help achieve the city’s ‘Zero
Emission Tokyo’ goal.
CASE STUDY
PROJECT GOLF - MORE DOUGH IN TRANSIT REDUCES CO
2
In France, our pizza bases begin life as balls of dough in our
Gennevilliers and Vertou commissaries, where they are then
transported to stores to become the important foundation of our
pizzas. We wanted to increase the number of dough balls in each tray
to reduce the number of trucks needed for transport. This was more
complicated than you may think, with many factors in the supply
chain needing careful consideration to ensure this was possible.
Redesigned trays and new machinery to remove dough balls from
trays were required for this trial to be successful. Another factor was
ensuring the correct climate was maintained throughout the supply
chain when transporting the very temperature-sensitive dough to
ensure food safety and shield the dough from overproofing during
the hot summer. The result was an emission reduction of 183 tonnes
Watch video
per year through reduced truck movements. Using lessons from our
France trial, we will now expand this initiative to the Netherlands.
We recognise the need to invest in innovation to continue to hold
ourselves to high standard to ensure we deliver on our environmental
commitments.
70 71
7| OUR ENVIRONMENT DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
CASE STUDY
Sustainable packaging
Packaging plays a crucial role in Domino’s
products, and we are committed to finding REUSABLE PIZZA BOX TRIALS DRIVE SUSTAINABILITY
solutions with the lowest environmental impact In Denmark, extensive research shows consumers have developed a strong commitment to
without compromising the quality of our product. returning packaging when this option is available. To replicate the country’s strong bottle-
Wherever local laws allow, our pizza boxes are return behaviour, Domino’s Denmark partnered with New Loop to create the first reusable
made of 100% recycled cardboard5, all our pizza pizza box. Testing began with six vendors in May 2022 and findings are being used to create
boxes are recyclable and we encourage our a better, fit-for-purpose box. This prototype is undergoing testing and once approved, will go
customers to recycle these boxes in line with local into mass production, with a pilot rollout expected in mid-2023.
laws.
Our German market has partnered with Vytal, one of Europe’s largest digital reusable
Domino’s is also phasing out single-use plastics. packaging systems for takeaway, who recently added a pizza box to their range. Domino’s is
In several markets in which we operate, this is currently piloting this box for offline pick-up orders, allowing customers to borrow the box for
consistent with local laws, however, in many free on the condition it is returned within two weeks. After this time the lease can be extended
cases we are also ahead of legislation as we are for €1 or purchased for €10. Transactions are recorded through the Vytal app and after return,
constantly looking for innovations in this field. You the box is cleaned in-store for re-use. Take up of this option is expected to increase when this
can read more in the case study on our reusable option is made available through online orders from October 2022.
pizza box trial.
As part of our environmental strategy, we want all
our consumer facing packaging to be sustainable,
we intend to:
• Ban single use plastics
• Only use recycled contents/and or sustainably
(sourced) materials In FY22 most markets assessed the sustainability
• Work towards reusable consumer facing of their consumer facing packaging and developed NEXT STEPS
packaging an action plan to improve. As part of their effort
to ban single use plastics, Japan for example While changing consumer behaviour proves to
intends to only provide customers a (plastic) bag be a big challenge, at Domino’s we do the right
if they’ve specifically opted in for this. The main thing because it’s the right thing to do – we take
focus in our European markets is to first improve seriously our responsibility to the environment and
the recyclability of all our consumer facing we will continue to invest and innovate in sustainable
packaging. In Australia we report on our packaging solutions for our customers and the community. Our
levels through the Australian Packaging Covenant corporate footprint baseline measurement has helped
Association (APCO). Compared to our last report us to better understand our environmental impact
from 2020, this year Domino’s has moved from and identify our hotspots. We intend to expand our
‘performance of good progress’ to ‘advanced environmental strategy with water and biodiversity
progress’. We have engaged all suppliers to targets next year.
reach 2025 national packaging targets and we
have trialled new packaging methods to reduce We will continue to improve the maturity of our data
plastics. All our pizza and sides boxes use recycled to allow us to put actions in place to address areas
materials, we use the Australian Recycling Label on for improvement. This includes developing a ‘re-
our sides packaging and all our pizza boxes have baselining’ policy through clear principles on when
recyclable labelling. and how to adjust baseline data over time. As part
of this plan, we intend to improve the maturity of our
environmental data over the medium term by further
engaging with our suppliers and franchisees. As part
of our ESG reporting process, we’re developing ESG
data management procedures that will also help us to
report on our science-based targets, which we will do
when our targets are validated.
5. Depending on local food legislation our pizza boxes are made from
between 33% to 100% recycled materials. Our climate roadmap is an important foundation in
determining the steps we must take in the coming
years to achieve our science-based targets.
72 73
7| OUR ENVIRONMENT DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
We take care of our
COMMUNITY
The success of our business greatly depends on the role we play in the
communities in which we operate. In times of disaster, we’re there to serve. We
are always proud to be the first kitchen to open and the last to close. We know
the impact we have and we never take for granted our opportunity to operate
our stores and serve communities across our markets. Our purpose is not just
to give back to our communities - we want to create shared value through
partnerships with not-for-profit organisations. We provide workplace giving
and volunteering opportunities to our team members including through our
Domino’s Partners Foundation, our own charities and fundraisers.
74 75
8| OUR COMMUNITY DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
2030 AMBITION OUR CHARITIES AND PARTNERSHIPS
We want to be the neighbour people love by giving communities more than they
thought possible. We are a global player with a positive local impact: Charities Donations are outlined below:
• Our franchisees are proud members of their community and they have a Every Domino’s store is an integral part of its
Give for Round up Workplace DPE
positive impact in their community, because they are part of the Domino’s family. community and we strive to make a difference
Good - customer giving donations
• We help the people in our local communities with a fair and equal chance in life. in the lives of those doing it tough in our
donation
• We contribute to a sustainable future for the communities where we operate. communities. At Domino’s, we like to Give for
• We are always there in desperate times and support those in need. Good. FY20 $959,463 $31,303 $69,678
FY21 $1,029,174 $57,586 $26,519
Established in 2016 in Australia as our first FY22 $829,173 $85,911 $32,256
registered charity, Give for Good was founded
to give to causes that align with our values and
that are at the heart of our business – youth and Workplace Giving
education, leadership and entrepreneurship, In addition to Round Up for Charity, Give for Good
rural communities and disaster relief. Give for also fundraises through Workplace Giving thanks
DOMINO’S PARTNERS FOUNDATION Good is run by an independent board of directors to the support of our team members. Currently,
and its objective is to build strong and resilient 51% of corporate team members in Australia
We are proud of our strong caring culture at Domino’s. Many of our people view communities. contribute through Workplace Giving to Give for
their Domino’s team mates as friends and even family. Through our Partners Good. As of this year, Domino’s agreed to match
Foundation, we help fellow team members through injury, disaster recovery, We are proud to have been awarded the all workplace giving contributions dollar for dollar,
illness and times of hardship. We established our Partners Foundation in 2001 in Corporate Philanthropist of the Year in FY22 by the across Australia and New Zealand, bolstering the
Australia and Partners Friendship foundation in Japan in 2020 as separate not-for- Queensland Community Foundation, as a result of contribution to Give for Good.
profit organisations funded by team members. The giving and support from the the support offered through our registered charity,
Foundation to team members is growing, and of vital assistance to team members Give for Good. Domino’s and Give for Good were Charities in other markets
in need of help. This year Domino’s Partners Foundation in Australia and New recognised for our Round Up for Charity initiative, Following the success of our own charity in
Zealand has provided approximately $135,000 in assistance and the Partners Workplace Giving and additional donations to our Australia, we expanded our charity structure
Friendship foundation in Japan provided ¥2,240,234. In FY22 we have also partners. across our markets this year with the registration
established a Partners Foundation in Germany. Other markets are also making of the Dominoid charity in Germany, the Fondation
plans for their own local Partners Foundation. Round Up for Charity Domino’s in France and the Sanchoku Domino’s
Give for Good predominately fundraises through Foundation in Japan. We anticipate that our other
the generosity of our customers through the Round markets will follow these examples soon and we
Up for Charity initiative. This year we launched will report on our progress in our next sustainability
Round Up for Charity in store for offline donations, report.
CASE STUDY allowing customers who order and pay in store to
use their small change to make a big difference.
SUPPORTING OUR PEOPLE WHEN THEY NEED A HAND Through Give for Good we partner with the best
A committee of seven team members from our German and most reputable organisations that deliver
operations have come together to create the Domino’s on this objective. To date, we have worked with
Partners Foundation which raises funds to support staff established reputable charities including The Smith
when they need a hand. The Foundation recently supported Family, Rural Aid, Lifeline, Disaster Relief Australia,
a staff member who lost everything in an apartment fire Orange Sky and The Pinnacle Foundation among
and a franchisee whose store was destroyed by flood. many others.
The Foundation has also been instrumental in supporting
employees and their families fleeing the war in Ukraine. Consistent with other charities, this year we saw
We want Domino’s to be a great place to work and this a decline in Round Up donations, and we hope
extends to supporting our people experiencing personally to see giving return to pre-COVID-19 levels in the
challenging times. coming year.
76 77
8| OUR COMMUNITY DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Partnerships
Markets which do not yet have
CASE STUDY
their own registered charity often
work with long term local partners, PATHWAYS TO EMPLOYMENT
mostly not-for-profit organisations, FOR YOUNG PEOPLE
to support local communities. A In Belgium, our dedication to helping people grow and
common focus across our markets prosper has led to the development of our partnership
is on youth, entrepreneurship with JINC to create employment opportunities for
and providing equal employment underprivileged young people. Through this program
opportunities to everyone. A good every month we host a group of young people at our
example of this type of partnership Antwerp headquarters and in stores to give them the
is our work with JINC in our Belgium chance to experience the employment opportunities
market. Other markets including available with Domino’s. We highlight the range of
Denmark have a special focus on roles Domino’s has to offer and offer job application
those that are doing it though, training to students who will soon graduate. We will
working with homeless shelters and expand this program to Mechelen and our Netherlands
providing regular food donations. market is also working with JINC.
Our partnership with JINC
CASE STUDY
was recently extended and
JAPANESE PRIMARY PRODUCERS we will continue to support
SUPPORTED BY NEW FOUNDATION them until 2023.
Domino’s Pizza Japan founded the Sanchoku
Domino’s Foundation in April 2022 to
contribute to the development of Japan’s
agriculture, forestry, and fishery industries
now and in the future. This primary industry
is faced with a declining number of workers,
an aging society, and abandoned farmland.
The foundation’s mission is to “support the
present and future of producers in Japan.”
The foundation supports organisations
engaged in activities to improve social and
environmental issues. In May we organised
an open call for grants for which we received
applications from 60 organisations, of which
five organisations supporting agriculture and
forestry were selected to receive grants.
Examples include the Ryunohige kai (Niigata)
(literally means beard of dragon), which
preserves the Japanese food culture tradition
of eating chrysanthemum blossoms, and the
Omoridani Neighbourhood Association Rijin
(Hyogo), taking over the business of growing
100% pesticide-free shiitake mushrooms to
combat the aging of the workforce and the
decline of the local community.
78 79
8| OUR COMMUNITY DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
FUNDRAISERS AND HELPING VOLUNTEERING
THOSE IN NEED
Domino’s provides one volunteering day per year
Last year, our European markets partnered with Feed the Knead to employees to support a charity or not-for-profit
Adyen and launched the Round Up for Charity Pizza can’t solve all the world’s in their community during working hours in our
functionality in our app ordering platform. Through problems, but it can certainly bring a Australian and New Zealand markets. In FY22 we
the app, customers can make small donations at small slice of joy, particularly in times expanded our volunteering opportunity to all our
the end of the ordering process. We launched the of stress and uncertainty. That’s the European markets.
round up functionality to allow customers to directly rationale behind Domino’s Feed the Watch video
donate money to UNHCR (UN Refugee Agency) Knead program, which allows
to help them support the victims of the war in individuals to nominate someone they know who CASE STUDY
Ukraine. In FY22 we were able to support UNHCR is doing it tough to receive free pizza. In late 2020
with approximately €16,000 donated via 53,245 we launched this community-based program in DOMINO’S FOR GOOD RAISES MORE THAN $152,000 IN A SINGLE DAY
round ups. Additionally, many franchisees across Australia and New Zealand. Ever since its 2020 In Australia and New Zealand, Domino’s strengthened its commitment to make
our European markets provided support to victims launch, the program, or a similar version, has been a difference in our communities by using World Pizza Day as an opportunity
of the war in Ukraine by offering employment strongly embraced in all of our markets; in FY22 we to raise funds for charity. Renaming 9 February to Domino’s for Good Day saw
opportunities and free pizzas to refugee shelters. donated approximately 206,500 pizzas across our franchisees donate 50 cents (Australia) and $2 (New Zealand) from the sale of
markets. This year Japan for example launched a certain pizzas to Domino’s own registered charity in Australia, Give for Good,
Watch video
In addition to our work with Adyen, in FY22 special Christmas Feed the Knead program. and KidsCan in New Zealand. Funds raised were matched by Domino’s Pizza
Domino’s also donated €100,000 directly to the Enterprises and the day was supported by a full marketing campaign to raise
International Rescue Committee (IRC) to support awareness of the day and maximise opportunities to raise funds. Head Office
their response to the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine team members were encouraged to work in stores for the day to provide
and the victims of the war. IRC assists civilians who support to franchisees and our charity partners and supply chain network also
have been forced to flee their homes. They are helped promote the day. In Australia, $133,000 was raised for Give for Good,
working through their local partner organisations with the $19,000 raised in New Zealand going to KidsCan.
in Poland and Ukraine to meet the humanitarian
needs that arise as people are displaced across Franchisees in Australia and New Zealand have agreed to make Domino’s for
Europe by providing material support, information Good Day a regular event on World Pizza Day with an even bigger marketing
services and a dedicated hotline for psychological campaign planned for 2023.
support for people suffering trauma.
Moving forward, our markets continue to decide on
the best local causes to help raise money for those
in need via the Round Up for Charity functionality.
NEXT STEPS
This year we've aligned our community and
corporate giving approach across our markets.
We will support each market and its franchisees
to make decisions based on their unique
understanding of the needs of their local
communities and will continue to engage with
our franchisees to see how we can better provide
local support.
At a corporate level, Domino’s plans to identify
global partners that can enhance the work we’re
doing in our markets. At the market level we
expect to expand our Partners Foundations and
local charities.
80 81
8| OUR COMMUNITY DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
It is our strong belief that our ESG approach will only be successful if we
integrate this into the core of our business and culture - from our Board to our
franchisees and team members in our stores. Our ESG work is not a parallel
part of our business and it’s not just the responsibility of our ESG department. It
is the responsibility of every person in this business. Crucial to this is building a
governance structure that enables us to put our ambitions into practice.
82 83
9| CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
ESG GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Board of Directors Board committees
Our Board of Directors is responsible for guidance The Board of Directors is assisted by specialised
Domino’s Board is made up of our Group CEO & Managing Director and oversight us on behalf of our shareholders, committees which ensure more effective
and six non-executive Directors, five of whom are independent. our people, our customers and other main monitoring of ESG matters and contribute to the
This corporate governance system is oriented toward the goal of stakeholders. The Board identifies regulatory decision-making process. The Nomination, Culture
sustainable success, and it is aimed at creating value for shareholders obligations and areas of significant business and Remuneration Committee (NCRC) and the
over the long term. In FY22 we established the structure below which risk, ensuring robust mechanisms are in place to Audit and Risk Committee (ARC) are comprised
we plan to further implement in FY23. adequately manage those risks, including ESG. solely of independent non-executive directors.
The Board is also responsible for reviewing and
approving reported information. The ARC is responsible for monitoring the
BOARD OF DIRECTORS culture and effectiveness of the Group’s risk and
The Board is led by a non-executive chairman compliance, and internal controls and systems. It
and more than half of our directors have joined is also responsible for overseeing the correctness
Sustainable stores our Board in the last seven years, balancing and reliability of financial information and the
E C & operations ESG STEERING
N fresh perspectives from diverse backgrounds. appropriate application of accounting policies.
E COMMITTEE
L
L E Our directors are a highly engaged group that Furthermore, it oversees our corporate risks which
C
EX Responsible bring to Domino’s a diverse and broad range of include our ESG risks. The ARC’s responsibilities
F O sourcing qualifications, experiences and skills to provide an also include monitoring compliance with our Codes
S
E R effective mix of viewpoints and knowledge. The of Conduct and due diligence approach including
T N GROUP ESG TEAM GROUP CHIEF
E C Sustainable product OF ESG Board regularly engages with investors and other how we identify, assess, manage and mitigate our
innovation stakeholders and assesses the outcomes of these ESG risks across our value chain.
engagements against our company’s strategy and
ESG MANAGER GLOBAL MANAGER policies. Our corporate governance principles and Each Board committee has designated
REPORTING RESPONSIBLE PARTNERSHIPS practices are reviewed regularly and have all been responsibilities as specified in their respective
updated in the last two years. charters as published on our corporate website and
they regularly report on their activities to the entire
Board. We have policies in place to ensure that
conflicts of interest are prevented and mitigated
GLOBAL ESG / DOMINO’S FOR GOOD WORKING GROUP
and we report on these in our Annual Report.
Further information on our Board and other
MARKET DOMINO’S FOR GOOD WORKING GROUPS corporate bodies can be found in our Corporate
Governance Statement which is published on our
corporate website.
84 85
9| CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
ESG Steering Committee
This year we established our ESG steering Our Global ESG working group consists of key
committee, which meets quarterly. This governance representatives from each market who are the key
body oversees, reviews and advises the Board ambassadors and change agents for Domino’s for
of Directors on the implementation of our ESG Good. The working group provides regular updates
strategy across our operations and ensures its to the Chief ESG Officer, ensures company-wide
alignment with other business priorities so that alignment with our 2030 ambition and helps to
Domino’s can thrive and serve all its stakeholders. measure and report on our progress at market
level. In FY22 most markets established local
The ESG steering committee is chaired by our Domino’s for Good working groups.
Group CEO and Managing Director and is made
up of seven senior executives with recognised Our Global Centres of Excellence are a key
competence and influence on our ESG work element in executing our environmental strategy. OUR COMMITMENT TO RESPONSIBLE
across our business. Members actively update They help to drive innovation and coordinate our
BUSINESS CONDUCT
their knowledge on ESG matters, including through actions on Sustainable Stores and Operations,
direct engagement with recognised external Responsible Sourcing and Sustainable Product
experts. Innovation on group level. These groups consist Our Values underpin our commitment to ensure Responsible conduct and formalising ESG
of experts in operations, product development, fair and ethical standards through every channel This year we’ve further formalised our responsible
ESG management procurement and ESG. The leads for each centre of our value chain and business on a daily basis. business conduct approach. We’ve developed
At senior management level our Group Chief ESG report to the ESG steering committee on a We want to collaborate with our partners based our Group Responsible Sourcing Policy and due
Officer is responsible for shaping and implementing quarterly basis. on mutual respect, transparency, and trust. To diligence procedure which we intend to share in
our Domino’s for Good ESG strategy across our further strengthen our commitment and ensure FY23. We’ve also created a Global Manager for
markets, assessing and managing impacts, aligning our partners’ commitment towards responsible Responsible Partnerships role within our ESG team.
our risks and materiality topics. She is a member business conduct, we formalised our obligations in This role is fully dedicated to ensuring responsible
of our Global Leadership Team and reports to our a number of key policy instruments which include, sourcing which includes our policy, due diligence
Group CEO. As a member of our ESG steering but are not limited to: approach and risk management, training and
committee, she provides regular updates to this engagement with key team members and business
committee. • Our Company Governance Code of Conduct partners.
• Our Business Partner Code of Conduct
• Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy Ending Modern Slaverny
• Our Whistleblower Policy We published our second Modern Slavery
Statement in 2021, which was published to both
These policies and commitments ensure our corporate website and to the Modern Slavery
Domino’s consistently exhibits and promotes Statements Register maintained by the Australian
ethical, transparent and responsible behaviour, Federal Government. We will release our third
engages with key stakeholders and communities, Modern Slavery Statement by the end of this
and contributes to the growth and prosperity of calendar year. In FY22 we further expanded our
franchisees, team members and communities. understanding of Modern Slavery in our value chain
These policies also stipulate due diligence and prioritised our actions on this important issue.
processes around human rights and provide Our Australian operations has further engaged with
information about grievance mechanisms. our supplier base to include all business partners in
an enhanced due diligence process facilitated by
Our policies can be found on our corporate our external partner and independent supplier risk
website. Ensuring our compliance with these assessment platform Ethixbase.
policies is the responsibility of senior management
and more specifically on group level, our Group
CEO and Managing Director, Group General
Counsel & Company Secretary, Group Chief
Procurement and Partnerships Officer, Group
Chief People & Culture Officer and Group Chief
ESG Officer. Senior management has delegated
the task to ensure the policies are implemented
in accordance with local legislation to the market
leadership teams.
86 87
9| CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION with our Governance Code of Conduct and the Franchise network
Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd and its subsidiaries expectations of shareholders. We also expect the While a Domino’s franchise is an independent
are committed to preventing bribery and same standards from our business partners as per business, every member of the Domino’s system
corruption and we operate within the laws of each their commitments to our Business Partner Code of is expected to uphold Domino’s high standards
jurisdiction in which we do business. We respect Conduct. and the laws of the markets in which our stores
the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and operate. This requires adherence to regulations
Development (OECD) Convention on Combating Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy sets out a including labour legislation and standards,
Bribery and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices number of standards for our Board and all of our food safety and hygiene and data protection. In
Act, which prohibit us or any business partners employees. addition to setting high expectations, we have
from making a payment to a foreign official with a procedures and systems to monitor and audit
corrupt motive to gain or keep business. We are The Board receives periodic reports containing compliance with these standards.
committed to operating in a way that is consistent summary information in relation to concerns raised
under the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy. Franchisees receive centralised support from
This may include, for example, a summary of the head offices, including regular training and
“WE ARE COMMITTED TO
number, nature and outcome of matters that have supply chain management services to assist in
OPERATING IN A WAY THAT been raised under Anti-Bribery and Corruption this effort.
IS CONSISTENT WITH OUR Policy. The Board may also be provided with
additional information about any material incidents
GOVERNANCE CODE OF
raised.
CONDUCT.” RISK MANAGEMENT
Risk management in all activities is a crucial topic
Complaint and claim management when conducting our business. Domino’s Pizza
We are constantly investing into the protection of whistle-blowers. All stakeholders (employees, Enterprises Ltd is on a continuous journey to
franchisees, and the public) are encouraged to raise concerns they hold and can do so at an anonymity mature its risk management capability guided
level of their choosing. Stakeholders able to lodge complaints through Critizr, the wage assistance hotline, by the ASX Corporate Governance Principles.
the Deloitte whistle-blower portal, or the disclosure email channel. Domino’s Enterprise Risk Management framework
is established to ensure that risks have been
All feedback lodged is formally investigated and actioned appropriately. During FY22, there were no properly analysed, based on the likelihood of their
monetary fines relating to non-compliance with laws and regulations. There are existing whistle-blower occurrence, the possible financial consequences and
structures in Australia and New Zealand as noted above, however to ensure further issues can be the potential impact on the company’s brand and
identified, this year we expanded our whistle-blower protection and reporting structure to include Japan reputation.
and some European markets.
Our risk management processes ensure that we
NEXT STEPS
continuously assess sustainability-related threats,
COMPLAINTS1 AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND TOTAL
such as supply chain disruptions, unsafe work
practices, and create an environment where leaders We will further embed our governance
FY20 51 2 53
take a disciplined and focused view on risks. structure throughout our operations
in the coming year. We intend to
FY21 42 6 48
While Domino’s has continued to operate effectively implement our Responsible Sourcing
FY22 64 7 71 through COVID-19 and broader geo-political policy and Due Diligence procedure
disruptions, risks have been heightened around the and update our Business Partner Code
resilience of supply chains and operating costs due of Conduct accordingly. As part of this
The number of whistle-blowers has increased by 23 complaints from FY21 to FY22 for Australia and to growing inflationary pressure on wages and input work, we aim to partner with a global
New Zealand. These 71 incidents are unlikely to cover all issues within our stores (comprising of 20,000+ costs. ESG reporting risks have also increased due to supplier assessment platform that will
employees). However, the increase in complaints gives us confidence that employees feel more growing regulatory disclosures such as the European allow us to better assess the risks of
comfortable to use the channels available to them to report misconduct. Union (EU) Corporate Sustainability Reporting all our business partners globally. We
Directive (CSRD) coming into effect in FY25. are also working towards implementing
The root cause of each whistle-blower compliant is assessed and there is ongoing effort to reduce the our complaint and claim management
known causes in the future. On average, we provide an initial response to a whistle-blower complaint in Please read about the main risks and our mitigation structure across our markets. Lastly, we
Australia and New Zealand on the day the complaint is raised, with a resolution provided within 16 days. strategy of those risks in our Annual report FY22. are planning to expand our Corporate
Risk register with climate-related risks
and opportunities.
1. Complaint: this includes whistle-blower and grievance complaints.’
88 89
9| CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
We are always
MOVING FORWARD
This year we’ve achieved meaningful progress in building our global ESG strategy.
We know we are still in the early stages of our ambitious strategy, but we are proud
of our achievements in a short period of time and we’re committed to continuing this
work as part of our business-as-usual work. We are focused on four areas for FY23:
FURTHER DEVELOP AND IMPLEMENT OUR ESG STRATEGY
We plan to further roll out our environmental strategy across our global business,
with each market implementing the strategy based on local action plans supported
by our global Centres of Excellence. We intend to expand our environmental strategy
to include water and biodiversity targets and to achieve this we are working towards
improving data to gain a more granular understanding of our local impact. We also want
to expand our ESG strategy to include a broader scope of our social impact and we are
examining additional areas of focus as part of a new materiality assessment.
IMPROVE ESG DATA MANAGEMENT AND REPORTING
ESG data and data management is a key priority for us. We are striving to create a solid
measurement system that allows us to track our progress on our ESG metrics, aligned
with our internal systems, ESG reporting frameworks and applicable external assurance.
We intend to further expand our internal measurements on key ESG metrics as provided
by GRI and SASB. We’re also working towards reporting based on TCFD and we aim to
stay ahead of anticipated future legislative reporting requirements such as the European
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD).
ENSURE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONDUCT
We are committed to implementing a responsible sourcing policy and due diligence
process. We will continue to work with business partners to assess our value chain
risks. We plan to further train our team members on responsible sourcing policies and
procedures and we will further engage with our business partners on our key ESG
topics. We continue to anticipate future legislative requirements and implement earlier
actions.
COMMUNICATE AND ENGAGE WITH KEY STAKEHOLDERS
We intend to expand our stakeholder engagement to include a more holistic group of
stakeholders to help us better understand how we can achieve a positive impact and
ensure we anticipate potential risks and localised legislative requirements. Internal
engagement on our Domino’s for Good strategy also includes our franchisees and we
are working to make this an integrated part of how we do business. We’ll continue to
invest in communication, training and engagement initiatives.
90 91
10| MOVING FORWARD DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION • Customer experience: every customer wants their pizza made fresh and hot out of the oven. Meeting
customer expectations and improving satisfaction in the design and delivery of our products, services,
and experiences.
About this report • Responsible sourcing: sourcing our products in a socially responsible and environmentally sustainable
way, and working with our suppliers to make sure that workers involved in making products that we
Scope and boundary of this report procure are safe and treated fairly.
This is the second Sustainability Report published on an annual basis on 2 November 2022 by Domino’s Emerging
Pizza Enterprises Ltd (DPE). The report applies to our direct operations in ten markets where we maintain • Food nutrition and innovation: delivering continual menu innovation to offer customers more of the
offices, corporate stores and other active direct operations in the period from June 28, 2021 to July 3, flavours they enjoy, including limited time offers and launching new products which become mainstays
2022. The Board and the ESG steering committee have reviewed this report and approved its release. of our menu. Providing ingredients and recipes to meet our customers’ health, diet or lifestyle
Unless otherwise stated, DPE’s reporting boundary for the Sustainability Report is consistent with the requirements, and working each day to improve these offerings.
reporting boundary of its year-end financial report. The reporting boundary includes the entities over • Talent attraction and retention: attracting and retaining highly capable individuals with a range of
which the reporting organisation exercises control or significant influence. A list of controlled entities relevant skills, experiences and capabilities to support high performance and reduce turnover. This
(subsidiaries) at year-end is contained in the year-end financial report and, unless mentioned otherwise, the includes attracting individuals with new skill sets and adaptive thinking to encourage innovation.
boundary of the sustainability reporting covers the entities mentioned in the list.
Reporting frameworks
Disclaimer and important information This report has been prepared referencing internationally recognised reporting frameworks, those being
• Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd (Domino’s) advises that the information in this report contains forward the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB).
looking statements which may be subject to significant uncertainties outside of Domino’s control
• Domino’s does not undertake any obligation to provide recipients of this report with further information
to either update this report or correct any inaccuracies Data quality corporate footprint
• While due care has been taken in preparing these statements, no representation or warranty is made or We calculated our FY21 corporate footprint baseline measurement and FY22 corporate footprint update
given as to the accuracy, reliability or completeness of forecasts or the assumptions on which they are with help from environmental sustainability consultancy Quantis. Quantis conducted both assessments
based of DPE’s Carbon Footprint following the GHG Protocol. The full value chain has been considered,
• Actual future events may vary from these forecasts and you are advised not to place undue reliance on including upstream and downstream activities, notably at the franchised restaurants’ level. Regarding the
any forward looking statement franchised restaurants, their utilities’ consumption and waste has been accounted for in Scope 3 category
• A number of figures in the tables and charts in this report have been rounded to one decimal place. 14, and Scope 3 category 5 respectively. In addition, emissions linked to delivery and pick-up at franchised
Percentages (%) and variances have been calculated on actual figures restaurant level have been included, for comparability between the FY22 and the FY21 corporate footprint.
Most of the collected data represented physical flows (procurement volumes, consumed utilities in kWh
and m3, waste in tons, etc.), although total spend was used to derive the impact of capital goods &
Definitions of the material topics services. The emissions factors were derived from well-established databases such as ecoinvent and the
Fundamental World Food LCA Database (WFLDB).
• Food safety and quality: ensuring our food safety and quality standards are world-class and that every
team member in every country understands the importance of safe food storage, preparation, and Overall, the data quality for both corporate footprint years is similar. The confidence on the procurement
handling requirements. data is higher than market average as it is based on direct supplier data for ca. 50% of volumes.
• Workplace safety: protecting and promoting the safety of our employees, franchisees, and contractors Confidence on data relative to the consumption of utilities is relatively low, both within Domino’s (corporate
through enabling a strong safety culture supported by risk management, systems and processes, and restaurants, and owned distribution centres) and within the Domino’s value chain (franchisees and third
the tone from the top. party distribution centres). Data may still be incomplete, or erroneous, and likely based on extrapolations
• Customer data privacy and security: maintaining responsible management of information technology as on the utility bills, which might be different across countries. Regarding logistics, we are fairly confident on
we grow our digital capabilities to protect the privacy of workforce, operations and customer information the data for upstream and downstream as these were based on supplier surveys and exact coordinates
and maintain defences against cyber security breaches. respectively. However, we believe the data provided for the deliveries, relating to both the fleet
Key composition and km travelled, can be improved.
• Franchisee prosperity: back our franchisees to run successful businesses and become stewards of the
Domino’s brand and values, through genuine engagement and supportive systems and policies. Considering the above, we need to be careful with making conclusions about trends from FY21 to FY22.
• Community prosperity: investing and engaging with communities where we operate to create shared Moving forward we intend to improve the quality of our corporate footprint data with our annual updates.
value through targeted grants, awards, partnerships, and support for workplace giving and volunteering.
This includes Domino’s Partners program, dough raiser program and Give for Good.
• Footprint reduction: measuring, disclosing and reducing the environmental impact of our activities,
from both owned or controlled sources, purchased energy and throughout our supply chain. Our Contact information
environmental impact includes our carbon footprint, land use change, water and biodiversity impact. For further information, please contact Nathan Scholz, Group Chief Corporate Affairs Officer via investor.
relations@dominos.com.au or Marika Stegmeijer, Group Chief ESG Officer via ESG@dominos.com.au.
92 93
11| SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Appendix 2 - GRI Content Index 2022
Acronyms and key definitions
ANZ - Australia and New Zealand
The following tables are organised by chapter to provide further disclosures of FY22 performance. Further information
ASX Corporate Governance Principles – The Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) Corporate
can be found in the respective chapters.
Governance Council has developed Corporate Governance Principles for Australian listed entities.
Companies listed on the ASX must comply with these Corporate Governance Principles.
CIWF - Compassion in World Farming EU is based in Brussels and campaigns to strengthen legislation and
Our People
enforcement on farm animal welfare, with a particular focus on Europe.
Franchisees table
DPE - Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd
ESG - Environmental, Social and Governance Franchisees Global
EthiXbase - EthiXbase is a service provider of due diligence and supply chain integrity solutions, with a Total number of franchisees 1,042
focus on anti-corruption, human rights, labour and environment, supported by market-leading technology. Percentage female franchisees 11%
Percentage male franchisees 89%
FCV – Fuel cell vehicle uses an electric motor which is powered by a fuel cell generating electricity New Franchisees 99
through chemical redox reactions using, generally, oxygen from the air and compressed hydrogen. FCVs
are fuelled with hydrogen and they emit only water and heat.
Domino’s leadership gender representation
GHG – Greenhouse gases are those gaseous constituents of the atmosphere, which absorb and emit
radiation through a serious of reaction thereby causing the greenhouse effect. Domino's leadership team - FY22 Australia and Nether- BeLux France Germany Denmark Japan Taiwan EU LT Asia LT ANZ LT G-LT Board of
New Zealand lands Directors
GHG protocol – GHG Protocol provides the most widely used greenhouse gas accounting standards, Domino's leadership team female 3 3 1 3 2 3 0 7 3 7 3 1 3
Domino's leadership team male 6 6 3 4 9 2 7 3 4 10 6 12 3
which was built on a partnership work between World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business
Total 9 9 4 7 11 5 7 10 7 17 9 13 6
Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Female% 33% 33% 25% 43% 18% 60% 0% 70% 43% 41% 33% 8% 50%
HRIS - Human Resources Information System Domino's leadership team - FY21 Australia and Nether- BeLux France Germany Denmark Japan Taiwan EU LT Asia LT ANZ LT G-LT Board of
New Zealand lands Directors
LGBTQIA+ - Stands for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex, and asexual. Domino's leadership team female 3 3 1 3 2 3 0 2 0 3 1 3
Domino's leadership team male 8 7 3 9 9 2 8 5 8 8 8 4
LUC – Land use change. Land use is one of the main GHG drivers of food and agricultural companies. Total 11 10 4 12 11 5 8 7 8 11 9 7
Female% 27% 30% 25% 25% 18% 60% 0% 29% 0% 27% 11% 43%
Deforestation assessment goes hand-in-hand with LUC assessment. Understanding this part of our
footprint will therefore be essential in our efforts to reduce our impact.
NPS – Net promoting Score measures customer experience by asking customer to rate the likelihood that
they would recommend a company, product or a service to a friend thereby predicting business growth.
PETA - People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is the largest animal rights organisation in the
world.
QSR - Quick Service Restaurant
Quality of ecosystem – biodiversity - Biodiversity has become a key issue for consumers and investors,
driven by scientific research results that underline the importance of restoring nature. Understanding our
impact in this field is the first step for a consistent holistic biodiversity strategy for our entire value chain.
Biodiversity is an encompassing concept that is driven by all other indicators assessed.
Quantis – is a leading environmental sustainability consultancy that partners with major organisations
across the globe to drive sustainable transformation and align business with planetary boundaries
SBTs – Science Based Targets
SBTi - Science Based Target initiative
TCFD - Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) was created to develop
recommendations on the types of information that companies should disclose to support investors,
lenders, and insurance underwriters in appropriately assessing and pricing a specific set of risks - related
to climate change.
UNHCR - UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, is a global organization dedicated to saving lives, protecting
rights and building a better future for refugees, forcibly displaced communities and stateless people.
UTZ – UTZ is a non-profit certification program for labelling sustainable farming method. To be certified,
UTZ requires good agricultural practices and farm management, safe and healthy working conditions,
addressing child and forced labour, and protection of the environment.
Vier Pfoten (Four Paws) - Vier Pfoten is a global animal welfare organisation focusing on animals under
direct human influence, which reveals suffering, rescues animals in need and protects them.
Water impacts - Water availability and quality is an important impact factor for food producing companies.
We understand that the hotspots of our water impacts will vary between regions and will in many cases be
local. We believe that better understanding our water impact and adequately addressing this, together with
our suppliers, is key for the resilience of our company now and in the future.
94
11| SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
Corporate employee composition Our Customers
Nutri-Score Rating
New
Corporate employee composition Global Australia Zealand Netherlands BeLux France Germany Denmark Japan Taiwan Checksum Nutriscore Rating Netherlands Belgium France Germany Denmark
(A-E)
Number of employees 17,298 2,234 38 3,196 38 585 989 597 9,132 489
Main1) Side2) Main1) Side2) Main1) Side2) Main1) Side2) Main1) Side2)
Total No of Products 152 49 149 37 315 40 387 104 179 30
Non-employees 45 6 - - - 8 1 - 30 NA
% of Prodcts rate A 2% 0% 2% 0% 2% 3% 1% 6% 0% 3%
% of Prodcts rate B 19% 12% 19% 8% 23% 10% 11% 13% 0% 0%
Permanent employees
% of Prodcts rate C 51% 43% 53% 38% 46% 45% 54% 20% 41% 13%
Male 3,161 767 21 193 19 474 316 478 558 335
% of Prodcts rate D 28% 18% 26% 32% 29% 32% 34% 6% 58% 17%
Female 1,092 329 17 80 14 98 114 119 167 154 % of Prodcts rate E 0% 27% 0% 22% 0% 10% 0% 55% 1% 67%
Diverse 2 1 - 1 - N/A - - - N/A
1) Main products: Pizza
Temporary employees 2) Side products: menu offerings other than pizza, including food and beverages.
Male 136 1 - 114 - 8 3 - 10 N/A
Female 88 5 - 55 5 5 5 - 13 N/A
Diverse 4 - - 4 - N/A - - - N/A
Non guaranteed employees
Male 8,895 783 - 2,132 - N/A 495 - 5,485 N/A
Female 3,917 345 - 617 - N/A 56 - 2,899 N/A Our Environment
Diverse 3 3 - - - N/A - - - N/A
Delivery Mode
Full time employees New
Male 1,654 378 7 252 19 179 159 27 558 75
Delivery Mode1) Australia Denmark Germany France Japan Netherlands
Zealand
Female 706 221 6 97 19 59 70 10 167 57 Fossil fuel 91% 0% 61% 67% 70% 20% 97%
Diverse 1 - - 1 - N/A - - - N/A Non-fossil fuel 9% 100% 39% 33% 30% 80% 3%
Part-time employees
(1) The percentages are mostly extrapolated based on modeled calculation from Quantis. We intend to improve the data quality moving forward.
Male 10,538 1,173 14 2,187 - 303 655 451 5,495 260
Female 4,391 458 11 655 - 44 105 109 2,912 97
Diverse 8 4 - 4 - N/A - - - N/A
Age of employees
< 30 years old 14,696 1,772 27 2,928 22 357 689 537 8,036 328
Our Community
30 - 50 years old 2,263 367 11 220 14 200 270 57 973 151
> 50 years old 339 95 - 48 2 28 30 3 123 10 Community Giving
Our Food Community Giving Global
Domino's Round Up for Charity: Number of Round Ups1) 2,599,206 Number of Stores
Food Nutrition and Innovation
Domino's Feed-The-Need: Number of Pizza Donations 206,489
EU data source
Food nutrition and innovation1) 2)
KPI (%) Australia New Zealand Netherlands BeLux France Germany Denmark Japan 1) includes France, Netherlands, Australia, New Zealand and Germany. EU Markets only started in April 2022
Flavours 100% 100% 96% 95% 94% 94% 98% 100% Franchised
Ingredients free from artificial Colours 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Preservatives 90% 90% 90% 85% 88% 90% 87% 100%
1) The data was collected between 06/22 and 07/22, based on our ingredient inventory in each market at the point of collecting. As we replace our supply with aritficial free ingredient, we acknowledge
certain percentage of artificial presercatives will be kept to avoid compromising safety and quality of the ingredient.
2) Definition of artificial ingredient varies under different regulations in countries. We adjust and comply with these regulations accordingly.
Corporate Governance
Food Safety &Quality Complaint and Claim management
Food Safety & Quality Global Australia ZeN ae law n d Netherlands BeLux1) France Germany Denmark1) Japan Taiwan Complaint and Claim management Global Australia and Netherlands1 BeLux France Germany Denmark Japan Taiwan
New Zealand )2)
Number of store inspections (internal and external) 19,278 4,243 705 1,957 556 3,385 3,342 147 4,015 928
Average inspections per store (internal and external) 6.1 5.8 5.0 5.8 4.3 7.3 8.5 6.5 4.6 10.9 Whisteblowing incidents FY20 53 53
1) Half Year data for BeNeLux in FY22 and for Denmark in FY21
Whisteblowing incidents FY21 48 48
Whisteblowing incidents FY22 183 71 30 - - 15 - 66 1
Whisteblowing incidents review FY22 99% 99% 100% - - 100% - 100% 100%
Whistleblowing remediation plans FY22 94% 98% 67% - - 100% - 100% 100%
Food product voluntary withdrawals
- - - - - - - - - - 1) 10 cases in the Netherlands were recieved shorty before the close of the FY and didn't have a redemtion plan at the close of the FY
Food product voluntary withdrawals 2) Denmark and Germany launched a whistle blowing platform in May 2022
Australia New Zealand France Netherlands BeLux Germany Denmark
Total number of
2 1 3 1 0 2 0
withdrawals
Total quantity (kg) of
food product 1,836 7,540 43,440 4,200 0 74,604 0
withdrawn from
stores
Appendix 2 - GRI Content Index 2022
Appendix 2 - GRI Content Index 2022
Statement of use Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd has reported the information cited in this GRI content index
for the period from June 28, 2021 to July 3, 2022 with reference to the GRI
Standards.
GRI 1 used GRI: Foundation 2021
GGRRII SSttaannddaarrdd DisDcliossculorseure LocationLocation Modern Slavery Statement
Business Partner Code of Conduct
GRI 2: General 1.1 T.h Te hoerg oanrigzaatinoizna atniod nit sa rnepdo irttisn rge ppraocrtitcinesg practices Our CompOaunry , Cpo. 1m2pany, p. 13
Disclosures 2021 About thiAs breopuotr tt, hpi.s 9 r6eport, p. 92 2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts Our People, p. 35
Our Food, p. 42
GRI 2: General 2-21- O2r gOarngizaantiioznaatli odnetaali ldsetails About thiAs breopuotr tt, hpi.s 9 r6eport, p. 92
Corporate Governance, p. 88
Disclosures 2021 2022 Ann2u0al2 R2e pAonrntual Report, p. 200, p. 91, p 218
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns Corporate Governance, p. 87 – 88
GRI 2: General 2-23- R3e Rpoerptiongrt pinegri opde, rfrioeqdu, efnrceyq aunedn ccoyn taanctd p cooinnttact point About thiAs breopuotr tt, hpi.s 9 r6eport, p. 92 https://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate-
Disclosures 2021 governance
2. Activities and workers
2.2 A-c6ti Avictiteisv iatnieds w, voarklueres chain and other business relationships Our Company, p 13 2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations Corporate Governance, p. 88
Our Business model p. 16 5. Stakeholder engagement
GRI 2: General 2-6 Activities, value chain and other business Our Company, p. 12
Disclosures 2021 re2la-ti7o Enmshipplsoyees Business Omuodr eCl,o pm.1p6any, p. 13 2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement, p. 20
Our CompPaenryf o, prm. 1a2nce data tables, p. 95, p. 96 Topic standards
GRI 2: General 2-37. E Gmopvloeyreneasnce Our Company, p. 12 GRI 3: Material 3-1 Process to determine material topics Materiality assessment, p. 21
Disclosures 2021 2-9 Governance structure and composition Our PeopCleo, rpp. o24rate Governance, p. 84 – 86 Topics 2021 3-2 List of material topics Materiality assessment, p. 21
Performance data tables, p. 99
2022 Annual report p. 12 About this report, p. 92 - 93
https://investors.dominos.com.au/board-of-
3. Governance Footprint reduction
directors
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Our Environment, p. 61 - 73
GRI 2: General 2-9 Governance structure and composition Corporateh tGtopvse:r/n/ainncvee, spt.o 8r6s.dominos.com.au/corporate-
Topics 2021
Disclosures 2021 https://ingvoesvteorrsn.daonmcein o s.com.au/
board-of-directors GRI305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Our Environment, p. 63
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body https://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate-
https://investors.dominos.com.au/corpora- 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope) 2 GHG emissions Our Environment, p. 63
te-governgaonvcee rnance
2022 Annual Report, p. 12 GRI306: Waste 2020 306-3 Waste generated Our Environment, p. 71
https://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate- Total waste generated: 239,574 metric ton
governance - Nomination, Culture and GRI303: Water and 303-3 Water withdrawal Our Environment, p. 63 - 64
GRI 2: General 2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body https://inRveesmtoursn.deormatinioons. cCoomm.amu/ictotrepeo rCah-arter Effluents Total water withdrawn: 1,420,183 m3
Disclosures 2021 2-11 Chair of the highest governance body te-governCaoncreporate Governance, p. 85 We will be disclosing more types of water
2022 Annual Report
https://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate- indicators in our next phase of developing
Nomination, Culture and Remuneration
GRI 2: General Committegeo Cvhearrntearnce and implementing our environmental
Disclosures 2021 2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the Corporate Governance, p. 86, p. 87 strategy.
management of impacts https://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate- Workplace safety
governance GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Our People, p. 36
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Corporate Governance, p. 86 Topics 2021
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting Corporate Governance, p. 86 Talent attraction and retention
GRI 2: General 2-11 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance, p. 86
Disclosures 2021 https://inA veb so tou rt s .t dh oi ms ir ne op s.o cort m, .p au. /9 c2 o rpora- GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Our People , p. 27, 32 - 34
2-15 Conflicts of interest te-governhatntcpes://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate- Topics 2021
governance GRI405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Our People, p. 30
2-16 Communication of critical concerns https://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate- Diversity and Equal Performance data tables, p. 95
GRI 2: General 2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of Corporateg o Gv oe ver rn na an nc cee , p. 86 Opportunity 2016
Disclosures 2021 im2p-a1c7ts Collective knowledge of the highest governance body https://inCveosrtpoorsr.daotem iGnoosv.ceormna.anuc/ceo, rpp.o r8a4- - 85 GRI406: Non- 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Our commitment to responsible business
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body te-governhatntcpes://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate- discrimination 2016 conduct, p. 88
governance - Nomination, Culture and Appendix 3
Remuneration Committee Charter
Community prosperity
2-19 Remuneration policies https://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate-
GRI 2: General 2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Corporate Governance, p. 86 GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Our Community, p. 75 - 81
Disclosures 2021 governance - Nomination, Culture and Topics 2021
Remuneration Committee Charter
GRI 2: General 2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting Corporate Governance, p. 86 GRI413: Local 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact Our Community, case studies p. 75 – 81
Disclosures 2021 4. Strategy, policies and practices About this report, p. 96 communities 2016 assessments, and development programs Our Commitment to responsible business
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy Chairman & CEO message, p. 8-9
conduct, p. 88
GRI 2: General 2-21-52 C3o nPfloiclitcsy o cf oinmtemresittments https://inCveosrtpoorsr.daotem iGnoosv.ceormna.anuc/ceo,r ppo. r8a6--87
413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts Our commitment to responsible business
Disclosures 2021 te-governhatntcpes://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate-
on local communities conduct, p. 88
GRI 2: General 2-16 Communication of critical concerns Corporateg oGvoeverrnnaannccee, p. 86
Customer data privacy and security
Disclosures 2021 Modern Slavery Statement
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Our Customers, p. 57-58
GRI 2: General 2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body 2022 AnnBuuals Rineepossrt Partner Code of Conduct
Disclosures 2021 2-24 Embedding policy commitments CorporateC Goorpveorrnaatnec eG, op.v 8e6rnance, p. 86-87 Topics 2021
https://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate-
GRI 2: General 2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body Nominatigoon,v Ceurlntuarnec aen d Remuneration
Disclosures 2021 Committee Charter
1
2
Appendix 3 – Sustainability
Food and
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index 2022 Packaging Waste
Management
1) Total amount FB-RN-150a.1 Quantitative Metric tons (t), To ensure we are environmentally
This material references the SASB Restaurants Standard, Version 2018-10. of waste, (2) Percentage responsible and to operate
percentage (%) financially efficiently, we
food waste, and continually work to reduce food
ACCOUNTING SASB CODE CATEGORY UNIT OF RESPONSE (3) percentage wastage in our operations. We
METRIC MEASURE diverted are in the process of developing
our approach to collecting data
Energy for the accounting metrics, first for
Management corporate-owned
restaurants and then at the
1) Total energy FB-RN-130a.1 Quantitative Gigajoules 1) Total energy consumed (diesel, franchise level. 1) Total amount of
consumed, (2) (GJ), natural gas, propane, electricity): waste: 20,827 t
percentage Percentage 71,654,273 kWh 2) Percentage food waste: no
grid electricity, (%) Percentage grid electricity access to data of sufficient quality
(3) percentage consumed: 50% as most restaurants report food
renewable 2) Percentage renewable energy waste in ‘mixed waste’ category.
consumed: 0% (The existing 3) Percentage diverted: 16%
renewable energy consumption
is not material and therefore
reported as 0%) 1) Total weight FB-RN-150a.2 Quantitative Metric tons (t), 1) Total weight of packaging:
of packaging, (2) Percentage 28,682 t
percentage made (%) 2) Percentage made from recycled
Water Management from recycled and/or renewable materials: No
and/or renewable information.
1) Total water FB-RN-140a.1 Quantitative Thousand 1) Total water withdrawn: 1,420,183 materials, and 3) Percentage that is recyclable,
withdrawn, (2) total cubic m3 (3) percentage reusable, and/or compostable: No
water consumed, meters (m³), that is recyclable, information.
percentage of each Percentage 2) Total water consumed, reusable, and/or
in regions with (%) percentage of each in regions with compostable
High or High or Extremely High Baseline
Extremely High Water Stress: we don’t have Food Safety
Baseline Water access to this information for the
Stress time being. (1) Percentage FB-RN-250a.1 Quantitative Percentage (1) 1.37 external store inspections
of restaurants (%) per restaurant or 137% restaurants
inspected by (based on 4,340 store inspections
a food safety globally by an external party and
oversight body, an average of 3,68 stores.) 4.72
(2) percentage internal store inspections per
receiving critical restaurant or 472% restaurants
violations (based on 14,938 store inspections
globally by an external party and
an average of 3,168 stores.)
(1) Number of FB-RN-250a.2 Quantitative Number, There were no recalls issued
recalls issued and Metric tons (t) during the reporting period.
(2) total amount Voluntary withdraws for the sake
of food product of food quality and flavour can
recalled be found in chapter Our food and
Appendix 1 performance table
Number of FB-RN-250a.3 Quantitative Number, No incidents of confirmed Supply Chain
confirmed Percentage foodborne illness outbreak Management and
foodborne illness (%) associated with Domino’s Food Sourcing
outbreaks, stores were reported.
percentage Percentage of FB-RN-430a.2 Quantitative Percentage 1) Percentage of eggs that
resulting in U.S. (1) eggs that (%) by number, originated from a cage-free
Centers for Disease originated from Percentage environment: 50% globally
Control and a cage-free (%) by weight
Prevention (CDC) environment and 2) Percentage of pork that was
investigation (2) pork that was produced without the use of
produced without gestation crates: 0%
Nutritional Content the use of gestation
crates
1) Percentage of FB-RN-260a. Quantitative Percentage Not applicable. We do not provide
children’s meal (%), Reporting children’s meal. Discussion of FB-RN-430a.3 Discussion n/a Our approach to animal
options consistent currency strategy to manage and Analysis standards is described in section
with national environmental and Responsible sourcing.
dietary guidelines social risks within
for children and (2) the supply chain,
revenue from these including animal
options welfare
Number of FB-RN-260a.3 Quantitative Number, In line with our company’s policy, Activity Metrics
advertising Percentage Domino’s does not market to
impressions (%) children. We do not provide items Number of (1) FB-RN-000.A Quantitative Number 1) Number of company-owned
made on children, such as toys or games to appeal to company-owned restaurants: 613
percentage children. and (2) franchise 2) Number of franchise
promoting products restaurants restaurants: 2,774
that meet national
dietary guidelines
for children Number of FB-RN-000.B Quantitative Number 1) Number of employees at
employees at (1) company-owned locations: 17,298
Labour Practices company-owned 2) Number of employees at
and (2) franchise franchise locations:81,540
Total amount of FB-RN-310a.3 Quantitative Reporting Domino’s is committed to all locations
monetary losses currency relevant labour laws and does
as a result of not tolerate discrimination.
legal proceedings Our Code of Conduct policy
associated with further clarifies our position and
(1) labour law informs employees on grievance
violations and mechanisms. In the reporting
(2) employment period, there were no legal
discrimination proceedings related to labour
law violations and/or employee
discrimination that were resulted
on monetary losses.
