Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Limited
1/485 Kingsford Smith Drive
Hamilton, QLD, Australia 4007
ACN: 010 489 326
www.dominos.com.au
1 November 2023
The Manager
Market Announcements Office
Australian Securities Exchange
4th Floor, 20 Bridge Street
SYDNEY NSW 2000
Dear Sir
Sustainability Report for the 2023 Financial Year
Please find attached for immediate release the Sustainability Report for the Company for the year
ended 02 July 2023.
For further information, contact Nathan Scholz, Head of Investor Relations at
investor.relations@dominos.com.au or on +61-419-243-517.
Authorised for lodgement by the Board.
Craig Ryan
Company Secretary
END
DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT FY23
P i z z a
Our
brings
People closer
SPECIAL THANKS TO
INDEX
Editorial: Design: CHAIRMAN & CEO MESSAGE 4
Amanda Harper (ANZ) Narrative Labs
Daniel Marting (DE) CHIEF ESG OFFICER MESSAGE 6
Dennis van Dalfsen (NL)
Guillemette le Goascoz (FR) FY23 KEY HIGHLIGHTS 8
Jilze Gerritsen (BE)
Marianne Kemps (NL) OUR COMPANY 11
Marika Stegmeijer (Global) Mission, Purpose and Values 12
Phua Boon Bee (MSC) Our Business Model 14
Ralph Bender (Global) Our Supply Chain 16
Rhiannon Frater (ANZ) Key Trends 17
Sandrine Hemour (Global) Stakeholder Engagement 19
Sam Chang (TW) Corporate Governance 20
Shizue Suzuki (JP) ESG Management 27
Domino’s for Good 28
OUR PEOPLE 31
Talent Attraction and Retention 32
Workplace Health and Safety 36
Diversity and Equal Opportunities 38
Franchise Prosperity 42
OUR FOOD 45
Food Safety 46
Food Quality 49
Responsible Sourcing 51
Food Nutrition and Innovation 54
OUR CUSTOMERS 57
Customer Experience and Engagement 58
Data Security and Privacy 63
OUR ENVIRONMENT 67
Corporate Footprint Measurement 68
Climate Roadmap and Science-Based Targets 72
Environmental Achievement Highlights 73
OUR COMMUNITY 77
Domino’s Partners Foundation 78
Domino’s Charities 78
Domino’s for Good Day and Fundraisers 80
Volunteering Days 85
LOOKING AHEAD 86
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 88
Appendix 1: GRI Reference Table 92
Appendix 2: SASB Reference Table 94
2 3
DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
CHAIRMAN & CEO
MESSAGE
Dear stakeholders,
At Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd, our commitment Domino’s relies on its franchise partners to run These include: • Our Global Learning Programme – Path to
to sustainability remained unwavering throughout profitable, sustainable businesses that employ • We launched our Domino’s Dairy Initiative with Excellence – which was introduced in FY22, has
the 2022-23 financial year, and this report is a more than 100,000 team members and serve local our main diary supplier to drive an ethical and been fully rolled our across Australia and New
testament to the recent progress we have made communities around the world. While we did not sustainable dairy supply chain. Zealand. More than 25,000 team members are
on our journey towards a more sustainable and always get our pricing right in FY23 – as reflected • We raised ethical standards on modern slavery now active on the platform, with access to live
responsible future. in this year’s annual report – our decisive action across our supplier network in Australia and advanced data and analytics dashboards.
ensured the sustainability of more than 1,000 small New Zealand. We conducted a comprehensive
In a world facing increasingly complex business owners whose livelihoods rely on the supplier assessment process, using the EthiXbase In conclusion, we would like to extend our
environmental and social challenges, we have an Domino’s brand. Modern Slavery Questionnaire. None of our gratitude to our team members, franchise partners,
obligation to our stakeholders and wider society to 54 food business partners were considered customers, business partners, shareholders and all
act responsibly and contribute to positive change. Our franchise partners are well positioned to ‘high risk’, and we conducted enhanced due stakeholders for their unwavering support over the
Sustainability is not just a buzzword for us; it is at deliver on our mission of becoming the dominant, diligence on the four business partners that were past year. Together, we are building a future in which
the core of our values and integral to our business sustainable Quick Service Restaurant (QSR) in each considered medium risk and took appropriate economic prosperity can coexist harmoniously with
strategy. of our markets by 2030. This extends to all of our steps to mitigate these risks. environmental stewardship and social equity.
operations, including our supply chain. This is why • We took further steps in ensuring responsible
Our environmental, social and governance (ESG) we are working closely with our partners to achieve business conduct with our new Responsible Thank you for being part of our mission to create a
approach, Domino’s for Good, is about ensuring we our environmental and sustainability goals. Sourcing Policy, and subsequent Deforestation better slice for everyone.
continue to operate as a responsible business in and Human Rights policies. These are now
line with our values. In FY23, we were the first QSR, and among the first available on our website. Sincerely,
10 companies globally, to have our environmental • We started rolling out in-house dough production
In response to rising inflation, in FY23 our targets validated by the Science Based Targets in Japan, Taiwan, Malaysia, Cambodia and Jack Cowin
management teams worked to ensure a positive initiative (SBTi) according to the latest scientific Singapore. This reduced carbon emissions and Chairman
outcome for customers and franchise partners. Not guidance on Forest, Land, and Agriculture (FLAG). cost per product for our stores.
Don Meij
all of the decisions delivered the expected results; These targets also include our commitment to reach • The Handiwork Project, launched in October
Group CEO and Managing Director
however, our long-term, values-driven approach net-zero emissions by 2050. 2022 in France, is a groundbreaking initiative
ensured our franchise partners were able to weather aimed at introducing individuals with disabilities
the storm in the short term. We also reached a number of other important to our profession, with the ultimate goal of
sustainability-related milestones during the year. welcoming them into our workforce.
4 5
CHAIRMAN & CEO MESSAGE DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
CHIEF ESG OFFICER
MESSAGE
Dear stakeholders,
I am honoured to share our FY23 sustainability
report, in which we update you on the progress
made over the past year as we strive to make a
positive impact on our planet and communities.
It brings me immense pride to announce that we
are leading the way as the first QSR, and one out of
the first 10 pioneering companies globally, to have
our science-based environmental targets validated.
These targets are aligned with the latest scientific
guidance on FLAG. In addition to our commitment to
achieving net-zero emissions, Domino’s has pledged
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) by 65%
per product sold by FY31 compared with FY21 levels.
Furthermore, we are firmly committed to halting
deforestation in our supply chain by 2025. You can We are committed to delivering ‘food without regret’
find comprehensive details on these commitments by focusing on sustainable product innovation
in this report. and developing a group philosophy on food that
translates this goal into practice.
We are grateful for the endorsement of our science-
based targets by the SBTi. Equally significant is our Meanwhile, we are working to make our stores and
proactive action towards achieving these targets operations more sustainable by increasing the use of
today. fossil-free vehicles, lowering our energy consumption
and reducing waste. This supports our commitment
Our Domino’s Dairy Initiative serves as a prime to limit our contribution to global warming. It is also a
example of our proactive stance. We are strategic investment in our business.
concentrating our efforts on areas where we can
make the most substantial difference and have the Ultimately, we aim to achieve a better slice for
greatest impact: our dairy. Dairy and animal-based everyone, from the farmers who grow our ingredients,
proteins accounted for 36% in FY23 of our total to our franchise partners who make and deliver our
GHG emissions, and our Dairy Initiative aims to drive meals, to our customers who enjoy our pizzas.
an ethical and sustainable dairy supply chain.
In our FY23 sustainability report, we continue
At DPE, we firmly believe in the power of to adhere to the Global Reporting Initiative and
partnerships, and we collaborate closely with our Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
suppliers, guided by experts in environmental, reporting frameworks.
animal welfare and social matters. These
partnerships ensure that we make responsible We are Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd, and this is
decisions that benefit all of our stakeholders. our sustainability story for the 2023 financial year.
Our goal is to provide high-quality, affordable meals Warm regards,
that do not harm the planet without compromising
Marika Stegmeijer
customers’ taste preferences.
Chief ESG Officer
6 7
CHIEF ESG OFFICER MESSAGE DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
FY23 KEY HIGHLIGHTS
LET'S KEEP IT SHORT
We increased our
CARBON FOOTPRINT FY23:
ProVeg ranking from
1.51 million
6th to 3rd PLACE
6 MARKETS
1,065 for the most
metric tonnes of
are free from
vegan-friendly
CO equivalent
FRANCHISE PARTNERS ARTIFICIAL COLOURS restaurant chain 2
across our markets
in Germany
DONATED 100%
One of the first
APPROXIMATELY
of our stores in the Benelux
10 COMPANIES GLOBALLY DAIRY and
130,700
with approved ANIMAL-BASED PROTEINS
are supplied with more efficient
SCIENCE-BASED FLAG TARGETS PIZZAS ACCOUNTED FOR
DOUGH BALL TRAYS, reducing the number
36%
of trucks needed for transportation
of our total GHG emissions
DOMINO’S FOR GOOD DAY
raised more than AUD 158,000
across Australia, New Zealand and Japan
IMPROVED
Increased sourcing
ONLINE
cage free eggs AROUND
ORDERING
EXPERIENCE FROM 11.65% TO 27% Workplace giving
100,000
saving between 30 and
IN AUSTRALIA donations increased by
EMPLOYEES
anD
12% IN AUSTRALIA
45 seconds per order
ACROSS OUR ENTIRE NETWORK,
FROM 9% TO 22%
INCLUDING OUR
compared to FY22
IN NEW ZEALAND
FRANCHISED NETWORK
8 9
FY23 KEY HIGHLIGHTSSAGE DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
This is what we stand for
OUR COMPANY
AT A GLANCE AS AT FY23
We are an Australian-headquartered company of pizza people with a global presence. In
FY23, we owned the master franchise for Domino’s in Australia, New Zealand, Belgium,
France, the Netherlands, Japan, Germany, Luxembourg, Denmark, Cambodia, Taiwan,
Malaysia and Singapore. In June 2023, we announced our intention to exit the Danish
market. We originally expected our Danish business to grow to 150 stores; however, despite
world-class operations, we were unable to overcome the legacy of the previous owners that
left the business in a brand-damaged state.
The Domino’s brand is owned by Domino’s Pizza Inc., a publicly listed company in the United
States of America (US). We are the largest Domino’s brand franchisee outside of the US.
FY23 facts
Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd
3,782
Headquarters, Brisbane,
STORES
Australia Publicly traded on the
Australian Stock Exchange as DMP 876 corporate stores and
2,906 franchised stores
13
MARKETS
>100,000
Team members across our combined
corporate franchised networks
36 million
Direct operations in Australia, Belgium, Unique customers represent nearly 10%
Cambodia, Denmark, France, Japan, of our markets’ total population.
Germany, Luxembourg, Malaysia,
Taiwan, New Zealand, Singapore
and the Netherlands.
1100 11
OUR COMPANY DDOOMMIINNOO’’SS PPIIZZZZAA EENNTTEERRPPRRIISSEESS LLTTDD || SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT FFYY2233
MISSION, PURPOSE AND VALUES
COMPANY MISSION We smash the prevailing wisdom that says you OUR VALUES
Our mission is to become the dominant, cannot have quality, speed and low price – all We achieve our purpose through five core values that are shared by our support office
sustainable delivery Quick Service Restaurant together. This puts the world’s most delicious and team members, franchise partners, store managers and other team members.
(QSR) in every market by 2030. It is a mission that versatile bonding food within reach of every person. Our company values are to:
carries through to all of our operations, including 1 Be generous and provide joyful experiences
our supply chain. That’s why we work closely with We are a pizza company that uses technology and 2 Crush convention
our partners to achieve our environmental and insights to break down barriers and better serve 3 Invest to create devotion
sustainability goals. our customers. We have achieved industry firsts in 4 Help people grow and prosper
drone delivery, app ordering, store simulation for 5 Do the right thing, because it’s the right thing to do
OUR PURPOSE optimum design, and on-the-go employee training.
We live in a world where the hard-wired human
need for social connection – seemingly better We continually improve and innovate our product
enabled than ever before – is breaking down. and processes to give our customers a world-class
People crave belonging, while they assert their ordering experience that satisfies their individual BE GENEROUS AND INVEST TO CREATE DEVOTION
right to be different. food preferences, every time. PROVIDE JOYFUL EXPERIENCES
A satisfied customer may come back again,
For many years, Domino’s has lived by the but a devoted customer is a customer for life.
motto: ‘Sell more pizza, have more fun’. To achieve this, we need to be obsessed with
“OUR MISSION IS TO BECOME Fun is what makes coming to work at providing a brilliant Domino’s experience.
Domino’s so enjoyable. But it’s the fun we We must invest in ideas that help us better
THE DOMINANT, SUSTAINABLE
share with our customers that makes our understand our customers and delight the
DELIVERY QSR IN EVERY work truly worthwhile. Let’s share our spirit of most demanding people.
optimism, empathy and generosity with every
MARKET BY 2030.”
customer and team member.
CRUSH CONVENTION HELP PEOPLE GROW
AND PROSPER
We have big ambitions as a business and
we’ll only achieve them if we innovate. We want to make people better off – our team
OUR PURPOSE: WHY WE EXIST Conventional wisdom says you can’t be fast, members, our franchise partners, our investors
provide high quality and offer great value. and the communities we call home. Many of
We aim to deliver all three again, and again, the senior leaders in this business began on
OUR PIZZA BRINGS PEOPLE CLOSER and again. When we do, we are unbeatable. the front line and we want that tradition to
It requires extraordinary thinking, technology continue. We want to help our people grow
and people. and prosper…all the way to the top!
OUR VALUES: HOW WE BEHAVE
BEGENEROUSAND DOTHERIGHTTHING
PROVIDEJOYFLL BECAUSEIT’STHE
EXPERIENCES RIGHTTHINGTODO
HELPPEOPLE
DO THE RIGHT THING BECAUSE
GROWAND
PROSPER IT’S THE RIGHT THING TO DO
INVESTTOCREATE CRUSH
DEVOTION CONVENTION Working at Domino’s comes with a big responsibility –
to care for our team and the communities that depend on us.
We hold ourselves to a high standard of integrity and recognise
how valuable, yet fragile, trust can be. At the end of the day…
we want to do the right thing, because it’s the right thing to do.
12 13
OUR COMPANY DDOOMMIINNOO’’SS PPIIZZZZAA EENNTTEERRPPRRIISSEESS LLTTDD || SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT FFYY2233
OUR BUSINESS MODEL
Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd (DPE) is a pizza As well as being guided by DPE’s purpose and “WE SEE OUR
business, managed by pizza people. values, management also applies the principles of
SUPPLIERS AS
Our business model is straightforward – strong ‘High Volume Mentality’ (HVM), which has been a
unit economics allow Domino’s and our franchise cornerstone of our business since the company BUSINESS PARTNERS.
partners to open more stores closer to customers. was founded. HVM motivates our team to confront
IN KEEPING WITH OUR
This strategic positioning creates an additional and overcome physical and mental barriers that
local customer base of takeaway customers may stand in the way of sales growth. VALUE OF ‘INVESTING
and enables a quicker, more consistent delivery
TO CREATE DEVOTION’,
experience. Increasing our sales, while keeping fixed and semi-
fixed costs relatively low, enables us to improve THESE SOLID
Delivery customers account for more than half unit economics and franchisee profitability, and we
PARTNERSHIPS ARE
of Domino’s sales, and we know they are more can pass on the benefits of increased efficiency to
likely to reorder from us after a positive customer our customers. The result is a focus on value: high- KEY TO KEEPING OUR
experience. Shortening the distance between the quality meals that use cheese, vegetables, wheat,
BUSINESS STRONG.”
store and our customers provides this experience protein and other ingredients responsibly sourced
by giving them a hotter, fresher meal. Moreover, it from world-class partners, delivered safely and
costs franchise partners less to reach customers quickly, at an affordable price. This is exemplified
when they are nearby, allowing them to reinvest in by Domino’s ‘Crush Convention’ value. Every
better service or a more affordable meal. Domino’s team member knows that customers do
not have to choose between speed, quality and
affordability – at Domino’s, customers get the best A TRUSTED SUPPLY CHAINS KEEP US RESILIENT DIGITAL DELIVERY DRIVES OUR FUTURE
of all worlds. Domino’s revenue is fuelled by higher, more Domino’s growth over the past decade has been
profitable food sales, which boost royalties underpinned by our expertise in digital delivery
Proximity to customers
allows for quicker, Ultimately, a lower cost base combined with loyal throughout our system. Our robust supply chain through the implementation of our OneDigital
more consistent customers who engage more frequently drives ensures competitive pricing, sustainability, technology platform in every market. We served a
delivery experience
strong unit economics. resilience and strong relationships with trusted, record number of customers, who are increasingly
ethical suppliers. This makes Domino’s the best ordering online for home delivery. Embedding a
Improved
This flywheel effect consistently delivers hub for our franchise partners to source their strong technology platform ensures a seamless
customer
Fortressing experience benefits to our franchise partners and DPE. ingredients and other supplies. experience, which also allows us to understand
brings us closer drives Customer Indeed, it represents the best of Domino’s The importance of strong supply chains has never our customers’ preferences. By using OneDigital
to Customers Lifetime Value.
values, including our commitment to helping been more evident than during the COVID-19 in multiple markets, we can develop and apply
And lower run
times reduce our people grow and prosper. pandemic. While other businesses were hit by technology at a Group level, applying the
Cost of Delivery global supply chain disruptions that affected efficiencies of scale tailored to local preferences.
their ability to operate, Domino’s was able to This includes innovations such as delivery
continuously deliver high-quality products at an guarantees and the ability for customers to choose
affordable price through our partnerships with how they want their meals delivered.
large, well-resourced suppliers. That said, we
still faced extraordinary challenges last year, but CONVENIENCE IS OUR ADVANTAGE
Profitable Higher Customer our partnership teams rose to the occasion each While pizza remains our core business, our
Lifetime Value and
stores time. We navigated through natural disasters and customers also enjoy our other complementary
lower Cost of
Delivery fuels conflicts that affected the supply of key ingredients offerings such as garlic bread, chicken dishes,
Profitability
and packaging. In some cases, our suppliers felt desserts and salads. These offerings are prepared
compelled to invoke ‘force majeure’ on standing, in Domino’s kitchens and are designed for
long-term fixed-price contracts. delivery, and we know they add convenience to
our customers’ experience. They give our stores
We see our suppliers as business partners. a competitive edge over other businesses who
Adhering to our value of ‘investing to create retrofit their offerings to include delivery.
devotion’, these solid partnerships were key to
keeping our business strong during this period.
1144 15
OUR COMPANY DDOOMMININOO’S’S P PIZIZZZAA E ENNTTEERRPPRRISISEESS L LTTDD | |S SUUSSTTAAININAABBILILITITYY R REEPPOORRTT F FYY2233
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN KEY TRENDS
Since COVID-19, we have been developing a We work strategically with both our business CONSUMER PREFERENCES AND PERCEPTIONS
stronger and more sustainable relationship with partners and their upstream primary producers To succeed in the food service and Quick Service
our suppliers. We view our suppliers as business to ensure traceability and transparency about the Restaurant businesses, we must be able to
partners, an observation that has led us to rename origin of the materials we source. We recognise respond rapidly to changes in consumer tastes and
our Supply Chain department as our Partnerships that one of the most significant ways we can create preferences, as well as demographic trends. Our
department to strengthen the relationship and a positive impact on the world is through our business and financial results could be adversely
increase transparency. This department includes products and services value chains. The farmers affected by changes in consumer preferences.
Procurement, Logistics, Supply Chain, Quality and and business partners who grow, produce and We manage this risk by actively engaging with our
Food Safety; a structure that we apply in each of deliver our products to us are vital to our success, customers through social media, consumer data
our markets. We have also established dedicated and it is imperative that our business partners and and research, innovative product development and
local partnerships teams for each market we serve their upstream supply chains are aligned with and regional menu updates.
to support local sourcing and development more committed to our responsible sourcing policy.
efficiently. ATTRACTING AND RETAINING GREAT PEOPLE
Recruiting and retaining valuable team members
can be a challenge in any country. Our stores
rise to this challenge by using locally relevant
approaches to attract people to the Domino’s family
RAW PROVIDER who may not have previously considered us as a
MANUFACTURING
MATERIAL DELIVERIES
potential employer, or even as a long-term career
option. By using social media, partnering with other
companies and simplifying the application process,
we have targeted recruitment campaigns to reach
DISTRIBUTION new groups. Internally, we provide attractive ONLINE ORDERING PLATFORMS
CENTER(WAREHOUSE) career development opportunities for our people Increasingly, the vast majority of DPE sales are
through easily accessible training programmes and conducted through online ordering platforms. We
professional development workshops. use third-party data centres and expert teams to
develop and host these online platforms. A loss
SUPPLY
CHAINCENTER COMPETITION of platform or application availability or integrity
DOMINO’S DPE operates in a highly competitive market. Our can have a short-term impact on our growth and
financial performance and operating margins may profitability, including poor customer experience,
be adversely affected if the actions of competitors loss of revenue and a potentially negative impact
or potential competitors become more effective, on our franchise partner relationships. We mitigate
RECEPTION or if new competitors enter the market. To mitigate this risk through controls and processes designed
&STORAGE
this type of risk, we closely monitor the markets to protect the availability and functionality of these
in which we operate so we can respond quickly platforms, including data centre replication and
to competitor activity including the entry of new other redundancy methods.
competitors.
CYBERSECURITY
LOADING& PREPARING DOUGH REPUTATION AND BRAND The growing risk of sophisticated cyberattacks
SHIPMENT ORDERS PRODUCTION
DPE’s performance depends on its reputation and poses an ongoing threat to our operations. A cyber
the strength of its brand. However, unforeseen incident, such as a ransomware attack or a data
issues or events that threaten our reputation can breach, could disrupt our operations, compromising
impact our future growth and profitability. We or corrupting confidential information, or damage
STORE CUSTOMER
DELIVERED DELIVERED mitigate this risk by focusing on material risks, our employee and business relationships. Any of
including the safety of our food and our people, these scenarios could expose DPE to potential
and by maintaining mutually beneficial relationships financial losses or damage our brand. We therefore
with key stakeholders and by supporting local invest in risk mitigation activities that prevent and
and regional community initiatives and fundraising detect cyber events and allow us to respond to and
events that align with the Domino’s values. recover quickly from any operational impacts.
1166 17
OUR COMPANY DDOOMMIINNOO’’SS PPIIZZZZAA EENNTTEERRPPRRIISSEESS LLTTDD || SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT FFYY2233
SAFETY For customers, DPE offers a range of pricing
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
We employ people to run and operate our stores strategies that balance the need to deliver
in a safe working environment that provides food sustainable unit economics for our franchise
products to the public. A health or safety incident partners, while delivering great value to our
arising from store operations or a health incident customers. We are proud of our ability to learn We firmly believe in creating a better slice for everyone, and that starts with understanding what a
involving a supplier and the products it uses what works and adapt quickly when it does not. ‘better slice’ means for each of our stakeholders. To accomplish this, we proactively connect with our
could impact the health of our customers and/or Our digital ordering solutions including app-only stakeholders through various platforms and organisational levels. The following overview defines
our financial results. We address this risk through deals, extensive owned media channels, and our key stakeholders and the specific methods we use to initiate meaningful engagement with them.
comprehensive internal food safety and quality community-focused marketing campaigns, give us
practices, occupational health and safety practices, the opportunity to gain new customers and repeat
audit programmes, customer feedback responses orders from our existing fans. MAIN STAKEHOLDERS DEFINITION OUR ENGAGEMENT (examples)
and supplier selection protocols.
Team members Employees who work in our stores, Employee engagement surveys, internal
FRANCHISE RISK offices, commissaries and other communications, path to excellence and
CLIMATE CHANGE DPE’s right to operate Domino’s Pizza stores and owned entities engagement activities
Given the ongoing devastating weather events grant franchises in Australia, New Zealand, Europe,
Franchise partners The franchised store owners in our Franchisee engagement surveys, internal
across the globe, it is clear that immediate action Japan, Taiwan, Malaysia, Singapore and Cambodia
networks communications and engagement activities
is needed to help mitigate the effects of climate is provided by separate Master Franchise
change. Today’s businesses have a unique Agreements (MFAs). These may be terminated in Customers People who buy our pizzas or other Customer surveys, social media posts and
opportunity to assume a leadership role and certain circumstances, such as breach by DPE. If an products through takeaway or campaigns, online post order feedback and
embrace environmentally responsible practices. MFA in respect of a territory is terminated, DPE will delivery options direct engagement
As a food company with a strong reliance on dairy lose the right to operate Domino’s Pizza stores in
Business partners Our suppliers or other types of Responsible Sourcing Policy*, Modern Slavery
and animal-derived proteins, we acknowledge our that territory, which will greatly impact its business.
business partners questionnaire, engagement with our top
contribution to greenhouse gas emissions. We We address this risk by maintaining a close working
suppliers about our environmental strategy
have therefore adopted science-based targets relationship with its master franchisor, and actively
Shareholders The owners of our company Result announcements, AGM, investor meetings
that demonstrate our unwavering commitment monitoring compliance with obligations and
to building a sustainable future for our industry, operational standards.
our society and our planet. At Domino’s, we are Communities The communities where we Local fundraisers and charity programmes
committed to continuously pursuing climate action FRANCHISEE RISK operate our stores, offices and
initiatives guided by rigorous scientific principles. There is a risk of our franchise partners not commissaries
operating their franchise in accordance with the
Not-for-profit organisations Environmental experts and Consultations with external environmental,
SUPPLY CHAIN terms and conditions of their respective franchise
and other groups scientists, animal welfare civil society and animal welfare professionals
Any disruption to our supply chain, caused agreements. The consequences of non-compliance
organisations, universities and
by an interruption to the availability of key may include damage to the brand, fines or other
other educational institutions
components and raw materials, or environmental sanctions from regulators and/or a reduction in
Government Official representatives in the Engaging with government officials directly or
and societal issues, has the potential to affect franchise fees received from the franchise partners.
representatives markets where we operate through industry associations, such as feedback
our sales or customer relationships, which can DPE mitigates this risk by continually monitoring
submissions to government reviews of the QSR
lead to unexpected costs. We mitigate this and evaluating the financial and operating
industry, or aspects of our business such as
risk by implementing a multi-sourcing strategy performance of each franchise partner to assess
modern slavery
for the supply of raw materials, building long- compliance with franchise agreements as well as
term relationships with suppliers, conducting conducting random audits. Regulators/industry groups This includes the Australian Frequent engagement with regulators and
Securities Exchange (ASX), industry groups through panel discussions,
supplier due diligence and risk management, and
the Australian Securities and responses to requests for information or insights,
establishing contacts that ensure regular and timely
Investments Commission (ASIC), and participating in groups that promote
procurement of raw materials.
the Fair Work Ombudsman, the improved trade relations between markets
Australian Taxation Office and trade where Domino’s operates
INFLATION AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS
organisations, the Australia-Taiwan
In a challenging economic environment, high
Business Council, Serving Europe,
unemployment, increasing labour costs, rising Koninklijke Horeca Nederland
interest rates and continued inflation hikes can all (KHN), FoodService, SNARR
lead to consumer reluctance to spend or changes (Syndicat National de l’Alimentation
in consumer behaviour, which can impact our et de la Restauration Rapide)
financial results. While most of these factors are
beyond our control, we engage in a competitive * Our Responsible Sourcing Policy will replace the Business Partner Code of Conduct
bidding process for our ingredients and utility
services to reduce these risks over the medium In addition to the above-mentioned stakeholders, we maintain ongoing interactions with additional for-profit
term. entities and specialised organisations to address a wide variety of subjects that advance and refine our ESG
approach.
18 19
OUR COMPANY DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The success of our ESG approach depends on its The Board is led by a non-executive chairman. More
seamless integration into the heart of our business than half of our directors have joined our Board in
and culture. This integration involves all facets of the last seven years, balancing fresh perspectives
our operations, from our Board of Directors to our from diverse backgrounds. Our directors are a highly
franchise partners and our dedicated team and engaged group who bring a diverse and broad
store members. Our ESG initiatives are not siloed range of qualifications, experiences and skills to
or confined solely to the ESG department, and Domino’s, providing an effective mix of viewpoints
each of us in the organisation shares responsibility and knowledge. The Board regularly engages with
for ensuring their success. A key component of investors and other stakeholders and assesses
this mission is establishing a robust governance the outcomes of these engagements against our
framework that enables us to translate our ambitions company strategy and policies. Our corporate
into concrete actions. governance principles and practices are reviewed
regularly and have all been updated in the past two
ESG GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK years.
The Domino’s Board consists of our Group CEO and
Managing Director and six non-executive Directors, Board committees
five of whom are independent. This corporate The Board of Directors is assisted by specialised
governance system is oriented towards the goal of committees tasked with ensuring more effective
sustainable success, and it is aimed at creating long- monitoring of ESG matters and contributing to the
term value for our shareholders. decision-making process. The Nomination, Culture
and Remuneration Committee (NCRC) and the Audit
Board of Directors and Risk Committee (ARC) are comprised solely of
Our Board of Directors is responsible for independent non-executive directors.
providing guidance and oversight on behalf of our
shareholders, our people, our customers and other The ARC is responsible for monitoring the culture
main stakeholders. The Board identifies regulatory and effectiveness of our risk and compliance Further information on our Board of Directors ESG Steering Committee
obligations and areas of significant business activities, and internal controls and systems. It and other corporate bodies can be found in our In FY22, we created our ESG Steering Committee,
risk, ensuring robust mechanisms are in place to is also responsible for overseeing the accuracy Corporate Governance Statement, published on our which meets on a quarterly basis. This governing
adequately manage those risks, including risks and reliability of financial information, the corporate website. body assumes the pivotal role of supervising the
related to ESG matters. The Board is also responsible appropriate application of accounting policies and execution of our ESG strategy throughout our
for reviewing and approving reported information. whistleblowing matters. Nomination and selection process operations, oversees compliance with sustainability-
The Nomination, Culture & Remuneration Committee related regulation and frameworks, and provides
Furthermore, it oversees our corporate risks, is responsible for making recommendations to the counsel to the Board of Directors regarding the
including ESG risks. The ARC’s responsibilities also Board on the selection and succession planning for progress of our ESG approach. It ensures that this
include monitoring compliance with our Code of the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer and strategy aligns with our broader business objectives,
Conduct and due diligence approach, including how other senior executives as well as Board succession through which Domino’s is able to flourish and meet
we identify, assess, manage and mitigate ESG risks more generally. The NCRC also reviews the the needs of all its stakeholders. We are committed
across our value chain. composition of the Board to ensure that it has the to providing structured and transparent reporting on
right balance of skills, knowledge, independence the progress we make in meeting our ESG goals.
Each Board committee has designated and diversity. The NCRC has oversight of culture
responsibilities, which are specified in their and diversity more broadly. The ESG Steering Committee is chaired by our
respective charters and published on our corporate Group CEO and Managing Director and made
website. The committees regularly report on their It can make recommendations to the Board in up of seven senior executives with recognised
activities to the entire Board. We have policies relation to the company’s organisational design, competence and influence on our ESG-related
in place to ensure that conflicts of interest are values and development to ensure alignment with work across our business. These members
prevented and mitigated, and we report on these in strategic objectives. Additionally, the NCRC reviews actively update their knowledge on ESG-related
our annual report. annual employee engagement surveys, talent and matters, including through direct engagement with
succession planning, and other related matters. The recognised external experts.
NCRC reviews the succession plans on an annual
basis, placing particular emphasis on diversity and
inclusion.
21
20
DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
OUR COMPANY
ESG MANAGEMENT
Responsible sourcing roadmap
At the senior management level, DPE’s Group Chief The Centres of Expertise consist of experts in
PROJECT LIST
ESG Officer shapes and implements our Domino’s operations, product development, procurement
SUPPLIER ENGAGEMENT
for Good ESG strategy across our markets, assesses and ESG. The leads for each centre report to the
and manages impacts, and aligns our risks and ESG Steering Committee each quarter. TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT MATERIAL
material topics. The ESG Officer is a member of our GLOBAL ESG POLICIES, PROCEDURES & STANDARDS
Global Leadership Team and reports to our Group OUR COMMITMENT TO
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING POLICY
CEO, Don Meij. As a member of our ESG Steering RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONDUCT
RISK ASSESSMENT SOLUTION
Committee, the ESG Officer provides regular Our values underline our commitment to
updates to this committee. ensuring fair and ethical standards throughout ESG REGULATION MONITORING PROCESS
our value chain and day-to-day operations. We
CARBON FOOTPRINT DATA COLLECTION - SCOPE 3
Our Global ESG Working Group is comprised of collaborate closely with our partners and build
WATER MANAGEMENT
key representatives from each market who act as strong relationships based on mutual respect,
ambassadors and change agents for Domino’s transparency and trust. To further strengthen our LAND USE & DEFORESTATION
for Good. The representatives provide regular commitment and ensure our partners’ commitment CARBON-INTENSIVE TRANSPORT
updates to the ESG Officer, to ensure company- to responsible business conduct, we will be rolling
BUSINESS PARTNERS INITIATIVES - SCOPE 3
wide alignment with our 2030 ambition (see the out our new Responsible Sourcing Policy towards
ANIMAL WELFARE
‘Domino’s for Good’ chapter), and help measure and the end of 2023.
report on our progress at market level. LOW-IMPACT AGRICULTURE
Our Responsible Sourcing Policy is more specific SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING
Our Global Centres of Expertise help to execute than our Code of Conduct as it includes our
our environmental strategy and support projects to ESG strategy commitments and incorporates the Jan-23 Feb-23 Mar-23 Apr-23 May-23 Jun-23 Jul-23 Aug-23 Sep-23 Oct-23 Nov-23 Dec-23 Jan-24 Feb-24 Mar-24 Apr-24 May-24 Jun-24 Jul-24 Aug-24 Sep-24 Oct-24 Nov-23
achieve our ESG global goals. They drive innovation following principles:
COMMUNICATION & ENGAGEMENT COMPLIANCE & TRACEABILITY
and coordinate our actions across Sustainable 1 Social responsibility
ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS INGREDIENT & SUPPLIER INITIATIVES
Stores and Operations, Responsible Sourcing 2 Business integrity and compliance
and Sustainable Product Innovation within DPE. 3 Environment and sustainability
Each principle is supported by specific policies and Responsible conduct and formalising ESG
statements that are communicated and embedded In FY22, we created a new role: Global Manager
External policies and statements timeline
across our business. As illustrated, in FY23, we for Responsible Partnerships. Following this
defined the framework and timeline for our policies important step, we established a Centre of
S and statements. These reflect the most important Expertise dedicated to responsible sourcing.
R
E
Dro FOOD SAFETY & QUALITY sustainability topics for Domino’s, as identified The centre holds quarterly meetings, during which
L Oja
M through our materiality assessment, as well as our engagements are defined and decisions are made
H
E K SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RESPONSIBLE SOURCING sustainability commitments and relevant upcoming that comply with the roadmap presented above.
A ENVIRONMENTAL & CLIMATE
T Stn HUMAN RIGHTS regulation. Policies and statements were prioritised
&a
c first for human rights and deforestation, followed
E Piif gn ANIMAL WELFARE C POH RIC KKEN
by those requiring close collaboration with our
ODiS
BEEF & DAIRY WASTE
business partners. Once a policy or statements is
“OUR POLICIES AND
ET
Ctae
PALM OIL PF UR LE PE- &R A PN AG PE
E
RE G BG AS
SED
PACKAS GE IA NF GOOD
internally approved, it will be shared with all our COMMITMENTS ENSURE
ANr de COCOA PLASTIC PACKAGING SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE business partners.
T Ro M THAT DOMINO’S
O SOY ADVERTISING & MARKETING GMO PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
P ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT Our policies and commitments ensure that
M CONSISTENTLY EXHIBITS
I L Ll ie b g B POU SIL ID TII VN EG N M UA TT RE IR TII OAL NS Domino’s consistently exhibits and promotes
A Ril eg CONFLICT MINERALS ethical, transparent and responsible behaviour, AND PROMOTES
EN
V engages with key stakeholders and communities,
O ETHICAL, TRANSPARENT
and contributes to the growth and prosperity
Already in Q1 2023 Q2 2023 Q3 2023 Q4 2023 Q1 2024 Q2 2024 Q3 2024 Q4 2024 Beyond
of its franchise partners, team members and AND RESPONSIBLE
place
RELEASE TIMELINE communities. They also stipulate due diligence
BEHAVIOUR.”
processes for human rights and provide
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY BUSINESS INTEGRITY & COMPLIANCE ENVIRONMENT & SUSTAINABILITY
information on grievance processes. Our policies
can be found on our corporate website, which can
be accessed here. 23
22
DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
OUR COMPANY
Lorem ipsum
ENDING MODERN SLAVERY IN AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND Anti-bribery and anti-corruption We also received whistleblower reports for Japan,
In FY23, our ANZ Partnerships team demonstrated its commitment to raising Anti-bribery and anti-corruption are part of which are included in the below statistics. The
ethical standards across our supplier network in Australia and New Zealand. our Responsible Sourcing Policy. DPE and its most common types of incidents reported were
As part of our efforts to develop a more responsible and conscientious supply subsidiaries are committed to preventing bribery ‘Policy/Procedure’ breaches. The Employment
chain, we achieved several key milestones. and corruption. We operate within the laws of each Relations team aims to provide an initial response
jurisdiction in which we do business, in a way that within one day, and in most cases responses are
Strengthening supplier assessments complies with our Responsible Sourcing Policy and provided within four hours. We consistently met that
In FY23, we undertook a comprehensive supplier assessment process, using the expectations of shareholders. We also expect target in FY23. While the average time to close a
the EthiXbase Modern Slavery Questionnaire. This thorough evaluation the same standards from our business partners and whistleblower case was 21 days, this average was
identified seven suppliers that required additional scrutiny. In response, we their commitment to our Business Partner Code of extended by a small number of longer cases that
created enhanced due diligence reports, written by the skilled EthiXbase Conduct. Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy required further investigation. Our goal for FY24 is
research team to look more closely at the practices and associated risks of sets out various standards for our Board of Directors to reduce this time to closure.
these suppliers. and all of our employees.
RISK MANAGEMENT
Positive findings The Board of Directors receives periodic reports Risk management is a key consideration in all
The results of these reports were positively received, particularly the fact that containing summary information relating to concerns of our activities at Domino’s Pizza Enterprises
all of the suppliers reviewed held valid Global Food Safety Initiative (GSFI) raised under the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy. Ltd, and we are on a journey to mature our risk
certifications, which guarantee that products meet the highest standards of management capability in line with the ASX
food safety. The assessments also highlighted an area for improvement – COMPLAINTS AND CLAIM MANAGEMENT Corporate Governance Principles. Our risk
five suppliers that lacked a cocoa certification programme – leading us to The number of whistleblower cases reported at management framework helps ensure that risks
make cocoa certification mandatory for all suppliers. Currently, four of the Domino’s ANZ decreased by about 50% year-on- are properly analysed based on the likelihood of
five suppliers have secured cocoa certification. At the time of writing, the fifth year in FY23. However, the number of enquiries their occurrence, as well as the potential financial
supplier was on track to obtain certification during the final quarter of 2023. and complaints sent directly to Wage Assistance consequences and impact on the company’s brand
increased over FY23, which suggests individuals are and reputation.
Ethical pursuits coming to us directly with their concerns.
An important step was to address concerns about a supplier working with
prawn and pineapple producers in Vietnam and Thailand. We enlisted the
Complaint management
expertise of an independent auditor, the National Sanitation Foundation.
The results were highly satisfactory and aligned with our rigorous ethical
benchmarks. Both factories achieved GSFI qualifications and underwent COMPLAINT GLOBAL AUSTRALIA & NETHER- BELUX FRANCE GERMANY JAPAN2 TAIWAN CAMBODIA MALAYSIA SINGAPORE
MANAGEMENT1 NEW ZEALAND LANDS
thorough Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) assessments. These
were conducted by SMETA, an independent ethical auditing organisation that
shares our values and goals. Whisteblowing 48 48
incidents FY21
Whisteblowing 442 71 30 15 326
A new code of conduct
incidents FY22
Upholding ethical standards extends beyond our immediate domain, and we
Whisteblowing 492 37 4 0 0 87 354 4 Not 6 Not
hold all our business partners to account through our Responsible Sourcing incidents FY23 available available
Policy. This sets out our expectations for goods and services to reflect our
Whisteblowing 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
rigorous standards regarding human rights and modern slavery. incidents review
FY23
Risk assessments completed Whistleblowing 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100%
remediation plans
In FY23, we took proactive steps to conduct rigorous risk assessments of FY23
potential high-risk food and packaging suppliers. These assessments yielded
1) Countries have not used same definition (e.g. Japan is keeping track of a wider range of topics incl. for example reported unfair wait shifts, general question, etc).
positive results about our suppliers’ ethical standards. These steps underscore FY24 will see same definitions being used
our dedicated commitment to driving change and ensuring that our supply 2) Japan numbers from last year restated as last your only contained external complaints (66)
chain is a shining example of responsibility and transparency.
Claim management
Key results from EthiXbase’s risk assessment of all our primary food business
partners for 2023 include: CLAIMS GLOBAL AUSTRALIA & NETHER- BELUX FRANCE GERMANY JAPAN2 TAIWAN CAMBODIA MALAYSIA SINGAPORE
• None of our 54 food business partners are considered ‘high risk’. NEW ZEALAND LANDS
• Four of our food business partners pose a ‘medium risk’. Independent
audits have subsequently been conducted and plans are in place to reduce
# of claims 67 58 0 0 0 0 9 0 Not 0 Not
these flagged assessed risk levels. available available
Amount paid $ 243.843 $ 235.427 0 0 0 0 $ 8.416 0 0
24 25
OUR COMPANY DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
DPE’s risk management processes ensure that we
ESG MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
continuously assess sustainability-related threats,
such as supply chain disruptions and unsafe
working practices, and create an environment
in which leaders take a disciplined and focused In 2019, we undertook our first ESG materiality assessment to better
approach to risks. understand our stakeholders’ views on topics that we consider most
important to us, and identify areas where DPE has an impact on
Domino’s has continued to operate effectively people, the economy and the environment. The assessment was
throughout COVID-19 and the recent geopolitical based on an extensive review of our industry and peers; investor
disruptions. However, these developments have consultation through a survey and interviews; engagement with
resulted in our business being exposed to a higher Domino’s leadership; and an assessment of community expectations,
level of risk, namely risks associated with the including a thorough media analysis. This assessment resulted in
resilience of supply chains and increased operating a list of 20 topics. Of these, five topics were identified as being
costs due to growing inflationary pressures on especially important: 1) Food safety and quality, 2) Customer privacy
wages and input costs. ESG reporting risks have and data security, 3) Workplace safety, 4) Customer experience and
also increased due to increasing regulatory and engagement, and 5) Ethics and trust.
disclosure requirements. These include the EU
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD), In 2021, we reviewed the results of the 2019 assessment by
to which DPE will be subject from FY26. conducting a global ESG customer survey, an independent third-party
ESG materiality assessment gap analysis and a peer benchmark. We
We have taken the first steps in adopting the Task also consulted our main investors. These results were reviewed and
Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures approved by members of our Global Leadership Team. The result
(TCFD) framework. This sustainability report primarily was a list of ten material topics, divided into three categories ranging
addresses the framework’s main governance and from immediate (fundamental and key) importance to longer-term
strategic topics. We recognise the importance (emerging) importance (see Appendix for the full list of definitions):
of providing a more detailed account, especially
concerning climate risk. As we did not conduct
the necessary scenarios analyses yet, we are not
FUNDAMENTAL KEY EMERGING
able to comply with the TCFD framework this year.
However, in the coming years, we plan to assess Food safety and quality Responsible sourcing Talent attraction and
and report on the resilience of DPE’s strategy from a retention
Workplace safety Customer experience
climate perspective by taking into account climate-
and engagement Food nutrition and
related scenarios. Customer privacy and innovation
data security Footprint reduction
Franchisee prosperity
Further information on the main risks and our
Community prosperity
mitigation strategy for those risks can be found in
this year’s annual report.
REMUNERATION POLICIES Since 2021, we have used the materiality assessment, together with
Domino’s reviews the remuneration for its support the outcome of our corporate footprint baseline measurement, as our
office and corporate store employees at least starting point to determine our ESG strategy.
once a year and adheres to all local laws regarding
remuneration and rewards. The Board also has the In FY24, we plan to conduct a double materiality assessment to
responsibility to review the remuneration for the determine whether our current material topics are still valid and
Managing Director/Group CEO and other executives complete. We will engage with our stakeholders and anticipate
to ensure that they are appropriately remunerated. potential changes. For example, we anticipate that the topic of Talent
As Domino’s operates in 13 markets with varying attraction and retention, which is currently considered ‘emerging,’ will
local law requirements, there is not a single be reidentified as a key focus point. We believe this is an important
remuneration policy that covers all team members. step to help us remain focused on the most important topics for our
Instead, remuneration is reviewed locally for each business and anticipate future reporting obligations.
market.
26 27
OOUURR C COOMMPPAANNYY DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
• Provide food without regret – all of our food • Provide a pathway for our team members,
DOMINO’S FOR GOOD
is high quality yet affordable, ethically and whether in a part-time role or as a career, with
sustainably sourced, delivered fast, but still lifelong learning and opportunities.
considered an indulgence.
At Domino’s, our commitment is to do the Domino’s for Good is about more than ‘just • Be the safest delivery company in the world We developed a framework to help us structure our
right thing, because it is the right thing to do. Using pizza’: we want to differentiate ourselves from – prioritise the safety and wellbeing of our approach, focus on what is important and deliver on
our business as a force for good is in our DNA. We our competitors and inspire change that extends employees by applying the highest safety our purpose and growth strategy.
want to be proud of the company we are and the beyond our company, our supply chain and our standards in our operations.
food we serve, today, tomorrow and for many customer base. We aspire to be the company
years to come. that people admire, parents want their children
to work for, suppliers want to work with and “WE ARE DOMINO’S FOR GOOD –
We recognise that our operations impact the shareholders want to invest in.
THE WORLD SHOULD BE BETTER OFF AS A
environment and society in the markets in which
we operate. Our key focus, which is integrated into Domino’s for Good has many goals, but most RESULT OF OUR PRESENCE. WE BELIEVE IN A
our ESG approach, is to take care of our people importantly it means that, by 2030, we aim to:
BETTER SLICE FOR EVERYONE. THIS MEANS
and deliver fast, high-quality and affordable food • Be on a pathway to reduce our emissions,
to our customers as we substantially reduce our including our franchise partners’ emissions, in EVERY STAKEHOLDER GETS A BETTER PIECE
corporate footprint. We focus on the issues that are line with global efforts to limit global warming
OF THE PIE AND NO ONE BENEFITS AT THE
most material for our business and where we can to 1.5 degrees Celsius by 2050 as part of our
achieve the greatest impact. This is our Domino’s commitment to our science-based targets. EXPENSE OF SOMEONE ELSE.”
for Good strategy.
ESG FRAMEWORK
Our ESG Domino’s for Good Framework includes our five pillars, 2030 vision,
material topics and main key performance indicators (KPIs).
The five pillars are each explained in more detail in individual chapters of this report.
28 29
OUR COMPANY DDOOMMININOO’S’S P PIZIZZZAA E ENNTTEERRPPRRISISEESS L LTTDD | |S SUUSSTTAAININAABBILILITITYY R REEPPOORRTT F FYY2233
We believe in
OUR PEOPLE
Our workforce included more than 100,000 team members this year, spanning our 13
markets and encompassing both our corporate and franchised network. Our aim is to attract,
retain and engage with all our team members, so their experience at Domino’s leaves
them better than when they first joined. We know from experience that our pizza makers
and delivery drivers have the opportunity to assume leadership roles in our organisation.
We also recognise that some of our team members only stay temporarily, often to support
themselves through school or university. Domino’s is committed to developing all our
people through world class training tools. Our app-based training tool, Path to Excellence
(P2E), reflects this commitment, and its roll-out has been progressing smoothly. In FY23,
we welcomed three new markets to the Domino’s Team, with Malaysia, Singapore and
Cambodia joining DPE. We are very proud of the results that our team members have
delivered in these markets. Above all, our key focus remains the safety and wellbeing of
every team member, ensuring they return home safely each day.
30 31
OUR PEOPLE DDOOMMININOO’S’S P PIZIZZZAA E ENNTTEERRPPRRISISEESS L LTTDD | |S SUUSSTTAAININAABBILILITITYY R REEPPOORRTT F FYY2233
Employee engagement
TALENT ATTRACTION AND RETENTION
We try to create a fun and enjoyable place for our
team members to work. Our leaders, corporate
store managers and franchise partners run a variety
Our goal is to attract and retain the best talent for Moreover, we use online portals such as LinkedIn, of events and activities to keep our team members
our support offices, corporate stores and franchise Domino’s Jobs, Indeed and other for recruitment. engaged. We often celebrate success through a
partners. We know that ‘Our Pizza brings us closer In many of our markets, word of mouth is the best variety of activities including product launches,
together’ and that the process of making, baking way to attract talent, as our team members vouch such as the Red Bull launch party (AU), – NAIDOC
and delivering pizza can bring joy to our team for the great work environment and development Week (AU), International Women’s Day and other
members and customers. We continue to invest opportunities that are available in-store and at fun activities. Employee engagement is not just
in a variety of tools to help us attract new talent our support offices. We also create an inclusive about having a fun environment. We have to make
and retain them and current team members. The environment where everyone is welcome, sure that we provide good remuneration, benefits
following sections describe the initiatives across regardless of their background, and we celebrate and opportunities for our team members to learn
our markets to support these goals. this diversity in a variety of ways. and grow.
TALENT ATTRACTION TALENT RETENTION We measure employee engagement in our support
We have different ways of attracting talent, We work together with our leaders, corporate store offices, corporate stores and for some of our
including personal referrals and word of mouth, managers and franchise partners to create the best franchise partners (where allowed) to gauge the
advertising and on-line tools. In the fiercely environment for our team members to prosper satisfaction of our team members. The results
competitive global labour market, we need to in. Retaining talent is a key priority, particularly from our employee surveys have shown a decline
make sure that our value proposition delivers the given the many opportunities available in such a in engagement over time. We take this feedback
best experience so we can attract the best talent competitive market. In addition to providing world- very seriously and try to address as many of the
to our team. Each of our markets has developed class learning and development opportunities, we concerns raised by our team members as possible
local strategies to attract talent. For example, in focus on cultivating the right culture and supporting to improve our engagement. It is pleasing to see
Singapore we hold career events. In France, we the communities in which we operate. that our response rates are high, showing that the One possible way to increase engagement with our
have launched unique campaigns to encourage level of engagement in our business is still high. employees is to ask them about their ideas. Some
people with special abilities to join the team (see With the introduction of new technology in of the best ideas for pizza designs come from our
Handiwork case study). FY24, we will be able to check in with a greater team members. Several of our team members in
proportion of our team members in a more regular Australia have received a special one-off bonus for
and simpler way. designing a new pizza or side, which – after going
through our rigorous Luv Lab (design kitchen)
We currently measure the employee engagement testing – will be launched and appreciated by our
in our support offices and some corporate store customers nationally. The Cheesy Vegemite Pizza
leaders. The results have declined in some launched in 2021 is a good example of this. We also
locations due to a variety of factors, including use the latest technology to connect and interact
mandating a return to the office post-COVID-19, with our team members, using products such as
and the lower payout of bonuses due to business Workplace and Teams to share information and
performance. We expect to see a further decline in celebrate our achievements. Of course, this is also
the results in FY24 due to a large-scale restructure a valuable tool for giving and receiving feedback
of the business. on our operational strengths and weaknesses.
Employee engagement
COUNTRY AUSTRALIA NEWZEALAND JAPAN FRANCE GERMANY NETHERLANDS
FY 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023
Employee
Satisfaction 76% 75% 69% 73% 75% 57% 64% 60% 63% 78% 67% 65% 89% 87% 81% 74% 73% 69%
Rating(ESat)
Difference -1% -6% +2% -18% -4% +3% -11% -2% -2% -6% -1% -4%
Response 90% 86% 75% 100% 90% 70% 85% 82% 91% 66% 73% 81% 66% 84% 83% 65% 62% 62%
Rate
Difference -4% -11% -10% -20% -3% +9% +7% +8% +18% -1% -3% 0%
ESatBenchmark 75%
32 33
OUR PEOPLE DDOOMMININOO’S’S P PIZIZZZAA E ENNTTEERRPPRRISISEESS L LTTDD | |S SUUSSTTAAININAABBILILITITYY R REEPPOORRTT F FYY2233
Employee rights and compensation Continuous learning opportunities
We ensure that our labour standards are fair To ensure consistent training across our team, we
and equitable, in line with local laws, standards have introduced the Path to Excellence Training
and regulations in the markets in which we Platform. It caters to all Domino’s team members and
operate. Young people are a significant part of offers a world of personal growth and professional
our workforce, and it is our priority to comply development. With nine levels spanning New
with local and international laws and regulations Employee Orientation to Franchise Partner, the Path
regarding forced labour, child labour and children’s to Excellence covers essential skills and knowledge
rights. Moreover, we firmly believe that better- in Food Safety and Operations. Each level includes
trained and remunerated employees are more various classes, eLearning modules, on-the-job
engaged and motivated and able to deliver better training activities and learning assignments. Prior
customer service, leading to higher customer to their first shift, each new team member must
satisfaction and stronger profits for franchise complete the Mandatory Path to Excellence level
partners. 1 learning module to ensure they start their roles
safely and confidently.
Working together for flexibility
Domino’s works hard to provide its people with Our commitment to knowledge does not stop
secure employment that is flexible for their there. We conduct an annual refresher course
individual needs. For example, employees are often that covers three key topics: 1) Food safety, 2)
attracted to casual, store-based roles because of Driver safety and 3) Allergen training. This ensures
the flexibility they offer around their studies, so that our teams always have the knowledge
we enable them to manage their personal needs and information they need to deliver safe and
outside of the workplace by giving them input on exceptional customer service. Our global learning
work schedules. programme – Path to Excellence – has been fully
rolled out in Australia and New Zealand, with over
Domino’s is committed to providing continuous 25,000 team members now active on the platform,
employment. We work within relevant legislative having acces to live advanced data and analytics
frameworks for business restructures and staffing dashboards. Our Global Rollout Plan continues to
requirements. When a store closes, we arrange for progress, with the Netherlands and Japan due to
people to be redeployed to other stores be fully deployed by December 2023, and other
wherever possible. EU markets in the first half of 2024.
“WE HAVE LAUNCHED THE
DOMIKNOWS ONLINE LEARNING
PLATFORM FOR OUR SUPPORT STAFF
IN THE NETHERLANDS. IT PROVIDES
THEM WITH ACCESS TO FREE
LEARNING MODULES AND TRAINING.”
34 3355
OUR PEOPLE DDOOMMIINNOO’’SS PPIIZZZZAA EENNTTEERRPPRRIISSEESS LLTTDD || SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT FFYY2233
FATALITIES The second delivery driver was returning home
WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY
We are deeply saddened by four fatalities within from Singapore to Malaysia after the shift and was
the Domino’s family in FY23. struck by a speeding vehicle.
In Australia, an employee suffered a medical
We are deeply committed to the health and safety To support our goal, we are taking a number of episode during lunch – there were no work-related Following these tragedies, we have taken steps
of our team members. Safety training for staff is actions, including: causes. In Malaysia, one of our delivery drivers was to reduce the risk of this happening again. In
important for several reasons. Most importantly, our • Ongoing safety alerts to align with a proactive involved in a collision with a lorry. In Singapore, we Malaysia, we have made our Safe Driving Training
commitment to safety focuses on the well-being of approach to safety, focusing on key safety trends had two fatalities involving delivery drivers (experts) mandatory for all delivery drivers. In Malaysia, we
our employees and reducing workplace accidents identified through incident reporting systems. returning home from work after their shift. The first brought in the Singapore Traffic Police to conduct
and injuries. We aim to instil a culture of vigilance • Strategic partnerships with, for example, insurer accident involved a delivery driver returning from safety awareness training. Defensive driver training
and responsibility, promoting proactive hazard AJ Gallagher to work together to reduce the Singapore to Malaysia after working his shift (a one- is now held on a monthly basis. We also changed
identification and risk mitigation, with road safety number of incidents and injuries. hour commute), in an area with poor visibility and our hiring police in Malaysia. We are no longer
being a high priority. From a business perspective, • Re-implementation of the Global Safety Forums lighting. He was struck by another vehicle and died. hiring drivers who have a long commute from work
safety is also an important issue as it enhances to align markets on baseline reporting standards. to home to avoid potential issues with fatigue after
overall productivity by preventing work stoppages • Singapore market have been completing in- a full day’s work.
due to accidents. Ultimately, investing in safety person driver training with an external provider
training not only saves lives and reduces accidents, of competency-based training standards.
but also protects an organisation's reputation and • Introduction of ongoing mandatory compliance
CASE STUDY
bottom line, making it an essential part of business and refresher training to drive a learning culture
practice. and raise the standards of safe work practices
across the network. HIGHLIGHT ON SAFETY IN JAPAN
We are aware of the potential dangers our drivers face on
the road. After identifying stores with higher rates of traffic
accidents, we implemented targeted online safety training.
We ran a ‘No Accident’ campaign across all stores to raise
awareness of traffic safety among our staff. Several Domino’s
Japan crew also attended safe driving seminars with motorcycle
police officers. These concerted efforts significantly reduced –
by almost 60% – the number of stores experiencing more than
three traffic incidents related to deliveries or other business
operations during the year.
36 37
OUR PEOPLE DDOOMMININOO’S’S P PIZIZZZAA E ENNTTEERRPPRRISISEESS L LTTDD | |S SUUSSTTAAININAABBILILITITYY R REEPPOORRTT F FYY2233
OUR WORKPLACE SUPPORTS
DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
We support a diverse and inclusive work Global Leadership Team and regional/market
environment and strive to create equal leadership. We take this commitment very
opportunities for all our team members. As in seriously, and while we have seen some
previous years, we remain committed to achieving improvements in some areas, there is still much
and maintaining gender equity in all our markets. to be done to improve these results. The Board
We are a member of the 30% Club, and we are and Leadership Team are committed to seeing
committed to the 40:40:20 Vision. We also comply improvements in gender representation, and we
with the Workplace Gender Equality Act in Australia regularly review the talent across our business to
and report our performance on an annual basis. understand how we can improve our results. We
Our target is to achieve 40% female, 40% male and recognise that diversity is a competitive advantage
20% of any gender by 2030 for the Board, and regularly celebrate the diversity of our team
members.
38 39
OUR PEOPLE DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
Corporate employee composition CASE STUDY
GLOBAL AUSTRALIA NEW NETHER- BELUX FRANCE GERMANY JAPAN TAIWAN SINGAPORE MALAYSIA CAMBODIA
FRANCE LAUNCHES HANDIWORK CASE STUDY
ZEALAND LANDS
The Handiwork Project, launched in October WOMEN’S DAY JAPAN
Number of 18,826 2,798 109 1,575 24 682 844 8,105 448 617 3,476 148
2022, is a groundbreaking initiative aimed
employees
at introducing individuals with disabilities
Non-employees 811 7 - - - - 1 52 - - 751 -
to our profession, with the ultimate goal of
welcoming them into our workforce. We
Permanent
employees conceived this project in collaboration with
esteemed partners such as Pôle Emploi,
Male 3,326 765 78 166 11 530 245 482 40 204 755 50
Cap Emploi and Handiwork, a company
Female 1,558 299 31 67 12 139 110 160 53 79 561 47
dedicated to facilitating the integration of
Diverse 2 2 - - - - - - - - - -
people with disabilities into professional
Temporary
environments. Handiwork was established
employees
in 2018 and has already made a positive
Male 158 6 - 51 - 9 5 47 - - 19 21
impact on the lives of over 2,000 individuals
Female 114 7 - 26 - 4 5 25 - - 17 30 with disabilities. The primary objective of
Diverse - - - - - - - - - - - - our training programme is to empower
Non-guaranteed participants with knowledge. In 2022, we
hours employees
had the privilege of training four individuals,
Male 9,473 1,213 - 1,006 - - 429 4,910 268 250 1,397 -
offering them a comprehensive, nine- Domino’s Japan is fortunate to have talented
Female 4,189 500 - 259 1 - 50 2,481 87 84 727 - week employee training programme female leaders within the company. International
Diverse 6 6 - - - - - - - - - - that ran from October to December. At Women’s Day (8 March) provided an opportunity
the end of their training, we were thrilled to further strengthen the diversity and support
Full-time to welcome four new permanent team within our working environment. We invited Kyogen
employees
members, all of whom have excelled and actor Miyake Tokuro to host a workshop on ‘What
Male 2,579 365 12 193 11 280 153 497 40 204 774 50 embraced their disability as a strength, a we can do to help all employees flourish in their
Female 1,328 197 5 60 10 63 71 165 53 79 578 47 driving force in their professional journey. individual way’. We received positive feedback
Diverse 1 1 - - - - - - - - - - Our adaptable approach ensures that from employees who took part in the International
Part-time each trainee achieves a high level of Women’s Day workshop, and we are already
employees professional competence and develops planning similar activities to support emerging and
Male 10,390 1.619 66 1,030 2 267 528 4.942 268 250 1,397 21 into an accomplished team member who future female leaders to pursue their careers with
Female 4,521 609 26 292 1 72 92 2.501 87 84 727 30 proudly represents our organisation. confidence.
Diverse 7 7 - - - - - - - - - - Building on the remarkable success of this
inaugural programme, we are committed to
expanding, enhancing and sustaining the
Age of
employees Handiwork Project in the years to come.
< 30 years old 12,769 2.380 84 1,364 14 447 563 7,022 242 301 219 133
30 - 50 years old 5,604 375 24 167 9 200 239 934 166 247 3,228 15
> 50 years old 453 43 1 44 1 35 42 149 40 69 29 -
Domino’s leadership gender representation
In most countries, the headcount was stable compared to last year. Exceptions were Australia (+564 HC) due to additional corporate
stores, the Netherlands (-200 HC) due to the sale of corporate stores and Japan (-1,027 HC) due to a reduction in corporate store crew
rates as a result of tighter labour market conditions. DOMINO’S AUSTRALIA NETHER- BELUX FRANCE GERMANY JAPAN TAIWAN SINGAPORE MALAYSIA CAMBODIA EU LT ASIA LT ANZ LT G LT BOARD OF
LEADERSHIP NEW ZEALAND LANDS DIRECTORS
In FY22, an incorrect definition of employees in the Netherlands was used, counting the number of employees throughout FY22
TEAM - FY23
instead of the number of employees at a point in time (year-end FY22). The correct figure for comparison with FY23 and other markets
is 1,775 employees, instead of the 3,196 employees mentioned in last year’s report.
Domino’s 4 3 2 2 3 0 7 3 1 0 2 7 4 3 3
leadership
team female
Domino’s 6 7 2 7 10 8 1 3 5 0 4 11 6 20 4
leadership
team male
Total 10 10 4 9 13 8 8 6 6 0 6 18 10 23 7
Female % 40% 30% 50% 22% 23% 0% 88% 50% 17% 0% 33% 39% 40% 13% 43%
40 41
OUR PEOPLE DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
FRANCHISEE PROSPERITY
Our franchise partners are partners in our future At a market level, Domino’s may from time to time
success and custodians of the Domino’s brand. offer targeted incentives, which may be linked
Domino’s prefers to provide a pathway for to specific operational or network improvement
team members to grow and prosper, taking on goals. These may include incentives for improved
management responsibilities within a store before customer satisfaction scores or reduced average
becoming a franchise partner. This ensures our delivery times.
franchise partners have a strong understanding
of our business, and the purpose and values of On 13 June 2023, the Group announced initiatives
our company. Whether franchise partners develop to deliver material, near-term cost savings, improve
within Domino’s or join from an external role, efficiency and build a stronger foundation for
we use standardised screening and onboarding future growth, sharing one-third of the savings
procedures, which include a franchise partner with our franchise partners through reduced food
training programme for all candidates. margin. In addition, we aim to increase profitability
through a combination of product development,
FRANCHISEE PROFITABILITY including the introduction of new pizza recipes
Franchisee profitability is crucial to our current and side dishes, new technologies (particularly to
and future success. DPE’s management and improve the customer experience) and extensive
Board members receive regular updates on marketing campaigns, including online and through
franchisee profitability. Depending on local our own channels. Our franchise partners also
regulations, franchise partners are either required have the opportunity – and responsibility – to
or encouraged to submit monthly profit and loss increase profits at a store level through careful cost
statements. Domino’s also tracks the average cost management (e.g. operational efficiencies including
of goods measured against menu and promotional rostering enhancements). Store profitability can
prices on a daily basis. At an individual store level, also be driven by sales growth, local marketing
Domino’s provides financial support (such as rental initiatives and community involvement. But most
assistance) where local trading conditions require importantly, it is driven by improving customer
– for example, where foot traffic is reduced as a satisfaction, by safely reducing delivery times
result of a shopping centre undergoing renovations. and by customers rating their meals highly, as
measured by our improved Net Promoter Scores.
Group franchisee weighted average company
CASE STUDY
EBITDA ($AUD) constant currency ‘000S*
Stores per franchisee DOMINO’S FOR GOOD GLOBAL AWARD/FRANCHISE PARTNER ANDREAS VOIGT
EBITDA $ 2.7
The global Domino's for Good Award was presented for the second time. This award is presented to
2.5
2.4 franchise partners, stores and team members who demonstrate a high level of commitment to the
2.2
values of Domino’s for Good and live by them every day in their stores and their communities.
$376.6
This year, the Domino’s for Good Global Award went to franchise partner Andreas Voigt in Germany.
$305.6 This is a special honour for Andreas, who also received the first German Domino's for Good Award.
Helping others has long been a priority for Andreas. He exemplifies this commitment through his
$253.9
$227.2 stores and teams and in his support for various projects. He is committed to the DKMS (the German
Bone Marrow Donor Center), an international non-profit organisation that encourages people to
register as potential stem cell donors to give blood cancer patients a second chance at life. However,
he and his teams are also committed to addressing the issue of bullying, recognising the need to lead
12-MONTH ROLLING 12-MONTH ROLLING 12-MONTH ROLLING 12-MONTH ROLLING by example. Ultimately, he and his employees' main concern in all projects is to uplift people during
Q3 20 Q3 21 Q3 22 Q3 23 difficult phases through small gestures and delicious food. And to show that everyone can help make
a difference.
*Group Franchisee Company EBITDA – is calculated on the basis of multiplying group weighted average store EBITDA submitted to DPE,
by group average number of stores per franchisee.
42 43
OUR PEOPLE DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
We are serious about
OUR FOOD
What people put into their bodies matters. Our customers tell us they value our
food because it is a treat, an indulgence that they use to celebrate milestones,
connect with friends and reward themselves after exercise. We want to ensure
that our food remains an indulgence, but we also believe that rich flavours do
not have to be at the expense of health or quality. Together with our suppliers
and business partners, we are working hard to implement more sustainable
production methods, eliminate human rights abuses and improve animal
welfare standards in our value chain.
44 45
OUR FOOD DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
FOOD SAFETY “WITH OUR 100%
SATISFACTION
GUARANTEE, THE
Maintaining high standards of food safety and These DPI Audits comply with a global food safety
hygiene is a top priority for DPE, and our and hygiene standard, as required by DPI. In CUSTOMER FEEDBACK
commitment to food safety is upheld across all our addition, every Domino’s Pizza store is required
TEAM ENSURES A
stores through a robust food safety programme. to have a Food Safety Supervisor who has
As part of our continuous improvement process, successfully completed recognised Food Safety MAXIMUM RESPONSE TIME
we aim for our stores to undergo at least five food Supervisor courses and is available during all
OF ONE HOUR IF FOOD
safety evaluation audits each year. These consist operating hours. We take these food and safety
of a minimum of four DPE Audits, conducted by standards seriously. In cases where stores do not QUALITY FALLS SHORT
DPE employees or nominees, and at least one meet the agreed-upon benchmarks, necessary
OF EXPECTATIONS.”
audit mandated by Domino’s Pizza International Inc. corrective actions are required. Failing to follow
(DPI), the Master Franchisor of the Domino’s global these actions could potentially result in the store's
network. closure or even termination of the franchise
partner's contract. AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND Once they pass this evaluation, suppliers are
This food safety programme is audited and certified accepted into our network.
annually by an independent auditor in Australia and
Store inspections
New Zealand (ANZ) to ensure compliance with the As of 2023, our high-risk suppliers are required
ANZ Food Standards Code. In addition to routine to be GFSI certified. Suppliers that do not achieve
STORE INSPECTION AUSTRALIA NEW NETHER- BELUX FRANCE GERMANY JAPAN TAIWAN SINGAPORE MALAYSIA CAMBODIA food safety inspections, our responsive Domino’s this certification will be audited by third parties
ZEALAND LANDS
operations teams promptly address concerns raised to ensure compliance with global food safety
by customers through our Quality Assurance and standards. In the ANZ region, we have identified
Number of stores 744 153 362 140 489 416 986 188 42 253 9 Customer Feedback teams. Their rapid response four high-risk suppliers that will undergo rigorous
allows us to investigate concerns and take swift third-party audits to align with the DPI Global
Number of store inspections 2,768 557 1,384 470 1,649 3,063 5,707 943 168 146 9 corrective measures. With our 100% satisfaction Supplier audit standard.
(by internal inspectors) guarantee, the customer feedback team ensures a
Number of store inspections 1,089 165 685 224 822 0 994 0 42 282 4 maximum response time of one hour if food quality One supplier has already completed this audit,
(by external inspectors)
falls short of expectations. This set-up facilitates the securing an impressive audit score of over 95%.
Total number of store 3,857 722 2,069 694 2,471 3,063 6,701 943 210 428 13 swift identification of any quality issues and paves This achievement earned the supplier a well-
inspections
the way for continuous improvement. deserved 'Five Star Result'. At the time of writing,
the remaining suppliers were scheduled to
Number of critical violations 356 54 279 48 448 558 259 107 24 14 0
Supplier relationships are also vital in maintaining complete their audits in the final quarter of 2023.
(by internal inspectors)
our quality standards. ANZ has approximately 40
Number of critical violations 159 41 217 49 127 0 177 0 4 66 1
(by external inspectors) approved suppliers, some of which span multiple EUROPE
sites across Australia and New Zealand, and we To ensure our auditors always use the most up-
Total number of critical 515 95 496 97 575 558 436 107 28 80 1
violations* hold each supplier to a high standard. To achieve to-date food safety evaluation standards, DPI
the title of an approved supplier, compliance with provides an audit calibration to our Operations
Average internal store inspec- 3.7 3.6 3.8 3.4 3.4 7.4 5.8 5.0 4.0 0.6 1.0 food safety certification criteria is mandatory. This auditors. Depending on the results of these audits,
tions per store per year includes obtaining various certifications, depending stores may need to address food-related safety
Average external store 1,5 1,1 1,9 1,6 1,7 0,0 1,0 0.0 1.0 1.1 0.4 on the risk level of the supplied ingredients. topics. The store owners are also invited to attend
inspections per store per year
a dedicated webinar and a food safety session
Average store inspections 5.2 4.7 5.7 5.0 5.1 7.4 6.8 5.0 5.0 1.7 1.4 • High-risk ingredient suppliers*: Global Food during the Managers Rally, an annual celebration of
per store per year
Safety Initiative GFSI Certification Domino’s culture with awards and live music.
• Medium-risk ingredient suppliers: Global Market
Number of internal food 26 4 2,8 3,5 12 5 7 4 3 4 1
Programme Certification (Intermediate-level)/ISO If a store is assessed as critical, it is required to
safety supervisors (OER
coaches, QA) 22000 Certification, or Equivalent take immediate action(s), and DPE has designed a
• Low-risk ingredient suppliers: HACCP specific flowchart to manage this process. If food
Average number of 106 139 494 134 137 613 815 236 56 37 9
inspections per internal Certification safety issues are not properly addressed, this will
safety supervisor
result in the store's closure or even the termination
Before receiving approval, our suppliers must first of the franchise partners' contract. In 2024, we will
Number of confirmed food- 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 complete a comprehensive audit questionnaire. continue to implement digital HACCP at store level
borne illness outbreaks
to manage all food safety controls.
* High-risk ingredients include dairy products such as cheese and protein-
* Examples of critical violations are: using expired date products, evidence of cross contamination from chemicals product (cleaning products) to our food, evidence of based foods such as fish, meat, chicken and seafood; medium risk ingre-
presence of pests in a store, evidence of dirty or injured hands without protection and touching food. dients include seeds, spice mixes and oil; low-risk ingredient include flour.
46 47
OUR FOOD DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
FOOD QUALITY
To maintain high food quality standards, Domino’s
has rigorous processes in place to quickly identify
and address any concerns. Our unwavering
commitment to product safety and quality is
enhanced by comprehensive traceability and
product recall systems across all the markets that
we serve.
In total, we had 114,243 kg of food with quality
issues. The majority of this, 104,579 kg, was
blocked in our warehouses. In our stores, 9,664 kg
was blocked. We had no recalls of products served
to our customers. The majority of withdrawals,
105,731 kg, was due to a foreign object (metal,
plastic, insects, bones, etc.). Incorrect labelling
affected 6,716 kg. We had 1,289 kg of leaking
packaging and 507 kg of product contaminated
with allergens.
At DPE, each of our markets has dedicated recall
In addition to managing food safety at our stores, Our commitment to safety also extends to our teams with representatives on standby from various
we also ensure that food safety regulations are supplier relationships. DPT adheres to the DPI business departments. Each year, a simulated recall
applied throughout our value chain. Our Quality Supplier Standards, which require suppliers to is conducted by the Quality Assurance team to
Policy in Europe requires all our internal Supply provide food safety and hygiene verification meticulously assess the adherence to procedures.
Chain Centres (commissaries) and third-party certificates appropriate to the level of risk. Regular This annual exercise ensures that all protocols are
warehouses to be GFSI certified, with audits carried maintenance of the validity of these certificates not only in place, but that they are also diligently
out annually by the Quality Assurance team. In is a requirement. To further mitigate risk, DPT followed.
addition, all of our food and packaging suppliers carries out rotating on-site inspections of suppliers,
are GFSI certified, regardless of risk level. prioritising high-risk ones. Suppliers that fall short In our relentless pursuit of high food quality
of the established standards are given a specific standards, every new product undergoes rigorous
TAIWAN time frame to correct their deficiencies, followed by testing. These assessments ensure that each
In Taiwan, we are implementing the same food a re-inspection. The results of these assessments product meets our strict microbiological criteria and
safety and hygiene management system as in ANZ determine whether a supplier continues to work meets our expectations for shelf life, all in the name
and Europe. We are establishing an independent with DPT. New suppliers, particularly those with of food safety and customer wellbeing.
Food Safety and Hygiene Management factories in Taiwan, must successfully pass an on-
Department there and appointing food safety site inspection before any form of cooperation can
personnel with professional licences to manage begin.
DPT’s entire supply chain and store food safety and Food product voluntary withdrawals
hygiene. To ensure immediate response and short
communication lines, DPT has established an FOOD PRODUCT GLOBAL AUSTRALIA NEW NETHER- BELUX FRANCE GERMANY JAPAN TAIWAN SINGAPORE MALAYSIA CAMBODIA
VOLUNTARY ZEALAND LANDS
The Food Safety and Hygiene Management official line group that enables stores to report
WITHDRAWALS
Department works closely with the Operational food anomalies promptly and serves as a platform
Excellence and Risk team to conduct internal audits for food returns and exchanges. In line with best Total number of 27 1 1 6 6 3 4 4 0 0 2
of store food safety and hygiene five times a year. practice, DPT has also developed Standard withdrawels*
Our store food safety and hygiene is also regularly Operating Procedures for food tracking, traceability Total quantity (kg) 114.243 1,308 86 21,426 17,844 2,270 24,946 46,081 0 0 282
of food product
assessed and graded by the government. The and product recall. This ensures that any issues are
withdrawn from
results of these assessments are excellent and dealt with quickly and efficiently. To keep the entire stores
are posted on the Government Hygiene Bureau organisation focused on its commitment, DPT holds
* All the withdraw were initiated voluntarily by Domino’s to guarantee the safety of our products to our customers
website. quarterly store manager meetings where food
safety and hygiene are discussed.
48 49
OUR FOOD DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
CASE STUDY
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
EUROPE
In FY23, we addressed two main food quality areas in
Europe: As part of our continuous improvement process, ANIMAL WELFARE
1 Implementing the Product Quality Programme to we have strengthened our focus on responsible We are committed to maintaining high animal
guarantee product quality from suppliers and stores. sourcing and have developed our Responsible welfare standards. In Europe, we have adopted the
2 Establishing robust Food Fraud* Management Sourcing Policy that replaced our Business Code European Better Chicken Commitment, the leading
measures to prevent any food fraud issues within of Conduct. At the time of writing, the policy is due global standard for chicken welfare. As part of this
the supplier and supply chain network. to be released to all DPE business partners by commitment, we have partnered with the non-profit
the end of 2023, after which we will take steps to organisation Compassion in World Farming to
We developed and implemented our Product Quality implement the resulting policies and statements agree on a set of targets that we are committed to
Programme in all of our European markets to ensure and continue to work on policies that may be achieving by 2026.
product compliance. The controls are based on missing according to our ESG framework.
the specifications and expectations of stores and We have made significant progress, as highlighted
customers with specific pre-bake and post-bake We work very closely with our business partners to in the infographic below, and will continue to take
checks. All the products are tested according to an ensure responsible sourcing and have identified steps to address areas where further improvement
internal sampling plan. important areas to help reduce our carbon is needed.
footprint, protect human rights and reinforce
The top 15 products – the core or business critical animal welfare practices. We are moving in these In 2021, Domino’s ANZ partnered with Compassion
products – are checked at least once a month. They directions based on our science-based targets, in World Farming and signed up to the Better
include mozzarella, tomato sauce, pepperoni, meats which include the latest SBTi Forest, Land and Chicken Commitment (BCC), a first for the
(chicken sides, ham, bacon), as well as dough (which Agriculture (FLAG) Guidance, as approved by the QSR industry in the region. The BCC works to
is checked daily). The aim of this programme is to SBTi. significantly improve the conditions in which broiler
achieve at least 90% compliance for each product. In chickens are raised and slaughtered.
the event of non-conformity related to product quality,
the team organises specific tests to check whether it is
an isolated case in one store or whether the supplier
needs to take action.
In a challenging economic and supply chain
environment, we prioritise managing the food fraud
risk within our supply chain, from suppliers to stores.
Managing food fraud within our supply chain is a
mandatory requirement to achieve GFSI certification.
The first step we took was to create a food fraud
mitigation plan, which includes a vulnerability
assessment for each product and supplier. The risk
calculation is based on various vulnerability criteria
– economic, product/production, supplier, Domino’s
brand and historical fraud data – with risks categorised
as ‘low’, ‘medium’ or ‘high’. The next step is to collect
all food fraud management data from suppliers and
implement preventive actions and additional control
measures together with suppliers and the supply
chain. We have a weekly tracker to get the appropriate
information based on our products, suppliers and
origin. In FY23, no food fraud was detected.
* Food fraud is defined as ‘the collective term encompassing the deliberate
and intentional substitution, addition, tampering or misrepresentation of food,
food ingredients or food packaging, labelling, product information or false or
misleading statements made about a product for economic gain that could
impact consumer health’ (GFSI BRv7:2017)
50 51
OUR FOOD DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
Domino’s ANZ has joined the SPCA Better Chicken We will share our roadmap and provide updates on DOMINO’S DAIRY INITIATIVE
Commitment Working Group, enabling us to work our progress in this area in our FY24 Sustainability As part of our efforts to drive sustainable and ethical dairy processes
with our business partners, animal welfare groups Report. in our supply chain, in June 2023 we organised the first summit
and other retail companies to achieve our goals. between Domino’s Pizza and our major dairy partner in Amsterdam.
The SPCA is New Zealand’s oldest animal welfare DPE has also committed to stop purchasing caged During this event, we developed our strategy and structure based on
charity. eggs in the European and ANZ markets by 2025. the following principles and objectives, with a view to:
In Europe, our goal is to achieve 100% cage-free • Collaborate on traceability and transparency of practices
Domino’s ANZ is in the process of creating a products in each European market where we • Collectively share and engage in environmental and social best
company-specific roadmap, which will allow operate. In 2023, we made progress on this goal, practices throughout the value chain
team members to have clear discussions though progress in the Benelux region was slowed • Support and implement regenerative agricultural practices with
with our business partners about incremental due to avian influenza issues, which resulted in a farmers
targets to meet the requirements of the Better shortage of cage-free producers. • Work with farmers to improve animal welfare practices
Chicken Commitment, and to demonstrate our • Push innovation as a key ingredient in our DNA and strategy
implementation plans to internal and external We have also made significant progress in the ANZ
stakeholders. Currently, 100% of chickens supplied region. In Australia, we increased our sourcing from The key ingredients in our DNA are:
to Domino’s ANZ have free access to clean water the cage-free system from 11.65% in FY22 to 27% in • Quality and food safety
and quality feed. None are housed in cages or FY23, and from 9% to 22% in New Zealand. • Traceability
multi-tier systems. • Innovation
We are currently evaluating other markets in our
We have also launched our Domino’s Pork network, such as Taiwan and Malaysia, to see how The Domino’s Dairy Initiative is based on three main pillars, and we
Commitment and continue to make progress. we can improve in these regions and plan to share aim to have a better dairy slice for:
However, our business partners have not yet fully the outcomes with our stakeholders in due course. • Farmers, communities and customers
implemented these commitments, and we have • Animal welfare practices
only reached 20% of our KPIs in this area. • Environmental aspects
For each pillar, we follow specific objectives and KPIs to measure and
track our progress. We aim to finalise our Domino’s Dairy Initiative in
November and share the outcomes with our dairy business partners
by the end of 2023.
Percentage of cage-free egg products
2022 2023 FARMERS,
COMMUNITIES&
100%
CUSTOMERS
90%
80%
QUALITY
70%
TRACEABILITY
60%
INNOVATION
50%
40% ENVIRONMENTAL
ANIMALWELFARE
30% LEADERSHIP
20%
10%
AUSTRALIA NEW JAPAN TAIWAN MALAYSIA SINGAPORE CAMBODIA FRANCE NETHER- BE/LUX GERMANY
ZEALAND LANDS
52 53
OUR FOOD DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
We are also making significant progress in
FOOD NUTRITION AND INNOVATION
reducing the fat and sodium content of our
products in all markets. Our pizza dough is the
foundation of every great pizza. We are in the CASE STUDY
Domino’s has a long-standing commitment A CLEANER MENU process of upgrading all of our APAC stores to
to be led by our customers’ taste and dietary In recent years, we have made significant progress enable in-store dough preparation, making our
preferences while providing desirable products in improving the quality of our food while creating handmade pizzas fresher and more enjoyable for NUTRI-SCORE INNOVATION GIVES
that our customers love. For example, we are on a delicious products. In 2017, our European team customers. In Japan, we have already converted CUSTOMERS TRANSPARENT NUTRITIONAL
journey to offer products that are completely free began their journey to achieve a 100% clean- over 20% of our off-site dough-making stores to INFORMATION
of artificial colours, flavours and preservatives while label menu in our European markets. As we in-store dough-making. All of our newly opened
offering our customers a wider range of products work towards this goal, our teams are exploring stores from October 2022 are set up to enable
and occasions. We strive to use the freshest, solutions for finished products. Our approach in-store dough-making from the outset. Our
most natural ingredients in our pizzas, sides and involves analysing our menu and engaging with our European markets follow Nutri-Score guidelines,
desserts. We believe in sourcing the highest quality suppliers to reduce artificial ingredients and find and the majority of our meals are in the B-D range
ingredients that do not require hidden additives non-artificial alternatives. The team has delivered of this scoring system (see ‘Our customers’).
such as artificial colours or flavours. Also, we a menu that is between 86% and 100% free of
believe that there is no need for preservatives, as artificial colours, flavours and preservatives in In Europe and Australia, all of our vegetables,
our high volume of sales allows us to go through our established markets. We now have stores in including tomatoes, peppers, mushrooms, onions
the ingredients in a short period of time, eliminating six markets with no artificial colours and stores in and spinach are locally sourced. This ensures the
the need for preservatives. three markets with no artificial flavours. This is a freshness of our products, supports local farmers
significant step in our ambition to deliver a menu and improves the efficiency of our supply chain. In FY22 Domino’s introduced the Nutri-
We are working hard to offer increased that is 100% free from artificial colours and flavours Score system to ensure our customers in the
transparency about our products’ nutritional ratings in all our markets. In line with our company vision, we assess all of Netherlands, Belgium, Luxemburg, Germany
in all markets and displaying relevant nutritional our product innovations according to three main and France receive objective information
information in all in-store and online ordering We face challenges in achieving this goal, mostly criteria: 1) design to be delivered, 2) 'pizzaness' on the nutritional value of our products.
markets. related to the storage and transportation of certain (Domino’s X-factor) and 3) sustainability. Nutri-Score was developed by independent
products. Reducing the use of preservatives in scientists commissioned by the French
We are also reducing allergens in our products meats and sauces has proven to be especially government. The system allocates points
DESIGNED TO
and have become one of the first Quick Service challenging as they play a role in extending shelf BE DELIVERED for nutritious ingredients including protein,
Restaurants to offer vegan cheeses, as well as life and supporting food safety, which is our fibre, vegetables and fruit while deducting
vegan doughs and proteins. We are currently number one priority. We have made significant points for ingredients such as sugars, fat and
working to introduce new lower-carbon offerings progress through continuous evaluation and salt. Based on these points, each product
and to harness future food technologies to improve refinement, collaboration with our suppliers and our is awarded a grade from a dark green ‘A’
nutrition within the food industry. Thanks to our drive to move to a clean-label standard. Domino’s OUR as the most responsible choice to a dark
continuous focus on innovation, we have increased keeps on looking for ways to remove preservatives orange ‘E’ as the least favourable choice.
INNOVATION
the quality of our food while making it taste even in meats. However, removing nitrates is particularly This gives customers a reliable, independent
TRIANGLE
better. These innovations provide our customers challenging as they have been used for hundreds system to choose the product that best
with a greater range of options and help us gain of years to preserve meat, especially in pork. suits them. It’s another example of our
an edge over our competitors. In many cases, commitment to investment and innovation
customers have rewarded our efforts by becoming SUSTAINABILITY 12-MONTH ROLLING Q3 2D0 OMINO’S to ensure customers receive an outstanding
X-FACTOR
loyal to these products. experience.
Food nutrition and innovation
An important sustainable innovation we are
looking into is the development of more
FOOD NUTRITION & AUSTRALIA NEW NETHER- BELUX FRANCE GERMANY JAPAN TAIWAN SINGAPORE MALAYSIA CAMBODIA
sustainable meat alternatives to reduce the need
INNOVATION ZEALAND LANDS
for animal products and the environmental impact
of intensive farming. We anticipate that this will
% of ingredients that are free 100 100 99 98 92 98 100 62 63 84 89
extend to pilot innovation projects in regenerative
of artificial flavours
agriculture or alternative sustainable solutions for
% of ingredients that are free 100 100 100 100 100 100 95 92 88 86 89
our dairy, tomatoes, flour and beef.
of artificial colours
% of ingredients that are free 95 90 91 89 86 94 98 96 56 65 72
of artificial preservatives
54 55
OUR FOOD DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
We cherish
OUR CUSTOMERS
At the heart of our commitment to sustainability to our customers is the understanding that ‘good food’ is
a highly personal concept, shaped by individual preferences, emotions and moments. This mindset fuels
our dedication to providing diverse options that cater to individual tastes while upholding our unwavering
commitment to quality.
We recognise the significance of convenience in the lives of our valued customers and see efficient
delivery and a seamless, secure digital experience as essential pillars of our business success. Our
engagement with customers extends beyond the transactional, as we actively connect with them through
social media and are transparent and honest about the steps we are taking to drive improvement. This
includes celebrating milestones achieved, as well as outlining the challenges we face and our strategies for
overcoming them.
Furthermore, we place a strong emphasis on addressing customer concerns and continuously enhancing
both our service and our brand image. Through these efforts, we aim to not only satisfy individual palates
but also to contribute to a more sustainable and responsible food industry.
In FY23, we have started to communicate more about our Domino’s for Good work externally, including
in our communications directed at customers. Some markets now have a dedicated Domino’s for Good
section on their website. We aimed to have this available in all markets in FY23. This was not feasible in all
markets, but we expect more markets to have this information available in FY24. We also aimed to roll out
our product environmental footprint tool in a few selected markets in FY23, following the pilot project in
Denmark. We have made progress internally, but due to the closure of our Danish market, we have not yet
been able to communicate this to our customers. Meanwhile, we are assessing the appropriate software
and processes to support a global roll-out of a product environmental footprint tool.
56 57
OUR CUSTOMERS DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
CASE STUDY
CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE AND ENGAGEMENT
OUT OF THE BOX IN JAPAN
In FY23, we introduced MyDomino’s Box in Australia, New
Every customer wants their pizza to be freshly In addition, when customers order through our Zealand and Japan. The MyDomino's Box allows Domino’s
made and hot out of the oven. Meeting customer native ordering apps, they now receive live order lovers to create and customise a personalised meal with
expectations and improving satisfaction in the status updates via push notifications. The push over 600 combinations of their favourite Domino’s products
design and delivery of our products, services notifications keep them informed of their order – all in one convenient box. In February 2023, Japan
and experiences is key to the success of our status in real time, so they can get on with other launched My Domino’s, a menu designed with portions for
business. Our customer engagement is built on things while knowing where their order is. individual diners. Each box contains a main dish and two
the foundations of ease, value and consistency. side dishes for 930 yen. The product was well received by
Read on for examples of how we are meeting our Finally, customers can now save voucher codes customers: in just over a month, Domino’s Japan sold more
customers’ needs through innovation. to their account in their ‘Domino’s Wallet’, so if than 500,000 of these exciting new products.
they receive an offer from Domino’s but only want
IMPROVED ONLINE ORDERING EXPERIENCE to order Domino’s in the next few days – their Japan then introduced BigBox in April. This delicious
Customers in all our markets now benefit from voucher code is saved in their account for easy and combination box includes two small pizzas and four side
an improved ordering experience. Returning convenient access later. This feature also allows us dishes packaged in a large 42 x 43 cm pizza box. We
customers now start the ordering experience to give customers voucher codes directly to their believe this high-impact package deal is the first of its kind
directly on the On Line Ordering (OLO) menu at account, rather than sending them voucher codes in Japan’s large pizza delivery industry.
their local store. Based on data, we know that they need to copy and apply while ordering.
customers typically order from the same store or to
the same address, so for returning customers we LAUNCH OF IN-STORE KIOSKS IN EUROPE
default their next order to the same details, saving We have also been looking at ways to improve
them between 30 and 45 seconds in the ordering the ordering process in our stores. In European
process. markets, many stores now offer customers CASE STUDY
convenient and easy-to-use kiosks for in-store
Globally, we also rolled out new native ordering ordering. Data shows that customers prefer this A HOT AND FRESH TWIST
apps to all DPE markets in FY23. These native type of in-store ordering as they explore the menu ON A NATIONAL DISH
ordering apps have made ordering faster and more and order more personalised items.
easier – we have seen a reduction in the time it A key milestone for Domino’s
takes to complete an order and an increase in Belgium/Luxembourg was the
conversion rates. introduction of Crispy Oven
Fries and Loaded Fries to our
CASE STUDY menu. Taking a risk in a country
where chips are considered
24-HOUR KIOSK one of the national dishes has
paid off. Using a soft campaign
2023: Domino's Pizza France opens the world's first pizza distributor kiosks. launch to gauge the market,
France opened its first distributor kiosks in May 2023 after several months of we quickly saw encouraging
testing. This new product has been developed for quick and easy ordering, numbers in orders and food
making our product available to customers outside of store opening hours sales. We were also happy
and improving the customer experience. One of our objectives for FY24 is to welcome a new type of
to be accessible to as many customers as possible, regardless of the time or customer to our Domino’s
place. With almost 500 stores already established in France, Domino’s plans to stores, drawn by the lure of Hot
expand our territorial coverage to reach even more customers, particularly in and Fresh fries.
towns with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants and outside store opening hours.
Two types of kiosks have been developed: the ‘satellite’ distributor kiosks
(which can be installed anywhere) and the ‘in-store’ distributors (which are part
of the store).
The pizzas are ready in less than four minutes and retain all their flavour.
58 59
OUR CUSTOMERS DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
CUSTOMER LIFETIME VALUE OFFERING CHOICE AND TRANSPARENCY The Nutri-Score makes it easier for customers to
An important element of customer experience and engagement is our Customer Lifetime Value (CLV) We want to make sure our customers have understand nutritional information, in addition to
approach. We see our CLV mindset as critical to achieving the best possible customer experience everything they need to make informed food the information we provide on nutritional value. The
because it looks beyond a single transaction or point in time, focusing instead on the customer’s lifetime choices. To ensure they have all the facts, we are information is available in all our stores and on our
relationship with our brand. When our customers have a great experience, they buy from us again. In working towards full transparency around the website.
fact, our most satisfied customers return many times throughout the year, resulting in higher sales. We ingredients used in Domino’s products and their
also know that our Net Promoter Score is correlated with Customer Lifetime Value. nutritional value, as well as the environmental
footprint of the products they buy from us.
Research undertaken in FY22 showed us that we can improve customer experience by focusing on great
delivery, delicious food, and great service and friendly staff. Our CLV approach also enables us to better To meet the changing requirements of our
understand the reasons for customer dissatisfaction. In FY23, we took the next step in this approach by customers, we have begun offering our European
introducing Club 1845 (see below). and ANZ customers an extensive range of vegan
products. These include 100% vegan dough, vegan
cheese, fully vegan pizzas, plant-based protein
alternatives such as vegan options for crunchy
‘chicken’ and plant-based ‘chicken’.
CLUB 1845 DELIVERS QUALITY MEALS, FASTER We ran a successful Veganuary campaign,
increasing our ProVeg ranking from sixth to third
place for the most vegan-friendly restaurant chain
(2023) in Germany.
We provide information on the calorie content of
our menus in line with national legislation in our
respective markets. In FY23, we also worked hard
to improve the quality of our ingredients (see ‘Our
food’) and we are increasingly communicating with
our customers about the origin of our ingredients.
Nutri-Score system
To further enhance our commitment to
transparency for our customers and the choices
we offer, in FY22 we introduced the Nutri-Score
system in some of our European markets. We
subsequently rolled this out across most of our
European markets in FY23.
Nutri-Score rating (A-E)
Our commitment to value was one of the High quality, operational excellence: this is
driving forces for DPE during FY23. Customer how we deliver value. NUTRISCORE RATING (A-E) NETHERLANDS BELGIUM FRANCE GERMANY
Lifetime Value approach remained at the
heart of our strategy and operations, as we Why 1845? At Domino’s, we know there is a
Main1 Side2 Main1 Side2 Main1 Side2 Main1 Side2
remained focused on delivering the right direct correlation between an ADT of less than
Total No of Products 181 41 173 19 304 24 254 34
product, service and image at an affordable 18 minutes and a PQ score of at least 4.5. The
% of Prodcts rate A 1% 0% 1% 0% 2% 0% 2% 6%
price. longer we take to deliver a pizza, the lower
% of Prodcts rate B 19% 10% 16% 5% 15% 8% 13% 21%
its quality will be. When we deliver well-made
% of Prodcts rate C 45% 46% 47% 42% 41% 58% 54% 41%
Value was also the driver to launch our Club pizzas in an efficient, safe manner, our product
1845 concept. To join Club 1845, a store must quality improves dramatically. Over time, we % of Prodcts rate D 35% 29% 35% 32% 42% 21% 32% 9%
maintain an Average Delivery Time (ADT) of are seeing that the real reward for franchise
1) Main products: Pizza
less than 18 minutes and a Product Quality partners and store managers who join Club 2) Side products: menu offerings other than pizza, including food and beverages.
(PQ) score of at least 4.5 for an entire quarter. 1845 is increased sales and profitability.
60 61
OUR CUSTOMERS DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
RESPONSIBLE MARKETING These principles embody our commitment to
DATA SECURITY AND PRIVACY
As a responsible business, Domino’s is committed responsible marketing practices, emphasising
to ethical marketing practices. We are committed transparency, authenticity and ethical conduct.
to marketing that is truthful, accurate, balanced, By aligning closely to the evolving needs and
substantiated, inclusive and not misleading, expectations of our customers, while upholding The global cybersecurity and privacy landscape In FY23, we also expanded our operations in our
derogatory, degrading or offensive. Strict these core principles, we aim to develop a continued to evolve at a rapid pace in FY23. We newest markets with a clear focus on achieving the
advertising guidelines apply in many of the markets marketing strategy that not only resonates with are seeing a generational shift in technology same level of cybersecurity maturity as the rest of
in which we operate, and we are proud members of our audience but also contributes positively to the that can revolutionise the way we communicate the business.
advertising boards in many of these locations. Our broader societal landscape. with computers, significant data breaches, and
advertising is always clearly identifiable and is not increased pressure from governments and boards ANTICIPATING CYBERSECURITY ISSUES
presented as research or other published formats. Our eight core principles: to address the ever-increasing levels of cyber risk. To address the ever-evolving cyber and privacy
In this way, we aim to ensure that our advertising 1 Be truthful and clear in all our communications risk landscape, we continue to review, improve and
practices support us in building meaningful 2 Be transparent about our products and Major cybersecurity breaches have impacted adapt our existing security controls. Our security
relationships with our customers based on trust. intentions large-scale global providers, including both focus during the recent financial year included:
3 Champion healthy choices public and private organisations. Australia alone • Developing a single bespoke cyber framework
As the business landscape continues to evolve, 4 Protect consumer data and privacy has suffered multiple large-scale data breaches that addresses all of our contrasting regulatory
driven by changing customer expectations and 5 Take extra care around marketing to children that have impacted most of the population and and compliance requirements.
societal values, we recognise the urgent need and teens prompted much-needed reforms in Australian • Completing work to consolidate into a single,
to adapt and respond responsibly. In light of this 6 Represent and showcase diversity and inclusion privacy legislation as well as increased pressure globally managed, endpoint protection product
dynamic environment, in FY23 we developed 7 Drive responsibility through marketing on governments to help address cyber risk at a in all of our existing markets.
eight core principles to guide our future marketing 8 Drive meaningful sustainable impact country level. • Completing disaster recovery testing for our key
practices. online ordering system and services.
Artificial Intelligence (AI) burst into the public • Continuing to make progress with our
consciousness with large language models, such ‘Ransomware Ready’ work programme.
as ChatGPT, with an unprecedented adoption
rate of more than 100 million active users in just
two months. While AI has been embedded in
certain cyber products for a number of years, the
democratisation of this technology has raised
legitimate concerns that this technology is being
used to construct advanced cyberattacks,
or that its misuse could lead to accidental
breaches of personal or sensitive data.
All of these incidents have increased
the focus on the need for cybersecurity
and highlighted the importance of
data privacy. This has led to an
increase in the number of skilled
cyber staff, despite a general decline
in the demand for technology
experts, which has further affected
the current challenges in recruiting
cybersecurity personnel.
62 63
OUR CUSTOMERS DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
USING TECHNOLOGY TO AUGMENT
CYBERSECURITY OPERATIONS
We are committed to protecting the privacy of our
customers, employees, shareholders and franchise
partners by ensuring that we are not only alerted to
potentially complex issues, but that our operational
staff can respond quickly and effectively. This has
been achieved by augmenting our staff through:
• The cyber function that is currently using AI to
help us further enrich the information in alerts
to allow for more junior members of staff to deal
with more complex calls.
• Several security products that are using Machine
Learning (a subset of AI) to analyse large
amounts of data to identify and alert on patterns
that may indicate an attack and reduce the
number of false positives.
• Automation, which we are using to enrich
existing calls for rapid decision-making as
well as automatically remediating calls where
appropriate (resulting in a 20% reduction in
overall call volume).
SUPPORTING OUR CYBER COMMUNITY
As part of a global security and privacy community,
it is important to work together towards a common
goal that includes the ability to give back wherever
possible. To achieve this, we are:
• Assisting local charities with cyber support
• Supporting local further education institutions
• Sharing knowledge with the wider cyber
community
PRIORITIES FOR THE YEAR AHEAD
• Continue to integrate our newest markets
• Continue our initial investigation into ISO27001
compliance requirements
• Maintain a clear focus on delivering cyber
awareness training to our franchise partners and
store employees
• Work towards increasing our ‘outside in’
vulnerability management to identify our
unknowns
• Facilitate technology and services to support our
Tier0 and Tier1 security operational services
• Employ a chief data officer and personnel to
oversee data security and governance
64 6655
OUR CUSTOMERS DDOOMMIINNOO’’SS PPIIZZZZAA EENNTTEERRPPRRIISSEESS LLTTDD || SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT FFYY2233
We are mindful of
OUR ENVIRONMENT
Today’s companies are increasingly expected to play a leading role in tackling
climate change. Domino’s is committed to being part of the industry-wide
transition to a low-carbon economy. In 2021, we committed to science-based
targets to achieve net-zero emissions across our value chain by 2050.
We want to ensure that the meals our customers eat are not only high quality
and affordable, but that they do not harm our planet. Minimising our impact
on global warming is not only better for the planet, it is also a smart business
investment. Ultimately, we want to ensure a better slice for everyone – from
the farmers who grow the ingredients, to our franchise partners who make and
deliver our meals, to our customers who enjoy our pizzas.
66 67
OUR ENVIRONMENT DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
CORPORATE FOOTPRINT MEASUREMENT
In FY23, we completed our second global footprint Compared to FY22, we have increased our
measurement using FY21 as the baseline. The absolute GHG emissions by 5%, due to an increase
footprint is calculated according to the Greenhouse in the number of orders and the growth of our
Gas (GHG) Protocol and includes our impact business in terms of stores, including the addition
on climate, water, land use and biodiversity. of Malaysia, Singapore and Cambodia. As we
We conducted the same measurement for our announced our intention to exit the Danish market
corporate footprint in FY22 and our baseline year only at the end of our financial year, we have
FY21. fully included Denmark in our corporate footprint
calculations.
DPE FY21-23 Corporate carbon footprint
By scope, by fiscal year (July-June), M tons CO e
2
• The number of stores is 3,887, which is higher than the number of stores mentioned in our annual report and in this year’s sustainability report, which is 3,782.
The store count of 3,782 is our number of stores at the end of the financial year. 3,887 is the number of stores that sold products during FY23 (for example,
the closed stores in our Danish market).
• We have restated our carbon footprint from our baseline year FY21 as well as FY22. The numbers now exclude Scope 3 pick-up & building from franchise
partners, as recommended by SBTi.
68 69
OUR ENVIRONMENT DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
CARBON FOOTPRINT
The main contributors to our carbon footprint are
purchased goods (51%), utilities (29%) and logistics (14%).
DPE FY23 Footprint breakdown Procurement
By main category, % of tones CO -eq Our purchased goods account for 51% of our total footprint.
2
The main drivers are dairy (cheese) at 15% and meat (beef,
pork and chicken) at 21%. Other foods account for 11%.
Food therefore accounts for 47% of our total footprint.
As mentioned above, we currently see a distinct
correlation between our growth in pizzas sold and our
growth in carbon footprint. As we intend to grow our
business every year, we need to avoid increasing our
footprint accordingly. As part of our approved SBTi targets,
we have set goals to reduce our GHG emissions per unit of
product sold by 65% by 2030 and to be net zero by 2050.
We intend to make fundamental changes within DPE and
across our value chain to achieve our goals.
As food is our largest contributor at 47%, it is a category
that requires significant change. This is why we have
developed the Domino’s Dairy Initiative, which is explained
in more detail in the ‘responsible sourcing’ section in the
‘Our Food’ chapter.
Utilities
Utilities is also a very important category, accounting
for 29% of our footprint. Within the utilities, we have the
ability and responsibility to not only improve our efficiency
(using less electricity/water/gas per pizza sold), but also
to improve the sustainable character of our use (e.g. using
more ‘green’ electricity). This is part of the work of our
Centre of Expertise on sustainable stores and operations.
BASELINE CORPORATE FOOTPRINT RESULTS Looking at our Scopes 1, 2 and 3 in FY23, we can
As this is our third year in which we are calculating also see that the percentages of each scope are Logistics
our corporate footprint, we are still finding gaps in consistent with previous years, with Scope 3 being Changes in our logistics footprint (14%) are the most visible
our data gathering process. We understand that it the dominant scope, accounting for 96% of our changes we are making. We are electrifying our fleet.
usually takes a few years to get to an accurate and footprint in FY23. Both in our distribution (supplying our stores from our
complete collection of actual footprint data. With warehouses with the first electric trucks we invested in
our combined learning from the past two years, we The main hotspots in all impact categories are: this year) and in the delivery (bringing our delicious food
know how to close our current gaps and we can • Purchased goods: production of commodity and from store to customer). As these are very capital-intensive
build on the overall data quality and completeness non-commodity ingredients (dairy, meat, flour, investments, a full replacement of our current combustion
that we already have in place. etc.), packaging materials (corrugated cardboard, engines will not happen overnight.
plastic food film, etc.).
The increase in our absolute footprint is driven • Utilities: purchased energy (electricity, natural In APAC, we are converting all our stores to in-store dough-
by the number of pizzas sold. FY22 showed an gas, water). making. This means that we no longer have to transport
increase of 6% compared to FY21, and FY23 • Logistics: inbound transport (to distribution water from our commissaries to the stores. In Japan alone,
showed a 5% increase compared to FY22. centres), outbound transport (to restaurants), this is saving 14 tonnes of water transport per week by end
delivery to customers. of FY23. As we have only converted 20% of our stores
to in-store dough-making, this saving will increase. Not
having to transport the water is saving carbon kilometres
as well.
70 71
OUR ENVIRONMENT DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
WHAT ARE SCIENCE-
CLIMATE ROADMAP AND SCIENCE-BASED TARGETS ENVIRONMENTAL
BASED TARGETS?
ACHIEVEMENT
The Science Based Targets initiative is a not-
HIGHLIGHTS
Climate change is a profound and systemic global Emissions reduction targets validated by the for-profit initiative led by the United Nations
challenge that needs to be addressed without Science Based Targets initiative Global Compact, the World Wildlife Fund, the
delay to avoid the worst societal impacts. Domino’s Our first priority is to reduce carbon emissions World Resources Institute and CDP. The SBTi
is meeting this challenge head on by aligning with for Scopes 1, 2 and 3, the three categories of helps companies set and validate emissions- Working towards more sustainable stores and
the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions as defined by reduction targets that are consistent with operations.
committing to achieving net-zero emissions by the GHG protocol. climate science and aim to limit global
2050. temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius E-delivery
In November 2021, we announced our commitment above pre-industrial levels. With millions of kilometres travelled each year to
Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd was selected as to achieving our science-based targets at our deliver delicious food to our customers and fresh
one of the first 10 companies in the world to have Annual General Meeting and submitted our targets ingredients to our stores, electrifying our fleet is a
their Forest, Land and Agriculture (FLAG) targets to the SBTi in June 2022. Midway through the critical step towards becoming a more sustainable
validated. The SBTi has reviewed Domino’s targets process, the SBTi invited us to be one of the first Long-term targets company.
and confirmed that our pathway to reaching 10 companies worldwide to participate in the FLAG • DPE commits to reducing its absolute
them meets internationally recognised scientific pilot. In June 2023, our science-based targets, Scopes 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions by 90% Although our markets are in different stages of
standards. including FLAG, were officially approved by the by FY50 from our FY21 baseline.* maturity in electrifying their fleets, we are seeing
SBTi, making Domino’s one of the first companies to a sharp increase in the percentage of e-vehicles
*The target boundary includes land-related emissions
Domino’s reviewed its emissions, and those in its have specific FLAG-approved targets. and removals from bioenergy feedstocks. (bikes, scooters and cars) in all markets. For
supply chain, before planning a roadmap to reduce example, in Japan more than 31% of all delivery
our carbon footprint. We found that nearly 40% of Overall net-zero target FLAG vehicle are already electric (in Tokyo more than
emissions came from dairy and other animal-based DPE is committed to achieving net zero greenhouse • We also commit to reducing our Scope 3 61%), and in Taiwan we are committed to fully
proteins, with the majority derived from cheese gas (GHG) emissions across our value chain by FY50. FLAG GHG emissions by 80% by FY50 from electrifying our fleet.
production. our FY21 baseline.*
Near-term 2030 targets *The target includes FLAG emissions and removals. At the end of FY23, we launched a project that
To reach our ambitious goal, Domino’s is working As part of our journey to achieving net-zero requires all our delivery staff to register the type
with business partners to find ways to reduce dairy emissions, we have set interim carbon reduction Our overall long-term target is to achieve net of vehicle they are using to deliver orders to
emissions without compromising on customers’ targets for FY31 from our FY21 baseline. These zero by 2050. customers. This new feature will enable us to
taste preferences. The Domino’s Dairy Initiative include: accurately report on progress with our e-fleet
aims to reduce the environmental impact of our • Reducing our absolute Scopes 1 and 2 GHG delivery.
dairy use in an ethical and sustainable way. emissions by 46.2% by FY31 from our FY21
baseline.*
Our corporate footprint baseline measurement • Reducing our Scope 3 GHG emissions by 55%
identified three main impact areas where we can per pizza sold within the same time frame. 2030
directly influence and achieve the most significant *The target boundary includes land-related emissions and SBT ALIGNED
reductions in our emissions. Within our climate removals from bioenergy feedstocks.
roadmap, we have included targets and actions for ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY
3 KEY FOCUS AREAS
the following three impact areas: FLAG
1 Sustainable stores and operations • DPE is committed to reducing its absolute Scope
2 Responsible sourcing 3 FLAG GHG emissions by 33.3% by FY31 from SUSTAINABLE STORES RESPONSIBLE SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT
3 Sustainable product innovation our FY21 baseline.* & OPERATIONS SOURCING INNOVATION
• We also commit to zero deforestation across our
For each impact area, we have identified the main primary deforestation-linked commodities with a • E-delivery in all our markets • Responsible sourcing policy • Footprint reduction of cheese
per pizza in the menu in all
actions and a phased implementation across our target date of 31 December 2025.
• Low carbon energy • Traceability for our top markets
markets. Domino’s Global Centres of Expertise are *The target includes FLAG emissions and removals. commodities
• Energy efficiency in our • Low impact ingredients
dedicated to identifying sustainable innovations operations, stores and offices • Zero deforestation top products on the menu
high-risk commodities
that can be implemented across our markets to We have consolidated our short-term greenhouse
• Waste management in our • Customer transparency
reduce our environmental impact, and ensuring gas reduction targets into a comprehensive goal operations, stores and offices • Sourcing core ingredients from for all products
low impact agricultural
these solutions are viable options for our franchise of a 65% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions
• Sustainable store design practices or from alternatives • Sustainable consumer facing
partners. per unit of product sold by FY31, compared to our packaging in all markets
• Less carbon intensive
FY21 baseline. Further details of our short-term transport modes and fuel
targets and key impact areas can be found in the
accompanying visual representation to the right.
72 73
OUR ENVIRONMENT DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
CASE STUDY
Waste reduction
As part of our commitment to environmental stewardship and cost efficiency,
PROJECT GOLF - MORE DOUGH IN TRANSIT REDUCES CO we continue to focus on minimising food waste across our stores and operations.
2
As part of this effort, our food waste per meal is typically lower than that of the
Following a successful trial project in France last year, Project average household. We are also committed to improving the sustainability of
Golf has also been implemented in the Netherlands. Increasing our packaging. In FY23, we launched a series of initiatives aimed at eliminating
the number of dough balls in each tray produced in our plastic from our packaging materials, thereby improving recyclability. We are
commissary has reduced the number of trucks we need for also actively exploring opportunities to introduce reusable packaging solutions.
transport. This was more complicated than anticipated, as many
factors in the supply chain had to be carefully considered to Sustainable packaging
ensure this was possible. Packaging plays a crucial role in Domino’s products, which is why we are
committed to finding solutions that make the lowest environmental impact
Redesigned trays and new machinery to remove the dough balls without compromising the quality of our product. We have already achieved
from the trays were required to make the French trial a success. sustainable best practices in some of our markets. In France, we launched a
Another factor was ensuring the correct climate was maintained project called ‘Less is more’. A number of our French business partners have
throughout the supply chain when transporting the temperature- stopped delivering products to us in cardboard boxes and switched to large
sensitive dough to ensure food safety and protect the dough iron containers, reducing the amount of waste generated at our locations.
from overproofing during the hot summer months. Now 100% of Less is more
our stores in the Benelux are supplied with Golf trays.
SUPPLIERS
TER SUPPLIERS
TECHNIFIL
THE NETHERLANDS TAKES LIFECIRCLE
PRIDE IN HAVING ACHIEVED
SEVERAL MILESTONES: TER TER *SCC
DOMINO’S
•
Last year, 5.8 million of our deliveries were
made using e-bikes and e-scooters
• The containers used to deliver the products can be reused for subsequent
More than 85% of our vehicles are electric deliveries, forming part of a circular rental system (as shown in the Technifil life
• circle above). This new approach has reduced the use of cardboard, thereby
Vehicle Selection technology enables us lowering our carbon footprint as well as labour requirements in our commissaries.
to optimise our delivery services Since the project was launched in 2022, 29 tonnes of cardboard have been saved.
•
The first two electric trucks were ordered in
FY23 and were operational CASE STUDY
from August 2023.
SORTING WASTE GIVES PACKAGING
A SECOND LIFE
As we also continue to support and educate
our customers on good environmental
practices, our initiative in France offers a dual
message of sustainability. By working with
one of our main beverage suppliers CCEP
(Coca-Cola Europacific Partners) to sort and
recycle waste, we are not only sorting waste
(cardboard, plastic, cans) correctly but also
giving packaging waste a second life.
For example, when aluminium cans are sorted
into the correct recycling container, they can
become repurposed into an electric bike.
74 75
OUR ENVIRONMENT DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
We take care of
OUR COMMUNITY
As a global brand, we firmly believe that the success of our business depends
largely on the role we play in the communities in which we operate. In times
of disaster, we are there to serve. We always pride ourselves on being the first
kitchen to open and the last to close. We know the impact we have and we never
take for granted the opportunity to run our stores and serve the communities in
which we operate.
We are committed to making a meaningful difference by supporting people and
organisations close to our operations and the communities in which we operate.
We want to be the neighbour people love, and we want our franchise partners to
be proud to be part of the Domino’s family.
At Domino’s, we give team members opportunities for workplace giving via our
Partners Foundation. In addition, our support offices and individual franchise
partners regularly support or initiate (local) fundraisers. We run our own charities
in five markets: Australia, New Zealand, France, Japan and Germany.
76 77
OUR COMMUNITY DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
DOMINO’S DOMINO’S CHARITIES
PARTNERS
FOUNDATION Domino’s stores play an integral part in their local
communities, and we strive to make a difference in
the lives of those in need in the communities where
At Domino’s, we take great pride in nurturing a we operate. Four of our markets have their own
compassionate and close-knit culture. Many of registered charity: our Give for Good charities in
our team members regard their co-workers not Australia and New Zealand, the Dominoid charity in
just as colleagues but as friends and extended Germany and the Sanchoku Domino’s Foundation in
family. Through our dedicated Partners Japan.
Foundation, we extend a helping hand to our
team members during times of injury, disaster Markets that do not have their own registered
recovery, illness and personal hardship. charity often work with long-term local partners –
The Foundation’s commitment to giving usually non-profit organisations – to support local
and support continues to grow and plays a communities. Common areas of focus include youth,
vital role in helping team members as they entrepreneurship and providing equal employment
navigate through challenging circumstances. opportunities for all. A prime example of this type
of partnership is our work with the youth-focused
This year, the Domino’s Partners Foundation non-profit organisation, JINC, in Belgium and the
in Australia and New Zealand provided Netherlands. DOMINOID GERMANY In May FY22, we launched the Sanchoku
AUD 235,427 in support, while in Germany, Children can’t learn when they’re hungry – Domino’s Foundation, a fractional donation
the Foundation contributed EUR 12,021 GIVE FOR GOOD AUSTRALIA Dominoid gGmbH provides breakfast in schools programme where customers can choose to
and the Partners Friendship Foundation in AND NEW ZEALAND with our franchise partners. donate fractions of less than 100 yen per order.
Japan generously offered JPY 800,000 in Our Australian charity, Give for Good, mainly Proceeds from these donations support producers
support. We expect other markets to follow receives funds through our generous customers Domino's Pizza Germany felt a strong urge to use in Japan through projects that address social
suit by establishing their own local Partners who choose to round up their order amount to the our power as a global business to support our local and environmental issues. In the first two weeks
Foundations, further strengthening our nearest dollar for charity (Round Up for Charity). The communities in need. As food is at the heart of our of operation, more than 15,800 customers
commitment to supporting our valued team charity was founded in 2016 to support causes that business and no child deserves to be hungry, we had donated JPY 515,124. This is an ongoing
members around the world. align with our core values, or ‘pillars’, that are at the were shocked to learn how common and severe programme.
heart of our business. In Australia, these pillars are malnutrition is among school children in Germany.
‘Youth’, ‘Community’ and ‘Disaster Relief’. In New That's why, in 2022, we began testing an initial FONDATION DOMINO’S IN FRANCE
Zealand, they are ‘Youth and Education’, ‘Leadership’ approach to overcoming this situation in a school At Domino's, we made a commitment several
and ‘Disaster Relief.’ In recent years, we have near Berlin to try to better understand how to years ago to help our employees grow by offering
worked with several reputable charities, including provide the most effective support. Domino's Pizza training plans tailored to their profiles, as well as
The Smith Family, Rural Aid, Lifeline, Disaster Relief Germany has laid the foundation to provide a high- support them throughout their careers to help
Australia, Orange Sky and the Pinnacle Foundation, quality fresh breakfast once a week for around 28 them evolve within our company.
to promote and encourage customers to ‘Round children.
Up’ their Domino’s order to the nearest dollar. In With this in mind, and to support disabled children
addition to Round Up for Charity, Give for Good also The next goal is to extend the programme and, with and young people whose access to education
raises funds through workplace giving thanks to the help of donations from Domino's Round Up is sometimes complicated, we launched the
the generosity of our team members. In FY23, their for Charity, we will be able to support more school Fondation Domino's in France in the beginning
workplace giving donations increased by 12% and classes in more communities. Most importantly, we of 2022. The mission is to support educational
totalled AUD 96,872 compared with AUD 85,911 in have the strong support of our franchise partners, initiatives designed to promote the well-being
FY22, which is very inspiring. who know their communities best and are keen to and personal fulfillment of young people in
find the right approach for their own community. schools. The aim of the Fondation Domino's is to
The donations in FY23 are outlined below: That is our power for good: Domino's for Good. promote equal access to education for children,
teenagers and young adults, particularly those
GIVE FOR ROUND WORKPLACE DPE SANCHOKU DOMINO’S FOUNDATION JAPAN with disabilities, through social inclusion.
GOOD UP -CUSTOMER GIVING DONATIONS
As a member of the food industry, Domino’s Japan
DONATION
wants to contribute to the current success and
FY20 $959,463 $31,303 $69,678
future development of Japan’s primary producers
FY21 $1,029,174 $57,586 $26,519
– after all, the quality of our pizza product
FY22 $829,173 $85,911 $32,256
depends on good produce.
FY23 $609,790 $96,872 $104,080
78 79
Amounts in Australian Dollars (AUD)
OUR COMMUNITY DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
DOMINO’S FOR GOOD DAY
AND FUNDRAISERS
At Domino’s, we like to Give for Good. Together with our franchise
partners, we provide help to those in need in our communities with
our annual Domino’s for Good Day and regular local fundraisers.
2023 DOMINO’S FOR GOOD DAY
In FY22, we launched our Domino’s for Good Day During the day, one Australian dollar from selected Domino’s franchise partners and team members In fact, every one of our team members is
in Australia and New Zealand. With our Domino’s pizzas sold in more than 900 stores across were asked to nominate a charity in their local connected through pizza. Thanks to the generosity
for Good Day, we strengthened our commitment Australia and New Zealand was donated to Give for community to receive a grant from the store grant of our customers and franchise partners, we raised
to make a difference in our communities by using Good. programme. more than AUD 158,000 across Australia, New
World Pizza Day on 9 February as an opportunity to Zealand and Japan, which will help to provide
raise funds for charity together with our franchise All stores and team members were encouraged to Domino’s for Good launched a new initiative with support in the communities where we operate.
partners. This year, the second Domino’s for Good get involved. Their initiatives included decorating Domino's Pizza Japan: for the first time in our
day took place in Australia and New Zealand, and Domino's stores, putting up wobble boards on the history, an annual ‘Charity Day’ was established. Domino’s for Good Day will continue to be held
Japan launched its first Domino’s for Good Day on street and inviting members of Domino's support Domino’s for Good Day was introduced because, every year on World Pizza Day.
World Pizza Day. office and Leadership Team to visit stores to lend a as the company that delivers the world's most
helping hand. connecting food, we want to connect with as many
In FY23, a national marketing campaign was people as possible.
launched in Australia and New Zealand to support In March 2023, Give for Good launched a store
Domino’s for Good Day, with the theme ‘Everyday grants programme in Australia. Using proceeds
Heroes Eat Pizza’. The campaign was supported by from the Domino’s for Good Day, the programme
a television commercial, national electronic direct donated seven grants of AUD 20,000 to support
mail (EDM) support, social media platforms and selected charities in local communities.
public relations initiatives.
80 81
OUR COMMUNITY DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
FUNDRAISERS
In addition to Domino’s for Good Day, most markets and
franchise partners regularly initiate local fundraisers
(Doughraisers) to support those in need. Some examples for
FY23 include:
UNHCR campaign Germany
In FY23, the team in Germany initiated a fundraiser for the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) to
support their work for the victims of the earthquake in Turkey
and Syria. With this campaign, we donated one euro for every
pizza sold in 14 participating Domino’s stores on the day of
the earthquake in Turkey and Syria. The funds were used to
support the families of employees affected by the earthquake.
Any residual funds not collected by the families were donated
to UNHCR-led projects to support the earthquake victims, in
accordance with our donors.
Perth Children’s Hospital Australia Shinlu Foundation's ‘Basketball Inclusion Event’ Taiwan
On 17 March 2023, Domino’s franchise partners On 1 October 2022, the Shinlu Foundation hosted the ‘Basketball
and team members in Western Australia held a Inclusion Event’ at the Kaohsiung Youth Sports Park. The event
statewide Doughraiser for the Perth Children's attracted 183 participants from all over Taiwan, including young
Hospital Foundation, donating one Australian dollar people, some of whom have intellectual disabilities. We not only
from every pizza sold from 11 AM until closing time. provided the necessary pizza for the day but also sent a team of
In total, more than AUD 45,000 was raised to help professional staff to assist, fully demonstrating our comprehensive
support sick or vulnerable children, as well as support for the inclusion event and our corporate social responsibility.
those with rare or undiagnosed diseases. Inspired Our pizza and volunteer support further enhanced the event, allowing
by this Doughraiser, franchise partners in Western all participants to enjoy basketball while feeling our attention and help
Australia organised a further 31 Doughraisers for to society.
local schools, sports clubs and community groups.
82 83
OUR COMMUNITY DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
Flood Doughraiser for New Zealand
VOLUNTEERING
In February 2023, New Zealand was hit by a severe
cyclone that caused significant flooding across the
DAYS
country’s North Island. Many Domino’s stores in
Auckland, Northland and the North Island were able to
remain open safely and donated fresh pizzas to those
who had been impacted, including frontline support
workers.
Then our New Zealand franchise partners went above
and beyond. 117 of the 150 Domino’s New Zealand
stores held a national Doughraiser. They donated
AUD 2 for every pizza sold to support Taskforce Kiwi’s
recovery operation. Give for Good New Zealand
matched donations dollar for dollar, raising a total
of AUD 50,000. Every dollar donated went a long
way to support the frontline workers, volunteers, and
community members who were displaced or isolated by
the devastating impact of Cyclone Gabrielle. Every year, Domino’s provides employees
in our Australian and New Zealand
Taskforce Kiwi’s donation helped fund 20 volunteers markets with one volunteering day per
during a four-day clean-up operation. The volunteers year to support a charity or not-for-profit
provided critical assistance to people in Auckland’s organisation in their community during
flood-affected areas and surrounding regions of the working hours. Following the success
North Island. The funds also helped to cover operational of this initiative, we have extended our
costs, including food, fuel, equipment (tools and volunteering opportunity to most of our
personal protective equipment) and the administration European markets, which now include
of the clean-up efforts on site. the Netherlands, France, Belgium and
Luxembourg.
Feed the Knead
Pizza can’t solve all the world’s problems, but it can
certainly bring a small slice of joy, particularly in
times of stress and uncertainty. That’s the rationale
behind Domino’s Feed the Knead programme,
which allows people to nominate someone they
know who is struggling to receive free pizza. In
late 2020, we launched this community-based
programme in Australia and New Zealand. Ever
since its launch, the programme, or a similar
version, has been embraced in our other markets;
in FY23, we donated a total of approximately
130,700 pizzas in our ANZ and Japanese markets.
In other markets, the pizza donations are not yet
tracked at market level.
84 85
OUR COMMUNITY DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
We are always
LOOKING AHEAD
In today’s rapidly changing world, marked by TACKLING OUR BIGGEST ENVIRONMENTAL
increasingly complex environmental and social CHALLENGE: OUR FOOD
challenges, one thing is absolutely clear to us: the As we navigate the uncharted waters of
path to a sustainable future lies in forging strong environmental stewardship, one of our most
partnerships with our franchise partners, business significant challenges revolves around the
partners and experts. As we look ahead to FY24, environmental impact of our food offerings. We
we are committed to broadening and deepening are steadfast in our commitment to strengthening
these alliances, knowing that only together can we our Domino’s Dairy Initiative. This will be achieved
address the monumental challenges that lie ahead. through close collaboration with our dairy suppliers
and other experts. Furthermore, we intend to
WORKING TOWARDS MORE SUSTAINABLE extend this type of supplier engagement to other We firmly believe that the progress we have made OUR PEOPLE
STORES AND OPERATIONS key commodities, such as wheat and tomato sauce. with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the In FY24, we will bring together all people-related
Working closely with our dedicated franchise While the goal of achieving zero deforestation on Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) teams currently reporting to local markets under one
partners, one of our primary objectives for FY24 is key risk commodities across our supply chain by will serve as a solid foundation for meeting our people function. This will result in a more consistent
to expand fossil fuel-free delivery methods across the end of 2025 may be a formidable task, we are future obligations. approach to how we recruit, onboard, train, develop
our vast network. Ultimately, we aim to make this the determined to identify and implement solutions in In FY24, we plan to conduct a double materiality and engage with our people. We are committed to
only delivery method in our operations. In certain FY24, guided by our external expert partners. assessment to review whether our existing material ensuring that every team member returns home
markets, this transition is relatively straightforward Our group’s food philosophy will continue to play topics remain valid and comprehensive. We intend safely after their shift, and a key focus for FY24 will
due to existing renewable energy infrastructure and an integral role in our pursuit of ESG goals. In to actively engage with our stakeholders and be to create safer ways of working across all our
the suitability of e-bikes for short-distance deliveries. addition to communicating the nutritional value of anticipate potential changes. For instance, we markets. We will add a safety element to our store
However, in regions where such resources are not our offerings and reducing artificial flavours, colours anticipate that the topic of Talent Attraction and audit process for the first time, with a particular focus
readily available, we aim to explore comprehensive and preservatives, we are committed to finding Retention, currently considered ‘emerging’, will move on driver safety. The roll-out of Path to Excellence
solutions. This includes not only encouraging the appropriate measurement system to assess to a more prominent position. This exercise is pivotal will continue, with more of our markets covered by
franchise partners to adopt greener delivery and communicate the environmental impact of our in ensuring our unwavering focus on the most critical this exciting technology. We are also looking at how
methods, but also helping them to identify attractive food. In addition, our menu innovation will remain issues for our business and anticipating forthcoming we can integrate artificial intelligence into our talent
renewable energy solutions. Moreover, we plan aligned with our innovation triangle, which places reporting obligations. and capability development. FY24 will also see a
to expand our truck fleet in Europe and convert to sustainability at its core. significant restructuring of our support offices, with
e-trucks to reduce our carbon footprint. STRENGTHENING OUR GOVERNANCE a key focus on creating a more sustainable and
FURTHER IMPROVING ESG REPORTING AND The cornerstone of our sustainability strategy is efficient support system for our franchise partners.
In FY24, we will continue to assess and improve DATA COLLECTION responsible sourcing, and in FY24, we aim to extend Structural change is never easy and we know that
energy efficiency at the store level. This data- Recognising the paramount importance of the reach of our responsible sourcing policy across this will have an impact on the engagement of
driven approach will help us to identify meaningful transparency in our sustainability efforts, we all our markets. Subsequently, we will introduce our team members. This will be a key focus of our
opportunities to reduce energy consumption at the are committed to improving our ESG reporting category-specific policies and statements and leadership in the next year.
store level, thereby reducing operational costs and process. This will not only enable us to meet future incorporate these into our agreements with business
increasing profitability. Our primary focus will be on ESG reporting requirements effectively, but it will partners. We also plan to take significant steps In conclusion, our vision for FY24 is one of
our corporate stores, using the insights gained to also provide us with a deeper understanding of towards improving supply chain traceability, working continued commitment to sustainability, driving
actively engage with our franchise partners to help the true impact of our actions. We are working with our business partners to identify, mitigate and positive change in our operations, and working
them improve their own energy efficiency. In our diligently towards compliance with the Corporate ultimately eliminate any social and environmental in harmony with our partners and experts. The
pursuit of more sustainable stores, we also plan to Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD), while risks. To facilitate this, we plan to implement a challenges may be great, but so is our resolve. We
provide guidance in other crucial areas, including keeping a watchful eye on similar reporting comprehensive data collection tool to enable us believe that through these concerted efforts and an
waste reduction, water consumption and indoor air requirements in the APAC region. Our reporting to take appropriate action where enhanced due unwavering commitment to sustainability, we can
quality. framework will be adjusted as necessary to align diligence is required. create a better slice for everyone.
with these evolving mandates.
86 87
OUR COMMUNITY DDOOMMIINNOO’’SS PPIIZZZZAA EENNTTEERRPPRRIISSEESS LLTTDD || SSUUSSTTAAIINNAABBIILLIITTYY RREEPPOORRTT FFYY2233
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
ABOUT THIS REPORT
Scope and boundary of this report
This is the third Sustainability Report published annually by Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd (DPE). The • Responsible sourcing: sourcing our products in a socially responsible and environmentally sustainable
report covers our direct operations in 13 markets where we have offices, corporate stores and other way and working with our suppliers to make sure that the workers involved in making the products we
active direct operations in the period from 4 July 2022 to 2 July 2023. The Board and the ESG Steering source are safe and treated fairly.
Committee have reviewed this report and approved its release. Unless otherwise stated, DPE’s reporting Emerging
boundary for the Sustainability Report is consistent with the reporting boundary of its year-end financial • Food nutrition and innovation: delivering continuous menu innovation to offer customers more of the
report. The reporting boundary includes the entities over which the reporting organisation exercises flavours they enjoy, including limited time offers and new product launches that become mainstays
control or significant influence. A list of controlled entities (subsidiaries) at year-end is included in the year- of our menu. Providing ingredients and recipes that meet our customers’ health, diet or lifestyle
end financial report and, unless otherwise stated, the boundary of the sustainability reporting covers the requirements, and working every day to improve these offerings.
entities included in the list. • Attracting and retaining talent: attracting and retaining highly capable individuals with a range of relevant
skills, experience and capabilities to support high performance and reduce turnover. This includes
Disclaimer and important information attracting people with new skill sets and adaptive thinking to drive innovation.
• Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd (Domino’s) cautions that the information in this report contains forward-
looking statements that may be subject to significant uncertainties REPORTING FRAMEWORKS
• Domino’s does not undertake any obligation to provide recipients of this report with further information This report has been prepared referencing internationally recognised reporting frameworks, namely the
to either update this report or correct any inaccuracies Global Reporting Initiative and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board.
• While due care has been taken in preparing these statements, no representation or warranty is made or
given as to the accuracy, reliability or completeness of the forecasts or the assumptions on which they DATA QUALITY CORPORATE FOOTPRINT
are based We calculated our FY21 baseline corporate footprint measurement and both the FY22 and FY23 corporate
• Actual future events may differ from these forecasts, and you are advised not to place undue reliance on footprint updates with the help of environmental sustainability consultancy Quantis. Quantis conducted all
any forward-looking statement assessments of DPE’s carbon footprint following the GHG Protocol. The entire value chain was considered,
• Certain figures in the tables and charts in this report have been rounded to one decimal place. including upstream and downstream activities, particularly at the franchise restaurant level.
Percentages (%) and variances have been calculated on the basis of actual figures
For the franchise restaurants, their utilities consumption and waste have been included in Scope 3
Definitions of the material topics category 14, and Scope 3 category 5 respectively. In addition, emissions linked to delivery at the franchise
Fundamental level have been included. For franchise restaurants, however, emissions related to collection from
• Food safety and quality: ensuring our food safety and quality standards are world-class and that every customers have been removed, as recommended by the Science Based Targets initiative.
team member in every country understands the importance of safe food storage, preparation and Most of the data collected represented physical flows (procurement volumes, utilities consumed in kWh
handling requirements. and m3, waste in tonnes, etc.), although total expenditure was used to derive the impact of capital goods
• Workplace safety: protecting and promoting the safety of our employees, franchise partners and and services. The emissions factors were derived from well-established databases such as Ecoinvent and
contractors by cultivating a strong safety culture supported by risk management, systems and the World Food LCA Database.
processes, and leadership throughout all levels of the organisation.
• Customer privacy and data security: maintaining responsible management of information technology Overall, the data quality used for the calculation of the corporate carbon footprint is similar to previous
as we expand our digital capabilities to protect the privacy of employee, operational and customer data years. Confidence on the procurement data is higher than the market average, as it is based on direct
and maintain defences against cybersecurity breaches. supplier data for approximately 50% of the volumes. Confidence on the data related to the consumption
Key of utilities is relatively low, both within Domino's (corporate restaurants and company-owned distribution
• Franchisee prosperity: supporting our franchise partners to run successful businesses and become centres) and within the Domino's value chain (franchise partners and third-party distribution centres). The
stewards of the Domino’s brand and values, through genuine engagement and supportive systems and data may still be incomplete or erroneous and is likely to be based on extrapolations from utility bills,
policies. which may vary from country to country. Regarding logistics, we are confident about the upstream and
• Community prosperity: investing and engaging with the communities in which we operate to create downstream data, as these are based on supplier surveys and exact coordinates respectively. However, we
shared value through targeted grants, awards, partnerships and support for workplace giving and believe that the data provided for the deliveries, both in terms of fleet composition and kilometres driven,
volunteering. This includes the Domino’s Partners programme, Doughraiser programme and Give for can be improved.
Good.
• Footprint reduction: measuring, disclosing and reducing the environmental impact of our activities, In view of the above, we must be cautious in drawing conclusions about trends from FY21 to FY23. Going
both from owned or controlled sources, purchased energy and throughout our supply chain. Our forward, we intend to improve the quality of our corporate footprint data with our annual updates.
environmental impact includes our carbon footprint, land use change, water and biodiversity impact.
• Customer experience: customers want their pizza to be fresh and hot out of the oven. Meeting customer Contact information
expectations and improving satisfaction in the design and delivery of our products, services and For further information, please contact Nathan Scholz, Group Chief Corporate Affairs Officer, via investor.
experiences. relations@dominos.com.au or Marika Stegmeijer, Group Chief ESG Officer, via ESG@dominos.com.au.
1 on 1 November 2023
88 89
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
Acronyms and key definitions
ANZ – Australia and New Zealand.
ASX Corporate Governance Principles – The Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) Corporate
Governance Council has developed Corporate Governance Principles for Australian listed entities.
Companies listed on the ASX must comply with these Corporate Governance Principles.
CIWF – Compassion in World Farming EU is based in Brussels and campaigns to strengthen
legislation and enforcement on farm animal welfare, with a particular focus on Europe.
DPE – Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd.
DPI – Domino's Pizza International.
ESG – Environmental, Social and Governance.
EthiXbase – EthiXbase is a service provider of due diligence and supply chain integrity solutions,
with a focus on anti-corruption, human rights, labour and the environment, supported by market-
leading technology.
FLAG – FLAG (forest, land and agriculture) are science-based targets that apply to a company’s
forest, land, and agriculture related emissions, including CO emissions associated with land-use
2
change and emissions from land management.
GHG – Greenhouse gases are those gaseous constituents of the atmosphere that absorb and
emit radiation through a series of reactions, thereby causing the greenhouse effect.
GHG Protocol – The GHG Protocol is the most widely used greenhouse gas accounting standard,
which was developed through a partnership between the World Resources Institute and the World
Business Council for Sustainable Development.
HRIS – Human Resources Information System.
LGBTQIA+ – Stands for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex and asexual.
LUC – Land use change. Land use is one of the main drivers of GHG emissions from food
and agricultural companies. Assessing deforestation goes hand in hand with assessing LUC.
Understanding this part of our footprint will therefore be essential in our efforts to reduce our
impact.
NPS – Net Promoter Score measures the customer experience by asking customers to rate
the likelihood that they would recommend a company, product or a service to a friend, thereby
predicting business growth.
QSR – Quick Service Restaurant.
Quality of ecosystem (biodiversity) – Biodiversity has become a key issue for consumers and
investors, driven by scientific research results that underline the importance of restoring nature.
Understanding our impact in this area is the first step towards developing a consistent, holistic
biodiversity strategy across our value chain. Biodiversity is an inclusive concept that is driven by all
the other indicators we measure.
Quantis – Quantis is a leading environmental sustainability consultancy that partners with major
organisations across the globe to drive sustainable transformation and align business with
planetary boundaries.
SBTs – Science Based Targets.
SBTi – Science Based Target initiative.
TCFD – Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures was created to develop
recommendations on the types of information that companies should disclose to support
investors, lenders and insurance underwriters in appropriately assessing and pricing a specific set
of climate-related risks.
UNHCR – UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, is a global organisation dedicated to saving lives,
protecting rights and building a better future for refugees, forcibly displaced communities and
stateless people.
Water impacts – Water availability and quality is an important impact factor for food producing
companies. We recognise that the hotspots of our water impacts will vary from region to region
and in many cases are local. We believe that better understanding and managing our water
impacts, together with our suppliers, is key to the resilience of our company now and in the future.
90 91
ACRONYMS AND KEY DEFINITIONS DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
APPENDIX 1: GRI REFERENCE TABLE
STATEMENT OF USE Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period from 4 July, 2022 to 2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts Our People, p. 29
2 July, 2023 with reference to the GRI Standards. Our Food, p. 46
Corporate Governance, p. 25
GRI 1 USE GRI:Foundation 2021
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns Corporate Governance, p. 25
https://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate-governance
G R I ST ANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION 2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations Corporate Governance, p. 20
ESG Management, p. 22
GRI 2: General 1. The organization and its reporting practices Our Company, p. 11 - p. 88
Our Food, p. 46
Disclosures 2021 About this report, p. 88
5. Stakeholder engagement
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point About this report, p. 88
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement, p. 19
2. Activities and workers
Topic standards
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships Our Company, p. 11 - p. 28
GRI 3: 3-1 Process to determine material topics Materiality assessment, p. 27
Our Business model, p. 14
Material Topics 2021
2-7 Employees Our Company, p. 11 - p. 28
3-2 List of material topics Materiality assessment, p. 27
Performance data tables, p. 40, p. 41 About this report, p. 88
3. Governance Footprint reduction
2-9 Governance structure and composition Corporate Governance, p. 20 GRI 3: 3-3 Management of material topics Our Environment, p. 67 - p. 75
Material Topics 2021
https://investors.dominos.com.au/board-of-directors
GRI305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Our Environment, p. 68
https://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate-governance
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope) 2 GHG emissions Our Environment, p. 68
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body Corporate Governance, p. 21
GRI306: Waste 2020 306-3 Waste generated Our Environment, p. 70
https://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate-governance Total waste generated: 256,834 metric ton
https://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate-governance - GRI303: 303-3 Water withdrawal Our Environment, p. 70
Nomination, Culture and Remuneration Committee Charter Water and Effluents Total water withdrawn: 101,132,700 m3
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance, p. 20 Workplace safety
https://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate-governance GRI 3: 3-3 Management of material topics Our People, p. 36
Material Topics 2021
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the Corporate Governance, p. 20
management of impacts Talent attraction and retention
https://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate-governance
GRI 3: 3-3 Management of material topics Our People , p. 32
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Corporate Governance, p. 20 Material Topics 2021
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting Corporate Governance, p. 20 GRI405: Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Our People, p. 40 - p. 41
Equal Opportunity 2016
About this report, p. 88
GRI406: 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Our commitment to responsible business conduct, p. 25
2-15 Conflicts of interest https://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate-governance
Non-discrimination 2016
2-16 Communication of critical concerns https://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate-governance
Community prosperity
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body Corporate Governance, p. 20 GRI 3: 3-3 Management of material topics Our Community, p. 77 - 85
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body https://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate-governance - Material Topics 2021
Nomination, Culture and Remuneration Committee Charter GRI413: 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact Our Community, case studies p. 77 - 85
2-19 Remuneration policies https://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate-governance - Local communities 2016 assessments, and development programs
Nomination, Culture and Remuneration Committee Charter 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative Our commitment to responsible business conduct, p. 25
impactson local communities
4. Strategy, policies and practices
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy Chairman & CEO message, p. 4 Customer data privacy and security
GRI 3: 3-3 Management of material topics Our Customers, p. 63
2-23 Policy commitments Corporate Governance, p. 20 Material Topics 2021
https://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate-governance
- Modern Slavery Statement
- Responsible Sourcing Policy
2-24 Embedding policy commitments Corporate Governance, p. 20
https://investors.dominos.com.au/corporate-governance
- Modern Slavery Statement
- Responsible Sourcing Policy
92 93
APPENDIX DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
APPENDIX 2: SASB REFERENCE TABLE
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Content Index 2023
This material references the SASB Restaurants Standard, Version 2018-10.
ACCOUNTING METRIC SASB CODE CATEGORY UNIT OF RESPONSE
MEASURE Food Safety
Energy Management (1) percentage of restaurants inspected by a FB-RN-250a.1 Quantitative Percentage (%) 1) Total weight of packaging: 43,380 t, compared to
food safety oversight body 42,230 t in FY22 (increase of 3%). In FY22 sustainabi-
(1) total energy consumed FB-RN-130a.1 Quantitative Gigajoules (GJ) 1) Total energy consumed (diesel, natural gas, propane,
(2) percentage receiving critical violations lity report we disclosed 28,682 t. Last year reported
(2) percentage grid electricity Percentage (%) electricity):
number were missing secondary & tertiary packaging
(3) percentage renewable energy 509,054,856 kWh compared to 465,330,892 kWh in
as well as small items (e.g. paper and disposables).
FY22 (increase of 9%). In FY22 sustainability report we
2) Percentage made from recycled and/or renewable
disclosed 71,654,273 kWh. Last years reported results
materials: No information.
did not account for franchise partner consumptions
3) Percentage that is recyclable, reusable, and/or
of electricity, natural gas & propane. We enlarged the
compostable: No information.
scope for it to be consistent with our overall corporate
footprint. (1) number of recalls issued FB-RN-250a.2 Quantitative Number There were no recalls issued during the reporting
2) Percentage grid electricity consumed: 50% (2) total amount of food product recalled Metric tons (t) period. Voluntary withdraws for the sake of food quality
3) Percentage renewable energy consumed: 0% and flavour can be found in chapter Our food
(The existing renewable energy consumption is not
(1) number of confirmed foodborne illness FB-RN-250a.3 Quantitative Number No incidents of confirmed foodborne illness outbreak
material and therefore reported as 0%)
outbreaks Percentage (%) associated with Domino’s stores were reported.
Water Management (2) percentage resulting in U.S. Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
(1) total water withdrawn FB-RN-140a.1 Quantitative Thousand cubic 1) Total water withdrawn: 101,132,700 m3 compared
investigation
(2) total water consumed meters (m³) to 98,021,100 m3 in FY22 (increase of 3%). In FY22
Percentage (%) sustainability report we disclosed 1,420,183 m3. Last
percentage of each in regions with High or year we reported only for direct water withdrawals from
Extremely High Baseline Water Stress our restaurants. We now account for the whole water Nutritional Content
withdrawal footprint, including the water needed to
(1) percentage of children’s meal options FB-RN-260a. Quantitative Percentage (%) Not applicable. We do not provide children’s meals.
grow our ingredients. This is where our impact lies and
consistent with national dietary guidelines for Reporting
can be better improved. Including this water withdrawal
children currency
footprint is a step towards a broader nature strategy.
(2) revenue from these options
This years’ calculation method is in line with the Scien-
ce-Based Targets for Nature (1) number of advertising impressions made FB-RN-260a.3 Quantitative Number In line with our company’s policy, Domino’s does not
2) Total water consumed, percentage of each in regions on children Percentage (%) market to children. We do not provide items
with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress: we (2) percentage promoting products that meet such as toys or games to appeal to children.
do not currently have access to this information. national dietary guidelines for children
Food and Packaging Waste Management Labour Practices
(1) total amount of waste FB-RN-150a.1 Quantitative Metric tons (t) To ensure we are environmentally responsible and fi- Total amount of monetary losses as a result of FB-RN-310a.3 Quantitative Reporting Domino’s is committed to all relevant labour laws
(2) percentage food waste percentage (%) nancially efficient, we are continually working to reduce legal proceedings associated with currency and does not tolerate discrimination. Our Code of
(3) percentage diverted waste food waste in our operations. We are developing our (1) labour law violations Conduct policy further clarifies our position and informs
approach to collecting data for the accounting metrics, (2) employment discrimination employees on grievance mechanisms. In the reporting
initially for company-owned restaurants and then at the period, there were no legal proceedings related to
franchise level. labour law violations and/or employee discrimination
that were resulted on monetary losses.
(1) total weight of packaging FB-RN-150a.2 Quantitative Metric tons (t) 1) Total amount of waste: 256,834 t, compared to
(2) percentage made from recycled and/or percentage (%) 262,746 t in FY22 (decrease of 2%). In FY22 sustaina- Supply Chain Management
renewable materials bility report we disclosed 20,827 t. Last year reported and Food Sourcing
(3) percentage that is recyclable, reusable, number only accounted for plastics and did not include
and/or compostable cardboard, food and mixed waste Percentage of FB-RN-430a.2 Quantitative Percentage (%) 1) Percentage of eggs that originated from a cage-free
2) Percentage of food waste: no access to data of (1) eggs that originated from a cage-free by number, environment: 50% globally
sufficient quality as most restaurants report food waste environment Percentage (%) 2) Percentage of pork that was produced without the
in the ‘mixed waste’ category. (2) pork that was produced without the use of by weight use of gestation crates: 0%
3) Percentage diverted: we do not currently have gestation crates
access to this information Discussion of strategy to manage environmen- FB-RN-430a.3 Discussion n/a Our approach to animal standards is described in
tal and social risks within the supply chain, and Analysis section Responsible sourcing.
including animal welfare
Activity Metrics
Number of FB-RN-000.A Quantitative Number 1) Number of employees at company-owned locations:
(1) company-owned restaurants 18,826 (HC at end of fiscal year)
(2) franchise restaurants 2) Number of employees at franchise locations: approxi-
mately 85,500
94 95
APPENDIX DOMINO’S PIZZA ENTERPRISES LTD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FY23
