
2
3
Strategy
CEO letter 4 Sustainability COE 10
Innovation 7 Materiality 14
12
Governance
Sustainability governance 13 Stakeholder engagement 16
Report
Materiality assessment 14 Working to create A Better Circle 17
18
Mainstreaming circularity
summar y
Materials for a sustainable future 19 Feedstocks and standards 23
Eastman in France 22
34
Mitigating climate change
At Eastman, sustainability is at the
Carbon neutrality 35 Water 41
heart of our corporate strategy. This
report is comprehensive in nature, Circular solutions 38 Biodiversity 43
and we invite you to dive in directly
46
Caring for society
to the topics that interest you.
Zero-incident mindset 47 Eastman Resource Groups 58
Broadening our circle 55 Social impact 61
64
Goals and appendix
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE || CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
3
Who is Eastman?
Transportation 15%
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
Additives & Functional Products Advanced Materials Durables and electronics 12%
Chemical Intermediates Fibers
100+ YEARS $10.6 BILLION 14,500 100+ COUNTRIES
of innovation revenue in 2022 global team members where customers are served
GLOBAL HEADQUARTERS Building and construction 12%
Kingsport, Tennessee, USA
Consumables 8%
AWARDS AND
2022 SALES REVENUE
RECOGNITION
Food, feed and agriculture 8%
By region
Click here to view a full listing
North America | $4.7 billion Europe, Middle East, Africa | $2.8 billion
of awards and recognitions.
Filter media 8%
Latin America | $616 million Asia Pacific | $2.4 billion
Transportation 15% Personal care and wellness 7%
Durables and electronics 12% Medical and pharma 7%
Building and construction 12% Industrial chemicals 6%
Consumables 8% Water treatment and energy 6%
Food, feed and agriculture 8% Other markets 11%
Filter media 8%
Personal care and wellness 7%
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
Medical and pharma 7%
Industrial chemicals 6%
Water treatment and energy 6%
Other markets 11%
44
LETTER FROM MARK COSTA
Progress on A Better Circle
We launched our updated sustainability strategy to build A Better Circle three years ago, and continuous, steady progress is yielding substantive results. I am
excited to share that progress in our 2023 sustainability report, which offers results and key highlights that reaffirm our commitment to the principles of the
United Nations Global Compact.
The power of Eastman innovation gives us the opportunity — and responsibility — to help create a more sustainable future for all. Global waste, climate
change and caring for a growing society are among the greatest challenges our world faces, and our company is uniquely positioned to provide solutions
that make a real difference.
We are targeting the end of 2023 to begin operating one of the world’s largest material-to-material molecular recycling facilities in Kingsport, Tennessee. We will
recycle complex polyester plastic waste that would otherwise go to landfill or incineration. Instead of being wasted, these materials will become Eastman Renew
products with certified recycled content — enabling us to make more sustainable choices for many of the products that touch our daily lives.
Dozens of major brands have already adopted Eastman Renew materials, and you can read about several of those successful partnerships in this report. As we
make significant progress toward enabling a circular economy, we’re investing approximately $2.25 billion to build three molecular recycling facilities. In addition
to the Kingsport plant, we plan to build a facility in France and another at a second U.S. site that will be announced before the end of this year. PepsiCo has
agreed to purchase Renew materials from the second U.S. plant, and we are collaborating with some of the world’s largest consumer brands for additional
Renew partnerships.
We are continuing to make progress on our climate strategy. Driven by our goal to be carbon neutral by 2050, we continue to reduce our greenhouse gas
emissions year over year and we increased our use of renewable energy in 2022. And our recycling technologies not only tackle the waste crisis but also produce
molecular building blocks at an improved carbon footprint versus traditional processes, extending the benefit of reducing GHG emissions to our customers.
Plastic waste, climate change and caring for a growing population are challenges that are interrelated, and solving them takes bold action, perseverance
and partnerships. Eastman’s purpose to enhance the quality of life in a material way demands that we make a difference.
Eastman is taking action now to build A Better Circle — a better, more sustainable world. We look forward to partnering with all who want to join us in
achieving that future.
Mark Costa (he/him/his), Board Chair and Chief Executive Officer
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
55
Leading with sustainable materials
Q&A with Steve Crawford, Chief Sustainability Officer
You’ve spent your entire career at Eastman and witnessed the evolution of the company
and industry. How does that influence your role as chief sustainability officer?
I’m proud to be part of a company that’s more than a century old and has been at the forefront of many material innovations. Some of those
have had great societal impact for decades. Those innovations include biobased cellulosics that served emerging photographic, textile
and medical markets; polyester polymers that revolutionized the textiles industry and enabled decarbonization in packaging; and polyvinyl
butyrate for window films that helped make automobiles safer.
But it hasn’t been without its challenges. Global competition intensified around 20 years ago and led to commoditization of many product
lines in our industry. As a result, the industry became focused on lower product costs to compete. Lower cost to consumers should always be
a focus, but this trend slowed new product innovation. Commoditization led to a stalled innovation pipeline for many established companies.
Eastman wasn’t immune. For more than a decade now, however, we’ve focused on major macro trends, which has led us to building an
innovation portfolio that is sustainability driven — and the most robust in our history.
What has driven the increased focus on sustainability within our industry?
The world recognized the emerging great challenges to the planet and our quality of life. We call it the triple challenge — a nexus of
climate change, plastic waste and caring for society. You see the climate impact every day in the news, and all industries will need to
decarbonize. Modern society is built on a linear economy where we extract nonrenewable resources, make products and then discard
them. Obviously, this isn’t sustainable. Plastics are essential to decarbonization and to ensure we can both feed and hydrate the world,
but we must reduce, reuse and recycle plastics to keep the carbon in use. At the same time, we also have to meet the material needs
of a growing world population. These challenges are interconnected — we can’t solve for one problem at the sacrifice of the other.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
6
Leading with sustainable materials (continued)
Q&A with Steve Crawford, Chief Sustainability Officer
What does that mean for Eastman?
These challenges have reset the innovation entitlement for material producers, as the issues are best addressed from our part of the value chain. It’s also reset our
accountability — our moral obligation to deliver the needed outcomes. And, from our viewpoint at Eastman, our portfolio of products, technologies and site integration
put us in a unique position to make a material difference with solutions that address the triple challenge.
Our Saflex™ interlayers help lightweight and strengthen glass to enable lighter vehicles, which increases fuel and battery efficiency and enables the automotive industry’s
conversion to EVs.
Our polyester renewal technology (PRT) uses polyester waste that mechanical recyclers can’t process and converts it into durable polyesters for applications like medical
housing, housewares, water bottles and tools. We plan to operate three new PRT facilities in the coming years. Our second molecular recycling technology, carbon renewal
technology (CRT), takes mixed plastic waste headed for landfill or incineration and converts it to molecular building blocks used in sustainable celluose-based materials.
These materials are then 40% derived from waste plastic through CRT and 60% biobased from sustainably managed forests.
To care for society, we need to deliver safer products, which increases the importance of our portfolio of polymers, copolyesters, cellulose esters and polyvinyl butyral.
Tritan™ copolyester is one of the world’s most important material innovations of the past 20 years because it’s a BPA-free plastic that can be used for years in durable
applications. Our Eastman cellulosics products are inherently sustainable and biobased, enabling products like our Naia™ Renew for textiles and Aventa™ Renew. The
latter is compostable, will not persist as microplastics and is produced from recycled plastic. This solution can reinvent the food service industry.
Can you describe what success will look like and the role ESG (environmental, social and governance) has in the strategy?
We have the opportunity to play a global role in resolving the most significant issues the world faces, and our team embraces this role. We’re united by a collective
sense of purpose that makes ESG the natural framework for our strategy, as it creates long-term value for all shareholders and leads to a positive impact on society.
We need to be successful in all vectors of climate, circularity and caring for society, both in how we innovate and how we operate. If we drive these innovations, others
will follow — and we will have had a material impact on quality of life globally and for generations to come. I’m confident the Eastman team will deliver. While our
technologies, products and sites are unique, our most valuable asset is our people and the collaborative, inclusive and diverse culture that fuels our innovation capability.
Steve Crawford (he/him/his), Executive Vice President, Technology,
Chief Sustainability Officer and Chief Manufacturing Officer
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
7
INNOVATION PIPELINE
Progress is essential for a fast-moving world
Sustainable innovation is flourishing at Eastman.
Factors at the heart of what we do include:
Over the past year, we’ve increased our investment in growth portfolio programs tied to sustainability macro trends.
Eastman established a target of 100% of our growth R&D aligning with sustainable macro trends by 2030, and we’re
on a pathway to meet that mark with a 5% increase in 2022 that puts us currently at 85%. Sustainability drives our
innovation growth strategy.
In our report, you’ll see a list of our top 10 growth programs for safe and sustainable materials in 2023. They all
address at least one of three critical impact areas: mitigating climate change, mainstreaming circularity and Increasing Developing compostable
recycled content materials and increasing
caring for society. Many of these programs connect to more than one of these impact areas or even all three.
bioderived content
Sustainability is part of Eastman’s legacy. For more than 80 years, we have been experts in cellulose ester technology,
and this platform offers a tremendous avenue for growth and innovation and extends Eastman’s circular offerings
beyond just polyesters. In many forms, cellulose esters are biodegradable and compostable biomaterials with a strong
beginning- and end-of-life value proposition. Examples of cellulose ester innovation include Naia™ for sustainable
textiles, Aventa™ for food service and food packaging applications, and carbon renewal recycling technology.
We are also leveraging the world’s newest technologies to speed up Eastman research and development (R&D).
Reducing greenhouse Offering consumers
Chris Killian
gas emissions products without
Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer materials of concern
(he/him/his)
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
8
INNOVATION PIPELINE
Progress is essential for a fast-moving world (continued)
“Eastman has a strong innovation pipeline.
Over the past three years, we’ve embarked on a digital revolution at Eastman that is tangibly impacting material innovation. I’m excited about how
It’s inspiring to know that the materials and
we’re using artificial intelligence to speed up the R&D cycle and increase efficiency. You can read about a prime example, Tetrashield™ for safer can
technology we’re developing today can be
coatings, here in this report.
applied to help solve big problems in the world.
Technologies alone, though, don’t produce substantive advancements — innovation occurs only with the right people. Eastman innovation is built on our world- Eastman encourages everyone to participate in
class team, and we’re constantly working to grow our capabilities and become even stronger. We know that inclusion and diversity of thought are vital to the the innovation process. I’m personally excited
generation and development of transformative innovation. One prime example of our focus on growth is closing an invention gap for women. A study by the
to be part of a recent effort to understand and
World Intellectual Property Organization showed that at leading companies across our industry, including Eastman, there is a disparity between the percentage
address a ubiquitous gap in the representation
of women who hold technical roles in the material industry and the percentage of women who formally contribute to the invention process through patents.
of women as inventors. I know that being
recognized as an inventor matters. It’s important
The Eastman team is focused on what we must do, and will do, to close that gap. It’s the right thing to do for equality and equity, and increasing the number
of women in the invention process will have a multiplier effect on our power to innovate. in your own personal career development, and
it can make you a more valuable team member.
I’m excited about the Eastman of today and the future — excited about the richness of our innovation pipeline and about being part of a team and culture
Inventions are one way to make the most of our
that embraces the challenge and opportunity of delivering solutions to an ever-changing world.
innovation pipeline. Ultimately, inventions make
Eastman a more competitive company, which is
good for everyone’s success.”
Stephanie
Clendennen
Technology Fellow
(she/her/hers)
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
9
GROWTH PLATFORMS
Innovation that converts market complexity into sustainable value
Mitigating Mainstreaming Caring for
Business Growth platforms
climate change circularity society
Specialty plastics circular solutions (Renew)
• Kingsport methanolysis facility
• Future France methanolysis facility
• Future second U.S. methanolysis facility
Advanced Materials
Saflex™ PVB for head-up displays
Saflex™ PVB for electric vehicles
Window films
Tetrashield™ protective resin systems
Additives & Functional
EastaPure ™ electronic chemicals
Products
Biodegradable microbeads for personal care
Fibers Naia™ cellulosic fiber for circular textiles
Aventa™ compostable materials
Corporate
Sustainable infrastructure (decarbonization)
With our new product and application R&D activities, we focus our investment on improving the sustainability profile over the current incumbent
solution in the market. To accelerate our innovation pipeline, we have developed a deep understanding of how our products perform within our
customers’ product and across the value chain. This not only creates demand downstream by demonstrating the value of our innovation but also
improves our understanding of the difference our products make in people’s lives while having a positive impact on the planet.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
10
Sustainability COE accelerates our progress “My team had a campaign early in 2023 to
make sustainability personal. We were asked
to generate our personalized, six-word
To help accelerate our progress on building A Better to sustainability macrotrends. These connections
sustainability story. Mine was ‘My Actions,
Circle, we leverage an Eastman sustainability center of will be leveraged to further refine our portfolio.
Their Future, Make Changes.’ It’s important
excellence (COE). “Through the sustainability COE, Baysal said the assessment was critical in ensuring for me to help my children understand that
we’re able to embed sustainability experts within every current and future innovation contributes small changes we make today allow future
generations to thrive. Eastman’s investment
our business teams to translate market trends and to a sustainability macrotrend over time.
in sustainability and circularity demonstrates
sustainability drivers into value through the lens of A
The establishment of a COE encourages personal our investment in future generations!”
Better Circle,” Laurel Baysal, director of sustainability,
growth by every member of the sustainability
said. “This also drives understanding of global
team — which embodies our caring for society
environmental and social issues and opportunities.”
strategy. When asked why leading the Sustainability
Laurel Baysal
Our COE uses a definitive strategy to build sustainability COE was important, Baysal said:
fluency across Eastman, strengthen the innovation Director of Sustainability
“Leading a team of change makers not only for
(she/her/hers)
pipeline and drive progress toward sustainability goals.
the company but for sustainability efforts in
The sustainability COE led a project in 2022 that general is exciting,” Baysal said. “I’m very invested
will have long-reaching impact on our innovation in their development as it has a direct impact
strategy — our company completed an assessment of on the company, our businesses, our employees
our commercial portfolio to understand connections engagement and the future of our world!”
COE Build institutional knowledge to develop Translate insights into action Establish feedback loops, accountability
sustainability fluency
and valued partnerships
• Align businesses with market expectations
• Train diverse teams and drive understanding
• Assess and manage commercial portfolio
• Optimize product portfolio and positioning
• Sustainability center of excellence of global environmental and social
• Assess sustainability for all innovation projects
(COE) instituted in 2021 issues and opportunities • Stimulate innovation pipeline
• Monitor sustainability drivers in markets
• Focused on embedding sustainability • Translate market trends and sustainability drivers • Identify workstreams and resources for execution
in business strategy into Eastman’s A Better Circle framework. • Establish milestones to ensure progress
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
11
SUSTAINABILITY COE “It’s both professionally and
Naia™ sustainability strategy supported
personally satisfying to work
with the Naia™ team. It’s
through collaboration with COE
exciting to not only see the
Lei Ma, a member of Eastman’s sustainability center of excellence, is based in Shanghai
transformation within our own
and connected with the Eastman textiles business to help drive sustainability strategy with
Eastman Naia™ cellulosic fiber. team but also to hear customers
tell us that we’re helping them
“I’m thrilled to work with the Naia™ team because they are a real pioneer for sustainability in
textiles,” Ma said. “The business leaders are all true believers in the sustainability of Naia™ fiber
accelerate their own journey.”
brand, so it’s embedded in the business culture.”
Our textiles leaders have established sustainability goals specific to Naia™ and are working with Lei Ma
Ma to establish a decarbonization strategy that represents distinct proof points of the Naia™ Manager, Sustainability COE
(he/him/his)
commitment to be a sustainability leader in the textiles industry.
Ma said collaboration with Eastman’s market research team has helped sharpen his understanding
of consumer behaviors and preferences, which informs sustainability training he has led with brand
customers in China and value chain partners.
“Sustainability strategy is integrated into the Naia™ offering as an added service, which helps
strengthen the brand image and impacts business results. This helped accelerate adoption of
Naia™ Renew,” he said, referring to the sustainable fiber that is 60% sustainably sourced wood pulp
and 40% certified recycled content.*
*Recycled content allocated via ISCC-certified mass balance approach.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
12
Listen
Materiality assessment
To best understand the highest-priority sustainability and ESG risks
and opportunities that may have an impact on our company, Eastman
actively evaluates potential drivers based on significant economic,
environmental and social impact using stakeholder input.
Learn
Stakeholder inclusiveness
What Eastman learns from the input collected from both internal and
external stakeholders, we validate against known sustainability and ESG
frameworks such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Sustainability
Accounting Standards Board (SASB), CDP, the Task Force on Climate-related
Financial Disclosure (TFCD), and the United Nations Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs). Leaders across Eastman use this body of knowledge to
inform and align our sustainability framework and corporate strategy.
Lead
Sustainability and ESG frameworks
Eastman’s purpose is to enhance the quality of life in a material way.
For our key stakeholders, this report presents our sustainability performance
and helps ensure progress toward our sustainability framework, A Better
Circle. This framework dictates our 2025/2030/2050 goals and commitments
while acknowledging and instituting change where we must do better.
Governance
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
13
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
Governance of material sustainability
issues and opportunities
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Board of Directors
Eastman is committed
Executive Team to strong governance
Mark J. Costa Humberto P. Alfonso Brett D. Begemann
Sustainability Council
We remain committed to maintaining our strong corporate
G
O I N G STAKEHOLDER ENGAGE governance policies and practices while enhancing the
O N ME
N
T
transparency of our business. Integrated into our strategy
E R N A
N C E
O F
SUSTAINABILITY
ISSUES
A N D are Eastman’s ESG and sustainability initiatives.
O V O P
E Suco bn -Co om uic
n
cIm
il
pact INTERNAL G
M
O
ST M A T E
R I A L ESG ISSUES AND OPP
O R T U
NI
TIP O R T
U NI TI
E
S
P Sueo bp -Cle
o
a un nd
c
iS
l
ociety Eric L. Butler Edward L. Doheny II Linnie M. Haynesworth
G Suu si td ai in ng
a
bth ili is
t
yin (Ete Sg Sr )a Cti oo mn, mth ie
tt
eE en v oi fr o thn em Be on ata rdl, S oa
f
f De it ry
e
a cn tod
r s
E
Business integration and S
Relationships with employees,
continuous portfolio reviews with management and, where appropriate, makes
suppliers, clients and
improvement
communities
recommendations regarding the company’s policies and
Enhancing the
practices concerning health, safety, environmental, security,
quality of life in
a material way Julie F. Holder Renée J. Hornbaker Kim Ann Mink sustainability, philanthropy, public policy and political
activities matters. This committee is chaired by Kim Ann Mink.
The board remains committed to maintaining a strong
alignment between company performance and our
executive compensation program and has taken
Environmental Impact James J. O’Brien David W. Raisbeck Charles K. Stevens III
greater steps to align the outcomes of the company’s
Sub-Council
I&D, sustainability and ESG efforts with executive
Conservation and protection of
the natural environment compensation as another measure of accountability.
Click here to learn more about how we
govern material sustainability and ESG issues.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
14
Materiality
assessment
Eastman is data-driven in our identification and monitoring of regulators and suppliers. Datamaran also sends surveys to a targeted list
material risk. In 2022, we updated our materiality matrix based on of Eastman team members and the leaders of our Community Advisory
the importance our diverse set of external and internal stakeholders Panels (CAPs).
place on identified sustainability issues.
We use the sustainability materiality assessment to identify areas of
ENVIRONMENTAL We prioritize these sustainability issues using Datamaran, software focus and refine our commitments. All 33 factors in this listening tool
See details on Eastman's
that enables a data-driven and dynamic process for ESG risk are important. Prioritization and effective management of these issues materiality assessment
on the next page.
identification and monitoring. With Datamaran’s patented technology, and opportunities are integrated into our strategy, business models, risk
we harness innovation to gain a continuous, evidence-based review management and governance to drive continued progress. The results
of ESG-related risks within our regulatory, competitive and operating are considered in determination of the information included in our
contexts. Eastman uses Datamaran to aggregate and analyze public public disclosures, including this sustainability report, and ultimately
SOCIAL GOVERNANCE
communications and disclosures from our top stakeholders, including drive the development of our A Better Circle framework.
customers, industries and peers, investors, media, policymakers,
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
Materiality assessment
Transition to renewables Natural capital Climate change and Waste and hazardous
Align business strategy with issues
and alternative energies risk management material management
Energy management
most important to stakeholders
Customer privacy and Product design and Air emissions
data security life cycle management
GHG emissions
Public health risks
Product and service
Ethical corporate behavior safety and quality
Human rights Sourcing efficiency
and management
Employee health and safety
Employee inclusion
Water and wastewater
and diversity
management
Ecological impacts Management of Responsible consumption Management of the
local impacts and production legal and regulatory
Business model resilience
environment
Transparency
Selling practices and
Labor practices
Innovation and technology
product labeling
Community relations
Workforce management
Customer practices
Access and affordability
Competitive behavior
Physical and
sociopolitical risks
Governance structures
and mechanisms
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
YTIROIRP
TSEHGIH
Impact on Eastman
HIGHEST PRIORITY
redlohekats
rof
ecnaveleR
15
Stakeholder engagement
Employees Investors
The MyImpact platform, launched in 2021, enhances internal communication and education We actively engage with investors on sustainability issues through various channels, including our
on Eastman’s sustainability strategy. Leveraged by our six Eastman Resource Groups annual stockholder meeting and report, quarterly financial results, public webcasts and calls, SEC
(ERGs), it facilitates special events, volunteering and donation opportunities. filings and other public releases, targeted ESG road shows, and in-person investor events.
Eastman also conducts pulse surveys to gather insights from our
diverse workforce for integrating sustainability into our culture.
Policymakers and regulators
E
m
p Our government affairs team engages directly with legislators on stakeholder
l
Customers o
y
e
e concerns and issues that may impact our corporate commitments. This
s
To fill our innovation pipeline, we prioritize understanding the
Media
engagement emphasizes the importance of industry-wide collaboration
value chain’s needs and expectations through our Sustainability
in recycling, improving plastic waste feedstocks and more.
center of excellence (COE). By actively engaging downstream,
we identify the key sustainability drivers for our customers
and deliver sustainable innovations to support their goals.
Nongovernmental organizations (NGOs)
Philanthropic partners and NGOs contribute knowledge to inform our
sustainability efforts. For instance, the Eastman Foundation collaborates
Communities
with organizations to enhance social well-being, environmental integrity,
We regularly engage with Community Advisory Panels
and economic success. Our circularity teams also engage with nonprofits
(CAPs) in our operating communities to address
like The Recycling Partnership to expand and improve recycling in the U.S.
shared interests such as public health and safety.
Suppliers Media
Eastman actively engages with suppliers to assess their sustainability
We communicate proactively through various media channels to
commitment and drive improvements. We are part of Together
reach our target audiences and ensure transparency. Eastman regularly
for Sustainability (TfS), a global network of chemical companies
monitors global traditional and social media to track sustainability-
dedicated to enhancing supply chain sustainability. Supplier assessments related issues and public sentiment. These insights inform our corporate
are done through EcoVadis, and site audits are conducted as necessary. strategy, which we share in leadership meetings and regular communications.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
Customers
s
r
e
i
l
p
p
u
S
latnemnrevognoN
snoitazinagro
16
R
C H
INFLUE
A N
E C
S E
E R
R S
&
A
C
I
M O
E A
D L
I
A T
I
C
A O
N
S
&
S C
P O
I
H U
N
S
R C
I
E
L
N S
T
R
A
P
T
Material
C R
s
I or A
G issues t
s D
e
E v E
n
T I
A
A
S
R
S
T
O
S
C
I
A
T
I
Communities
E O
P
D o N
l
i
A & c S r y R e
T gm
u a
l k
a t e r G
o s
r O
s V
S E
R R
E N
E M
P
E
& N
Y T
R
T
S A
U C
DNI ST S I V I T
17
Working to create
A Better Circle
Sustainability is integral to our strategy, driven by innovation and focused always on people.
Eastman has the responsibility and opportunity to lead, joining others to address climate
change, mainstream circularity as an economic model and care for society.
Our goals:
Target Results
Mitigating climate change year 2021 2022
• Reduce our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by one-third by 2030
2030 13.8% 16.3%
to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050*
• 100% of NAR and EU purchased electricity will be renewable by 2030
2030 10% 14%
We have also received review-level assurance in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute
of Public Accountants (AICPA) over our Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions for the year ending in 2022.
Mitigating Mainstreaming Caring for
*Results are reduction since baseline year
climate circularity society
Mainstreaming circularity
change
• Recycle more than 500 million pounds (225,000 MT) of plastic waste annually by 2030 via
2025 12.7M lb 18.1M lb
molecular recycling technologies, with a commitment to recycle 250 million pounds 5,500 MT 8,000 MT
(110,000 MT) annually by 2025
Eastman began commissioning and startup activities at our methanolysis plant in Kingsport, Tenn., in 2023. With capacity of
approximately 220 million pounds (110,000 MT) of plastics recycled annually, the launch of this plant will further our ability to
accomplish this goal. In 2022, we recycled 18.1 million pounds (8,000 MT) of plastic waste — a more than 40% increase from
our 2021 volume.
Caring for society
• 100% of growth R&D spend aligns with sustainable macro trends to create 2030 80% 85%
materials that improve the quality of life for people around the world
• Achieve gender parity in alignment with our commitment to Paradigm for Parity® 2030 37% 38%
• Be a leader for U.S. racial equity within our industry sector 2030 13% 14%
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
18
Governance
Eastman’s circular economy platform has executive and senior-level
oversight, with meetings on a regular cadence to review progress on our
strategy as we grow the impact of our molecular recycling technologies.
Strategy
Eastman is prioritizing circularity in our strategy because the future of our
planet depends on it. To do this, we must engage all stakeholders to ensure
acceptance of material-to-material molecular recycling technologies and the
necessity of a mass balance framework to help drive innovation more quickly.
Business risk/opportunity
As an industry leader, we are already at commercial scale with our molecular
recycling technologies. Produced with plastic waste destined for landfill
or incineration, this versatile, high-quality molecularly recycled material
helps us and our value chains shift global product consumption to
more sustainable materials without sacrificing performance.
Mainstreaming
Metrics and progress
Eastman is targeting operation of a new molecular recycling facility in
Kingsport by end of 2023. By 2025, we expect to recycle 250 million pounds
(110,000 MT) of plastic waste annually. In 2026/2027, we expect to operate
circularity two additional molecular recycling facilities and recycle 500 million
pounds (250,000 MT) annually by 2030.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
19
Materials for a
sustainable future
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
20
MATERIALS FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE
If we want to ensure a more sustainable
world, we can’t keep throwing it all away.
Society is wasting precious resources through the massive amounts of materials we use up and then dispose of through landfill or incineration. Plastic is one material that often becomes waste, and it doesn’t
have to be that way. Plastic is indispensable because it serves many important purposes, such as bottles for clean water, containers for fresh food and safe materials for medical devices. Unfortunately, little of it gets recycled.
Thanks to new innovations, including those at Eastman, we can change this — now. We are committed to leading and collaborating to create a circular economy for plastics where this vital material is used, reused and recycled.
How to make circularity mainstream We are investing heavily in PRT too. On the next page, we highlight the three facilities that, once operational in the
2026/2027 timeframe, will process more than 300,000 metric tonnes of hard-to-recycle plastic waste with plans to
Circularity lies at the core of our strategy to make materials increasingly sustainable.
increase that to more than 500,000 metric tonnes (>1 billion pounds) in successive development phases.
A circular economy focuses on making the most of the world’s resources — minimizing waste and maximizing
There are many types of plastic, and many are not polyester. That’s where our second molecular recycling
value by providing end-of-life solutions to reduce, reuse and recycle products and materials that typically end up
technology, carbon renewal technology (CRT), helps further close the gap. At our Kingsport, Tennessee,
in landfills and our waterways. It keeps materials in use and decouples growth from scarce resource consumption,
facility, we were able to reconfigure an existing asset to accept plastics waste as a feedstock via CRT.
allowing economic development and improvement in quality of life within natural resource limits.
CRT can recycle almost any kind of plastic, and it is critical to producing Eastman Renew versions of brands such as
We operate two recycling technologies that will alter the current state, where approximately 10% of plastics globally
Aventa™ Renew and Naia™ Renew cellulosic fibers, which are 60% biobased from sustainably source trees and 40%
get recycled because the most common type of recycling, mechanical recycling, cannot process most plastics.
certified recycled content from hard-to-recycle plastic waste. Neither persist in the environment as microplastics.
Eastman’s molecular recycling technologies process hard-to-recycle plastics and use the chemical intermediates
— or molecular building blocks — to make new Eastman Renew materials with certified recycled content.* Aventa™ Renew is an exciting new material because it can also enable a circular economy by taking on a
problematic waste sector: the quick-service food industry. Busy lives mean that many of us purchase food
Through innovation and collaboration, we can collectively make plastic waste a relic of the past. And we are also
and beverages to consume on the go, and the items used to contain both are often plastic. Aventa Renew
reducing our own carbon footprint because these technologies produce chemical intermediates with fewer
is a biobased material made from sustainably sourced trees and certified recycled content from molecular
greenhouse gas emissions than heritage processes that use only fossil feedstocks.
recycling. This material performs like plastic but is compostable — even in a backyard composter. So quick-
Polyester renewal technology (PRT) recycles complex polyester plastic like colored beverage bottles service cups, cutlery and plates can be made from Aventa™ Renew, which can be composted to make new soil.
and other single-use plastic packaging, polyester carpet fibers and even polyester textiles used in
To learn more about Eastman’s six principles to achieve a circular economy, click here.
clothing. We are the world’s leading experts in methanolysis, the technology behind PRT. We practiced
it in the 1980s recycling X-ray films, and we have retained that knowledge and built on it. *Recycled content allocated via ISCC-certified mass balance approach.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
21
“It’s exciting to see the hard work and
dedication of so many people come to
fruition in a facility that will have a profound
impact on the world. By the end of this year,
you will see the remarkable transformation of
We’re investing in materials for a sustainable future
hard-to-recycle waste at one of the world’s
Three planned molecular recycling facilities will help solve the plastic waste crisis.
largest material-to-material molecular recycling
facilities — a process that yields material
We’re showing the world what’s possible through molecular recycling. Instead of plastic waste ending up in landfills, incinerators or the environment, it can
indistinguishable from virgin production.
be recycled and used over and over again.
That’s a key part of building a circular economy.
“The level of innovation and creativity involved
We’re committed to doing our part. Our new methanolysis facility at our Kingsport manufacturing site will be operational later this year. We plan to build two
in a project of this magnitude is truly inspiring.
additional facilities, one in France and another in the United States. Altogether, Eastman will invest approximately $2.25 billion in these three facilities.
If it were easy, anyone could do it. We’re
We are leading the way in molecular recycling, demonstrating its potential to provide infinite life to complex plastics. Our cutting-edge technologies not only
fortunate to have a team with the knowledge
scale effectively but also prioritize environmental sustainability and the conservation of natural resources. By embracing molecular recycling, we envision a
future where plastic waste is transformed into a valuable resource and feedstock, eliminating its status as mere discard.
and capabilities to accomplish something
The scale of the Kingsport facility enabled us to set our goal of recycling 250 million pounds (110,000 MT) of plastic annually by 2025. Procter & Gamble is among
that has not been done before.”
the leading brands that have committed to an offtake agreement for Eastman Renew materials produced from the Kingsport plant.
Our Kingsport location has been at the forefront of our circular economy platform since we commercialized molecular recycling in 2019, producing Eastman Renew
products with certified recycled content* that have been adopted globally as a sustainable solution for reusable sports bottles and food containers, tools, eyewear,
phone cases, apparel and more. Heritage products, which include Eastman Tritan™ copolyester for a wide range of durable applications, are produced here.
Scott Ballard,
Division President, Plastics
Sharing possibilities with the world (he/him/his)
Our Kingsport facility will be one of the world’s largest material-to-material
molecular recycling facilities. The plant will use more than 110,000 metric tons
11 billion 790 million 2.7 billion
of polyester waste as raw material annually. The equivalent of:
single-use water bottles polyester T-shirts shampoo bottles
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
22
“This project is one of the largest
foreign investments in France
in the last 30 years, and we are
delighted to welcome Eastman
We’re investing in materials for a sustainable future
to Normandy.”
(continued)
Our facility in France will be even bigger than its Kingsport counterpart. When fully operational, it will be able to process more
than 200,000 metric tons of plastic waste a year. Several global brands have already signed letters of intent to leverage the
Normandy President
output of Eastman Renew materials for more sustainable products.
Herve Morin
We have also reached agreements with two key partners, Citeo and Interzero, that secure a significant amount of feedstock
on Eastman’s planned
needed for our France facility. In addition, we’ve already reached an agreement with PepsiCo to be a key customer for certified molecular recycling
recycled materials produced at our second U.S. facility. We expect to announce the location for that facility by the end of 2023. facility in France
The Normandy plant:
Expected Will Will lead
employ to 1,500
to be
350 people indirect jobs
operational
in 2026 (in recycling, energy
and infrastructure)
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
23
Eastman team charges ahead in securing
feedstock for new methanolysis facility
With the Kingsport molecular recycling facility nearly complete, the team securing feedstocks will soon see its efforts pay off.
Spencer Tidwell leads the feedstock evaluation team, which has been scouring the United States since 2020 for hard-to-recycle
plastic that can be transformed into new products in the methanolysis facility.
“In the beginning, we didn’t know what we could buy, what condition or what type of materials were going to arrive,” Tidwell said.
The team clearly learned to navigate that recycling landscape quickly. Eastman already has greater than 75% of its annual feedstock
capacity for Kingsport either committed for use or in hand.
Our polyester renewal technology facilities efficiently break down complex polyester plastics, so they aren’t relegated to landfill or
incineration. Through molecular recycling, they’ll be transformed into Eastman Renew materials with certified recycled content.*
And they are indistinguishable from virgin materials.
*Recycled content allocated via ISCC-certified mass balance approach.
“Working with the team to procure and evaluate feedstocks for
molecular recycling is exciting because no one’s ever done it
before. There aren’t many times in your career where you get
to work on something of this scale that affects the world.”
Spencer Tidwell
Group Leader, Feedstock Evaluations
(he/him/his)
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
24
Recycling in the modern age
Q&A with Sandeep Bangaru
How does molecular recycling work as a complement to A vision for a circular economy
mechanical recycling? Why do we need both?
Simply put, the world needs to expand the types of plastics that can be Hard-to-recycle
mixed plastic waste
recycled. Mechanical recycling is efficient but limited to certain types and
forms of plastics, while molecular recycling like Eastman’s polyester renewal
technology (PRT) can handle hard-to-recycle polyesters like carpet, textiles,
pots and trays, and colored and opaque PET. By breaking them down to
the monomer level, they can be purified and reused to create new, virgin- Polyester renewal
Disposal
process
quality polyester for various markets, like food packaging or medical-grade
packaging. This approach is really exciting because we provide solutions for
materials that the current recycling system can’t efficiently process. And
these materials can be infinitely recycled without a loss in quality.
Why is improving our recycling system so important?
The plastic waste problem is massive. Globally, around 260 million tons
of plastic waste is disposed of each year, but only a little over 10% is
Sandeep Bangaru Chemical and
actually recycled. To address this issue effectively, we need to expand Finished products
polymer production
Vice President, Circular Platform recycling beyond the most common forms of packaging; we need to sort
(he/him/his)
more effectively; and we need a wider range of technologies capable of
recycling these plastic feedstocks and waste streams. By implementing
such a system, we can significantly expand the types of plastics that Material made from
recycled content
Sandeep Bangaru, vice president for Eastman’s circular
can be recycled and brought back into the circular economy.
platform, offers his thoughts on why technologies
aren’t the only element important for solving the global
plastic waste crisis and why smart policies are critical.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
25
Recycling in the modern age (continued)
Q&A with Sandeep Bangaru
How do we get there?
To achieve significant progress, we need three elements. First, recognizing the need for improvement
and that significant improvement is now possible. Second, implementing smart policies that encourage
innovation and support environmental goals. Third, building a robust infrastructure for collection,
sortation, and delivering the right materials to the right recycling technology. There’s a great
opportunity for collaboration to make a tremendous impact on environmental outcomes.
Why does this matter?
Plastics are essential in various sectors and often offer the best environmental solutions compared
to alternatives. To manage plastics effectively throughout their entire life cycle, we advocate for a
principled approach to innovation, starting with the three Rs: reduce, reuse, recycle. There are many
applications and opportunities to reduce or reuse plastic packaging and this should be a priority
and implemented. However, many studies have shown that reduce and reuse can only go so far.
Therefore, it’s important to invest in a robust recycling system that can efficiently handle the plastics we
do use. Scaling these new technologies presents a significant opportunity to create a positive impact.
What does this mean to you on a personal level?
Circularity is a global problem and thousands of people at Eastman are working on solutions, so this is
bigger than one person. But yes, working with the circular economy team is personal for me. My wife
and I spend time with our children visiting U.S. national parks every year. We are invested in protecting
the environment. I want to help preserve the natural spaces that belong to all of us, so I’m inspired to
work on a platform that increases circularity and keeps plastic waste from leaking into the environment.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
26
CIRCULARITY PARTNERSHIPS
Materials matter
We’ve had long-standing partnerships with these brands and will continue to
pursue further sustainability efforts together.
That’s because materials matter.
LVMH - Dior
Eastman Renew branded products use recycled materials to reduce plastic
waste in landfills or incinerators while lowering greenhouse gas emissions
compared to heritage processes. More than 50 brands with products ranging
from eyewear to cosmetics containers to phone accessories are reducing their
footprint by choosing Eastman Renew materials with recycled content.
Leading global brands that care about their footprint are turning to Eastman
Renew products such as Tritan™ Renew and Cristal™ Renew to meet their
sustainability goals. They’re doing their part to protect and preserve the
planet’s resources.
We’re proud to partner with brands committed to sustainability without
Ethicon, a Johnson & Johnson MedTech Company
compromise, and we hope to inspire more material innovations through
these featured case studies.
Click each brand to see how they are
using Renew in their products.
Nalgene
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
27
CIRCULARITY PARTNERSHIPS
Leading toward a circular future
BLACK + DECKER reviva™ line targets younger generation
When Stanley Black & Decker wanted to reach younger, sustainably minded, do-it-yourself consumers, they partnered with Eastman.
The result of that close collaboration?
BLACK+DECKER, a Stanley Black & Decker brand, launched a new power tool line, reviva™, with housing made from Tritan™ Renew
copolyester. Tritan Renew is a safe, tough, durable material made with 50% certified recycled content.* Reviva means
“new life” in Latin. Ten reviva products launched globally in 2022, including a 12-volt drill, jigsaw and sander.
“A power tool is a high-performance machine but made to fit into your hand,” said Dan Fitzgerald, the company’s senior director of
product sustainability. “They are designed to produce 500 pounds of torque, in the case of drills, or 10,000 plus rotations per second
in the case of a sander. These tools crank out considerable amounts of force and enough heat to start a fire, which is why the materials
need to be flame rated for safe use.”
Tritan Renew meets all those needs and the specifications of the power tool housing, which also needs to be consistent in quality and color.
“We’re very proud of the story we have to tell,” said Ed Higgins, the company’s product director for power tools. “With Tritan Renew, we’re
able to make the product sustainability aspect very tangible for consumers. For each cordless drill, we’re recycling the equivalent of eight
single-use plastic bottles that would otherwise end up in landfills or get incinerated. The sander recycles the equivalent of 11 bottles, and
our jigsaw recycles the equivalent of 18 bottles.”
*Recycled content allocated via ISCC-certified mass balance approach.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
28
CIRCULARITY PARTNERSHIPS
Leading toward a circular future
Nautica eyewear adopts Continued collaboration
Tenite™ Renew cellulosics with Procter & Gamble
Nautica Eyewear launched their new Tenite™ Renew collection in Procter & Gamble continues to partner with us, using
January 2023, featuring styles made from a sustainable material Eastman Renew molecular recycled plastic in many of
powered by Eastman, using more than 56%* of sustainable materials its iconic Herbal Essences bottles. Herbal Essences’
made from biobased and certified recycled content from ISCC- bio:renew sulfate-free lineup uses Eastman Renew
certified mass balance allocation. Nautica’s new offering features materials. The package includes the standardized
two sun and three optical styles, all designed with lightweight How2Recycle® labels to clarify recycling instructions
construction, classic shapes and energetic pops of color. and encourage recycling behavior.
Tenite™ Renew is produced through Eastman’s molecular recycling “We are collaborating to create a more circular future
technology, using hard-to-recycle waste plastic in place of fossil where plastic is collected, recycled and reused,” said
feedstock and producing a material that increases the sustainability Rachel Zipperian, communications director at P&G.
advantages — with no compromise on performance. “Eastman Renew material reduces the dependence
on virgin plastic and provides a second life for plastic
“We are thrilled to continue our commitment to taking steps
waste that is hard to mechanically recycle, so more
toward social responsibility and making a positive impact on the
material can be reused.”
environment with Tenite™ Renew,” said Thomas Burkhardt, president
of Marchon Eyewear, Inc. “The Nautica styles offer customers
more sustainable styles when shopping for lifestyle eyewear.”
*Minimum 36% bio-content and minimum 20% Renew content
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
29
CIRCULARITY PARTNERSHIPS
Leading toward a more sustainable future
Patagonia chooses Naia™ Renew staple fiber for new tech tee style
Patagonia has partnered with Eastman again on a new line of performance shirts
made from a blend that includes Naia™ Renew staple fiber.
Patagonia unveiled a collection of performance shirts in summer of 2023. They’re made from
a blend of 30% Naia™ Renew staple fiber and 70% recycled polyester. These moisture-wicking,
lightweight and stretchy tops are ideal for outdoor activities and all-day wear.
Naia™ Renew helps divert waste from landfills with fibers produced from renewable wood pulp
and recycled waste materials processed through Eastman’s molecular recycling.
Patagonia partnered with Eastman in 2022 on a limited run of T-shirts made with Naia™ Renew ES
— our 60% certified recycled content* fiber — for the outdoor apparel retailer’s Workwear line.
*Recycled content allocated via ISCC-certified mass balance approach.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
30
NAIA™ FROM EASTMAN
Celebrating five years
of sustainable textiles
60
%
In its fifth year, Naia™ has expanded worldwide. From celebrity glam to design innovation
challenges, we’re asking the world to reimagine what’s possible with sustainable textiles.
sustainably sourced and
Advancing fashion without compromise
traceable wood pulp
With Naia™ Renew, we’re taking circularity to scale and offering a solution to help make
fashion truly sustainable. These cellulosic fibers are created in a closed-loop process,
Better than silk
where solvents are recycled back into the system for reuse. Leveraging carbon renewal
Reformation adopted Naia™ Renew in 2022 as part of its efforts to become climate
technology, Naia™ Renew is produced from 60% sustainably sourced wood pulp and 40%
positive by 2025. Here’s what Reformation, a sustainable women’s clothing brand, had to
certified* recycled waste material diverted from landfills, reducing our carbon footprint
say about their Naia™ Renew adoption in the 2022 Reformation sustainability report:
and creating value from waste. We’re on a mission to make Naia™ Renew more than
40
%
“To become Climate Positive by 2025, we’re making sure the materials we use
50% of our textile portfolio by 2025, taking circularity global through key collaborations
reduce emissions and help us shrink our sourcing footprint. This means we have to
along the value chain, which includes mills, brands, designers and even influencers.
basically stop using virgin silk in the next year. We’ve been busy testing next-gen
certified* recycled Walking the red (and blue) carpets
alternatives to replace silk that have similar qualities but are way more sustainable.
waste materials
We launched styles with Naia™ Renew, a silk alternative that we think has a lot of
Sustainable fashion was a hit for celebrity style in 2023 as English fashion designer Stella
potential to help us make this transition. It’s produced in a closed-loop process from
McCartney designed two gowns made with Naia™ fibers. Actress Viola Davis wore a custom
60% sustainably sourced and renewable wood pulp and 40% hard-to-recycle waste
Naia™ cellulose acetate gown to the British Academy Film Awards (BAFTA), and actress
materials that would otherwise end up in landfills, all adding up to a low carbon
Learn more about Naia Billie Lourd donned a McCartney dress made with Naia™ to the annual Vanity Fair Oscar
sustainability goals
footprint and a traceable circular fiber that’s biodegradable and compostable.”
Party. The gowns featured the versatility and beauty of our sustainable fiber blends.
International interest
In April 2023, textile customers from Japan visited Eastman’s Kingsport, Tennessee,
headquarters to meet with our fibers leadership team, tour the textiles manufacturing facility,
and accept the Naia™ Global Sustainable Partnership Award for their inspiring efforts to
transition their cellulose acetate inventory to Naia™ Renew. This collaboration is an effort
to help forward the Eastman Naia™ mission to make sustainable textiles accessible to all.
*Recycled content allocated via ISCC-certified mass balance approach.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
31
EASTMAN AVENTA RENEW
Eastman scientist excited about Aventa
Q&A with Jos de Wit
Jos de Wit, an Eastman scientist for 35 years, has had a remarkable career. One of his most
exciting projects has been working on Eastman Aventa™ compostable materials, showcasing
his passion for sustainable innovation.
The product line includes Aventa Renew, which is unique because it’s made from a combination
of biobased content from sustainably sourced trees and certified recycled content from
molecular recycling. Use of Eastman’s carbon renewal technology allows molecules from
non-compostable plastics to ultimately be turned into compostable materials. This is a great
example of how Eastman is leading the way in becoming a sustainable materials company.
Aventa Renew products are biobased, have received U.S. Food and Drug Administration
clearance for food contact applications, and are used to manufacture single-use disposables like
protein trays, cutlery and straws. Articles made from Aventa Renew can be certified as home and
Jos de Wit
industrial compostable and are recognized by microorganisms as a food source and therefore
Technology Fellow
(he/him/his) will not remain as microplastics. That means restaurants can put both food waste and Aventa
Renew articles into the same compost stream without introducing contaminants. This will
improve the diversion of food waste from landfills and convert that waste into valuable compost.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
32
EASTMAN AVENTA RENEW
Eastman scientist excited about Aventa (continued)
Q&A with Jos de Wit
Here’s what de Wit had to say in a conversation about Aventa:
What’s the difference between Aventa and Aventa Renew?
They are chemically identical, and both are made with biobased content from
sustainably sourced trees. Aventa Renew is made with a combination of certified
recycled content from waste plastic that we recycle through carbon renewal
technology to produce molecular building blocks that we purify and then build
back up to a polymer with the same properties.
Why are you so excited about Aventa products?
Aventa compostable materials could help address two of the most vexing
problems we face: climate change and the quality of soil used to grow our food.
When food waste goes to a landfill, it anaerobically degrades. Instead of
mostly producing carbon dioxide, it now also makes significant amounts
of methane. Both are greenhouse gases, but methane is 28 times more
powerful at trapping heat in the atmosphere than carbon dioxide. Diverting
food waste from landfills to composters will turn food waste into a carbon-
nutrient-rich soil supplement that improves topsoil quality in agriculture.
Aventa food service products can make it easier to compost containers
and cutlery together with food in quick-service restaurants. In the U.S., we
currently discard 63 million tons of food waste, of which 55% goes into landfills
annually, but currently only 4% is composted. This could change with the right
compostable material like Aventa as well as a better collection infrastructure.
That 63 million tons of food waste, combined with 35 million tons of yard
waste, could make 50 million tons of compost. The agriculture sector alone
could use over 200 million tons of compost a year to replenish lost soil. Finally,
healthy soil amended with compost is also an excellent carbon dioxide sink.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
33
“You don’t get many chances Microbeads: A tiny biodegradable
in your career to tell your kids
product creates big changes
you worked on something that
had a positive impact in making Sometimes, it’s important to focus on the little things.
the world more sustainable for
Microbeads are heavily impacting the planet and Deep Bhattacharya is among the many
future generations. I’m happy
Eastman employees taking big steps to change that.
to say that I can because of
As vice president of care solutions technology and operations, Bhattacharya is involved with
our work at Eastman with multiple businesses within Eastman, including care chemicals, animal nutrition and specialty “At Eastman, we have more than 80 years of experience in
cellulosic technology,” Bhattacharya said. “We leveraged
fluids. Every business is different, but one of the most exciting projects he’s championed is
microbeads and being able
our core competencies in cellulose-based chemistry to
biodegradable microbeads for personal care brands.
to help reduce the amount of provide a compelling solution to meet the functional
Microbeads are used across personal care industries due to their multifunctional properties, needs of traditional microbeads with a biodegradable
microplastic in the environment.”
including moisturizing, exfoliating and blurring effects for leave-on and rinse-off products. alternative. After a series of iterations, we’ve created
multiple prototypes based on cellulose ester chemistry
Right now, personal care brands are eager to find a biodegradable replacement for traditional
Deep Bhattacharya that can deliver on both the performance and
microbeads in their formulations. With expectations from consumers to create quality, eco-friendly
Vice President, Care Solutions Technology sustainability goals for personal care brands. The
products and government regulations banning intentionally added microplastics, brands are put in a
and Technology Operations cellulosic microbeads are derived from biobased sources
(he/him/his) challenging, yet exciting position to innovate. Eastman has taken up the challenge to create biodegradable
and are biodegradable, thereby enabling a circular
microbeads that enable brands to meet consumer expectations without harming the environment. Also, solution for cosmetic formulators seeking to move away
third-party, dermatological clinical testing substantiated that Eastman microbeads are hypoallergenic from traditional microbeads.”
and safe for skin.
We continue to make progress on this innovation. Bhattacharya said Eastman is actively working
with global and regional formulators on multiple microbead end-use applications in the personal care
sector. Eastman recently received a certificate of biodegradability for our microbeads, as third-party
testing by RespirTek™ confirmed that our microbeads are biodegradable in freshwater. RespirTek is a
bioenvironmental services laboratory that conducts independent testing that meets ISO/ASTM standards.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
34
Governance
Eastman’s climate strategy and goals are guided by our climate policy
and managed through our corporate sustainability governance structure.
That includes our climate and carbon working group, environmental impact
sub-council, and oversight by our Eastman executive team-led Sustainability
Council and Board of Directors.
Strategy
Our sights are set on carbon neutrality by 2050. We plan to get there through
energy efficiency, increasing our use of renewable energy, utilizing emerging
technologies, and continuing to innovate, design and scale sustainable solutions.
Business risk/opportunity
Climate-related risks and opportunities are managed through our
emerging issues management system, which is integrated into our
corporate sustainability governance structure through the economic impact
sub-council. Risks and opportunities with substantive strategic impact are
Mitigating incorporated into decision-making at the corporate and business level.
Metrics and progress
We continuously seek to increase transparency around our climate performance
and progress. One way we hold ourselves accountable is by annually reporting and
climate change
publishing our climate metrics through the CDP Climate Change questionnaire.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
35
CARBON NEUTRALITY
Commitment to decarbonization
drives progress on our climate goals
3. Pursuing strategic partnerships and initiatives to advance the
Eastman is committed to decarbonizing our operations and working across the value
Forbes recognizes Eastman
chain to reduce our carbon footprint. understanding of climate change to bring forward innovative solutions
for climate leadership
We are collaborating to mitigate climate change. Some of those efforts include:
We have established an overarching goal of achieving carbon neutrality for our Scope 1
Eastman’s leadership on mitigating climate change was
and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2050. Continuing our progress toward that
• We are members of Together for Sustainability and collaborated with the chemical
goal, we have reduced our combined Scope 1 and 2 GHG footprint by 16.3% compared recognized in 2023 by Forbes, one of the world’s leading
industry to bring harmonization and transparency to product carbon footprints
to a 2017 base year.
business magazines.
through the publication of a new standard.
Our decarbonization strategy is guided by Eastman’s climate policy, which includes
• We joined the Renewable Thermal Collaborative (RTC), a global coalition with a
Forbes published its first-ever Net Zero Leaders list in
three commitments:
mission to reduce carbon emissions by scaling up industrially relevant renewable
June 2023, and Eastman was ranked No. 46. The recognition
1. Developing material solutions to address society’s heating and cooling solutions.
highlights the top 100 U.S. public companies positioning
climate change challenges • We are participating in the development of the chemical sector guidance for the
themselves to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and ultimately
Our molecular recycling technologies, for example, enable new materials to be produced Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) by serving on the Expert Advisory Group. offset them by 2050. Read more about the award here.
at a reduced carbon footprint. By using plastic waste as feedstock, molecular recycling • We are members of the Center for Climate & Energy Solutions (C2ES) as part of its
Business Environmental Leadership Council.
reduces reliance on fossil feedstocks and produces virgin-quality intermediates
• We participated in the U.S. Department of Energy’s Low Carbon Pilot program.
with 20%–50% less greenhouse gas emissions than heritage processes.
We’ve also been recognized with several awards from the DOE through its Better
y
e f f i c i e ncy
2. Reducing our carbon footprint, building resiliency measures, g
Plants initiatives as we work constantly to find ways of reducing greenhouse gas e r
n
E
and managing climate change risks and opportunities
emissions throughout our operations.
a n s f o rmation
W pue
r
cin hc ar se ea ds ee ld
e
co tu rr
ic
u its ye io nf
N
re on rte hw Aa mble
e
re icn ae r ag ny
d
i n
Eu
2 r0 o2 p2 e, a wn ild
l
bb ey r2 e0 n3 e0 w, a10 b0 ly%
so
o uf
r
co eu dr
.
• W Spe
h
b ee rag ’a
s
n
L
Cco Al l aa ub to or mat ain tig
o
i nn s2 o0 f2 tw2 aw ri et .h
S
S pp hh ee rara i®
s
o an
le
t ah de
i
nfo gr t gh loc bo am
l
i pn rg
o
vit ie dr ea rt oio fn of
P r
o
c e
a
s n’s
s
mt r
o le c u l a r r ecycling technologies
m
We are also working to improve energy efficiency and explore alternative energy
ESG performance and risk management software, data and consulting services.
e:
East
w
a
b l e e nergy
pl
n
e
solutions such as clean hydrogen, carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS),
Sphera’s LCA automation solution allows businesses to quickly receive holistic, xam
R
e
E
real-time analysis and insights into the environmental footprint of their product e
t e chnol
and other technologies.
a
ti v o g
i
portfolios. The tool will help businesses more effectively reduce GHG emissions n e s
r
e
at every step of production, from design to assembly. Learn more about our work t
l
A
with Sphera here. Carbon
neutrality
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
36
Energy efficiency excellence:
core to our climate strategy
Eastman’s excellence and expertise in energy efficiency are core to our
climate strategy, and we’re proud of the continued recognition of our
accomplishments — including awards from the U.S. Department of
Energy (DOE) in successive years.
We received a 2023 Better Practice Award from the DOE in recognition
of an organizational structure that integrates our energy management
and sustainability teams. This structure has leveraged Eastman’s energy
management experience and elevated the importance of energy efficiency
to our broader sustainability strategy. As part of this effort, we have over
70 active energy efficiency projects with a projected value of $20 million.
The DOE also awarded us a 2022 Better Project Award for implementing
software at our Kingsport plant that led to a 2% improvement in energy
savings — enough to power 9,000 homes for a year.
Up to the climate challenge
We’re also members of the DOE’s Better Climate Challenge. Through
this program, we’ve committed to reducing portfolio-wide Scope 1 and
Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions by at least one-third within the next
decade — a goal that can be met in part through energy efficiency.
1⁄
We’ll share energy-saving strategies with industry peers and 4,900 $20
3
M
members of this DOE initiative and ENERGY STAR®.
ENERGY STAR® also recognized us with a 2023 Top Project award
tons of GHG in projected cost savings reduction commitment
for a process improvement in Kingsport which resulted in an energy
removed by a for 70 active energy portfolio wide in
consumption reduction. This improvement created a 43% energy
efficiency projects
Kingsport energy Scope 1 and 2 GHG
savings for that process which translates into an estimated
efficiency project emissions by 2030
emissions reduction of 4,900 tons of GHG for the year.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
37
Eastman window films help “Our performance films improve the
quality of life around the globe by helping
mitigate change, boost livability
solve great challenges today, and we
Our climate strategy must go beyond reducing our operational energy use and greenhouse gas emissions. expect they’ll become even more vital in
As a material innovation company, Eastman can have a wider impact by making products that help mitigate
the years to come. Solar control window
climate change, such as the solar control window films offered by the Eastman performance films family
films help protect our skin from harmful
— LLumar®, SunTek® and V-Kool™.
ultraviolet rays and can be a valuable
We need sunlight in our daily lives, yet the sun can dramatically impact energy use in our homes and
where we work.
solution to reduce energy consumption.
Solar films help control the sun’s heat and help block harmful ultraviolet rays. Automotive window It inspires our team to innovate window
films can help reduce the use of air conditioning, which can lead to improved gas mileage or electric
films that help protect the people we love
car range. In buildings and homes these films can save on cooling costs and associated greenhouse gas
emissions. In commercial buildings, Eastman window films can also increase energy efficiency, typically and the planet we call home.”
providing energy savings of 5%–15%, depending on glass, film type and other building parameters.
The ability of window film to help keep interiors cooler in warm weather helps improve thermal comfort
and indoor environmental quality for building occupants, contributing to green building verification
Erin Bernhardt
programs such as LEED.
General Manager,
Performance Films
(she/her/hers)
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
38
CIRCULAR SOLUTIONS AND BETTER CARBON FOOTPRINT “It’s truly inspiring to see our teams
translate Eastman’s strategic vision
Molecular recycling tackles global plastic
into tangible solutions that tackle the
most urgent global challenges. By
waste and climate change simultaneously
addressing the issue of plastic waste
while reducing our carbon footprint,
Eastman’s approach to circularity and mitigating climate change are part of a holistic strategy that has transformed the company. Through
we showcase a remarkable blend
leadership toward a circular economy, we can revolutionize how we meet the world’s material needs in a more sustainable way — and that
of innovation and responsibility.
approach can concurrently help mitigate climate change.
This level of ingenuity, combined
Our molecular recycling technologies keep hard-to-recycle plastic waste from going to landfill or incineration. They also produce
with our established track record in
new materials with a lower carbon footprint than our heritage processes.
energy efficiency, drives us toward
Our molecular recycling technologies are prime examples of how transforming our processes is core to our climate strategy. By replacing carbon neutrality.”
fossil resources with waste plastic for feedstock, these molecular recycling technologies can produce materials with certified recycled
Courtney Eastman
content with a reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
Director, Global Sustainability
Third-party experts have confirmed life cycle assessment (LCA) studies that show the improvement of our two technologies, carbon renewal
and Decarbonization
technology (CRT) and polyester renewal technology (PRT), for the production of chemical intermediates compared to heritage processes.
(she/her/hers)
LCA is a commonly used methodology that analyzes the potential environmental impact of our products. Eastman performs cradle-to-gate
LCAs, looking at environmental impact from the raw materials to the manufacturing of a final product, as well as all the steps in between.
Driving circularity forward with a focus on climate in new PRT facilities.
Our Kingsport manufacturing facility uses CRT to break down mixed waste plastics into molecules. We then use these molecules to create Preliminary LCA studies indicate:
a range of plastic resins, fibers and acetyl/oxo chemical products that include certified recycled content. Our LCA study, critically reviewed
S T E S T E
by CE Delft, shows that CRT enables a 20% to 50% improvement in carbon footprint for production of those molecular building blocks. E R E R
Y Y
L L
O O
We commissioned a study from Quantis, an international expert in LCA methodology, to assess PRT. The Quantis study independently concluded
P R P R
that producing monomers through PRT in Kingsport results in 20% to 30% fewer greenhouse gas emissions compared to traditional processes. E E
N N
E E
These lower footprint monomers are then used to make a variety of new materials in Kingsport.
W W
L A L A
Preliminary LCA studies conclude the planned PRT facilities in France and the second U.S. location will produce recycled polyester products
up to 75% up to 70%
with lower greenhouse gas emissions compared to traditional methods. The France site will be able to achieve up to a 75% reduction in carbon
footprint for polyester given renewable energy sources and low carbon fuel; the second U.S. location will be able to achieve up to a 70%
Expect France-based PRT to reduce Expect second U.S. PRT site to reduce
reduction using renewable energy and decarbonization technologies. When considering the avoided incineration of the plastic waste that’s used
GHG emissions for polyester up to 75% GHG emissions for polyester up to 70%
for feedstock to the PRT facilities, the reductions increase to more than 100% for the France site and 85% for the second U.S. location. These
compared to traditional processes compared to traditional processes
preliminary studies are pending third-party review.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
39
SCOPE 3
Adriel Gonzalez
Direct emissions from sources controlled
Senior Chemical Engineer Better understanding through
SCOPE
1 or owned by an organization, such as
(he/him/his)
power generated by on-site boilers and
technology and collaboration
furnaces, emissions from vehicles, etc.
After working more than 10 years in Eastman manufacturing, senior chemical engineer
Adriel Gonzalez joined the life cycle assessment (LCA) team in January 2023.
Gonzalez is now helping advance our understanding of Eastman’s Scope 3 greenhouse gas
emissions. He has worked with Eastman’s procurement team to implement new technology
and work with suppliers. Eastman is using LCA to study and better understand Scope 3 emissions.
Generated from energy purchased
SCOPE
2
by an organization such as electricity
“Tracking Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions are pretty straightforward,” he said. “We have data there,
or steam
but Scope 3 is somewhat ambiguous because it relies on data tracking from outside of Eastman.
The use of new technology is helping advance our visibility of Scope 3. Eastman is implementing
new software, SiGREEN, to verify carbon footprint data throughout the supply chain. SiGREEN will
give Eastman a holistic and better understanding of our upstream and downstream carbon footprint.
The program will also enable Eastman to share our carbon emissions data with customers for their
Indirect emissions that occur throughout
Scope 3 tracking while maintaining Eastman’s confidentiality and security.
an organization’s value chain, including
Eastman’s SiGREEN implementation is a direct result of our membership with Together for Sustainability
emissions from suppliers and customers,
(TfS). This initiative focuses on increasing sustainability of the chemical industry supply chain. As a
and from the use of its products. The
member, we request suppliers complete the TfS-endorsed EcoVadis sustainability assessment on
Scope 3 category is broad and includes
environment, labor practices, fair business practices and sustainable procurement. We monitor metrics
“We need to look at Scope SCOPE emissions associated with things like
3
around EcoVadis, provide feedback to suppliers and encourage improvement actions where needed.
transportation and distribution
3 holistically by working
of raw materials from suppliers to a
internally and implementing
company, emissions generated by
To learn more about the different scopes of greenhouse gas emissions
distributing products to customers,
new processes that collect and what they mean, click here.
business and commuter travel by
more external data relevant
employees, and emissions generated by
to Scope 3.” disposal or products at their end of life.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
40
Innovation for electric vehicles
Electric vehicles (EVs) are transforming the way drivers take on the road —
and the prevalence of EVs is changing the materials used in automaking.
As EVs become more popular, so does the need for premium laminated glass.
The average premium EV uses >3x more glass than a standard vehicle. As a result,
EVs create unique challenges and needs for automotive designers and manufacturers,
particularly when it comes to lightweight glazing. Saflex™ PVB interlayers help reduce
unnecessary weight to maximize electric vehicle driving range. Our interlayers for
laminated glass use thinner glazing for windshields, sunroofs and side glass to reduce
the overall vehicle weight and increase aerodynamics to reduce energy use.
Eastman’s Saflex interlayers provide automotive designers and original equipment
manufacturers creative and production flexibility to meet consumer expectations
of sustainability and cabin comfort.
Saflex elevates the EV driving experience by making it safer and more comfortable in three ways:
Enabling lightweighting Solar reflection for Enhancing safety
for longer range energy management connectivity with large
head-up displays
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
41
Water
stewardship
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
42
Eastman Water Policy drives
focus on stewardship
At Eastman, we recognize that now more than ever, global water stewardship is required to achieve effective and
sustainable solutions to our climate crisis. A 2020 United Nations-Water report, “Water and Climate Change,” noted
an increase of water use by a factor of six over the past 100 years. Water use is expected to grow because of increasing
population, and the report notes that climate change will exacerbate challenges in water-stressed regions and increase
stress even in regions where water is currently abundant.
Natural resource management is embedded in our corporate strategy of how we use, reuse and conserve water.
The Eastman Water Policy is a fundamental element of our natural resource management plan. We are applying our
innovative technologies and expertise as we collaborate with organizations, engage in joint initiatives and perform critical
assessments that help provide a deeper understanding of our water use and impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems.
Here are some examples of our progress:
We are participating in two National Alliance for Water Innovation (NAWI) projects across three Eastman
sites. The University of Texas is leading the research efforts in our collaboration to develop a circular
water systems analysis tool for industry. And Lawrence Berkeley National Lab and UCLA are the leading
researchers in our collaborative effort to develop a modeling approach for optimizing water treatment.
All of our manufacturing sites are performing water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) self-
assessments to identify gaps and opportunities for improvement as part of the WASH initiative.
Eastman has begun American Chemistry Council (ACC) Water Body Risk assessments at sites with high
freshwater withdrawals and sites in water-stressed regions.
Eastman materials also have an impact on water stewardship. Our products serve the global water
treatment market, including intermediates for flocculants. Flocculation is the process of encouraging
the collection of solids in the water so they can be more easily removed by filtration.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
43
Biodiversity
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
44
Developing our biodiversity strategy for a better future
Q&A with Jasmine Crumsey Forde
What is biodiversity and why does it matter to Eastman?
Biodiversity allows ecosystems to function properly, and it includes all organisms across different terrains such
as air, water and land. It’s also influenced by environmental conditions, including pollution, disturbances and
land loss. Ultimately, biodiversity is an indicator for the quality of the environment. The entire ecosystem is
interdependent. If we don’t have biodiversity, we can see the ecosystem start to collapse, impacting things
we rely on for survival, such as food, clean water, medicine and raw materials. At Eastman, we recognize that
sustaining biodiversity is a part of maintaining our right to operate.
What’s the purpose of the biodiversity working group?
Our biodiversity working group is in charge of outlining a path to identify, monitor and assess risks and
impacts on biodiversity throughout our operations. We work to develop Eastman’s commitments to
biodiversity and how they integrate with other sustainability efforts like environmental justice and water.
In working toward creating a strategy, the good thing is that Eastman has already been contributing to
biodiversity efforts in the way we operate our manufacturing facilities, how we source our raw materials,
and our strong customer partnerships.
What are some things Eastman is already doing for biodiversity?
In partnership with Keep Kingsport Beautiful, our employees have participated in installing pollinator gardens
Jasmine Crumsey Forde
at elementary schools across the city to promote local pollinator biodiversity and create educational
Talent Development and Sustainability Manager
opportunities for local students. In Longview, Texas, we’ve been recognized as a Conservation Certification
(she/her/hers)
Gold site by the Wildlife Habitat Council.
As an Operation Clean Sweep® Blue member company, Eastman is committed to controlling and eliminating
Jasmine Crumsey Forde is leading our biodiversity
plastic pellet losses to the environment. We have enhanced our internal reporting to better capture data
working group, which is charged with developing
associated with plastic pellet, flake and powder containment loss in accordance with American Chemistry
Eastman’s biodiversity strategy. A talent development
Council (ACC) guidance. We’re engaging with our transportation partners on the importance of pellet loss
and sustainability manager, she earned a doctorate in
prevention, containment and cleanup, and we are preparing for OCS certification programs being developed
ecology and evolutionary biology from the University
in the U.S. and Europe. We’re pleased to report that in 2023 there have been no OCS Blue reportable plastic
of Michigan.
pellet losses to the environment outside company-operated facilities.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
45
Developing our biodiversity strategy
for a better future (continued)
What are you aiming for with the biodiversity strategy?
As we work toward developing formal goals, they will need to cover different topics to be effective:
1. We have to understand primary impact areas on biodiversity and align both solutions and
engagement opportunities with these impacts.
2. We have to look at our operations and how our operational sites impact surrounding communities,
bodies of water, air quality and organisms.
3. Last, we have to leverage partnerships with external organizations that align with our standards
and values to ensure our efforts target the most pressing needs at each site.
What does working on biodiversity mean to you personally?
Working on biodiversity holds great personal significance for me, as someone who deeply appreciates
and loves nature. As an ecologist with a background in studying how forests and grasslands respond
to changes in species communities and climate, I have witnessed the complexity within ecosystems
firsthand. In my previous career and now at Eastman, I have been fortunate to work alongside
passionate individuals who share a common concern for the environment and its well-being. This
collaboration has been a major driving force for me, as it highlights the importance of collective
impact in understanding and mitigating the impacts of human activities on nature. Helping Eastman
progress toward biodiversity commitments provides a unique opportunity to explore the complexities
of ecosystems from a different perspective. By helping our organization first understand its impacts
on nature, we can strive to ensure that our actions have positive, nature-oriented impacts over time.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
46
Governance
Eastman has executive and senior-level oversight and governance across the
functions of I&D, health, safety and wellness, and social impact with meetings
by the people and society sub-council on a regular cadence as we understand
and address how we holistically care for society.
Strategy
People are at the heart of Eastman’s corporate strategy. By taking a holistic
approach, we focus on providing physical, financial and emotional well-
being to our employees; innovating material solutions for our customers;
and creating healthy, vibrant, inclusive communities where we operate.
Business risk/opportunity
At Eastman, our commitment lies in manufacturing products that prioritize
the safety of our employees and the satisfaction of our customers. As the
world navigates the aftermath of a global pandemic and grapples with
geopolitical challenges, we recognize the far-reaching implications on
the business landscape. With the global population projected to reach 10
billion by 2050, we remain steadfast in our dedication to the well-being of
Caring
our people and society as a whole. We will continue to create an inclusive
environment built on a diverse set of backgrounds, driving positive systemic
changes inside and outside of our walls. These perspectives are imperative to
accelerate innovative solutions that address society’s most pressing needs.
for society
Metrics and progress
Eastman is taking a comprehensive approach in how we impact people and society.
We are focused on the health, safety and inclusion of our employees while adding
diverse talent across the company. We will continuously improve our collective
safety processes as well as better understand drivers of internal talent movement.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
47
CARING FOR SOCIETY
Zero-incident mindset
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
48
ZERO-INCIDENT MINDSET
A zero-incident mindset
drives our safety approach
Safety is a core value that is foundational to the company’s strategy, and every Eastman team member is
expected to apply a zero-incident mindset approach to safety — for themselves and those around them.
Aligned to the company’s basic safety expectations, all employees are responsible and accountable for
our safety performance, regardless of their role or title. These commitments and expectations include:
• Take time to do the work safely.
• Protect yourself and others.
• Recognize, communicate and eliminate hazards.
• Wear your personal protective equipment correctly.
• Follow procedures, checklists and safe work practices.
• Report and learn from all injuries and incidents.
• Stop work if you can’t do the job safely.
• Ask if you don’t know.
Transformation of our safety culture and performance yields progress
While safety has been foundational to how we operate for decades, we’ve challenged ourselves to take our
commitments to the next level. We established a corporate goal to achieve top quartile safety performance
as measured against American Chemistry Council (ACC) and American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers
(AFPM) companies, and we set annual continuous improvement targets to measure our progress. Following
a thorough review of incident and injury data, we identified the top root causes, the potential hazards
and risks related to each injury, and potential gaps in procedures and training at all employee levels.
Based on this assessment, we established an aggressive safety strategy in 2022, marking a significant step
change in our safety culture and performance — and our changes resulted in measurable progress.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
49
ZERO INCIDENT MINDSET “While we’ve made significant progress
in the right direction, we recognize
A zero-incident mindset
these improvements are not enough,
drives our safety approach (continued) and we have doubled down on our
safety commitments in 2023. We are
driving further reductions in injuries
and incidents, improving in some
The actions we took in 2022 covered four focus areas: As a result of these efforts and commitment from our global
leadership commitment to zero, personal safety, team, Eastman’s safety performance improved significantly in manufacturing areas from double-
process safety and asset integrity. Therefore, we: the second half of 2022 to deliver year-over-year improvement. digit incidents to nearly zero. We are
seeing a shift in our safety culture to
• Established an executive-led process safety governance committee • Second-half 2022 OSHA recordable injury rate decreased by nearly 50%
one that reflects a learning organization
relative to first-half 2022 performance. Year-over-year compared to our
• Increased expectations and opportunities for leaders focusing on proactive processes,
2021 performance, we reduced our OSHA recordable injury rate by 18%.
at every level to spend more time “in the field” with
identifying and addressing safety
our manufacturing and maintenance teams • Second-half 2022 Tier 1 process safety incidents also decreased
barriers, and understanding that safety
by more than 60% relative to first-half 2022 performance.
requires continual improvement.”
• Recommitted to personal accountability for all Eastman
employees through our basic safety expectations • Year-over-year, we reduced Tier 1 events by 17%.
Brian Long
• Reinforced operational excellence and procedure discipline • Year-over-year, we reduced serious injuries & fatalities (SIFs) by one-third.
Vice President, Global Health, Safety and Environment
through improved, standardized programs and enhanced
(he/him/his)
• Year-over-year, we also reduced Days Away from
training for leaders and front-line team members
Work (DAW) injuries by one-third.
• Addressed all identified actions needed to mitigate the
greatest process safety risks across our global sites
• Committed more capital resources to fund
Click here to view
additional high-value safety projects
safety metrics.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
50
At Eastman, our approach to sustainability, circularity and safety is deeply ingrained in both the products we
create and our manufacturing processes. We believe it is our responsibility to develop innovative products
and applications that address disruptive macro trends at the molecular level, ultimately making a positive
impact on everyday lives and enhancing the quality of life worldwide. We are committed to manufacturing
products that prioritize the safety of our employees and the satisfaction of our customers.
Global product stewardship and regulatory affairs (PSRA)
• Reports into the executive vice president and chief legal officer’s organization
• Monitors the laws and regulations that affect our products/maintains a rigorous product safety
review process that ensures our products are among the safest and most effective materials
on the market
• Maintains compliance with global regulatory requirements
• Performs hazard assessments for 100% of products (process is thoroughly documented in
our Chemical Management Policy)
• Systematically reviews the intended use of all Eastman’s products
Eastman’s PSRA program also actively pursues third-party certifications for sustainable
products in markets that value an independent perspective on Eastman’s holistic approach to
chemical management. These efforts include both adhering to governmental requirements
and conducting voluntary initiatives. These include, but are not limited to:
• Adhering to the Responsible Care® Product • Assessing chemical substances manufactured
Safety Code or processed as nanoscale materials
ZERO-INCIDENT MINDSET
• Supporting and adhering to international • Ensuring responsible raw material sourcing
Product safety
chemical control laws
• Protecting animal welfare
• Supporting a sustainable portfolio
• Implementing the Globally Harmonized System
• Identifying substances of concern of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals
• Performing hazard assessments
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
51
PRODUCT SAFETY
Making a difference through safer, more sustainable materials
The Tritan™ legacy
Eastman produces a wide range
Simply put, Eastman Tritan™ copolyester is one of the most important material innovations of the past two decades.
of products that have a significant
Why? Because it’s the material of choice for so many applications – from blenders to baby bottles, from French
presses to sports bottles and food storage containers — where health, safety and performance are important.
impact on our daily lives. These
Tritan is free of styrene and bisphenol A (BPA) and isn’t manufactured with any bisphenol compounds. Tritan
products address various needs and
is also a material with no estrogenic or androgenic activity.
are designed to be more sustainable
Solus™ performance additives for sustainable food packaging
and safer for our employees,
Paper is widely used for food packaging, and Eastman Solus™ performance additive is a solution with sustainable
supply chain and customers. In
advantages. Cellulosic-based Solus™ is ideal for use as an additive or copolymer in extrusion coatings that are
the following pages, we will delve used in cups for hot or cold beverages, ice creams, soups, various fast foods, and numerous other packaging
applications. By using Solus™, materials of concern can be avoided and packaging thickness can be reduced.
deeper into how we prioritize the
Solus™ is industrially compostable and enables recycling of paper-based food packaging. It doesn’t contaminate
well-being of society by providing
the paper recycling stream like fossil-based plastic coatings would or adversely affect the quality of industrial
compost — or the crops the compost helps to grow — when a product reaches its end-of-use.
safe and sustainable solutions.
Saflex™ provides enhanced security for windows
Saflex™ PVB interlayers for laminated glass don’t just help with beautiful design. Long used in safety glazing, they’re
now configured for additional security applications — even to help resist ballistic attacks. Interest in advanced interlayers
for safety has grown in recent years, especially for educational, industrial, government and commercial buildings.
Security-enhanced glass tends to resist penetration better than basic laminated safety glass and can range in
performance from simple impact to multi-assault resistant glazing. Most Saflex interlayers can be successfully
incorporated into a bullet-resistant construction. Saflex can also protect against forced-entry attempts in an active
shooter attack. When you need it most, safety glazing made with Saflex can provide a critical line of defense.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
52
PRODUCT SAFETY
Helping maintain animal health and nutrition — inside and out
The animal nutrition industry plays a crucial role in meeting the needs of our Eastman Keitex™ feed hygiene enhancers
growing global population. With the world’s population projected to reach nearly
Maintaining the quality of feed and feed raw material before it’s consumed is a
10 billion by 2050, the industry faces the challenge of producing more food
crucial step in taking care of animal health. Eastman Keitex is a blend based on
while using fewer resources in a responsible, safe and sustainable manner.
organic acids that work synergistically to minimize the presence of pathogens and
The production, well-being and care of livestock are vital for a healthy and
maintain nutritional quality of feed. Eastman Keitex contains preservatives and
thriving global food market. At Eastman, our team of animal nutrition specialists
feed hygiene condition enhancers that prevent or reduce post-contamination
combines scientific expertise, regulatory knowledge, and a reliable supply
growth Salmonella, E. coli, and other Enterobacteriaceae pathogens.
chain to optimize feed preservation and hygiene. We focus on promoting
better gut health and ensuring the economic viability of the industry.
Our specialty animal nutrition feed additives are carefully formulated blends
Eastman Protaq™ acidification solutions
of active ingredients. These additives contribute to improved productivity by
keeping animals healthy and resilient, enhancing food chain safety and Water is an essential nutrient for livestock. When used as a water additive,
ultimately promoting human health as we strive to feed the growing population. Eastman Protaq products help animals maintain and improve their gut
This page highlights three prime examples of Eastman solutions that help health microflora, improving overall animal health. Eastman Protaq
future-proof our food supply. acidifies water, reducing its pH. This ultimately reduces the pH in the
stomach to maintain intestinal flora balance in the animals.
“Our team is deeply passionate about animal nutrition,”
said Inge Peeters, manager for animal nutrition application
development and technical service. “Whether it’s reducing Eastman Entero-Nova™
antibiotic resistance, developing solutions to animal
A growing challenge in the animal nutrition industry is maintaining gut integrity and
welfare problems or safeguarding the quality of feed and
minimizing bacteria proliferation without the use of antibiotics. With Entero-Nova
feed raw materials, we know our feed additives can help
solutions, producers can control and target problematic pathogens within the gut
make a big difference.”
Inge Peeters,
without destroying beneficial microbiome. As a monoglyceride-based solution,
Manager, AD/TS
it can effectively treat the entire gastrointestinal tract, lower inflammation
Animal Nutrition
and make the gut barrier stronger with antimicrobial effects.
(she/her/hers)
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
53
PRODUCT SAFETY
Saflex™ HUD: Advanced technology can improve road safety
When you’re driving, taking your eyes off the road for even an instant can matter immensely in terms of
safety risk. Eastman’s work to advance innovation in polyvinyl butyral (PVB) interlayers means an innovation
we pioneered and was once reserved for fighter jets — head-up display, or HUD — is now available in mainstream
vehicles, helping make driving safer.
Eastman’s Saflex wedge interlayers allow critical information — such as speed, onboard navigation data, potential
road hazards — to be projected onto a vehicle windshield in a virtual image that’s readable for the driver. Since
windshields aren’t flat or perpendicular to the sightline of drivers, there must be correction to the surface.
Interlayers between the two layers of windshield glass help to mitigate the image separation being reflected
on the different surfaces of the windshield.
Saflex interlayers have made this image separation, called “ghosting,” a thing of the past. Our HUD interlayers provide
optical correction that results in the highest quality projection image in the market. HUD can help keep a driver’s eyes on
the road, which is important for safety. Studies have shown that a driver’s reaction time is delayed by two to four seconds
when they take their eyes off the road, even briefly. Calculations by C. Roberts Consulting Engineers showed this delayed
reaction time, in an emergency breaking situation, can result in an additional 282 feet before a vehicle comes to a stop.
Saflex’s advances in interlayers help automobile engineers cost-effectively implement HUD features for more vehicles,
and those interlayers can also decrease cabin noise and reduce vehicle weight.
“Saflex has the broadest portfolio of solutions on the market,” said Romaine Delorme, global segment market manager
for Eastman. “This global industry is highly technical, and innovation is key for long-term success. And that’s why I am
at Eastman. I get to work with people who are experts in their field and eager to collaborate to take HUD to the next
level, which can help increase driver safety.”
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
54
PRODUCT SAFETY
Tetrashield™ is making food safer, and AI is
speeding up the innovation cycle
Billions of people worldwide count on metal cans to deliver their food and drinks. Eastman recognizes the consumables aren’t the only thing in those cans that count.
Tetrashield™ protective resin systems help make the contents safer.
Tetrashield has unique qualities for use in formulating the can linings that prevent interactions between the food and metal. Tetrashield linings are made to last, ensuring
the contents retains their taste and consistency even after months or years of storage.
Tetrashield also protects consumer health because it isn’t manufactured with bisphenol A (BPA). The use of BPA, part of traditional epoxy-based can coatings, is being
phased out due to concerns about its health effects. Eastman chemists developed Tetrashield to perform like traditional liners without the materials of concern.
And brands are taking notice. First adopted in Europe for metal packaging, Tetrashield is now expanding into other parts of the Western Hemisphere and the Asia Pacific
region. It’s a significant innovation for billions of people who use canned foods every day. And the innovation cycle for Tetrashield is speeding up, thanks to Eastman’s use
of machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI).
“We’re excited about the possibilities of AI, because it’s accelerating the discovery of innovative, environmentally friendly materials,” said Jake Goodrich,
director of coatings technology.
The sustainability gains of digital innovation
Eastman’s information technology division worked with application development scientists to determine how AI and machine learning could help in collaborating with
customers on Tetrashield formulations. The collaboration yielded significant results.
“Instead of needing to design experimental plans that may require more than 30 distinct trials, scientists were able to input their performance goals to the AI model,
which considered millions of possible solutions before delivering the most likely candidates,” said Mark Ewing, a digital expert who works with Eastman R&D.
Goodrich said this contributes to the rapid design of new resins and candidate screening for end-application performance, helping Eastman provide faster development
of sustainable innovations and improve the efficiency of lab operations. Eastman also uses AI to evaluate film formation properties of low-VOC coalescent technologies
to accelerate the pace of innovation.
“Now a scientist can perform only a few confirmation experiments, saving time and resources, before delivering value to our customers,” Goodrich said. “By leveraging
AI and machine learning algorithms, Eastman can analyze the data from previous experiments, identify patterns based on the structure of our materials and the
formulations of our customers, and predict material properties and performance. This accelerates the discovery of innovative, environmentally friendly materials.”
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
55
CARING FOR SOCIETY
Broadening our circle
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
56
BUILDING AN INCLUSIVE CULTURE We invite you to take a
Our strategic pillars
deeper dive by reading
our 2023 I&D report,
Inclusion and diversity is an integral part of our strategy
which we will publish
to accelerate innovation and care for society.
here in Q4 2023.
Mitigate unconscious bias Foster an inclusive culture Build inclusive teams Accelerate diversity in leadership
We are committed to fostering inclusive True inclusion requires intentional actions that enable Continuous assessment of recruiting and hiring Eastman offers a range of personal and professional
leadership behaviors at all levels within every team member to operate authentically at their practices helps us source and attract a broad pool development opportunities to support the career
our organization. Our goal is to create an best. To create an inclusive environment, we invest of candidates, opening pathways for the talent aspirations of all team members. To address gaps
environment where every team member can in six Eastman Resource Groups (ERGs), learning we need. To that end, we have strengthened in leadership representation, we prepare
bring their authentic selves to work and make and development opportunities, and systems and our sourcing strategies, selection processes underrepresented colleagues for leadership
meaningful contributions. To achieve this, we processes that promote allyship and encourage full and benefit programs to attract diverse talent, roles through tailored development programs
employ experiential workshops, educational engagement. Our goal is to ensure everyone who and meet the needs of a diverse world. and inclusive talent review processes.
resources, and progress information that works at Eastman feels valued for what they bring to
empower leaders and their teams to identify the business and fully accepted for who they are.
opportunities and successes. These initiatives
serve as a robust foundation for enhancing
engagement, driving exceptional results,
and cultivating a culture of innovation.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
57
KEY PRINCIPLES
“Creating an inclusive and diverse work
Ensuring diverse and inclusive representation worldwide
environment is not only the right thing to do,
but it also increases our competitiveness in
Q&A with Kaamilya Clinkscales-Major
a global economy and optimizes business
performance. By building inclusive teams with
diversity of thought, backgrounds, experiences
As the global director of inclusion and diversity, Kaamilya valuable insights into our organizational health in this
and demographic make-up, we stimulate
Clinkscales-Major designs and executes innovative area. Employee sentiment surveys, listening sessions,
the exchange of novel ideas, challenge
stay and exit interviews, ERG participation and feedback
strategies and inclusive programs to create a supportive
assumptions and support collaboration to
channels are all methods in which we gauge the
and enriching environment for all employees.
take our innovation to the next level. We’re
effectiveness of our efforts to foster a work environment
proud of our efforts to promote inclusivity to
where all employees feel accepted, respected, receive
Why is inclusion and diversity so important
fair treatment, and have a sense of belonging. better equip teams to rise to the challenge of
to Eastman?
solving some of the most complex problems
What are we doing to increase inclusivity and
facing our customers and society as a whole.”
We care about our employees and want to ensure all are diversity at Eastman?
empowered to contribute to their full potential. Inclusion
and diversity helps facilitate an environment where We are making immense efforts to broaden our talent
everyone feels accepted, respected, valued and safe to pools by ensuring our job advertisements are reaching Kaamilya Clinkscales-Major
be their authentic selves. Through encouraging open diverse talents worldwide. We are developing relationships Global Director of Inclusion and Diversity
communication and exchange of information, respectful and partnerships in areas and with organizations (she/her/hers)
interactions and deeper engagement, we can improve the not previously utilized, including diverse schools,
quality of our interactions and create space for all voices universities and professional organizations. Taking
and ideas to be heard. This leads to a thriving, innovative advantage of novel technology platforms has also given
and productive work environment at Eastman. us visibility to a broader range of talents within and in
adjacent industries to attract the best candidates.
How do you measure inclusion and diversity?
Within the company, we are providing learning and
coaching programs and workshops. Our leaders are
There are multiple ways we can measure progress
learning how to be more inclusive and gaining techniques
on inclusion and diversity. A few ways we gauge the
to recognize and mitigate bias. We also conduct benefit
effectiveness of our diversity efforts include tracking
and pay equity analyses to ensure these employment
progress through workforce metrics, as well as outreach
features meet the needs of all our employees and that
efforts to broaden the scope of the talent that apply to
our pay practices are fair and equitable across the
our career opportunities. Measuring inclusion is more
board for women and underrepresented groups.
complex but there are a few indicators used to provide
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
58
We operate six Eastman Resource Groups (ERGs), formed to create an inclusive culture and help underrepresented
groups professionally. They include both members of the underrepresented groups and their allies.
These ERGs serve as advisers to our human resources department. Members also take part in community events
and build awareness of the populations they represent.
Our ERGs include: APEX (Asian and Pacific Islander community); Catalysts (women); Connect (African American
and Black community); Equality (LGBTQ+ community); EVETS (Active military members and veterans);
and Mosaic (Latino and Hispanic community).
For more information, visit Eastman Resource Groups.
Accelerates Eastman’s growth by promoting inclusion, representation and
empowerment of Asian and Pacific Islander team members and allies
Acts as a catalyst for advancing career and leadership opportunities for
women and ensuring they receive recognition for their contributions
Promotes the inclusion, development and advancement of African
American and Black team members throughout the company
Ensures LGBTQ+ team members and their allies are visible, fully accepted
and empowered to be authentic in all aspects of employment
Eastman Resource Groups help
Supports an environment where military veterans and active reservists
are fully engaged and their unique skills are integrated and valued
foster a more-inclusive culture
Leverages the unique backgrounds, skill sets, and talents of Latinos
and Hispanics to drive innovation and business growth
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
59
BUILDING AN INCLUSIVE CULTURE
Eastman Resource Groups
What have you learned about yourself Connect ERG is helping drive diversity What is APEX trying to accomplish?
through Equality? at Eastman. Why is that important?
“We are all about empowering the Asian and
“I feel like before I was an ally of Equality, I really didn’t “I think that without diversity, ideas get stagnant. Pacific Islander community. We’re just making
know much about the LGBTQ+ community — and You need some form of change to help challenge people aware of any challenges or barriers and
you don’t know what you don’t know. I would say the status quo — to bring about the best in our unique cultural backgrounds — and also just
that I had some unconscious bias. Becoming an ally whatever organization you’re a part of. We’re having people enjoy our culture and learn more
and learning more about the community and really doing better at Eastman than we were. We about what our communities represent.”
educating myself has opened my eyes and helped definitely have a ways to go, but I feel positive
Stephanie Yeap, APEX
me see things through different perspectives.” and hopeful in the direction we’re going.”
(she/her/hers)
Dani Woodrum, Equality Andrew Yacinthe, Connect
(she/her/hers) (he/him/his)
How can Catalysts and other ERGs What have you learned in working How have you connected through EVETS?
make a difference? with Mosaic?
“It’s a great place to be a veteran. I’ve been able
“We need to make sure we remove the barriers “I have learned that we need a lot of volunteers, to connect with local veterans groups and do a lot
that we have so that we actually make sure a lot of help to do what we wanted to do. When we of networking. And it’s very humbling when
people can come with their authentic selves first started, we were five or six sitting around the you see all the opportunities out there
table, and we thought we could do everything. And
and also that they can fully contribute.” and ways you can assist in the community
instead of trying to conquer the world and trying to
that could change somebody’s life.”
Arzu Aktas, Catalysts
do a lot of things, we’re trying to focus our efforts
(she/her/hers) Amanda Robinson, EVETS
into more specific ideas to see if we can accomplish
(she/her/hers)
them better and get a lot more done that way.”
Ignacio Garcia, Mosaic
(he/him/his)
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
60
Healthy, vibrant,
inclusive communities
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
61
SOCIAL IMPACT
Promoting an inclusive community
We’re committed to helping build thriving communities that are sustainable in a holistic sense. Communities
with safe and healthy housing and workplaces, high-quality education, and adequate health services.
These communities are also inclusive and create a sense of belonging and self-worth for all.
Eastman public affairs, in collaboration with multiple groups and countless individuals on our global team,
connects with communities where we operate to identify needs and help close gaps to raise the quality of life.
This year, our Eastman Resource Group (ERG) community engagement nearly tripled, and these
groups continued creating an inclusive culture at Eastman and in our communities.
• Twenty-four APEX members volunteered at Roosevelt Elementary to showcase cultural elements
from Japan, South Korea, India, China, Singapore and the Philippines through a variety of educational
activities, games and crafts.
• We sponsored and participated in the Longview, Texas, MLK Parade. Our ERG volunteers walked
alongside Eastman’s parade float and handed out cards to community members with links to job openings
and links to Eastman-supported scholarship opportunities. This helped us engage with the community
while building our talent pool.
• Sixty-five Catalyst volunteers organized a Habitat for Humanity project for a single
mother in Kingsport. Working in shifts, they built the house from the ground up.
• We partnered with the Kingsport Chamber on two sponsored events for community socials
in celebration of Women’s History Month and Pride Month. Both events were open to the
community and featured ERG members as panel speakers to share their stories.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
62
SOCIAL IMPACT Revamping how we make an impact Advancing entrepreneurship and innovation
We began using a new online platform called For the second year, Eastman sponsored the RISE UP fashion show,
Promoting an inclusive community
MyImpact for Eastman employees to become more inspiring young designers across seven countries to create sustainable
involved in their local and global communities. fashion. Eastman awarded $20,000 to the contest winner of the year
Developing a talent pipeline
MyImpact lets us understand and appeal to our as part of our company commitment to educate emerging, talented,
employees’ passions when it comes to civic sustainability-minded designers. Royal College of Art MA graduate
Our work-based learning program lets high school juniors and seniors gain
engagement, which has helped us get more active Haquing Ding took home the prize this year for her entrepreneurship
hands-on manufacturing experience, creating a pipeline of local talent for
involvement. The platform created a new access point in sustainable knitwear made with Eastman Naia™ cellulosic fibers.
Eastman. The program, which began in 2021, currently serves two Kingsport,
for accepting employee charitable contributions,
Tennessee, high schools with plans to expand to other schools and plant
enabling an additional $100,000 in giving and bringing
sites due to growing interest and success. This year we welcomed our
first full-time employees who completed the program while attending our total 2022 employee donations to almost $2.5
Dobyns-Bennett High School: Ryder Brown and Vincent Salyer. million. We were also excited to see a 189% increase
in the number of MyImpact employee registrants and
“This program has shown incredible success in its first years,” said
nearly 6,000 volunteer hours throughout the year.
Jeff Fain, director of manufacturing workforce development. “Now
we’re ready to expand work-based learning to other Eastman sites
and focus on growing diversity within manufacturing.”
6,000
volunteer hours throughout the year
Help with Ghent music festival
$2.5
Eastman team members in Ghent North volunteered at Rock for Specials,
M
a pop rock festival for people with special needs and their companions, in
July 2022. The two-day event is specifically adapted to the audiences’ needs,
approximate total of
and some Eastman volunteers signed up for 12-hour-plus shifts at a time.
2022 employee donations
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
63
SOCIAL IMPACT
Promoting an inclusive community Eastman Foundation
Packing crates to battle food insecurity A nonprofit 501(c)(3) organization, Eastman Foundation is designed to support and promote economic
More than 50 Rotterdam team members joined an Eastman Professional success, social well-being and environmental integrity. As part of its mission, the foundation places a special
Development Community initiative to help pack crates for the Rotterdam emphasis on directing programs toward improving the quality of life in communities where we operate.
Food Bank. Volunteers assisted in packing more than 15,000 food crates
Here are examples of Eastman Foundation programs designed to lift up communities, colleagues and friends in
of fruits and vegetables between September and December 2022.
times of strife and in the face of natural disaster; to improve and support good environmental practices; and to
The Rotterdam Food Bank is the oldest and largest food bank in The
foster partnerships to improve educational opportunities and support the next generation of innovators:
Netherlands and distributes to more than 30 locations for pickup.
• In March 2022, we began our Help Ukraine campaign, where employees could take action and
make an impact for the people of Ukraine after their country was invaded by Russia. More than 300
global participants made a donation through Eastman’s campaign. The Eastman Foundation donated
15,000
$100,000 to relief organizations and matched an additional $50,000.
• The Eastman Foundation committed an over $2.5 million investment to establish partnerships with
historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs) — the largest single investment our foundation
packaged food crates of fruits and vegetables
has ever made — as part of our commitment to tap into the top of a diverse talent pool.
• Our foundation awarded the Appalachian Service Project (ASP) $50,000 to support flood relief efforts in
eastern Kentucky. ASP helped rebuild homes destroyed by flooding in July 2022 across the region.
• We’re supporting forest restoration in Brazil through an Eastman Foundation investment that will
improve the surrounding water ecosystem. This initiative is part of Eastman’s partnership with SOS Mata
Atlântica and Bracell to donate tree seedlings.
• Five years after Hurricane Maria, Puerto Rico has still not recovered from the devastation. And then
Hurricane Fiona hit in September 2022, causing even more destruction. That’s why our foundation,
in collaboration with the Mosaic ERG, committed $50,000 to hurricane relief. Mosaic identified organizations
in need of financial assistance. Comedores Socials de Puerto Rico received $15,000 from the Eastman
Foundation, which aims to combat hunger in low-income communities. Come Colegial, a student organization
at the University of Puerto Rico Mayaguez Campus, received $35,000 to help end student food insecurity.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
64
INDICES AND APPENDIX
2022 goals
and progress
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
65
2022 goals and progress
Eastman has made sustainability integral to our strategy, driven by innovation and focused always on people. Eastman has the responsibility and opportunity to lead, joining others to address climate change,
mainstream circularity as an economic model, and build a more inclusive and equitable world. As sustainable innovation drives our approach to each of these topics, we have set collective goals to further embed
sustainability standards into the operating model of our company. Eastman is dedicated to the integrity of our reporting, celebrating progress and examining where improvements can be made.
Together, we can create A Better Circle.
Goal Progress details
Mitigating climate change
Reduce our absolute greenhouse gas Scope 1 and 2 emissions
We have reduced our absolute Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 16.3% against our 32% goal by 2030, measuring from our 2017 base year.
by one-third by 2030 to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050
100% of NAR and EU purchased electricity will be renewable
We have achieved 14% of our renewable energy goal.
by 2030.
Eastman is at the beginning of our Scope 3 journey, and we acknowledge that there is much more work to do. We are actively participating in a Together for Sustainability (TfS) workstream focused on
Eastman is committed to comprehensively understanding our
developing and launching a standard guideline for consistent product carbon footprints across chemical supply chains. While reducing emissions that are directly in our control is the priority, we are
downstream Scope 3 footprint and developing a strategy that
collaboratively working with key customers and looking for opportunities to reduce product footprints. We will continue to expand the capabilities of conducting life cycle assessments (LCA), analyzing
begins to address it.
the potential cradle-to-gate environmental impacts of our products and their implied impact along the value chain.
Eastman continues to focus on the sustainability of our innovation pipeline and developing a deep understanding of how our products perform within our customer’s products and across the value chain.
Innovate to provide products that enable energy savings and
Eastman is actively reducing our product footprint through our operations and manufacturing processes while bringing new products to market that help consumers realize a breadth of sustainability
greenhouse gas reduction down our value chains and at the
advantages. We are continuing to invest in our top innovation platforms such as: specialty plastics circular solutions (Renew), Saflex™ PVB for next-generation head-up displays, Aventa™ compostable
consumer level
materials for single-use food service products, Tetrashield™ protecting resin systems, and Naia™ cellulosic fibers for circular textiles.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
66
2022 GOALS AND PROGRESS | CONTINUED
Goal Progress details
Mainstreaming circularity
Recycle more than 500 million pounds (225,000 MT) of plastic
Eastman recycled 18.1 million pounds (8,000 MT) of plastic waste in 2022. Eastman is planning to start up our methanolysis plant in Kingsport, Tenn., in 2023. With a capacity of approximately 220 million
waste annually by 2030 via molecular recycling technologies,
pounds (100,000 MT) of plastics recycled annually, the launch of this plant will strengthen our ability to accomplish this goal. The amount of plastic waste we recycled in 2022 was a more than 40% increase
with a commitment to recycle 250 million pounds (110,000 MT)
over our 2021 volume.
annually by 2025
Since its launch, two rounds of grants have been issued from the Recycling Partnerships PET Coalition to expand PET recycling.
Catalyze improvement of the recycling system by continuing to
expand capabilities to recycle more complex products and by Per Eastman and Domtar’s request, The Recycling Partnership completed a feasibility study for a materials recovery facility in the Northeast Tennessee local region and are assessing options for a
participating in initiatives and collaborations to drive increased longer-term solution to support recycling.
collection
Eastman and the University of Tennessee recycled or reused a staggering 38,452 pounds of waste at a 2022 college American football game, setting a world record for a college recycling event.
Caring for society
Achieve gender parity in alignment with our commitment
In 2022, we increased gender parity to 38%, moving toward our goal to have a workforce that is more representative of our communities.
to Paradigm for Parity
Be a leader for U.S. racial equity within our industry sector In 2022, we increased representation in our workforce to 14%.
Drive new product innovations that advance solutions for It is our responsibility to develop new molecules, products and applications to address disruptive macro trends at the molecular level, making a difference in everyday lives while enhancing the quality of life
society’s most pressing needs while ensuring product safety around the world. While we strive to develop products with an improved safety profile, our best examples include: fat-coated butyrate and Keitex feed hygiene enhancer for animal nutrition, biodegradable
and transparency personal care microbeads, and sustainable additives for our coatings and care businesses.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
67
2022 GOALS AND PROGRESS | CONTINUED
Goal Progress details
Process safety
Corporate strategy for achieving top quartile performance includes four main initiatives: 1) asset integrity, 2) essential operating and maintenance disciplines, 3) process hazard analysis and 4) facilities siting.
Achieve top quartile performance as measured against American
Chemistry Council (ACC) and American Fuel & Petrochemical
Second-half 2022 OSHA recordable injury rate decreased by nearly 50% relative to first-half 2022 performance. In year-over-year performance compared to 2021, we reduced our OSHA recordable injury
Manufacturers (AFPM) companies
rate by 18%.
Eastman continues to implement a Process Safety Challenged Site Process to focus resources based on an analysis of event data. Through Eastman’s process hazard analysis program, our operations teams
Process safety events (PSE) Tier 1 + Tier 2 = 0.10 addressed actions identified to mitigate the greatest process safety risks across our global sites.
(reduction in events by 80% in 10 years)
Tier 1 process safety event rate at the end of 2022 was 0.10. Tier 2 process safety event rate at the end of 2022 was 0.25.
Personal safety
Eastman recognizes the challenge of eliminating serious injuries across all locations. By analyzing data, we targeted the areas with the most risk for SIF events and deployed additional resources to engage
these work areas. Following unacceptable safety performance during the first half of 2022, including five SIF events, we identified visible leadership as a critical component to shift our safety performance
Zero serious injury and fatality (SIF) events and culture. We increased expectations for leaders at every level to spend more time in the field with our manufacturing and maintenance teams.
We saw significant improvement and closed 2022 with six total SIF events. Efforts continue into 2023 on our commitment to zero.
Zero potential serious injury and fatality events Eastman expects flawless execution of our life-critical processes (LCP). Because of this, we established that by definition any identified gap in the performance of an LCP shall be classified as a P-SIF event.
(P-SIF) associated with life-critical procedures Additional emphasis has been placed on LCP audits and leadership engagement in this space to improve operational discipline and implementation.
Environmental
Environmental performance metric defined and implemented In 2021, Eastman defined a process to identify key environmental performance indicators and implemented a modern environmental management system, which included performance dashboards to track
2021; established baseline in 2022; achieve a 75% reduction progress against environmental key performance indicators. The new system enables more efficient data collection and visualization to assist facilities and the organization in identification of opportunities
by 2030 to improve both short- and long-term operational metrics. Establishment of a baseline is complete in 2022 with the focus on achieving a 75% reduction by 2030.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
68
2022 GOALS AND PROGRESS | CONTINUED
Goal Progress details
Level 1 environmental performance indicator (EPI) —
For environmental events, Eastman uses a severity criterion comparable to API RP 754 tiered system. Establishment of the 2022 baseline is complete with the focus on achieving a 75% reduction by 2030.
75% reduction by 2030
Implemented Operation Clean Sweep Blue and plan to publicly We have met our goal and are now committed to the Operation Clean Sweep® Blue program. We have also enhanced our internal reporting to better capture data associated with pellet, flake and powder
report on pellet spills containment loss. We are pleased to report that there have been no OCS Blue reportable plastic pellet losses to the environment outside company-operated facilities.
Air emissions
95% reduction in SO by 2030 compared to 2017 baseline The 2022 SO value of 3,188 tons per year (tpy) represents a 70.8% reduction compared to the 2017 baseline of 10,900 tpy. We are on track to achieve our 2030 goal to reduce SO by 95% from 2017 levels.
2 2 2
50% reduction in NO by 2030 compared to 2017 baseline The 2022 NO value of 6,060 tons per year (tpy) represents a 27.8% reduction compared to the 2017 baseline of 8,400 tpy. We are on track to achieve our 2030 goal to reduce NO by 50% from 2017 levels.
x x x
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
69
About this
report
This sustainability report reflects Eastman’s advancement toward the meaningful and measurable
goals that will ensure we make progress toward the environmental, social and governance (ESG)
expectations of our customers, employees and investors and the communities we serve. It is focused on
both our forward momentum as well as the headwinds we incurred during the 2022 through mid-2023
time frame. The quantitative data of this report is in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) standards and discloses material information across the Jan. 1 to Dec. 31, 2022, time frame unless
otherwise noted. In addition to the GRI, this report references additional frameworks, including the
Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and Sustainability Accounting Standards
Board (SASB), to meet requirements for the United Nations Global Compact Communication on
Progress and references the relevant United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Eastman updated our corporate sustainability materiality assessment in 2022 and has identified
topics of significance and indicators that align to our strategy and are most relevant to our
internal and external stakeholders. Our process included an examination of our business risks
Eastman has reported toward its
and opportunities, evaluation of external trends, external expertise and our own understanding
sustainability commitments since
of our business. See the “Materiality” section of this report for a full explanation of our findings.
2009. You can reference Eastman’s
This sustainability report, as well as past reports, covers Eastman’s wholly owned operations and is past sustainability reports linked here.
used as a means of updating stakeholders on our progress against stated goals and commitments
while giving a broad overview of our collective impacts and activities. As we acquire new sites and
material businesses, we remain committed to integrating information within three years of acquisition.
Eastman corporate audit services assesses the information in conformance with standards set by
the Institute of Internal Auditors and verifies that supporting documentation exists. Much of the
financial data is taken from our annual Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filing.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
7700
Report of
independent
accountants
Report of Independent Accountants
To the Board of Directors of Eastman Chemical Company,
We have reviewed the accompanying management assertion of Eastman Chemical Company (Eastman) that the
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions metrics for the year ended December 31, 2022 in management’s assertion, are
presented in accordance with the assessment criteria set forth in management’s assertion. Eastman’s management
is responsible for its assertion and for the selection of the criteria, which management believes provide an objective
basis for measuring and reporting on the GHG emissions metrics. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on
management’s assertion based on our review.
Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) in AT-C section 105, Concepts Common to All Attestation Engagements, and
AT-C section 210, Review Engagements. Those standards require that we plan and perform the review to obtain
limited assurance about whether any material modifications should be made to management’s assertion in order
for it to be fairly stated. The procedures performed in a review vary in nature and timing from, and are
substantially less in extent than, an examination, the objective of which is to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether management’s assertion is fairly stated, in all material respects, in order to express an opinion.
Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. Because of the limited nature of the engagement, the level of
assurance obtained in a review is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had an
examination been performed. We believe that the review evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide
a reasonable basis for our conclusion.
We are required to be independent and to meet our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with relevant
ethical requirements related to the engagement.
The firm applies the Statements on Quality Control Standards established by the AICPA and, accordingly,
maintains a comprehensive system of quality control.
The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgment. In performing our review, we performed
inquiries, performed tests of mathematical accuracy of computations on a sample basis, read
relevant policies to understand terms related to relevant information about the GHG emissions metrics,
reviewed supporting documentation in regard to the completeness and accuracy of the data in the GHG
emissions metrics on a sample basis, and performed analytical procedures.
GHG emissions quantification is subject to significant inherent measurement uncertainty because of such things as
GHG emissions factors that are used in mathematical models to calculate GHG emissions, and the inability of these
models, due to incomplete scientific knowledge and other factors, to accurately measure under all circumstances
the relationship between various inputs and the resultant GHG emissions. Environmental and energy use data used
in GHG emissions calculations are subject to inherent limitations, given the nature and the methods used for
measuring such data. The selection by management of different but acceptable measurement techniques could
have resulted in materially different amounts or metrics being reported.
Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to Eastman’s
management assertion in order for it to be fairly stated.
Portland, Oregon
June 30, 2023
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
71
Metric quantity
Definition of metric/ in metric tons of carbon
GHG emissions metrics
assessment criteria1,2,3 dioxide equivalent
(mtCO e)
2
Direct (Scope 1) Direct GHG emissions from stationary combustion, chemical processes,
5,970,870
GHG emissions and fugitive (volatile organic compounds and refrigerants) sources.4,5
Location-based:
RERPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
836,571
Energy indirect (Scope 2) Indirect GHG emissions from the generation of purchased grid electricity
Management assertion
GHG emissions and steam, using the location-based and market-based methods.6
Market-based:
799,008
Total GHG emissions Direct GHG emissions from Scope 1 and indirect GHG
6,769,878
(Scope 1 and Scope 2) emissions from Scope 2 (market-based).4,5,6
With respect to the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions metrics presented by Eastman
Other indirect (Scope 3)
Chemical Company (Eastman) in the table to the right for the year ended December 31, Indirect GHG emissions from air, rental car, and rail transportation
GHG emissions — Category 6, 6,831
and hotel stays of employees for business-related activities.7
2022, management of Eastman asserts that the GHG emissions metrics are presented in
Business travel
accordance with the assessment criteria set forth below. Management is responsible for
the selection of the criteria, which management believes provide an objective basis for 1
Eastman considers the principles and guidance of the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s
measuring and reporting on the GHG emissions metrics and for the completeness,
(WBCSD) The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition, GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance: An
accuracy and validity of the GHG emissions metrics.
Amendment to the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard, and Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard: Supplement to the
GHG Protocol Accounting and Reporting Standard (together, the “GHG Protocol”) to guide the criteria to assess, calculate, and report GHG emissions.
Organizational boundary
2
Organizational boundary for the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions metrics relate to GHG emissions are expressed in CO e and include carbon dioxide (CO ), methane (CH ), nitrous oxide (N O), and industrial gases, such as
2 2 4 2
Eastman’s manufacturing sites (non-manufacturing sites are excluded) over which it hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and perfluorocarbons (PFCs). Sulfur hexafluoride (SF ) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF ) are not emitted by
6 3
had financial control during the reporting year. Joint ventures which are consolidated in Eastman’s manufacturing sites. Emissions data by individual GHG is not disclosed as a majority of CO e relates to CO . Carbon dioxide
2 2
Eastman’s financial statements because Eastman has a controlling interest are included in equivalent emissions are calculated by multiplying actual fuel usage and calculated process emissions and refrigerant gas loss by the
Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions at 100%. Joint Ventures which are nonconsolidated relevant emission factor taking into account Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) of the compounds as defined by the Intergovernmental Panel
in Eastman’s financial statements because Eastman does not have a controlling interest on Climate Change’s (IPCC) Fourth Assessment Report. All emission factors are reviewed annually and updated annually as applicable.
are included in Scope 3 emissions calculations. Scope 3 category 6, business travel GHG
3
GHG emissions quantification is subject to significant inherent measurement uncertainty because of such things as GHG emissions factors that are used
emissions are inclusive of employees at all of Eastman’s consolidated and nonconsolidated
in mathematical models to calculate GHG emissions, and the inability of these models, due to incomplete scientific knowledge and other factors, to
manufacturing and non-manufacturing sites. Emissions of divested businesses are
accurately measure under all circumstances the relationship between various inputs and the resultant GHG emissions. Environmental and energy use data
excluded for the entire reporting year in the year divested and new manufacturing sites
used in GHG emissions calculations are subject to inherent limitations, given the nature and the methods used for measuring such data. The selection by
are included starting in the year and month in which it first manufactures saleable goods.
management of different but acceptable measurement techniques could have resulted in materially different amounts or metrics being reported.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
72
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
4 7
Related to other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions — category 6,
Data estimations for reported Scope 1 GHG emissions are less than 1%.
business travel:
5
Related to direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions:
• Air travel, rental cars and rail: Calculated based on (i)
• Emissions from stationary combustion of fossil fuels (natural gas, liquified petroleum gas, distillate fuel oil, residual fuel oil, coal and fuels produced on site):
business travel data (mileage) obtained through annual
- Consumption is measured based on manufacturing site-level monthly (or aggregate) third-party invoices for purchased fossil fuels.
reports from SAP Concur Global expense data a third-party
- Emission factors: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories as obtained from the American Chemistry Council.
travel management organization responsible for
• Emissions from chemical processes:
employees globally.
- Estimated based on engineering calculations for manufacturing processes. The GHG emissions are calculated on the basis of stoichiometry (chemical process)
• Hotel stays: Calculated based on (i) business travel data
and process parameters. The calculation outputs the quantity of CO generated by the process which is then converted to CO e using the relevant GWP.
2 2 (nights stayed) obtained through annual reports from
• Emissions from fugitives:
Concur Travel Management system, a third-party travel
- HFCs and PFCs are related to replenishment of refrigerants during 2022. Refrigerant gas loss is calculated based on site-specific refrigerant management records.
management organization responsible for employees globally.
The GWP of the individual refrigerants is then used to convert the fugitives into CO e.
2 • Emissions factors:
6
- Business travel data for air and rail travel, rental cars, and
Related to indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions:
hotel stays obtained through annual reports: Department
• Consumption is measured based on monthly third-party invoices for electricity and steam usage. A location-based or market-based emission factor (as described below)
for Environment, Food, & Rural Affairs (DEFRA) United
is then applied.
Kingdom Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company
• Emission factors for electricity and steam (location-based):
Reporting 2022.
- U.S. manufacturing sites: U.S. EPA Emissions & Generation Resource Integrated Database (eGrid) subregion emission factors for 2021 — January 2023.
- All other manufacturing sites: 2022 Carbon Footprint™ Country-Specific Electricity Greenhouse Gas Emission Factors V0.1 — February 2023.
• Emission factors for electricity (market-based):
- Eastman used Guarantees of Origin (GOs) and Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) during 2022 to contractually procure renewable energy in relation to the following
manufacturing sites: Oulu, Finland; Newport, Wales; Ghent North, Belgium; Martinsville, Virginia; Kingsport, Tennessee.
- GOs and RECs applicable to the 2022 reporting year have been both contracted and retired as of the date of this management assertion.
- Emission factors were applied based on the GHG Protocol hierarchy and availability of data including the factors below listed from highest to lowest precision:
1. Electricity contract — GOs and RECs considered 0 g CO e/MWh.
2
2. Utility-specific market-based fuel mix (proportionate amounts of fuels driving electricity consumption) for the most recent reporting year comes from the
Association of Issuing Bodies European Residual Mixes 2021.
3. Other grid-average emission factors are the same as location-based.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
73
PROGRESS
Global Reporting
Initiative index
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
74
Global Reporting Initiative index
This Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index corresponds to sustainability information presented in our annual sustainability report, our proxy statement and annual report, our website, and other
disclosures. Sustainability information presented in our sustainability report is prepared in accordance with GRI Standards core guidelines and focuses on performance in calendar year 2022.
The information included also serves as Eastman’s Communication on Progress as a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and an update on our role in the
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Disclosure UNGC
Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG
number connection
The organization and its reporting practices
2-1 Organizational details Who is Eastman
Entities included in the organization’s
2-2 About this report
sustainability reporting
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point About this report
2-4 Restatements of information About this report
2-5 External assurance External assurance
Activities and workers
Activities, value chain and other
2-6 Eastman brands
business relationships
2-7 Employees Appendix
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
75
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED
Disclosure UNGC
Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG
number connection
Governance
2-9 Governance structure and composition Appendix, Board of Directors, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Bylaws, 2023 Proxy Statement
Nomination and selection of the highest Corporate Governance Guidelines, Bylaws, Certification of Incorporation,
2-10
governance body 2023 Proxy Statement
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body 2023 Proxy Statement, Corporate Governance Guidelines
Role of the highest governance body in
2-12 Corporate Governance, Sustainability Governance, 2023 Proxy Statement, CDP Climate Change
overseeing the management of impacts
Corporate Governance; 2023 Proxy Statement, Corporate Governance Guidelines,
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts
Audit Committee Charter
Role of highest governance body
2-14 Governance
in sustainability reporting
Corporate Governance, Corporate Governance Guidelines, 2023 Proxy Statement,
2-15 Conflicts of interest
Audit Committee Charter
Corporate Governance Guidelines, 2023 Proxy Statement, Board Stockholder Communication
2-16 Communication of critical concerns
and Engagement Policy, Audit Committee Charter
Collective knowledge of the highest
2-17 Corporate Governance, Corporate Governance Guidelines, 2023 Proxy Statement
governance bodies
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
76
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED
Disclosure UNGC
Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG
number connection
Corporate Governance, Corporate Governance Guidelines, 2023 Proxy Statement, Audit Committee Charter,
Evaluation of the performance of
2-18 Compensation and Management Development Committee Charter, Finance Committee Charter, Environmental,
the highest governance body
Safety and Sustainability Committee Charter, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter
2-19 Remuneration policies Corporate Governance Guidelines, 2023 Proxy Statement
2-20 Process to determine remuneration Corporate Governance Guidelines, 2023 Proxy Statement
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio This is considered business confidential.
Strategy, policies and practices
Statement on sustainable
2-22 CEO message
development strategy
2-23 Policy commitments Values, Code of Business Conduct
2-24 Embedding policy commitments Corporate Governance, Corporate Governance Guidelines
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts Corporate Governance, Corporate Governance Guidelines, 2023 Proxy Statement
Mechanisms for seeking advice
2-26 Appendix, Code of Business Conduct, Third-Party Code of Conduct 16 10
and raising concerns
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations Corporate Governance Guidelines, 2023 Proxy Statement
2-28 Membership associations Memberships
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
77
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED
Disclosure UNGC
Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG
number connection
Stakeholder engagement
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement 16
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements As of July 1, 2022, collective bargaining agreements covered approximately 5% of Eastman’s U.S.-based workforce.
3-1 Report process of determining material topics Materiality assessment
3-2 Report a list of its material topics Materiality assessment
3-3 Report how it manages each material topic Materiality assessment
Economic performance
Direct economic value generated and
201-1 2023 10K Report, Part II, Item 8 2, 5, 7, 8, 9
distributed
Financial implications and other risks and
201-2 Appendix 13
opportunities due to climate change
Eastman provides on-site and virtual no-cost financial planning counseling resources to our employees and their
family members. In addition, multiple innovative financial technology solutions are provided at no cost to assist
Defined benefit plan obligations and other
201-3 our employees to support their financial wellness. Also, eligible employees get $1,000 per year into their Health
retirement plans
Savings Accounts (HSAs) from Eastman that can be saved for retirement.
Benefits at Eastman
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
78
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED
Disclosure UNGC
Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG
number connection
Market presence
Proportion of senior management
202-2 Appendix
hired from the local community
Indirect economic impacts
Infrastructure investments
203-1 Appendix 2, 5, 7, 9
and services supported
Significant indirect
203-2 Appendix 8, 10, 17
economic impacts
Procurement practices
Eastman’s policy is to procure products and services based on total value for the company. Factors that Eastman
considers when making purchasing decisions include competitive pricing, quality of work and materials, and timely
Proportion of spending
204-1 and trustworthy performance. Procurement strategies are continuously developed and implemented to provide 12
on local suppliers
assurance of sources for goods and services necessary to the company’s operations. Procurement strategies may
include the development of a local supply based on business needs.
Anti-corruption
Operations assessed for risks Eastman conducts an annual risk assessment of 100% of our businesses, which includes risks relating to corruption.
205-1 10, 16
related to corruption No significant risks related to corruption were reported or have been identified through the risk assessment.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
79
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED
Disclosure UNGC
Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG
number connection
Communication and training about
205-2 Appendix, Code of Business Conduct, Third-Party Code of Conduct 10, 16
anti-corruption policies and procedures
If any incident of corruption or misconduct is identified, team members are required to report this conduct. An internal
investigation is performed, and appropriate follow-up actions, including disciplinary action, are taken to remediate and prevent
Confirmed incidents of corruption the recurrence of a similar incident in the future. Eastman’s position on corruption and bribery is reflected not only in its Code of
205-3 10, 16
and actions taken Business Conduct but in specific policies, procedures and training available to all employees on bribery and corruption risks and
how to avoid them. No incidents of corruption were reported or confirmed in the reporting year. No public legal cases regarding
corruption were brought against the company or its employees during the reporting period.
Anti-corruption behavior
Any legal actions that are material for anticompetitive behavior, antitrust or monopoly practices would be disclosed in
Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior,
206-1 Eastman’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and all such actions would generally be a matter of public
antitrust, and monopoly practices
record. No legal action for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust or monopoly practices were reported in the reporting year.
Tax
207-2 Tax governance, control and risk management This information is confidential and not disclosed publicly.
Stakeholder engagement and management
207-3 This information is confidential and not disclosed publicly.
of concerns related to tax
This information is confidential and not disclosed publicly. This information is not complete at the time of this report,
207-4 Country-by-country reporting
although is required to be filed with annual tax return filings.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
80
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED
Disclosure UNGC
Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG
number connection
Energy
Eastman used about 109.2 trillion BTU in 2022 to produce products using both direct and indirect energy. About 87%
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 7, 8, 12, 13 7, 8
of direct energy was produced from purchased natural gas and coal, and about 13% was recovered fuel from feedstock.
Energy consumption outside of In 2022, Eastman used about 16 trillion BTU of indirect energy in the form of purchased steam and electricity
302-2 7, 8, 12, 13 7, 8
the organization to produce products.
302-3 Energy intensity Energy, Energy management 7, 8, 12, 13 7, 8
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy management, CDP Climate Change 7, 8, 12, 13 8, 9
Reductions in energy requirements
302-5 Energy management
of products and services
Water and effluents
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Water management
Eastman is not aware of any significant impact on any water source. At our largest manufacturing facilities in Kingsport,
Tennessee, and Longview, Texas, comprehensive river studies conducted by the Academy of Natural Sciences of Drexel
Management of water discharge-related University, formerly known as the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences, confirm that these rivers provide thriving
303-2
impacts habitats for wildlife communities.
Water management
303-3 Water withdrawal Water, CDP Water Response (W1.2b); CDP Water Response (W1.2h)
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
81
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED
Disclosure UNGC
Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG
number connection
303-4 Water discharge Water, CDP Water Response (W1.2b)
303-5 Water consumption Water, CDP Water Response (W1.2b)
Biodiversity
Operational sites owned, leased, managed in,
304-1 or adjacent to protected areas and areas of Biodiversity
high biodiversity value outside protected areas
Significant impacts of activities, products
304-2 Biodiversity 6, 14, 15 8
and services on biodiversity
304-3 Habitats protected or restored Biodiversity
IUCN Red List species and national
304-4 conservation list species with habitats in areas Biodiversity
affected by operations
Emissions
Our 2022 direct greenhouse gas emissions, based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, were 5,970,870 MT CO e, 3, 12, 13,
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 2 7, 8
CDP Climate 14, 15
Our 2022 indirect location-based greenhouse gas emissions, based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, were 836,571 MT CO e, 3, 12, 13,
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 2 7, 8
CDP Climate 14, 15
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
82
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED
Disclosure UNGC
Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG
number connection
3, 12, 13,
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Emissions, CDP Climate 7, 8
14, 15
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Emissions, CDP Climate 13, 14, 15 8
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Emissions, CDP Climate 13, 14, 15 8, 9
Eastman policies require all Eastman facilities, subsidiaries and majority-owned joint ventures that
Emissions of ozone-depleting substances
305-6 operate equipment containing ODS to develop and maintain an inventory of all ODS equipment, 3, 12 7, 8
(ODS)
including an identification of the equipment and type and quantity of refrigerant.
Nitrogen oxides (NO ), sulfur oxides (SO ), and
305-7 X X Environmental performance 3, 12, 13, 15 7, 8
other significant air emissions
Waste
Eastman takes great care to manage our on-site waste production, and we recycle many materials that would otherwise become
Waste generation and significant waste-related
306-1 waste. Our integrated global supply chain is committed to developing and using materials that are recyclable, reusable and waste
impacts
reducing whenever possible. See the following links for further information: ESG Databook, Circular economy
Management of significant waste-related
306-2 Appendix, Environmental stewardship, Responsible Care, HSES management 3, 6, 12 8
impacts
306-3 Waste generated Emissions, CDP Climate, Waste reduction 3, 6, 12, 14 8
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Emissions, CDP Climate, Waste reduction
306-5 Waste directed to disposal Waste reduction
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
83
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED
Disclosure UNGC
Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG
number connection
Employment
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Appendix 5, 8 6
Benefits provided to full-time employees
Please note that all of the benefits selected above are also provided to part-time employees in the U.S.
401-2 that are not provided to temporary or 8
Benefits at Eastman
part-time employees
401-3 Parental leave We do not report in detail on the return to work and retention rate after parental leave by gender. 5, 8 6
Labor/management relations
In the event of operational changes that involve a change in staffing levels or otherwise affect
employment, the company engages in significant planning to ensure affected employees are
Minimum notice periods regarding
402-1 treated with the utmost respect and dignity. Labor and employment law requirements, including 8 3
operational changes
but not limited to reasonable employee notice of job loss and requirements under collective
bargaining agreements, are carefully assessed in every global location.
Occupational health and safety
Occupational health and safety
403-1 Appendix, Health and safety
management system
Hazard identification, risk assessment,
403-2 Safety
and incident investigation
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
84
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED
Disclosure UNGC
Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG
number connection
403-3 Occupational health services Safety
Worker participation, consultation and
403-4 communication on occupational health Safety
and safety
Worker training on occupational health
403-5 Safety
and safety
403-6 Promotion of worker health Employee wellness
Prevention and mitigation of occupational
403-7 health and safety impacts directly linked by Safety
business relationships
Workers covered by an occupational health Approximately 14, 500 employees were employed by Eastman in 2022.
403-8
and safety management system All employees are subject to Eastman’s health and safety programs.
403-9 Work-related injuries Safety metrics
403-10 Work-related ill health Safety metrics
Training and education
Average hours of training per year
404-1 Appendix 8 6
per employee
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
85
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED
Disclosure UNGC
Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG
number connection
Programs for upgrading employee skills
404-2 Careers at Eastman
and transition assistance programs
Percentage of employees receiving regular We do not report on the percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews by gender and
404-3 5, 8 6
performance and career development reviews by employee category.
Diversity and equal opportunity
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Appendix 5, 8 6
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration Eastman establishes and administers compensation based on business needs and
405-2 8, 10 6
of women to men external market competitiveness without regard to gender.
Nondiscrimination
Incidents of discrimination and
406-1 Eastman does not publicly report the total number of such incidents or any of their corrective actions.
corrective actions taken
Freedom of association and collective bargaining
Operations and suppliers in which the right
Eastman complies with all laws designed to preserve the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining.
407-1 to freedom of association and collective 8 3
Eastman has not identified any operations at which those rights are at significant risk.
bargaining may be at risk
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
86
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED
Disclosure UNGC
Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG
number connection
Child labor
We uphold individual human rights including freedom from forced or compulsory labor and stand firmly against human
trafficking. We seek to provide a safe, healthy and desirable workplace with working conditions, wages and benefits that
meet or exceed applicable laws and reward performance. Eastman complies with all child labor laws and supports the
Operations and suppliers at significant
408-1 elimination of unlawful child labor and exploitation. We expect the same ethical conduct from our business partners. 8, 16 5
risk for incidents of child labor
Code of Conduct, Third-Party Code of Conduct, Statement on slavery and human trafficking,
Policy statement on human rights
Forced or compulsory labor
We uphold individual human rights, including freedom from forced or compulsory labor, and stand firmly against human
trafficking. We seek to provide a safe, healthy and desirable workplace with working conditions, wages and benefits that
meet or exceed applicable laws and reward performance. Eastman complies with all child labor laws and supports the
Operations and suppliers at significant risk
409-1 elimination of unlawful child labor and exploitation. We expect the same ethical conduct from our business partners. 8 4
for incidents of forced or compulsory labor
Code of Conduct, Third-Party Code of Conduct, Statement on Slavery and Human Trafficking,
Policy statement on human rights
Security practices
Security personnel trained in human
410-1 Security 16 1
rights policies or procedures
Rights of Indigenous peoples
Incidents of violations involving As of December 2022, no incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples were identified or investigated
411-1 1
rights of indigenous peoples during the reporting period. Additionally, zero operations have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
87
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED
Disclosure UNGC
Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG
number connection
Local communities
Operations with local community
413-1 engagement, impact assessments Appendix
and development programs
Operations with significant actual and potential
413-2 Appendix
negative impacts on local communities
Supplier social assessment
Eastman is a member of the Together for Sustainability Initiative (TfS), the chemical initiative for sustainable supply chains.
TfS is a member-driven initiative founded in 2011 by six major chemical companies. Since that time, membership has grown
to 47 members, including Eastman as the first U.S. chemical industry member. TfS develops and implements a global supplier
New suppliers that were screened engagement program to assess, audit and improve sustainability practices within the supply chain of the chemical industry.
414-1 2
using social criteria Under this initiative, Eastman collects information from suppliers by requesting suppliers complete an EcoVadis sustainability
assessment, which has four elements: environmental, labor and human rights, ethics, and sustainable procurement. The TfS
initiative also coordinates third-party audits of the responses to the assessments when needed. One of the guiding principles
of TfS is data sharing between the members — an assessment or audit for one member is an assessment or audit for all.
Negative social impacts in the Eastman is not aware of any significant impacts in our supply chain with respect to the
414-2 2
supply chain and actions taken environment, labor, human rights or societal issues that occurred in 2022.
Public policy
415-1 Political contributions Appendix 10
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
88
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED
Disclosure UNGC
Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG
number connection
Customer health and safety
Eastman’s PSRA program performs hazard and risk assessment reviews for 100% of its products. Monitoring potential risk
classifications drives the Eastman goal of reduction or elimination of PBT, vPvB, CMR, ED and sensitizers from Eastman’s existing
product portfolio. Monitoring hazards and risk classifications also highlights potential areas of the portfolio where there could be
capacity for improvement. Active engagement in hazard and risk assessments provides opportunities for members of the product
Assessment of the health and safety impacts of
416-1 stewardship and regulatory affairs program to proactively identify any potential human and/or environmental hazard concerns for
product and service categories
a proposed product undergoing research and development. A course of action to eliminate the potential hazards and risks can
then be designed and implemented.
Responsible Care
Marketing and labeling
Requirements for product and service
417-1 Product Safety, Product Stewardship 12
information and labeling
Eastman has not identified any noncompliance with regulations or voluntary codes regarding product or service information
and labeling for the reporting year.
Incidents of noncompliance concerning
417-2 16
product and service information and labeling All of our product safety data sheets and labeling comply with regulatory requirements for hazard communication in all
countries and regions. In 2016, we implemented the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals
(GHS) process to define, classify and communicate chemical hazard and safety information for all of our products.
Incidents of non-compliance concerning
417-3 Eastman is unaware of any significant fines in 2022 concerning marketing communications.
marketing communications
Customer privacy
Substantiated complaints concerning
418-1 breaches of customer privacy and losses Eastman is unaware of any complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy or loss of customer data in 2022.
of customer data
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
89
Global Reporting Initiative appendix
2-7 Employees corpsecy@eastman.com and leaddirector@eastman.com. Stockholders should indicate in the “ATTN:” line of the envelope or the subject
line of the email, as applicable, whether the communication is directed to the Board, an individual director or the independent directors as a
Total workforce Employment type Region
group. The Board Stockholder Communication and Engagement Policy is available by clicking here.
14,684 employees as of December 31, 2022 Full-time: 97.9% North America: 72%
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns
Part-time: 2.1% Europe, Middle East and Africa: 15%
Eastman has multiple methods available for individuals to seek advice and raise concerns in good faith, including a physical mailing
Asia Pacific: 10% address and an internal phone number and email address for Global Business Conduct (“GBC”), which is Eastman’s ethics and compliance
organization. In addition, the Company also has a toll-free hotline, website and mobile application, which are all hosted by a third
Latin America: 3%
party and allow for anonymous reporting where permitted by law.
2-9 Governance structure and composition
It is the general policy of Eastman (“the Company”) that all decisions of corporate significance be considered by the Eastman Board of These available methods are published both internally and externally and can be found in many different locations. Externally, the
Directors (“the Board”) as a whole. As a consequence, the committee structure of the Board is limited to those committees considered to be mechanisms can be found by visiting Eastman’s website and clicking the “Contact us” button then selecting “Report a concern” from
basic or required for the efficient functioning of the Board. Currently these committees are the Audit Committee; the Finance Committee; the dropdown. Additionally, they are located within the Code of Business Conduct and the Third-Party Code of Conduct, which are both
the Compensation and Management Development Committee; the Environmental, Safety and Sustainability Committee; the Finance published on Eastman’s website.
Committee; and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. (See Corporate Governance Guidelines Section III, Paragraph I
(1) - page 11.)
Internally, employees can access the different mechanisms by clicking the “Report a Concern” tile on Eastman’s intranet home screen; by
visiting the Global Business Conduct (“GBC”) SharePoint site; and through multiple policies such as the Code of Business Conduct, the
A list of committees and their members and the charters of each committee can be found here.
AP - Reporting Concerns Policy, and others, which are found within Eastman’s MyPolicyHub system.
Eastman’s 2023 Proxy Statement was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 22, 2023. A list of directors, committees,
committee members, independence, tenure, other commitments held, gender, and skills and qualifications of each member of the Board
and “Director Nominees” is on page 134 of the Company’s 2023 Proxy Statement.
The Board believes that communication and engagement with the Company’s stockholders and other interested parties is an important
component of the Company’s corporate governance practices. We have adopted a Board Stockholder Communication and Engagement
Policy to facilitate communication between stockholders and other interested parties and the Board. Stockholders and other interested
parties may send communications to the Board, any individual director, or the independent directors as a group in writing by mail to
Board of Directors, Eastman Chemical Company, c/o Corporate Secretary, P.O. Box 1976, Kingsport, Tennessee 37662-1976, or email
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
90
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE APPENDIX | CONTINUED
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Eastman works to improve resource efficiency through process optimization, reuse of steam in production processes and lighting projects
due to climate change in company buildings.
Future changes in legislation and regulation and related voluntary actions associated with physical impacts of climate change may increase
the likelihood that Eastman’s manufacturing facilities will in the future be impacted by carbon requirements, regulation of greenhouse
Emission standards or uncertainty about future standards may delay investments by our customers and, as a result, impact our future
gas emissions, and energy policy that may result in additional and increased capital expenditures, increases in costs for raw materials and
business opportunities. The direct impact of controlling CO emissions from electric power generation may impact the cost of electric
2
energy, limitations on raw material and energy source and supply choices, and other direct compliance costs.
power supplied to Eastman manufacturing facilities, our customers and our suppliers. On the other hand, climate change may represent
opportunities for Eastman with regard to the development and use of materials that enable or enhance efforts to mitigate or adapt to the
effects of climate change. For example, use of window films to enhance energy efficiency, use of interlayers in window glass to provide
Other costs or consequences include decreased demand for products related to carbon-based energy sources or increased demand
strength for storm resistance, and development of coatings for extreme exposures represent potential opportunities.
for goods that result in lower emissions than competing products and reputational risk resulting from operations with greenhouse gas
emissions. More stringent emission limits have the potential to increase both capital and operational costs. For example, Eastman’s analysis
estimates the financial impact of carbon pricing in the United States on the company to be approximately $10 million to $50 million if such
Eastman has an advantaged platform of solutions to address the challenges of plastic waste in the environment with our molecular recycling
a concept became law. This analysis of the potential impacts of a regulated price on carbon was based on review of various potential carbon
technologies. Eastman’s scale and integration provides an opportunity to accelerate the use of two recycling technologies — carbon
price points against Eastman’s emissions in the United States. The analysis also considered varying levels of free allocations in a potential
renewal technology and polyester renewal technology — and make a meaningful positive impact on the environment. Eastman was in a
regulated carbon pricing concept. Eastman complies with current regulations of GHG emissions in countries where they are regulated, such
unique position to utilize existing assets and began operating carbon renewal technology at commercial scale in October 2019.
as in the U.K., where Eastman’s emissions are subject to the U.K.’s emissions trading system (UK ETS).
In 2021, we demonstrated our commitment in material solutions that are better for people and our planet with progress on a polyester
Physical impacts and a transition to a lower-carbon economy have the potential to advantage Eastman products in some markets. As one
renewal recycling facility in Kingsport, Tennessee. This facility will support Eastman’s commitment to addressing the global waste crisis and
example, Eastman is the world’s largest producer of window tinting films for the automotive market with applications of films like LLumar®,
to mitigating challenges created by climate change, while also creating value for our stakeholders, including benefits to the local economy
V-KOOL® and SunTek®. Eastman’s LLumar, V-KOOL and SunTek films can be applied to almost any building or vehicle window to reduce
such as jobs. We continued that commitment with the announcement of plans for two additional molecular recycling plants — one in
energy consumption, lower peak demand and decrease total carbon emissions. Independent energy audits have found that buildings
France and another in the U.S. These three plants will represent an estimated Eastman investment of over $2 billion to bring circularity into
retrofitted with LLumar can realize better HVAC efficiency, resulting in energy savings of 5%–15%. Saflex® PVB interlayers are polyvinyl
the mainstream.
butyral films designed for lamination between two sheets of glass. Like LLumar, Saflex interlayers improve energy efficiency in both vehicles
and buildings. Saflex Solar Connect, introduced in 2020, provides exceptional solar heat rejection and sound damping, which combine to
As a company that seeks to grow business revenue through innovation, Eastman leverages world-class technology platforms, significant
make it particularly useful in electric vehicles where weight reduction from thinner glazing and reduced load on HVAC systems can have
scale advantages in research and development (R&D), and advantaged global market access that form the foundation of sustainable
a direct impact on energy usage and vehicle range. The potential financial impact figure of approximately $1 billion reflects the estimated
growth and differentiated products. Investment in the company’s circular economy technologies is included in company R&D expenditures
revenue associated with this group of climate-change-related products.
and will increase to support scaling up these technologies to represent a larger portion of the company’s total operations. Future
capital investments may be required to realize this opportunity. Eastman anticipates its molecular recycling initiatives could contribute
Eastman generates a significant proportion of its energy using combined heat and power. Electricity produced by combined heat and
approximately $500 million to $1 billion of new business revenue in the coming years.
power plants is more efficient than purchasing electricity from a utility with conventional power stations. Eastman’s use of cogeneration,
therefore, helps reduce the carbon emissions that would otherwise be required to operate these facilities. Energy efficiency projects also
Eastman’s reforming technology gives new life to the most complex waste plastic by recycling flexible packaging, plastic films, polyester
represent a climate-related opportunity. Specifically, Eastman’s capital budget focused on energy efficiency projects continues to be
carpet and other mixed plastics into recycled feedstocks. The resulting certified recycled feedstock is indistinguishable from material from
supported by senior management and was $5 million in 2022. Eastman’s business strategy clearly reflects an emphasis on energy reduction.
fossil feedstocks and can be used in durables, packaging and textiles. Postindustrial and pre-consumer scrap also feeds into the process.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
91
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE APPENDIX | CONTINUED
Polyester recycling technology is a positive end-of-life solution for polyester materials that might otherwise be discarded in landfills or growth across the eight-county region known as the First Tennessee Development District. While individual communities have boasted
incinerated. Through methanolysis, polyester-based products are reduced to their polymer building blocks, called monomers. They are favorable assets, the region as a whole will now have a single advocate to mitigate the challenges facing the entire region, elevate the profile
then reintroduced to the value chain as recycled polyester raw materials, delivering a true circular solution. These molecular recycling of Northeast Tennessee, and increase its ability to compete and create growth opportunities. The hub is the culmination of a three-year
technologies allow material to be recycled an infinite number of times without losing quality. This means recycled materials will have effort that began with the belief that “we are better together” when it comes to uncovering a greater level of prosperity for everyone that
more possible end uses. These technologies complement basic recycling by providing solutions for materials that cannot be addressed by calls Northeast Tennessee home. As a founding member, Eastman was the underwriter for the three-year study that resulted in the hub.
mechanical recycling.
Recognized as a global health issue in 2022 by the World Health Organization (WHO), poor oral health disproportionately affects the most
vulnerable and disadvantaged populations, and Kingsport, Tennessee, and nearby rural Appalachia is no exception. With high rates of
The company has diversified product offerings, serves broad markets and regions, and attempts to mitigate our exposure to swings
diabetes and heart disease, which are linked to poor oral health, and approximately 45% of the population considered disadvantaged under
in energy and raw material prices. These diversified product offerings and a diversified customer base mitigate potential commercial
U.S. federal guidance, Kingsport and the Northeast Tennessee region was representative of a much larger issue facing the state — the
impact to Eastman. Proposed legislation and regulations are evaluated through Eastman’s issue management process, and the impact on
increasing shortage of dental care in rural Tennessee that worsened during the pandemic. Understanding that oral health plays a key role
Eastman is estimated. We engage policymakers directly and through trade associations and consultants with the objective that any climate
in determining an individual’s quality of life, Eastman rekindled a 10-year old idea to establish a dental school and teaching clinic in the area.
change legislation or regulation enacted will not have an adverse impact on the economy or create a competitive disadvantage. Please
Partnering with the University of Tennessee Health Science Center (UTHSC), a case was made to first build a teaching clinic, which would
see Eastman’s most recent CDP Climate Change report for more details on the climate-related risks and opportunities the company has
provide UTHSC dental students in Memphis with an opportunity to train in rural Appalachia and begin closing the equity gap for oral health
identified as well as their respective estimated financial impacts.
care. After successfully secured support from local and state leadership in 2022, the next step will be to solidify funding to build the state-of-
the-art teaching clinic in Kingsport.
202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community
Eastman has a large geographic footprint within the U.S. and globally. Talent strategies are developed to align with business strategy to attract,
203-2 Infrastructure investments and services supported
acquire and retain talent. Talent is sourced proactively and reactively at the local, regional, national and international levels. Although a majority
In Martinsville, Virginia, where Eastman employs close to 800 workers at its manufacturing plant, Eastman partnered with the local
of talent is acquired at the local level, we as a company do relocate well over 100 new hires globally each year to Eastman facilities to begin their
school system to offer its Math and Science Elites program to educators from middle and high school grade levels. In 2022, more than
employment with the organization at all levels. Eastman uses a number of different approaches for identifying talent for the organization. Some
55 Martinsville teachers took advantage of the rigorous summer learning program with faculty from the East Tennessee State University’s
of the more effective methods are social media, employee referrals, career fairs, our website and job postings. The company then puts the
(ETSU) Center of Excellence in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) Education. Martinsville teachers received 55 hours of
candidates through a rigorous selection process to assess their level of capability, competencies and alignment with the organizational vision
instruction, a stipend and graduate course credit from ETSU for the two-week program to sharpen their skills for the classroom.
and culture.
In Longview, Texas, Eastman’s $85,000 investment in high school scholarships resulted in 36 students in 2022 being awarded financial aid
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported
for technical training at local community colleges. Longview partners with approximately 30 schools to introduce and publicize Eastman
As the global pandemic began to recede in early 2022, the Eastman Foundation turned its attention to Russia’s war against Ukraine and
career opportunities to students and parents in the local communities. Eastman employees work with faculty to coordinate scholarship
the unfolding humanitarian, social and economic crisis for the Ukrainian people. To show solidarity to the world and our colleagues from
applications and interviews for students seeking an applicable associate’s degree. Since 2019, Eastman has invested more than $250,000
Ukraine and the surrounding areas, Eastman launched a global employee giving campaign, resulting in $50,000 being raised by Eastman
in Longview scholarships, with many recipients later being chosen for paid internships to help develop hands-on competency.
team members and the Eastman Foundation providing an additional $100,000 in support to CARE, UNICEF, Doctors Without Borders and
the International Committee of the Red Cross.
Recognizing a lack of diversity throughout the STEM workforce, Eastman increased its support in the Future of STEM Scholars Initiative
(FOSSI) from 10 students in 2021 to another 10 students in 2022. FOSSI is a national chemical industry-wide program, which provides
Closer to its global headquarters in the Appalachian highlands, local leadership, Eastman and other anchor institutions celebrated the
scholarships to students pursuing degrees in relevant STEM areas at historically Black colleges and universities (HBCU). Scholarship
formal establishment in April of the Northeast Tennessee Hub (NETNHub), a new organization that will serve as an advocate for economic
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
92
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE APPENDIX | CONTINUED
recipients receive $10,000 per year for four years and leadership development, mentoring and internship opportunities. Eastman’s support business, it contributes to our regulatory compliance and reduces our environmental footprint. Eastman has
of the FOSSI program has led to an approximately 95% student retention rate since FOSSI welcomed its first class in 2021, with those set clear, measurable targets for energy intensity, greenhouse gas emissions and water conservation. Eastman focuses on efforts to
scholars scheduled to graduate in 2025. reduce waste, enable a sustainable supply chain, and continually understand the impact of our products on the environment through life
cycle assessments.
Eastman also entered into a new four-year partnership with Prairie View Agriculture and Mechanical (A&M) University, an HBCU located
in Prairie View, Texas, in 2022. Valued at $255,000, Eastman’s commitment is aimed at Prairie View A&M becoming a new talent pipeline Eastman’s Global HSES Audit Program implements an HSE assessment program to evaluate the hazards/risks associated with third-party
for our Texas operations. With enrollment now exceeding 8,000 students, Prairie View A&M is the first state-supported college in Texas for providers that are contracted to provide services to Eastman or that otherwise do business with Eastman in a manner that involves their
African Americans. handling or management of Eastman-owned products or materials. The process includes identification of third-party providers, risk-based
determination of assessment need, and appropriate assessment/reassessment. Eastman uses internal tracking mechanisms to collect and
To strengthen the local pipeline of talent in Kingsport, Eastman launched its first manufacturing internship program for high school monitor waste-related data.
students in the spring of 2022. Eastman’s Work-Based Learning partnerships with area high school recognize that classroom learning
provides only part of the content knowledge and skills development students need for success in college, career and life. In 2022, Eastman’s 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover
inaugural cohort of seven students underwent a structured educational experience that integrated classroom learning (school-based)
Eastman’s total global voluntary turnover rate was 6.0%. We calculate voluntary turnover separately from retirements, company-initiated
with productive, structured work experiences (work-based) related to the students’ career goals, program of study and employability
turnover and reductions in force. Total turnover rate was 10.4%
skills. Eastman’s internships include an hourly pay rate of $15, compared to Tennessee’s minimum wage of $7.25, and expose students to
productive, value-adding manufacturing roles at its Kingsport operations. Engagement efforts will be informed using data from these tools.
Attrition by Attrition by Attrition by Hires by Hires by Hires by
gender age region gender age region
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures
Eastman’s Code of Business Conduct defines the company’s expectation that team members will conduct business ethically with integrity
Male employees: Less than 30 years: North America: Male employees: Less than 30 years: North America:
and in compliance with all applicable laws regarding corruption and bribery. The Code of Business Conduct is available to all Eastman
9.9% 13.3% 9.8% 16.5% 43.4% 16.4%
employees internally as well as externally to the public through our company website, eastman.com. In addition to the code, Eastman has
formal internal policies and procedures on anti-bribery and anti-corruption and requires 100% of our employees worldwide to complete
Europe, Middle East Europe, Middle East
Female employees: 30 to 50 years: Female employees: 30 to 50 years:
the online Code of Business Conduct training. Employees with more sensitive roles and potential exposure to corruption and bribery risks and Africa: and Africa:
11.3% 9.2% 18.8% 16.2%
10.1% 16.5%
are required to take additional training on how to identify and respond to corruption and bribery red flags, avoiding business practices that
could give the appearance of corruption or bribery and facilitation payments. Additionally, Eastman requires that third parties complete
Greater than Greater than
Asia Pacific: Asia Pacific:
the TRACE International Anti-Bribery Course for Intermediaries prior to being eligible to conduct business with Eastman. 50 years: 50 years:
14.1% 22.8%
10.3% 4.0%
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts
Latin America: Latin America:
9.6% 17.8%
Eastman continuously strives to protect the environment in the communities where we operate as well as understand the environmental
impact of our products. As a manufacturer of chemicals since 1920 and a Responsible Care® company for more than 25 years, Eastman
has comprehensive guidelines and processes in place for reducing energy usage and minimizing our environmental footprint. In keeping
with Eastman’s circular economy efforts, waste management at Eastman begins in order of preference with source reduction, followed by
reuse, recycling and energy recovery, with the last option being treatment and disposal. Not only does this deliver productivity gains for our
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
93
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE APPENDIX | CONTINUED
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees
Our culture is one of commitment to safety, accountability for actions and feedback on performance. We believe that every workplace
Gender Age Ethnicity
incident, injury and illness is preventable. Our goal is to ensure personal safety for our employees. Preventing workplace incidents, injuries
and illnesses is an integral part of our worldwide business strategy. Male: 72.4% Less than 30 years: 17.4% Minority: 13%
Female: 27.6% 30–50 years: 51.1% White: 87%
As with all aspects of sustainability, we continually strive to improve our workplace safety, with an ultimate goal of zero injuries and incidents.
Greater than 50 years: 31.5%
In 2012, we launched a global corporate initiative, ALL IN FOR SAFETY, to further promote development of a culture of working and living
safely. ALL IN FOR SAFETY is intended to place safety foremost in the thoughts and actions of each employee and to foster a culture of
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments
safety awareness and safe behaviors at all times and in all places. Eastman has a policy and is committed at all levels of management to
and development programs
protect and promote the health and safety of Eastman employees, contractors and visitors. There are opportunities for employees to
To better support Eastman’s 10 community advisory panels (CAPs) at our largest manufacturing sites and be more transparent about how
participate in development, implementation and review of the health and safety programs.
we consider environmental justice in the communities where we have operations, Eastman took advantage of newly developed screening
and mapping tools offered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the White House Council on Environmental Quality. The
Eastman performs health assessments to determine employee medical fitness for specific job tasks. Eastman monitors systems for
tools are interactive resources that combine both community and data-driven approaches that incorporate environmental burdens and
maintaining records and analyzes data to evaluate health and safety performance, determine trends and identify areas for improvement.
demographic indicators. The maps allow users to explore the environmental health and the conditions (socioeconomic and or other
Eastman also investigates illnesses, injuries and incidents in a timely manner; creates corrective actions to prevent recurrence;
distinguishing community characteristics) within a specific region, town, city or entire state. Census tracts that are overburdened and
and evaluates the effectiveness of corrective actions taken.
underserved are highlighted as being disadvantaged, and their locations can be easily compared to other U.S. locations. In 2022, Eastman
ran all of its U.S. manufacturing sites through the tools to better understand community burdens related to climate change, energy, health,
Eastman has developed methods to identify and evaluate potential health and safety risks in planned or existing facilities. Preventive
housing, legacy pollution, transportation, water and wastewater, and workforce development. Going forward, Eastman’s community
maintenance and housekeeping programs are in place to maintain the safety of the employees, facilities, tools and equipment.
engagement efforts will be informed using data from these tools.
Eastman maintains health and safety training programs, including documentation of these programs, and methods to evaluate
413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on
the effectiveness of both training and communications activities.
local communities
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee
Building trust and maintaining strong public relations are critical for Eastman’s ability to continue operating all over the world and are
responsibilities we take seriously. In January 2022, that trust was tested when Eastman experienced a high-pressure steam line failure at its
Employee category Hours
Kingsport manufacturing facility. The incident resulted in loud noises, vibrations felt by nearby neighbors and the release of small particle
Professional/management 44
debris to an adjacent neighborhood. Testing of the debris revealed minor traces of asbestos insulation in some locations due to the age of
Nonexempt (nonoperational) 44 the steam line piping. While Eastman confirmed that exposure to such small amounts posed no threat to human health or the environment,
Eastman treated all debris as if it could contain asbestos in an abundance of caution. Before the day was over, Eastman had cleanup crews
Nonexempt (operations) 52
in the neighborhood collecting debris. And the next morning, armed with free vouchers for car washes and more clean up crews, Eastman
Technicians/technologists 27
quickly began deploying teams for roof, gutter, pool and vehicle cleaning and lawn and garden vacuuming. Within 72 hours of the incident,
Average 42
Eastman’s community affairs team had personally visited almost 500 homes. In addition to daily personal contact with neighbors, Eastman’s
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
94
GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE APPENDIX | CONTINUED
site leader sent multiple letters to each home sharing his commitment to the community, the progress Eastman was making to address In 2022, EastmanPAC contributed $99,750 to state and federal candidates in the U.S. No political contributions are made to
community needs, and available resources to the community, including a team of experts on standby to answer questions and an animal entities outside the U.S. Eastman works with outside vendors to file all reports and to make sure all contributions comply with
hotline for neighbors concerned for the safety of pets while outdoors. With support from its CAP, regular press release updates, and a state and federal campaign finance regulations. All of EastmanPAC’s Federal Election Commission (FEC) filings are available
community phone care line operating 24/7, Eastman ensured open, two-way dialogue with community residents and quickly restored trust online at www.fec.gov, and disclosure reports are also available by visiting the state campaign finance websites in Alabama,
deficits resulting from the incident. California, Maryland, Massachusetts, New York, Tennessee and Texas. In states where the law allows corporate contributions,
Eastman supports state candidates. Corporate contributions to state candidates in Tennessee totaled $26,700 in 2022.
415-1 Political contributions
The federal government requires all registered lobbyists to report personal campaign contributions semiannually. Each year,
Eligible U.S. employees may contribute voluntarily to EastmanPAC, the political action committee of Eastman. EastmanPAC is Eastman employees who meet the requirements file the necessary reports. These reports are available online at
governed and overseen by an executive board and is comprised of members from Eastman’s executive team and government http://lobbyingdisclosure.house.gov/. Eastman’s political activity policies and guidelines are located on the company’s
affairs team. EastmanPAC strives to elect candidates into office who meet a variety of criteria. Strong consideration is also website: Political Engagement | Eastman Chemical Company
given to those who share Eastman’s corporate values and the company’s commitment to drive positive change in site communities.
Criteria for candidates
• In a state/district with Eastman presence
• Demonstrates a commitment to supporting manufacturing and the chemical industry
• Key committee member or thought leader on issues of importance to Eastman
• House and Senate leadership
• Aligned with Eastman’s public policy priorities
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
95
PROGRESS
Task Force on Climate-related
Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
96
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) helps companies understand what financial markets want from disclosure in order to measure and respond to the effects of climate
change. Eastman has monitored the development and adoption of the TCFD framework recommendations and use them as a guide to assess climate-related risks and opportunities. This index provides
the location of Eastman’s information pertaining to the TCFD framework recommendations, categorized by governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets.
Disclosure focus area Disclosure Response 2023 Reference
Governance
a. Describe the Board’s
Eastman’s Environmental, Safety and Sustainability (ESS) Committee of the CDP Climate Change Response (C1.1, C1.1a, C1.1b, C1.1d), ESS Committee charter
oversight of climate-
Board of Directors and other committees, as appropriate, are responsible for and p.32, 2023 Proxy Statement, CDP Water Security Response (W6.2, W6.2a,
related risks and
climate-related risks and opportunities. W6.2b, W6.2d)
opportunities.
Disclose the organization’s
governance around climate-related risks Members of Eastman’s executive team, including Eastman’s chief sustainability
and opportunities. b. Describe management’s officer, chief legal officer and corporate secretary, chief financial officer and
CDP Climate Change Response (C1.2)
role in assessing and others present climate-related risks and opportunities to the ESS Committee and
CDP Water Security Response (W6.3)
managing climate-related other committees as appropriate. These risks and opportunities are managed
risks and opportunities. through our cross-functional issue management process and sustainability
governance structure.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
97
TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD) | CONTINUED
Disclosure
Disclosure Response 2023 Reference
focus area
Strategy
RISKS
Transition — Policy and Legal: current carbon pricing regulation; emerging carbon pricing regulation CDP Climate Change Response
a. Describe the climate-related risks Physical — Acute: increased frequency of extreme weather events (C2.2, C2.2a, C2.3, C2.3a, C2.4, C2.4a, C11.1d)
and opportunities Eastman has CDP Water Security Response (W4.3a)
identified over the short, medium, OPPORTUNITIES Eastman and the circular economy
and long term. Resource efficiency — Returns on investment in energy efficiency projects 10K SEC disclosure risks and opportunities
Products/services — Molecular recycling technologies related to climate change p. 8, 20, 53
Markets — Access to new markets through climate-related products and solutions
Disclose the actual and
CDP Climate Change Response
b. Describe the impact of climate-
potential impacts of
Climate-related risks and opportunities impact in different ways Eastman’s products and services, supply chain, (C2.3a, C2.4a, C3.1, C11.1d, C11.3)
related risks and opportunities on
climate-related risks and
investment in R&D, and the company’s operations. Eastman’s use of an internal carbon price to illustrate future carbon CDP Water Security Response (W4.3a, W7.1)
Eastman’s businesses, strategy, and
opportunities on the
pricing mechanisms is an example of how climate impacts the company’s capital expenditures. 10K SEC disclosure ‘Risks Related to Regulatory
financial planning.
organization’s businesses,
Changes and Compliance’ p.59
strategy and financial
planning.
In 2021, Eastman conducted a robust climate scenario analysis which was led by an internationally recognized climate
and sustainability consulting firm. Four publicly-available climate scenarios were used: International Energy Agency’s
c. Describe the resilience of Eastman’s (IEA) Net Zero Emissions (NZE) 2050 scenario; IEA Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS); IEA Announced Pledges CDP Climate Change Response (C3.2, C3.2a, C3.2b),
strategy, taking into consideration Scenario (APS); and IEA Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS). Resulting from the scenario analysis, Eastman identified CDP Water Security Response (W7.3, W7.3a),
different climate-related scenarios, the following areas of our strategy that may have more concentrated impact areas: new and emerging markets, low- TCFD scenario analysis
carbon technologies aligned with decarbonization transition, and employee health and well-being. We are currently
including a 2° C or lower scenario.
evaluating strategic considerations that will integrate forward-looking resiliency planning into our organization. For
more information, please see the reference links.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
98
TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD) | CONTINUED
Disclosure
Disclosure Response 2023 Reference
focus area
Risk management
a. Describe Eastman’s processes for Climate-related risks are considered as physical and/or transition risks that are monitored alongside climate-related CDP Climate Change Response
identifying and assessing climate- opportunities on an ongoing basis. Eastman defines short-, medium- and long-term time horizons as 0–3 years, 3–10 (C2.2, C2.2a)
related risks. years and 10–30 years, respectively. CDP Water Security Response (W3.3a)
As part of the issue management process, Eastman’s climate and carbon working group and designated issue stewards CDP Climate Change Response
Disclose how the b. Describe Eastman’s processes for track and prioritize climate-related issues. Substantive issues are managed through the sustainability governance (C2.2, C2.2a),
organization identifies, managing climate-related risks. structure and presented to Eastman’s business units on a regularly scheduled interval to ensure alignment with the CDP Water Security Response (W3.3b)
assesses, and manages company’s strategic business decision-making. Emerging Issues Management
climate-related risks.
c. Describe how processes for
Eastman’s issue management process has oversight by the company’s Issue Management Council. It is CDP Climate Change Response
identifying, assessing, and
comprised of a diverse, global team of cross-functional leaders from several areas of the company to include (C2.2, C2.2a)
managing climate-related risks
enterprise risk management (ERM), which manages all risks across the company and is linked to the Audit CDP Water Security Response
are integrated into Eastman’s overall
Committee of the Board of Directors. (W3.3a, W3.3b)
risk management.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
99
TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD) | CONTINUED
Disclosure
Disclosure Response 2023 Reference
focus area
Metrics and targets
a. Disclose the metrics used by Eastman Eastman uses several climate-related metrics to track progress and performance. These can be found in Eastman’s ESG
CDP Climate Change Response
to assess climate-related risks and Data Sheet. Metrics include Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions as defined by the widely accepted GHG Protocol
(C1.3a, C4.2, C4.5a, C11.3a)
opportunities in line with its strategy Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. Eastman also uses an internal carbon price for its financial analysis of
CDP Water Security Response (W1.2)
and risk management process. strategic business and investment decisions.
b. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if Scope 1 — 5,970,870 (metric tons CO e)
2
Disclose the metrics and
appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse Scope 2, location-based — 836,571 (metric tons CO e) CDP Climate Change Response
2
targets used to assess
gas (GHG) emissions and the Scope 2, market-based - 799,008 (metric tons CO e) (C5.2, C6.1, C6.2-C6.3, C6.5, C6.10, C7.1, C7.1a)
2
and manage relevant
related risks. Scope 3 (upstream)* — 8,281,262 (metric tons CO e)
2
climate-related risks and
opportunities.
Targets: Eastman is committed to reducing absolute greenhouse gas emissions Scope 1 and Scope 2 by one-third by
c. Describe the targets used by Eastman
2030 and aspires to be carbon neutral by 2050 from a baseline year of 2017.
CDP Climate Change Response
to manage climate-related risks and
(C4.1, C4.1a, C4.2, C4.2c)
The boundary of Eastman’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions are manufacturing sites where we have a controlling
opportunities and performance
interest. Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have decreased by 2.6% compared to 2021 and have decreased by 16.3%
against targets.
compared the baseline year of 2017.
*Reported upstream Scope 3 emissions include purchased goods, fuel and energy, business travel and employee commuting. Eastman is working to better understand its Scope 3 emissions and will disclose against more categories as data is collected.
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
100
PROGRESS
Sustainability Accounting
Standard Board Index (SASB)
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
101
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index (SASB)
Eastman is committed to continually improving its ESG and sustainability-related disclosure. Beginning to report against the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards is important to our ongoing efforts to identify, manage
and report on the sustainability topics that matter most to our stakeholders. This index provides the location of Eastman’s information pertaining to the SASB standards for what SASB refers to as the “resource transformation” sector — a
part of which is the chemicals industry. For those standards that we currently do not report against, we are evaluating our internal reporting and data collection processes to determine the feasibility of future disclosure.
Accounting metric Category Code Response/reference 2022
Greenhouse gas emissions
5,970,870 (metric tons CO e)
2
Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage
Quantitative RT-CH-110a.1
covered under emissions-limiting regulations 7.4% of emissions are covered under ETS regulations, CDP Climate
Change Response (C11.b)
Discussion of GHG emissions reduction plan and review CDP Climate Change Response
Discussion/analysis RT-CH-110a.2
of performance against reduction targets (C4.1a, C4.2c, C4.3a, C4.3b, C4.3c, C11.b)
Air quality
Air emissions (tons):
Air emissions of the following pollutants: (1)
NO – 6,680
x
NO (excluding N O), (2) SO , (3) volatile
X 2 X
Quantitative RT-CH-120a.1 SO – 3,515
2
organic compounds (VOCs), and (4) hazardous
VOC – 6,441
air pollutants (HAPs)
HAPs not reported
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
102
SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD INDEX (SASB) | CONTINUED
Accounting metric Category Code Response/reference 2022
Energy management
Total energy consumed Quantitative RT-CH-130a.1 32,137,632 MWh
Percentage grid electricity Quantitative RT-CH-130a.1 10%
Percentage renewable Quantitative RT-CH-130a.1 <1%
Total self-generated electricity Quantitative RT-CH-130a.1 9,695,087 MWh
Water management
Total water withdrawn Quantitative RT-CH-140a.1 768,944.64 megaliters
Percentage of total water withdrawn in regions with high or extremely high baseline water stress Quantitative RT-CH-140a.1 <1%
99,526.96 megaliters
While the total reported consumption of water shows an increase
compared to 2021, our actual water consumption was lower than
Total water consumed Quantitative RT-CH-140a.1
reported due to discharge flow meter calibration issues resulting
in a lower discharge. This issue has been remedied and is now
monitored monthly.
Number of incidents of noncompliance associated
Quantitative RT-CH-140a.2 2
with water quality permits, standards and regulations
Description of water management risks and discussion
Discussion/analysis RT-CH-140a.3 CDP Water Security Response (W3.3a, W3.3b)
of strategies and practices to mitigate those risks
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
103
SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD INDEX (SASB) | CONTINUED
Accounting metric Category Code Response/reference 2022
Hazardous waste management
Amount of hazardous waste generated Quantitative RT-CH-150a.1
Percentage recycled Quantitative RT-CH-150a.1 Not currently disclosed.
Community relations
Corporate social responsibility
Discussion of engagement processes to manage risks and opportunities associated
Discussion/analysis RT-CH-150a.1 Community Advisory Panels
with community interests
Corporate crisis management
Workforce health and safety
Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) for direct employees Quantitative RT-CH-320a.1 0.61*
Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) for contract employees Quantitative RT-CH-320a.1 0.44*
Fatality rate for direct employees Quantitative RT-CH-320a.1 0
Fatality rate for contract employees Quantitative RT-CH-320a.1 1
Description of efforts to assess, monitor and reduce
Discussion/analysis RT-CH-320a.2 Personal safety
exposure of employees and contractors
*Global Injury and Illness Rate -(OSHA Recordable equivalent to Total recordable incident rate) - annual incidents per 100 employees (200,000 work hours) involving treatment beyond first aid in relation to actual work hours
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
104
SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD INDEX (SASB) | CONTINUED
Accounting metric Category Code Response/reference 2022
Product design for use-phase efficiency
Revenue from products designed for use-phase resource efficiency Quantitative RT-CH-410a.1 Under review
Safety and environmental stewardship of chemicals
A proportion of our portfolio is classified as GHS Category 1 and 2
substances. The majority of these are sold to manufacturers as basic
(1) Percentage of products that contain Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of
Quantitative RT-CH-410b.1 ingredients in chemical reactions to make essential products. Please see
Chemicals (GHS) Category 1 and 2 Health and Environmental Hazardous Substances (by revenue)
Eastman’s Product stewardship page for more information about product
safety and eastman.com for the essential uses of our products.
Percentage of such products that have undergone
Quantitative RT-CH-410b.1 100%
a hazard assessment
Discussion of strategy to (1) manage chemicals of concern Product stewardship
Discussion/analysis RT-CH-410b.2
and (2) develop alternatives with reduced human and/or environmental impact Product safety
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
105
SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD INDEX (SASB) | CONTINUED
Accounting metric Category Code Response/reference 2021
Genetically modified organisms
Percentage of products by revenue that contain genetically modified organisms (GMOs) Quantitative RT-CH-410c.1 Not applicable to Eastman products
Management of the legal and regulatory environment
Discussion of corporate positions related to government regulations and/or policy proposals that
Discussion/analysis RT-CH-530a.1 Policies and guiding documents
address environmental and social factors affecting the industry
Operational safety, emergency preparedness and response
Process Safety Incidents Count (PSIC) Quantitative RT-CH-540a.1 14
Process Safety Total Incident Rate (PSTIR) Quantitative RT-CH-540a.1 0.10
Process Safety Incident Severity Rate (PSISR) Quantitative RT-CH-540a.1 Process safety
Number of transport incidents Quantitative RT-CH-540a.2 0.083 (per 1,000 shipments)
SUMMARY | STRATEGY | GOVERNANCE | CIRCULARITY | CLIMATE | SOCIETY | PROGRESS
Although the information and recommendations set forth herein are presented in good faith, Eastman Chemical Company (“Eastman”) and its subsidiaries make no
representations or warranties as to the completeness or accuracy thereof. You must make your own determination of its suitability and completeness for your own use,
for the protection of the environment, and for the health and safety of your employees and purchasers of your products. Nothing contained herein is to be construed as
a recommendation to use any product, process, equipment, or formulation in conflict with any patent, and we make no representations or warranties, express or implied,
that the use thereof will not infringe any patent. NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
Eastman Corporate Headquarters
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR OF ANY OTHER NATURE ARE MADE HEREUNDER WITH RESPECT TO INFORMATION OR THE PRODUCT TO WHICH INFORMATION
P.O. Box 431 REFERS AND NOTHING HEREIN WAIVES ANY OF THE SELLER’S CONDITIONS OF SALE.
Kingsport, TN 37662-5280 U.S.A.
Safety Data Sheets providing safety precautions that should be observed when handling and storing our products are available online or by request. You should obtain and
review available material safety information before handling our products. If any materials mentioned are not our products, appropriate industrial hygiene and other safety
U.S.A. and Canada, 800-EASTMAN (800-327-8626)
precautions recommended by their manufacturers should be observed.
Other locations, +(1) 423-229-2000
© 2024 Eastman. Eastman brands referenced herein are trademarks of Eastman or one of its subsidiaries or are being used under license. Non-Eastman brands referenced
eastman.com/locations herein are trademarks of their respective owners.
EMN-ST-17629A 4/24
