2024
Green Bond report
Table
of contents
Eastman’s sustainability strategy 3
Sustainability governance 5
Green Bond overview 6
Green Bond allocation 7
Green Bond impact 8
Featured project 9
Appendix 10
Disclaimer 12
3
Eastman’s sustainability strategy
Sustainability is at Eastman’s core. Our sustainability strategy, which we call A Better Circle, is comprised
of meaningful and measurable goals that ensure action and progress toward the environmental, social and
governance (ESG) expectations of our stakeholders — investors, employees, customers and the communities
we serve. Eastman’s advances across end markets such as consumer durables, transportation, agriculture, personal
care, and textiles are helping improve the quality of life for people around the world. This work guides our efforts
to confront the world’s biggest challenges, and our goals and objectives reflect that across our three critical
impact pillars: mitigating climate change, mainstreaming circularity and caring for society.
The integration of sustainability and innovation in our business strategy provides tangible benefits for
stakeholders. We strive to create financial value by delivering consistent earnings growth through our compelling,
innovation-based organic growth model, our resilient portfolio of specialty products, differentiated circular
economy solutions, strong operating cash flow, and disciplined and balanced capital deployment. We believe
Eastman is well positioned to build on our 100 years of success and drive growth well into the future.
The objective of issuing our first green financing instruments is to assist in financing Eastman’s initiatives to lower
our own carbon footprint as well as grow our contribution of sustainable solutions in many other industries. The
issuance of green financing instruments will also help us engage with our stakeholders in support of this effort.
4
Working to create
A Better Circle
Sustainability is integral to our strategy, driven by innovation and focused always on people.
Eastman has the responsibility and opportunity to lead, joining others to address climate
change, mainstream circularity as an economic model and care for society.
Our goals:
Target Results
Mitigating climate change year 2021 2022
• Reduce our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by one-third by 2030
2030 13.8% 16.3%
to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050*
2030 10% 14%
• 100% of NAR and EU purchased electricity will be renewable by 2030
We have also received review-level assurance in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute
of Public Accountants (AICPA) over our Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions for the year ending in 2022.
*Results are reduction since baseline year
Mitigating Mainstreaming Caring for
Mainstreaming circularity
climate circularity society
• Recycle more than 500 million pounds (225,000 MT) of plastic waste annually 2025 12.7M lb 18.1M lb
5,500 MT 8,000 MT change
by 2030 via molecular recycling technologies, with a commitment to recycle
250 million pounds (110,000 MT) annually by 2025
Eastman began commissioning and startup activities at our methanolysis plant in Kingsport, Tenn., in 2023. With capacity of
approximately 220 million pounds (110,000 MT) of plastics recycled annually, the launch of this plant will further our ability to
accomplish this goal. In 2022, we recycled 18.1 million pounds (8,000 MT) of plastic waste — a more than 40% increase from
our 2021 volume.
Caring for society
2030 80% 85%
• 100% of growth R&D spend aligns with sustainable macro trends to create
materials that improve the quality of life for people around the world
• Achieve gender parity in alignment with our commitment to Paradigm for Parity® 2030 37% 38%
2030 13% 14%
• Be a leader for U.S. racial equity within our industry sector
5
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
Governance of material sustainability
issues and opportunities
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Eastman is committed
Board of Directors
to strong governance
Executive Team
Mark J. Costa Humberto P. Alfonso Brett D. Begemann We remain committed to maintaining our
Sustainability Council
strong corporate governance policies and
G
O I N G
STAKEHOLDER
ENGAGE practices while enhancing the transparency of
O N ME
N
T
E R N A
N C E
O F
SUSTAINABILITY
ISSUES
A N D
our business. Integrated into our strategy are
O V O P Eastman’s ESG and sustainability initiatives.
E Suco bn -Co om uic
n
cIm
il
pact INTERNAL G
M
O
ST M A T E
R I A L ESG ISSUES AND OPP
O R T U
NI
TIP O R T
U NI TI
E
S
P Sueo bp -Cle
o
a un nd
c
iS
l
ociety Eric L. Butler Edward L. Doheny II Linnie M. Haynesworth
Guiding this integration, the Environmental, Safety
E
Business integration and S
Relationships with employees,
and Sustainability (ESS) Committee of the Board
continuous portfolio
suppliers, clients and
improvement
communities of Directors reviews with management and, where
Enhancing the
appropriate, makes recommendations regarding
quality of life in
a material way Julie F. Holder Renée J. Hornbaker Kim Ann Mink
the company’s policies and practices concerning
health, safety, environmental, security, sustainability,
philanthropy, public policy and political activities
matters. This committee is chaired by Kim Ann Mink.
Environmental Impact James J. O’Brien David W. Raisbeck Charles K. Stevens III The board remains committed to maintaining a strong
Sub-Council
alignment between company performance and our
Conservation and protection of
the natural environment executive compensation program and has taken
greater steps to align the outcomes of the company’s
Click here to learn more about how we I&D, sustainability and ESG efforts with executive
govern material sustainability and ESG issues.
compensation as another measure of accountability.
6
Green Bond overview
Eastman offered its inaugural Green Bond on February 22, 2023. This $500 million senior note with a fixed rate coupon of
5.750% due on March 8, 2033, was the first offering under Eastman’s Green Financing Framework (Framework) and was the
first investment grade USD-denominated senior unsecured green bond offering by a U.S. issuer in the chemical sector. As
outlined in the Framework, Eastman is committed to fully allocating the net proceeds within 36 months of issuance, and
we have limited use of proceeds for refinancing to a 24-month lookback period. Eastman has allocated the net proceeds
of the $496 million from the issuance of the $500 million notes to finance or refinance with eligible projects related to eco-
efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes.
Eastman received a second-party opinion on the Framework pre-issuance from S&P Global Ratings.
Project evaluation and selection process
Eastman’s green finance committee is responsible for governing the selection and monitoring of eligible projects as well
as managing the allocation of the net proceeds to selected eligible projects. The green finance committee consists of
members from Eastman treasury, finance, controllers, sustainability/ESG, investor relations, operations/business, legal
and audit departments.
Use of proceeds
Each of our eligible projects meets the stated eligibility criteria outlined in the Bond Prospectus and defined in the
Framework, which is aligned with Eastman’s sustainability strategy, as well as the International Capital Markets Association
(ICMA) 2021 Green Bond Principles and the Loan Market Association (LMA) 2021 Green Loan Principles. Eligible projects
will include investments, capital expenditures, operation expenditures, acquisitions and other related and supporting
expenditures, such as near commercial research and development, which contribute to Eastman’s sustainability strategy
and fall into one or more of the following categories:
• Eco-efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production technologies and processes
• Pollution prevention and control
• Energy efficiency
• Renewable energy
• Sustainable water and wastewater management
7
Green Bond allocation
Eastman will report annually until full allocation of the proceeds and, in the event of any material changes, until
the relevant maturity date. As outlined in the Green Bond Prospectus and Framework, each allocation report will
be accompanied by an assurance report over Eastman’s management assertion regarding our Green Bond use
of proceeds. This assurance report will be provided by an independent, registered public accounting firm and
conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants. The assurance report issued by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) is included in Appendix B
of this report.
Allocation
We’re proud to report that we allocated the full amount of the net proceeds of $496 million within one year of
issuance,1 with funds directed solely to the eco-efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production
technologies and processes category. We allocated 100% of the net proceeds to finance or refinance our new
methanolysis facility in Kingsport, Tennessee.
Eligible green projects Refinancing vs. financing
20%
100%
80%
Eco-efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, Financing Refinancing
production technologies and processes
1 Allocation of Eastman’s Green Bond proceeds to select eligible projects, with the spend occurring between March 8, 2021, and September 12, 2023
8
Green Bond impact
Global warming improvement Plastic waste recycled
Dimethyl terephthalate (DMT) from Eastman methanolysis Kingsport, Tennessee, facility, has a 20%–30% lower Eastman’s goal is to recycle 250 million pounds of waste plastic annually by 2025, with a significant portion (>90%)
global warming potential than fossil-based DMT. of that being completed via polyester renewal technology (PRT) at our Kingsport, Tennessee, facility.
Eastman began commissioning and startup activities at its Kingsport manufacturing site in 2023 and introduced
Relative life cycle impact assessment of DMT made by methanolysis compared to conventional
plastic waste into its Kingsport methanolysis facility in early 2024.
Climate change
-40% -20% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Methanolysis-based DMT Fossil-based DMT Our Kingsport facility will be one of the world’s largest material-to-material molecular recycling
facilities. The plant will use more than 110,000 metric tons of polyester waste as raw material
Life cycle assessment (LCA) annually. The equivalent of:
Eastman is committed to developing technologies and products with a lower carbon footprint than traditional
production. That’s why we commissioned a cradle-to-grave study from Quantis, an international expert in LCA
methodology, to assess methanolysis. The study had an independent, third-party expert LCA panel reviews in
accordance with ISO 14040 and 14044 ICA standards.
The study showed that producing DMT through methanolysis from recycled polyester waste results in 20%–30% 11 billion 790 million 2.7 billion
lower greenhouse gas emissions than producing DMT from fossil-based paraxylene at the same site. In addition,
single-use water bottles polyester T-shirts shampoo bottles
DMT from methanolysis outperforms fossil-based DMT in 13 of 14 environmental impact categories assessed.
Click here to inquire about more details on our study.
9
Featured project
Kingsport methanolysis facility will transform recycling, reduce plastic waste and address climate change
Eastman has completed all commissioning activities, enabling the startup of one of the world’s largest polyester recycling facilities
at our Kingsport, Tennessee, manufacturing site and introduced plastic waste into the Kingsport methanolysis facility in early 2024.
We allocated 100% of the $496 million net proceeds of our Green Bond to expenditures for the development, construction, installation
and manufacturing of this asset, which processes hard-to-recycle polyester waste and delivers Eastman Renew materials for new products
with up to 50% certified recycled content via mass balance allocation.
At steady-state capacity, the Kingsport asset will recycle 110,000 metric tons of polyester waste annually that would otherwise go to
landfill, be incinerated or leak into the environment.
A reliable, secure supply of feedstock in place
We have secured reliable, affordable and sufficient supplies of waste plastic for feedstock to support stated capacity levels with most
material sourced within a 150-mile radius of Kingsport.
Our feedstocks are comprised of hard-to-recycle waste plastics that cannot be processed by mechanical recycling, such as colored
polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottles, thermoforms for food storage, opaque milk bottles, polyester textiles and bale strapping.
Because mechanical recycling handles a limited set of plastics, approximately 12% of the 300 million tons of waste plastic each year
is recycled. Eastman is committed to restoring value to what is currently regarded as waste and changing this unsustainable reality.
Enabling sustainability for brands and consumers
This new asset and our vertical integration will accelerate our strategy to meet the unmet market need for recycled materials.
Kingsport is our primary manufacturing facility for specialty plastics, used in a wide spectrum of applications, including consumer
durables, packaging, and small appliances.
More than 60 brands have already adopted Eastman Renew materials to help them meet sustainability goals and add value for
consumers who want products with recycled content.
Leading brands such as Procter & Gamble (shampoo and conditioner bottles with Eastman Renew resins); Stanley, Black & Decker
(power tools featuring Tritan™ Renew); LVMH Perfumes & Cosmetics (cosmetics containers with Cristal™ Renew); Williams Sonoma
(a consumer drinkware line featuring Tritan™ Renew; and Ello (water bottles with Tritan™ Renew) have adopted Eastman Renew
materials. These are a few examples of dozens of exciting brand adoptions, and we expect to announce more in 2024.
10
APPENDIX A
Management assertion
Management of Eastman Chemical Company (Eastman) is responsible for the accuracy and validity of this
management assertion. Eastman asserts that, as of September 12, 2023, the net proceeds of $496 million from the
March 2023 issuance of the $500 million aggregate principal amount 5.750% Notes due March 2033 (the “Notes”)
were allocated to finance or refinance eligible projects related to eco-efficient and/or circular economy adapted
products, production technologies and processes during the period from March 8, 20211 through September
12, 2023. For purposes of this assertion, eligible projects are related to expenditures for the development,
construction, installation and manufacturing of the Kingsport, Tennessee molecular recycling facility, whereby
technologies are designed to break down waste into molecular building blocks so it can be reused indefinitely.
1Per the Use of Proceeds section of the Prospectus Supplement dated February 22, 2023, expenditures made by us or any of our subsidiaries from the issue date of the Notes or in the
24 months prior to the issue date of the Notes that meet the eligibility criteria were considered for inclusion as eligible projects. Additionally, refer to the Use of Proceeds section for
eligible projects to which the net proceeds may be allocated.
11
APPENDIX B
Report of
independent
accountants
Report of Independent Accountants
To the Management of Eastman Chemical Company
We have examined the accompanying management assertion of Eastman Chemical Company (Eastman)
that the net proceeds of $496 million from the March 2023 issuance of the $500 million aggregate
principal amount 5.750% Notes due March 2033 (the “Notes”) were allocated to finance or refinance
eligible projects related to eco-efficient and/or circular economy adapted products, production
technologies and processes (as defined in management’s assertion) during the period from March 8, 2021
through September 12, 2023. Eastman’s management is responsible for its assertion. Our responsibility is
to express an opinion on management’s assertion based on our examination.
Our examination was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
examination to obtain reasonable assurance about whether management’s assertion is fairly stated, in all
material respects. An examination involves performing procedures to obtain evidence about
management’s assertion. The nature, timing, and extent of the procedures selected depend on our
judgment, including an assessment of the risks of material misstatement of management’s assertion,
whether due to fraud or error. We believe that the evidence we obtained is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
We are required to be independent and to meet our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with
relevant ethical requirements related to the engagement.
Only the information included in the management assertion of Eastman on page 10 is part of our
examination engagement. The other information in the Eastman 2024 Green Bond report has not been
subjected to the procedures applied in our examination engagement, and accordingly, we make no
comment as to its completeness and accuracy and do not express an opinion or provide any assurance on
such information.
In our opinion, management’s assertion is fairly stated, in all material respects.
Portland, Oregon
February 7, 2024
12
Disclaimer
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Green Bond report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are made in reliance
upon the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In this context, forward-looking statements
often address expected future business and financial performance, and often contain words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,”
“see,” “will,” “would,” “target,” and similar expressions and variations or negatives of these words. Forward-looking statements are based upon certain preliminary information,
internal estimates, and management assumptions, expectations, and plans, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions, events,
and results. Actual results could differ materially from expectations and assumptions expressed in the forward-looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions
or expectations prove to be inaccurate or are unrealized. Important risk and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-
looking statements are set forth in Eastman’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, which is on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC) and available in the Investors section of Eastman’s website, www.eastman.com, and in any subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other documents Eastman
files with the SEC. Readers are cautioned not to place reliance on these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and
we undertake no obligation to update publicly or otherwise revise any forward-looking statements, regardless of whether those statements are affected by the results of new
information, future events or otherwise.
© 2024 Eastman.
EMN-CORP-17844 2/24
