Enphase Energy, Inc.
Environmental,
Social, and
Governance Report
2022
Enphase Energy, Inc.
Environmental,
Social, and
Governance Report
2022
2
Contents
A letter from our President and CEO 04
About us 06
Enphase in numbers 07
Our purpose 08
Our core values 09
Enphase culture playbook 10
Our technology 12
Start-up to industry leader 14
Customer first 15
Financial sustainability 17
Our financial performance 18
Environment 20
E1. Environmental stewardship 21
E2. Clean energy production 23
E3. Emissions and energy 24
E4. Product lifecycle and waste 29
E5. Case studies 32
People 38
P1. Company demographics 39
P2. Recruiting and retaining the best 40
P3. Embracing diversity, equity, and inclusion 42
P4. Developing our people 46
P5. Promoting a safe and healthy workplace 48
P6. Responsible supply chain 50
Society 53
S1. Enphase Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives 54
S2. Enphase grid services 58
S3. Enphase innovation and industry leadership 60
S4. Promoting clean energy policy 62
Governance 65
G1. ESG governance and leadership 66
G2. Business ethics and compliance 70
G3. Data privacy, cybersecurity, intellectual property 72
Appendix 76
Emission and energy calculation methodologies 77
GRI index 79
SASB index 81
TCFD response 82
Membership associations 86
Contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals 87
About this report 89
Forward-looking statements and other important legal information 90
Management assertion 91
Third party attestation 92
GAAP to Non-GAAP reconciliation 93
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 3
A Letter from our
President and CEO
I am pleased to share our third Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Report with
you. As the world’s leading supplier of microinverter-based solar-plus-storage systems,
we are proud of our ability to enact transformative, sustainable growth. Our systems help
millions of people gain access to clean, affordable, and reliable energy.
Since the founding of our Company, we have shipped approximately 58 million microinverters
and more than 815 megawatt hours (MWh) of storage, which form key components of our
Enphase® Energy System™ suite.1 Over 3.0 million Enphase-based systems have been
deployed in more than 145 countries. Approximately 19 gigawatts (GW) DC of Enphase
microinverters have been installed in solar systems since inception, reducing 45 million
Badri Kothandaraman metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (MTCO₂e) – the equivalent of providing energy to
President and CEO 5.7 million homes for one year.1
We remain focused on technology and products that help improve quality of life while
keeping true to our core purpose of sustainability. In 2022, we continued to ramp shipments
of IQ8™ Microinverters in North America, France, and the Netherlands. IQ8 Microinverters
“As the world’s leading supplier are able to form a microgrid during a power outage using only sunlight, providing backup
of microinverter-based solar- power, even without a battery. And, with a battery and our Sunlight Jump Start™ feature, IQ8
plus-storage systems, we are Microinverters can restart a home energy system using only sunlight even after prolonged
grid outages that may result in a fully depleted battery. The IQ8’s grid-forming technology
proud of our ability to enact
eliminates traditional ratio requirements between solar system size and battery size. We
transformative, sustainable
currently ship IQ™ Batteries to customers in North America, Germany, and Belgium, and
growth.”
our shipments of IQ Batteries in 2022 more than doubled those shipped in 2021.
We also offer electric vehicle (EV) charging solutions to customers in North America. The
increasing penetration of EVs has implications for home energy management, as households
not only consume significantly more power by charging an EV, but also have a large battery
that could be used for backup. In the future, our smart EV chargers will provide connectivity
and control, enabling use cases like green charging and allowing homeowners visibility into
the operation of their Enphase solar-plus-storage-plus-EV charger system through the
Enphase® App.
1 Estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of December 31, 2022 grossed up for non-managed
systems based on performance monitoring data; COe calculations based on U.S. Environmental Protection
2
Agency (U.S. EPA) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) calculator.
4
“We have taken important steps The ways in which we support our customers, partners, employees, and communities
on our journey to reducing our define our company today, just as they did when Enphase was founded in 2006 with key
elements to our value proposition: deliver products that are productive, reliable, smart,
emissions footprint, focusing
simple, and safe. As part of our longstanding commitment to operational excellence, we
on our customers and partners,
remain dedicated to doing our part as a global business leader to drive tangible, sustainable
building a world-class diverse
business practices.
and engaged workforce, and
continuing to operate with We have taken important steps on our journey to reducing our emissions footprint, focusing
transparency and integrity.” on our customers and partners, building a world-class diverse and engaged workforce, and
continuing to operate with transparency and integrity. While embracing our role as good
stewards of our planet, our communities, and our people, we will stay focused on delivering
leading edge technology, products, and services that help to improve quality of life while
keeping true to our core value of sustainability.
Thank you for your continued interest in our ESG efforts. We appreciate our employees,
customers, partners, and stockholders for their dedication as our accomplishments this
past year would not have been possible without their collective support.
Sincerely,
Badri Kothandaraman
President and CEO
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 5
About us
66
Enphase in
numbers
2006 2,821 8,376 19
GW DC
the year Enphase employees and key installers approximate cumulative
was founded contributors across worldwide1 shipments of
our global offices1 microinverters1
3+ 58 815+ 64.2
million million MWh TWh
systems deployed in more approximate number of of storage1 of clean energy
than 145 countries1 microinverters shipped1 production3
45 5.1 11
million billion 5 billion
MTCO₂e prevented from gallons of gasoline miles not driven by an
entering the atmosphere, not consumed2 average gas-powered
enough to power 5.7 million passenger vehicle2
homes with energy for one
year2
1 As of December 31, 2022
2 Estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of December 31, 2022 grossed up for non-managed systems based on cumulative
production records; CO₂e calculations based on U.S. EPA GHG calculator
3 Annual running total estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of December 31, 2022 grossed up for non-managed systems
based on cumulative production records
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002222 77
Our
purpose
Advancing a sustainable future for all.
Founded in 2006, Enphase has transformed the solar industry with our revolutionary
microinverter technology which turns sunlight into a safe, reliable, resilient, and scalable
source of energy to power our lives. Today, our intelligent microinverters work with virtually
every solar panel made, and when paired with our award-winning smart battery technology,
we engineer one of the industry’s best-performing clean energy systems.
The Enphase Energy System, powered by IQ8 Microinverters and IQ Batteries, enables
people to make, use, save, sell, and own their power. This includes our industry-leading
Enphase App, which provides unprecedented data and control in the palm of your hand.
For the first time in the evolution of our centuries-old grid, people can get paid for the
clean energy they produce and share with their communities, helping to build a new energy
future that harnesses the sun. This clean, free, abundant source of energy can power our
lives and ultimately help replace fossil fuels altogether.
Today, if you see a home with solar panels on it, there is a good chance it is an Enphase
home. As of the end of 2022, more than 58 million microinverters have been installed on
more than three million homes in over 145 countries,1 helping millions of people gain access
to clean, affordable, and reliable energy while creating jobs and a more carbon-free future.
Enphase is putting people and their power at the center of our shared energy future.
Enphase. Power by people.
1 Estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of 12/31/22 grossed up for non-managed
systems based on cumulative production records since inception
88
Our core
values
Our company values are reflected in the way we work
together, our performance, and how we are rewarded.
Customer first Integrity
We exist for our customers. We tell the truth at all times, without
making excuses.
We listen to our customers and measure
our success based on their feedback. We do what is best for the company.
We take action to deliver the best We take ownership of our behaviors
customer experience. and results.
Innovation Teamwork
We value innovation and recognize that it is We appreciate and respect different
the cornerstone of our existence. behavioral styles and perspectives.
We encourage appropriate risk-taking and We collaborate globally to achieve
challenge the status quo to find solutions. more together than we can on our
own.
We actively promote innovation through
curiosity and continuous learning. We actively work to break down silos.
Quality
We place safety and quality above
everything else.
We measure everything that matters and
drive continuous improvement.
We make the highest quality products.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 9
Enphase
culture playbook
The pillars of the Enphase Culture Playbook help align and
guide daily interactions with our purpose and values.
High performance
• We set the standard.
• We stretch ourselves to achieve exceptional results.
• We are relentless in the pursuit of excellence.
Recruiting and retaining the best
• We hire only the best.
• We reward and retain the best.
• We promote our people who get results.
Openness and transparency
• We are curious and encourage new ideas.
• We recognize that people have different styles and encourage
diverse perspectives.
• We openly discuss issues and want to learn rapidly from our mistakes.
Accountability and execution
• We acknowledge reality and get things done without making excuses.
• We measure what matters and manage our performance through metrics.
• Our metrics have clear targets that don’t change on a whim, and we publish
progress against these each quarter.
Learning organization
• We encourage innovation.
• We develop employees through two-way coaching and feedback.
• We learn from our mistakes using a structured problem-solving approach
known as 8-D.
• We document and share knowledge freely.
Culture playbook
10
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002222 1111
Our
technology
“The Enphase® Energy System™ Enphase was founded on the deep-rooted belief that an AC-coupled distributed
suite brings a high technology, architecture will always win in the long run on both cost and reliability. To build products
based on this architecture, we have developed core competencies in semiconductor-
networked approach to solar
based power conversion, software-defined Internet of Things (IoT) systems, and an energy
generation plus energy storage
management platform. Our homegrown high-speed digital ASIC, which is responsible for
by leveraging our design
power control and power line communication, forms the brain of our microinverters. The
expertise across power
microinverter, along with our battery, system controller, and cloud software form a true IoT
electronics, semiconductors, system. Our Ensemble™ technology energy management system manages energy flows
and cloud-based software between the various distributed energy resources (DERs), the utility grid, and home loads,
technologies.” all with the aim of delivering the most reliable solution at the lowest available energy cost.
The Enphase® Energy System™ suite brings a high technology, networked approach to
solar generation plus energy storage by leveraging our design expertise across power
electronics, semiconductors, and cloud-based software technologies. Our integrated
approach to energy solutions maximizes a home’s energy potential while providing
advanced monitoring and remote maintenance capabilities. The Enphase Energy System
suite uses a single technology platform for seamless management of the whole solution,
enabling rapid commissioning with the Enphase Installer App™; consumption monitoring
with the Enphase IQ™ Gateway with IQ™ Combiner+ and the Enphase® App, a cloud-based
energy management platform; and our IQ™ Battery.
The solar industry is transitioning from solar only systems to complete energy management
solutions, comprised of solar, batteries, load control, EV charging, compatibility with third-
party generators, and grid services. This transition has contributed to the rising global
interest in the full electrification of homes and businesses through renewable sources of
energy.
The increasing penetration of EVs has implications for home energy management, as
households not only consume significantly more power with an EV, but also have a large
battery that can be used for both backup and grid service. Our EV chargers are compatible
with most EVs sold in North America.
In January 2023, we demonstrated our bidirectional EV charger technology enabling
vehicle-to-home and vehicle-to-grid functionality. This new bidirectional EV charger, along
with Enphase’s solar and battery storage, will provide connectivity and control, enabling
use cases like green charging and allowing homeowners visibility into the operation of
their Enphase solar-plus-storage-plus-EV charger system, through the Enphase App -
empowering homeowners to make, use, save, and sell their own power.
12
Enphase Home Energy
Management System
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002222 1133
Start-up to industry leader
2006
Founded by Raghu Belur and
Martin Fornage in California
2008
First microinverter-based
solar system introduced
2011
One million microinverters shipped
since inception
2012
Listed on NASDAQ
under symbol ENPH
2014
Fourth-generation
technology introduced
2015
10 million microinverters
shipped since inception
2016
Sixth-generation
IQ™ technology introduced
2017
AC Modules
Introduced
2018
Seventh-generation
IQ technology introduced
2019
One millionth microinverter-based
solar system deployed
2020
Started shipping IQ Batteries
in North America
2021
Started shipping IQ8 Microinverters
in North America
2022
Started shipping IQ8 Microinverters
in France and the Netherlands;
approximately 58 million
microinverters shipped since inception
1144
Customer
first
Customer experience
We exist to serve our customers and communicate consistently with them to review
their experiences and levels of satisfaction with our products. We incorporate customer
feedback into future product design and functionality, with the end goal of maintaining
a high degree of satisfaction among distributors, installers, and homeowners. The ability
to successfully grow and evolve our business requires open and continuous dialogue to
ensure a smooth experience, and we take this aspect of our business very seriously.
69% 24/7
Net Promoter Score (NPS) call center support with
among homeowners and average wait time under
installers worldwide two minutes
700 100
customer field service
support staff technicians
Enphase Installer Network
Our commitment to safe, powerful, and reliable home solar and storage systems does not
stop with our products — it also extends to the installers who are certified under the Enphase
Installer Network (EIN). The EIN is carefully designed to identify installers who can deliver
the highest standards of customer service and system quality using Enphase products. We
offer more than 25 different certification and qualification courses for installers pertaining
to the commissioning of specific Enphase products, which are available in nine native
languages across the United States, Latin America, Europe, Australia, and Brazil.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 15
Enphase University
The Enphase University platform is on-demand and supported by a team of 24 employees
worldwide, available twenty four hours a day, seven days a week. This platform has been
in service for several years and supports our remote training team dedicated to teaching
our installers how to successfully install and commission Enphase systems. Additionally,
Enphase conducts in-person training events to support many solar installers across the
globe, and we use two solar vans equipped with Enphase system products to bring training
about storage commissioning best practices to installers in remote locations across the
United States and Puerto Rico. Training is also available on demand via our Enphase Energy
Training YouTube channel where we currently have over 1,000 subscribers.
10,000+ 17,860
installers certified in installers certified in Enphase
Enphase Energy Systems photovoltaic (PV) systems
2,300 342,000+
solar installation companies courses completed by installers
represented worldwide in Enphase University
Our mobile vans provide hands on training support
for learning commissioning best practices
1166
Financial
sustainability
69%
We have built a solid financial foundation driven by operational excellence. In 2022, revenue
increased 69% year-over-year to $2.3 billion, compared to $1.4 billion in 2021. We shipped
increased revenue in 2022
15.4 million microinverters in 2022, compared to 10.4 million in 2021. Our non-GAAP gross
margin in 2022 was 42.6%,1 compared to 40.7% in 2021.
Our balance sheet remained very strong in 2022. We exited 2022 with $1.6 billion in cash,
$2.3
cash equivalents, and marketable securities. We generated record free cash flow of $698.4
billion
million, more than double from $315.5 million in 2021.
revenue in 2022
In March 2021, we successfully completed the issuance of approximately $1.2 billion in
green convertible notes (the Green Bond Notes). As part of the Green Bond Notes offering,
we established a Green Financing Framework that reinforces our commitment to our planet
and our communities. During 2021 and 2022, we allocated all the proceeds of the Green
15.4
Bond Notes to finance a variety of environmentally impactful projects as summarized in the
million
table below, which included research and development (R&D) for new products, capital
microinverters shipped in 2022 expenditures to increase our manufacturing capabilities to support our global product
portfolio, the cost of goods sold, and increased headcount. The terms of this capital raise
were some of the most favorable to an issuer in history, and we were bestowed with an ESG
award and a structured equity award from International Financing Review (IFR) in February
2022.
42.6%
Table 1: Enphase Energy eligible green bond disbursement report ($ in millions)*
non-GAAP gross margin in 2022
Net Proceeds from Green Bond Issuances
March 1, 2021 and March 12,
Issuance Dates:
2021
Notes due 2026 $622.53
Notes due 2028 $565.91
Total Net Proceeds $1,188.44
Eligible Green Expenditures
Eligible Green Project Categories from April 1, 2021 through
September 30, 2022
Renewable Energy $973.69
Eco-Efficient Production Technologies and
$214.75
Process
Total Disbursed Expenditures $1,188.44
*Please refer to Management assertion and Third party attestation in Appendix
1 See Appendix for reconciliation to comparable GAAP measures
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 17
Our financial
performance
We had another record year for profitability in 2022. We generated a record $744.8 million
in cash flow from operations in 2022, compared to $352.0 million in 2021. GAAP net income
“We had another record year
was $397.4 million, resulting in diluted earnings per share of $2.77. Non-GAAP net income
for profitability in 2022.” was $647.4 million, resulting in non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $4.62.1
Quarterly revenue by year Quarterly gross margin % by year
$800.0 45.0% 43.8%
$724.7 41.1% 42.2% 41.0% 42.9%
$700.0 $634.7 39.5% 41.0% 39.6%40.8% 40.8% 40.2%40.2%
40.0%
$600.0
$530.2
$500.0 $441.3 35.0%
$412.7
$400.0 $351.5
$301.8 $316.1
$300.0 $264.8 30.0%
$205.5
$178.5
$200.0
$125.5 25.0%
$100.0
$0.0 20.0%
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Quarterly operating expenses % by year Quarterly operating income % by year
35.0%
31.7%
30.0% 30.6% 27.3%
30.0% 26.6% 28.7% 23.7%
25.7% 26.0% 24.5%
25.0% 25.0% 24.4% 24.4%
20.7% 20.0% 18.9%
20.0%
15.0%
16.6%
16.4% 16.3% 16.5%
15.0% 10.0%
15.0% 13.9%14.5% 13.4% 12.4% 12.9% 12.1% 5.0%
10.0% 0.0%
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2020 2021 2022
1 See Appendix for reconciliation to comparable GAAP measures
18
Enphase IQ 5P™ Battery with 2x continuous
and peak power to be introduced in 2023
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002222 1199
Environment
Enphase’s best-in-class energy management solutions, spanning solar energy
generation, battery storage, EV charging, and cloud-based monitoring and control,
provide the smart energy needed to drive global sustainable development. Our
products and services directly address the urgent challenges presented by climate
change and the transition to a low-carbon economy.
2200
E1. Environmental
stewardship
Enphase’s best-in-class energy management solutions, spanning solar energy generation,
battery storage, EV charging, and cloud-based monitoring and control, provide the smart
energy needed to drive global sustainable development. Our products and services directly
address the urgent challenges presented by climate change and the transition to a low-
carbon economy, and we also acknowledge responsibility for helping to reduce adverse
environmental impacts across the value chain.
Climate change strategy
“Our products and services At Enphase, we create the clean energy technologies the world needs to help slow the
directly address the urgent pace of global warming, protect the environment, and accelerate the transition to a clean,
accessible, and resilient energy system. Our climate change strategy disclosures align with
challenges presented by climate
the recommendations of the Taskforce for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
change and the transition to a
and may be found in the Appendix.
low-carbon economy.”
Environmental management system (EMS)
Enphase demands of itself superior environmental performance, and 100% of our facilities
are ISO 14001:2015 certified. Our EMS is continually improved to align with business strategy,
promote positive environmental impacts, and minimize adverse impacts. Through the EMS,
we proactively assess environmental risks and opportunities, define key performance
indicators (KPIs) and targets, and evaluate progress toward environmental goals.
Supplier expectations
Enphase works with suppliers who share our commitment to environmental stewardship,
and all suppliers and vendors are expected to uphold the same standards of environmental
stewardship as we do. Suppliers are screened on specific criteria including the presence of
an environmental policy; EMS or Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) certification;
Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and Registration, Evaluation, Authorization,
and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) compliance; conflict minerals reporting; as well as
the establishment of human rights and labor policies.
Auditing
Our environmental audit program includes periodic and complete evaluations of our
product development and R&D centers. Audits include air and water quality, waste
management practices, spill prevention and control, hazardous materials management,
and employee awareness.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 21
Reporting and stakeholder consultation
We report our annual environmental performance in line with prevailing sustainability
reporting frameworks. Stakeholders such as our shareholders, local communities,
customers, suppliers and contractors, government agencies, and other organizations
focused on protecting the environment are allies and collaborators, and their priorities and
feedback regarding our environmental performance are considered when assessing our
environmental performance.
Product lifecycle stewardship
“We support pollution prevention Our products are designed to be safe for the environment and their intended use. All
programs and use materials and hazardous waste generated across our operations is disposed of properly or recycled, and
energy efficiently to conserve we comply where we operate with all applicable laws and directives regarding hazardous
waste, including Waste from Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE), RoHs, REACH,
natural resources.”
and the European Union (EU) batteries directive. We support pollution prevention programs
and use materials and energy efficiently to conserve natural resources, including measuring
emissions and implementing an emissions reduction strategy.
Legal compliance
Enphase complies in the areas where we operate with all applicable environmental, health
and safety laws, as well as all pertinent industry codes and standards. We also expect our
suppliers, partners, and customers to comply with all appliable environmental laws and
regulations.
Empowering employees
We harness the intellect and energy of our employees to achieve positive and lasting
environmental impacts resulting from our business. Employees at all levels actively
participate in environmental goal-setting processes, allowing for important insights
and innovation to be realized across the company. We incentivize performance toward
environmental-related goals, with all employees eligible to tie their bonuses to associated
objectives.
22
E2. Clean energy
production
During Since
2022 2006
21 64
billion billion
kilowatt-hours (kWh) kilowatt-hours (kWh)
generated by Enphase generated by Enphase
microinverters3 microinverters3
14 45
million million
MTCO₂e prevented from MTCO₂e prevented from
entering the atmosphere2 entering the atmosphere2
2 Estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of December 31, 2022 grossed up for non-
managed systems based on cumulative production records; COe calculations based on U.S. EPA
2
GHG calculator
3 Annual running total estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of December 31, 2022
grossed up for non-managed systems based on cumulative production records
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002222 2233
E3. Emissions
and energy
We completed our second year of a greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory. The
calculations follow the guidance provided in the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard,
covering direct (Scope 1), electricity-indirect (Scope 2), and certain Scope 3 emissions
categories. Please refer to the Appendix for a detailed explanation of the methodology
used in our GHG emissions inventory.
Scope 1
We consider Scope 1 emissions to be negligible given our “OpEx Lite” operating model,
where we do not own or operate any large factories. Emissions from our field service and
training vehicle fleet do not represent more than 5% of our total Scope 1 and 2 emissions
and are excluded from our GHG inventory.
Scope 2
“2022 is our second year of
completing a greenhouse gas Energy consumption among our leased facilities globally comprises our Scope 2 emissions.
We are actively reducing our Scope 2 emissions by increasing the number of PV systems on
(GHG) emissions inventory.”
our leased buildings and completing energy efficiency projects on a continuing basis. Our
energy management program is informed by the ISO 50001 standard.
Note that we intentionally forgo market solutions to drive down Scope 2 emissions. This
allows us to confidently claim that our operations run on renewable energy, while cultivating
a net positive outcome. By leaving installed PV on the leased buildings after we vacate, we
leave the facilities in a better condition than originally found.
Scope 3
We collaborate with upstream and downstream partners to reduce our Scope 3 emissions.
In 2023, we plan to install a 900 kW Enphase microinverter system at Salcomp, India,
our contract manufacturing facility that has produced more than five million Enphase
microinverters. Several other of our key suppliers and customers have set ambitious GHG
reduction targets through the Science-Based Targets Initiative (SBTi), helping to further
reduce Scope 3 emissions. We will continue to measure our Scope 3 emissions and explore
opportunities for further reductions moving forward.
24
Reducing GHG emissions
We are actively reducing our operational emissions and have set a target to reduce our
Scope 1 and Scope 2 economic emissions intensity by 30% by 2030 through the following
means:
“We have set a target to reduce • Installing on-site PV generation capacity among leased facilities
our economic emissions • Implementing energy efficiency projects
intensity by 30% by 2030.” • Strategically siting our facilities to ensure access to renewable energy
• Installing bi-directional EV chargers when available among facilities
• Incentivizing energy conservation efforts
• Continuing transition to cloud storage to reduce data center energy consumption
2022 actions taken
• Increased facilities’ on-site generation capacity by 73%
• Reached total on-site generation capacity of 260 kW, with expansion plan developed
to increase to 1,747 kW by the end of 2023
• Began tracking renewable energy mix across purchased grid electricity
• Planned LED motion-sensing light fixture upgrades representing annual savings of
152,675 kWh
Table 2: GHG emissions* and emissions intensity
Emissions type Units
Direct emissions (Scope 1) (MTCOe) 0
2
Electricity-indirect emissions (Scope 2) (MTCOe) 10,603
2
Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) (MTCOe) 53,542
2
Total emissions (MTCOe) 64,145
2
Scope 1 + 2 emissions intensity (MTCOe/$M revenue) 4.55
2
*All emissions figures represent location- and market-based calculation.
Chart 1: On-site PV generation capacity (kW)
Scopes 1, 2 Scopes 1, 2, 3
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 25
Table 3: Energy consumption and intensity
Energy type Units
Electricity (kWh) 15,649,167
Heating (kWh) 1,953,424
Total energy consumption (kWh) 17,602,591
Energy intensity (kWh / $M revenue) 7,554
74%
Chart 2: Emissions and energy intensity*
Emissions Energy
renewable intensity intensity
energy mix 8.00 11,000
7.50
10,500
7.00
10,000
6.50
9,500
6.00
5.50 9,000
5.00
8,500
4.50
8,000
4.00
7,500
3.50
3.00 7,000
2021 2022
Emissions Intensity (MTCOe/ $M) Energy Intensity (MTCOe / $M)
2 2
*Scopes 1 and 2 only
Chart 3: Renewable energy mix
26%
Renewable (%)
74%
Non-renewable (%)
26
Hazardous air pollutants
Enphase installed products reduce the amount of hazardous air pollutants (HAPs) that
enter the atmosphere, helping to alleviate human health issues related to the release of
particulate matter (PM 2.5), nitrous oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other ozone-
depleting substances (ODS). These are typically released from fuel combustion among
both mobile and stationary sources such as cars, trucks, and factories. Many people are
disproportionately impacted by air pollution, including those who live in communities of
color or low-income communities. Every clean kilowatt-hour generated by an Enphase
system helps to reduce air pollution and promote environmental justice.
“Every clean kilowatt-hour We do not consider the release of HAPs across Enphase’s operations to be significant,
generated by an Enphase given we do not own or operate a company vehicle fleet or any large factories. However,
system helps to reduce we do hold upstream suppliers and contract manufacturers accountable for environmental
performance as outlined in our Enphase Supplier Code of Conduct and proactively work to
air pollution and promote
reduce Scope 3 emissions, including HAPs, as described earlier in this report.
environmental justice.”
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 27
Enphase EV chargers have a charging current range
between 32 amperes and 64 amperes
28 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 28
E4. Product lifecycle
and waste
Activities across the entire value chain from raw material extraction to product end-of-life
methods comprise our environmental footprint, and we are committed to reducing adverse
environmental impacts as much as possible. We continually seek opportunities to reduce
the inputs needed to build reliable, high-quality products, integrate recycled materials
where possible, and design equipment that can be repurposed or recycled at the end of
its lifespan. By following “Design for Environment” (DfE) principles, we spur innovation and
position ourselves to compete in the growing circular economy.
Currently, we are primarily concerned with managing our electronic waste (e-waste),
hazardous waste, and universal waste responsibly across global operations. These wastes
are generated through R&D, prototyping, and creating experimental apparatus for new
product development and improvement across our product portfolio. Our dedication to
building innovative, best-in-class products regarding safety, quality, and reliability requires
extensive testing and failure analysis. Test equipment is disassembled or deconstructed,
with the constituent parts recycled and reclaimed for future use, where possible. We make
every effort to divert these wastes from landfills by sending e-waste, hazardous waste, and
universal waste to certified vendors who provide certificates of destruction, outlining the
percent composition, mass, and recycling method employed for each constituent material.
100% 100%
waste generated in North America RoHS, REACH, WEEE, and EU
is diverted from landfill* Battery Directive compliant
We focus significant efforts on residential, commercial, and industrial battery disposal and
“We continually seek recycling. We evaluate third-party recycling vendors for certifications and compliance
opportunities to reduce the performance prior to engaging with them. Our battery recycler is certified to the R2
inputs needed to build reliable, standard, which prohibits incineration as a disposal solution. All battery waste is processed
thermally or chemically to recover valuable metals such as nickel, lithium, cobalt, and
high-quality products, integrate
copper, with the remaining plastic and byproducts separated for recycling. This allows
recycled materials where
for valuable components to be reused as material inputs for new products. We design our
possible, and design equipment
batteries for long-term duration to decrease waste, using lithium iron phosphate (LFP)
that can be repurposed or chemistry as the storage material. Beyond batteries, we are reviewing the methods of other
recycled at the end of its third-party vendors to validate that material is diverted from landfill, and we are developing
designed lifespan.” a vendor audit program to verify the destination of generated waste.
We promote our company’s commitment to recycling and preventing products and
materials from ending up in landfills through our internal training and compliance with
applicable federal, state, and local regulations. Employees working in our R&D labs undergo
additional annual training to ensure they understand how to properly dispose of any
hazardous materials that are not eligible for our recycling programs.
*Hazardous waste, e-waste, and universal waste
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 29
Sustainable facilities
We also make a conscientious effort to ensure responsible resource consumption across
our facilities. Water conservation is encouraged, and we have installed auto stop taps to
reduce consumption. Facilities are equipped with reusable and compostable materials,
single-use items are eliminated, and employees are provided with reusable dishware,
utensils, and mugs. Additionally, ink cartridges, organics, plastic, glass, cardboard,
fluorescent bulbs, and metal scraps are recycled as standard practice among facilities.
Table 4: Waste*
Amount Amount Diverted Percent Percent Directed
Waste Type Generated from Landfill Recycled to Landfill
(MT) (MT) (%) (%)
Hazardous Waste 0.45 0.45 100 0.0
E-Waste 89.26 89.26 100 0.0
Universal Waste 27.14 27.14 100 0.0
*U.S. R&D locations only
30
Our high-speed digital ASIC forms the brain of our microinverters
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002222 3311
E5. Case studies
United States
Solar Revolution LLC, an installer of Enphase products, completed an 87.8 kW rooftop
solar energy project on the Erie Fire Station in Erie, Pennsylvania. The installation will power
critical emergency services and is expected to help save taxpayers hundreds of thousands
of dollars over the life of the system.
Erie Fire Station 87.8 kW
Organization
solar energy system size
Solar Revolution LLC
Enphase product installer
98.3 MWh
Erie, Pennsylvania
Location estimated annual production
32
Puerto Rico
Enphase Energy partnered with Genesis Solar and non-profit organizations to help with
lowering utility bills and back-up power for communities in Culebra, a small east coast
island in Puerto Rico, by installing 45 Enphase Energy Systems.
Environmental 3 kW 10 kWh
Defense Fund
Organization solar energy battery size
system size
Genesis Solar
6 MWh
Enphase product installer
Culebra Island estimated annual production per system, plus backup storage
Location
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 33
Europe
Smart To, an installer of Enphase products, completed a rooftop solar energy project for a
summer camp in Haute-Savoie, France. The system was designed to provide clean energy
support for the camp and help reduce electricity bills. The installation consisted of 44 solar
panels with IQ7+™ microinverters.
A summer camp facility 17.8 kW
in France
Organization solar energy system size
Smart To
Enphase product installer 30%
Haute-Savoie, France
of annual energy consumption estimated as annual production
Location
34
Australia
Genelec Power Solutions (GPS), an installer of Enphase products, completed a 180 kW
rooftop solar energy project on the new Sydney Football Stadium, commercially known as
Allianz Stadium. The system design targeted annual power generation of 158 MWh, which,
after multiple modeling simulations of various other inverter technologies, could best be
achieved by leveraging the flexibility and performance of the Enphase IQ7A™ microinverters.
Sydney Football Stadium 180 kW
(Allianz Stadium)
Organization solar energy system size
Genelec Power Solutions
158 MWh
Enphase product installer
Moore Park, Sydeny,
estimated annual production
Australia
Location
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 35
Brazil
An installer of Enphase systems, Plug Solar Energia, installed a solar energy system at a
condominium building in São Paulo, Brazil. The roof has multiple orientations, and designing
with Enphase microinverters was the best solution to ensure maximum efficiency and
savings. The customer also chose Enphase microinverters so that it could add Enphase
batteries at a later time.
Alphaville Tambore 3 41.3 kW
Organization
solar energy system size
Plug Solar Energia
Enphase product installer
57.6 MWh
Santana de Parnaiba/
Sao Paulo estimated annual production
Location
36
India
Ornate Solar, an installer of Enphase products, built a massive 1,638 panel solar energy
system across 45,000 square feet, on the rooftop space of B.L. Argo facility in Bareilly,
Uttar Pradesh. The proprietary InRoof system is a unique structural solution that can
integrate panels of any shape and size to replace conventional metal roofs. The solar panels
themselves became the roof. This system is touted by Ornate Solar as one of India’s largest
integrated roof solar energy systems.
BL Agro Industries Ltd 745 kW
Organization
solar energy system size
Ornate Solar
Enphase product installer
Bareilly, Uttar Prasesh,
India
Location
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 37
People
At Enphase, we strive to be a great place to work by recruiting and retaining the
best, embracing diversity, equity, and inclusion, providing opportunities for learning
and development, and cultivating a safe and healthy work environment.
50%
India
38%
North
America
6% 1%
Europe China
<1% 5%
South Australia and
America New Zealand
3388
P1. Company
demographics
Geographic headcount
50%
India
38%
North
America
6% 1%
Europe China
<1% 5%
South Australia and
America New Zealand
Employee headcount
2,821
3,000
2,500 2,260
2,000
1,500
850
1,000
577
427
500 336
0
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002222 3399
P2. Recruiting and
retaining the best
We are committed to attracting the best talent and developing a strong group of
employees from diverse backgrounds. Our robust talent management program includes
university outreach, global recruitment, career progression, and leadership development
— empowering our employees to reach their full potential and find work satisfaction.
Recruitment and onboarding
We leverage various employee referral programs, seek talent from specialized conferences,
including university recruitment, and work with recruiting agencies to supply a diverse
slate of candidates for each job opportunity. In addition, our talent acquisition department
sponsors events, partners with multiple student organizations on university campuses,
makes certain all published job descriptions contain inclusive language, and ensures
that interview teams are broadly represented. Once hired, our world-class, scalable, and
blended model for new employee onboarding and training creates an environment where
all employees feel welcomed, supported, and valued.
Buddy Up!
As part of our new employee onboarding, every new employee is paired with a colleague
who is a go-to person for the new employee. The buddy provides assistance and information
during the settling-in period and ensures that the new employee is engaged and supported,
especially when working remotely. Our buddies benefit from improved self-confidence and
the ability to hone managerial and leadership skills. Over 120 buddies received positive
recognition in the first six months of launching the program.
Peer
(with longer
tenure)
Maintain
positive Technical
outlook and and process
attitude expert
Buddy
Share
Characteristics
knowledge Approachable,
(Encourage accessible,
self learning) and patient
Listen actively
Open-minded
(Help resolve
(No judgements)
issues and
concerns)
40
Employee wellness, engagement, and satisfaction
The physical, social, emotional, and financial needs of our employees and their families
guide our global wellness program. Accordingly, our employees worldwide are paid
competitive wages and are provided retirement saving programs, paid vacation days, sick
leave, subsidized health insurance plans, employee assistance programs (EAPs), virtual
fitness programs, and other benefits according to local regulations. All employees are
eligible for awards of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and quarterly cash bonuses, and can
participate (where available) in the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP).
We conduct an annual Employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS) and employee engagement
survey. This survey drives our employee engagement plans and activities for the upcoming
year. Each function and business unit also prepares its own action plans for the year based
on the survey results and feedback.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 41
P3. Embracing diversity, equity,
and inclusion
Our ability to innovate relies on hiring the best and valuing the perspectives and
knowledge from employees across a broad range of backgrounds and experiences. We
ensure our leaders and employees at all levels of the organization work with each other to
foster an inclusive culture and mindset, and continuously improve our interactions with
each other, our partners, our customers, and our communities. In 2022, we formed our
DEI Council, which is charged with raising awareness of our global DEI strategy, focused
on hiring, engagement, retention, and development efforts to achieve a world-class
workforce that is inclusive and diverse.
Eliminating bias and ensuring equal opportunity
We address the topic of “unconscious bias” in training available to recruiters, hiring
managers, and interviewers to ensure inclusive hiring practices. Through our “Interviewing
the Enphase Way” and “Hiring the Enphase Way” philosophies and training programs, we
evaluate candidates on merit and do not fall victim to prejudice or discrimination.
“Our ability to innovate relies on We do not tolerate discrimination of any kind based on race, color, sex, gender, gender
hiring the best and valuing the expression, religion, sexual orientation, national origin, ancestry, disability, medical
perspectives and knowledge condition, genetic information, marital status, pregnancy, military or veteran status, or
any other protected characteristic as outlined by federal, state, or local laws. This policy
from employees across a broad
applies to all employment practices within our organization, including hiring, recruiting,
range of backgrounds and
promotion, termination, layoff, recall, leave of absence, compensation, benefits, training,
experiences.”
and apprenticeship.
42
Table 5: Gender diversity
Female Male Not disclosed
Employee group
(%) (%) (%)
Executive officers (16) 25.0 75.0 0.0
Leadership (208) 12.5 81.3 6.2
Managers (462) 15.1 81.2 3.7
All employees (2,821) 18.1 72.6 9.3
Table 6: Ethnic diversity
All employees Leadership Managers
Ethnicity (No. 2,821) (No. 208) (No. 462)
(%) (%) (%)
American Indian or Alaska Native
0.6 0.0 0.2
(not Hispanic or Latino)
Asian (not Hispanic or Latino) 49.3 47.6 57.8
Black or African American
1.2 0.0 0.4
(not Hispanic or Latino)
Hispanic or Latino 4.8 1.9 2.8
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific
0.4 0.5 0.2
Islander (not Hispanic or Latino)
Two or more races
1.2 1.9 1.3
(not Hispanic or Latino)
Not disclosed 16.1 11.1 8.9
White (not Hispanic or Latino) 26.4 37.0 28.4
Table 7: Age diversity
< 30 Years 31-50 Years > 50 Years Not disclosed
Employee group
(%) (%) (%) (%)
Leadership (208) 0.0 56.7 39.9 3.4
Managers (462) 5.9 72.5 19.9 1.7
All employees (2,821) 35.8 50.7 10.7 2.8
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 43
DEI organizations and
partnerships
Avtar and Seramount
In 2022, Avtar, India’s premier DEI solutions firm, along with Seramount, a strategic
professional services firm dedicated to advancing DEI in the workplace in the United
States, conducted the seventh successive edition of the Best Companies for Women in
India (BCWI) and the Most Inclusive Companies Index (MICI) in 2022. Enphase received two
awards — “Top 100 Best Companies for Women in India” and “Exemplar of Inclusion.” These
awards honor Enphase’s unbiased, focused efforts towards identifying and developing
diverse talent and adopting leading practices in DEI areas.
CEO Action for D&I
Enphase’s CEO signed the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion pledge in 2021, joining more
than 2,000 other CEOs, to act on supporting more inclusive workplaces. We continued
our pledge to promote diversity in our leadership team and began to implement changes
focused on attracting more qualified and diverse talent into the company. The pledge also
challenges us to evolve our hiring practices to be more inclusive, including with all new
executive- and Board-level positions.
ParityPledge
Enphase is a signatory to the corporate “ParityPledge,” alongside a significant number
of established corporations in support of women and people of color in the workplace.
We are continuing to honor the pledge goal, which requires a commitment to interview
and consider at least one qualified woman and person of color for every open role, vice
president and higher, including C-suite and the Board.
4444
SEIA DEIJ Certification Program
In 2022, Enphase joined forces with the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) to help
advocate for diversity and inclusion in the solar industry. SEIA’s Diversity, Equity, Inclusion
& Justice (DEIJ) program increases social awareness by promoting solar companies that
become certified. A company participating in the DEIJ program can earn certification for
their work on these issues, allowing SEIA to showcase a company’s progress in this space
and educate other member companies through various programs, training, and resource
development. SEIA’s DEIJ database provides resources that assist us in expanding our own
internal diversity programs.
Women in Cleantech & Sustainability
Enphase continued its partnership with Women in Cleantech & Sustainability (WCS), an
organization that fosters an influential network of professionals to further the roles of
women in growing the green economy and making a positive impact on the environment. By
supporting WCS, we are helping to shine a light on the need for more women in cleantech
and fostering support for clean energy with participation in events and mentorship
opportunities.
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002222 4455
P4. Developing
our people
‘Experience-Exposure-Education’ learning model
Our learning model is designed to enable the majority of knowledge gained from job-related
experiences, followed by learning from coaching and mentoring, and participating in formal
learning events. This model reinforces our belief that learning is not just a result of functional
responsibility — it goes beyond formal training. Learning and development are therefore
embedded into daily work, cross-functional interactions, informal mentoring, and stretch
assignments.
40
138
hours of learning
unique learning
per employee
programs
65% 100%
NPS for learning compliance course
programs completion
Enphase Learning Academy
Last year we built the Enphase Learning Academy, our employee resource learning
center. The Academy utilizes EdCast’s Learning Experience Platform (LXP) and serves
as a centralized learning hub for all employees. The Enphase Learning Academy brings
together internal, external, formal, and informal sources of learning and knowledge in a
simple, easy-to-use interface. The platform uses artificial intelligence and machine learning
to personalize the content, driving an intuitive user experience for our employees. Apart
from self-paced learning, we offer talks on niche technical topics, webinars on wellness
and work-life balance, management development modules, and functional product and
technical training programs.
46
‘Ennovate’ – Enphase’s innovation program
Innovation is a core value at Enphase and is key to the long-term success of our company.
Ennovate, Enphase’s annual company hackathon program, is one of those programs that
drives innovation at Enphase. In 2022, the Ennovate program solicited ideas from employees
across three broad themes - software, systems, and business processes. We received 130
stunning ideas of which 29 were shortlisted for review by our executive team, funded by
Enphase for demo and prototype creation, and the best ideas were awarded with a cash
prize based on their novelty and business potential.
Ennovate 2022
Ideate. Innovate. Implement.
Join the hackathon and help build the future of Enphase.
Visit link.enphase.com/ennovate to learn more.
Education Assistance Program
Our Education Assistance Program (EAP) offers qualifying employees financial support to
advance their educational goals and increase their business knowledge. In 2022, Enphase
enhanced its regional budget for this benefit, enabling employees to choose from a better
and wider range of courses offered by education institutions.
Enphase behavioral competency framework
Competencies play a critical role in organizational success in that they define the skills,
behaviors, and attributes for all roles. In 2022, Enphase launched its behavioral competency
framework, which includes a set of core capabilities, as well as additional competencies
that may be required for specific tasks or responsibilities. These competencies have
become the core of internal employee practices such as hiring, performance evaluation,
and development.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 47
P5. Promoting a safe and
healthy workplace
Occupational Health and Safety
Enphase’s Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) program has implemented a culture
of safety compliance, framed on identifying hazards, minimizing workplace risks, and
promoting continuous improvement in safety performance. The U.S. Department of Labor’s
Occupational Health & Safety Administration (OSHA) guidelines are the building blocks for
our OHS program in the U.S. and provide significant influence over the development of our
OHS systems globally. The OHS program either complies with or exceeds the occupational
health and safety regulations in the countries where we operate.
“In 2022, Enphase had zero We continually monitor and evaluate our OHS program. In 2022, we updated the OHS
reportable notices of health and policy’s strategic direction, guiding principles, and relevant responsibilities for management,
safety violations, worldwide.” employees, and the newly formed Enphase Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) team.
Our EHS team is led by a safety professional trained and certified by the Board of Certified
Safety Professionals (BCSP). In 2022, Enphase had zero reportable notices of health and
safety violations, worldwide.
Workplace accident and injury rates
Enphase uses OSHA definitions to calculate recordable incidents, lost time, and restricted-
day injuries. These definitions are also implemented globally for data gathering and analysis.
As a result of these efforts, our recordable incidents, lost-time, and restricted-day injuries
are below industry averages published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Table 8: Accident and injury rates*
Total Days Away,
Lost Time Cases with Other
Recordable Restricted, Fatality
Incident Rate Job Transfer Recordable
Incident Rate Transfer Rate
(LTIR) or Restriction Cases
(TRIR) (DART)
Enphase Energy 0.09 0.09 0.04 0.05 0 0
Industry Benchmark4 2.7 1.7 1.1 0.6 1 No data
*North America operations
4 NAICS 221114, Solar Electric Power Generation
48
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002222 4499
P6. Responsible
supply chain
Our commitment to human rights
We acknowledge our responsibility to protect, preserve, and promote human rights
around the world. As we expand our global reach and impact, the need for vigilance and
due diligence regarding human rights issues throughout our operations will grow. We are
committed to ensuring that the people and communities impacted by our business are able
to live a life of liberty, dignity, and respect. Our internal codes and policies on human rights
are rooted in established frameworks and conventions including:
• United Nations Declaration on Human Rights
• The Code of Conduct of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)
• The United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights (UNGPs)
• The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises
• International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and
Rights at Work
“We believe access to energy Beyond the fundamental rights defined in these frameworks and conventions, we also
helps to reduce poverty, consider access to clean, reliable, and affordable energy as a basic human right and
improve health, reduce a prerequisite for achieving the 2030 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
(UN SDGs). We believe access to energy helps to reduce poverty, improve health,
inequality, and raise standards
reduce inequality, and raise standards of living. For more information, please refer to our
of living.”
Human Rights Policy.
Business relationships
We seek to do business with those who share our values and commitment to human
rights and expect all business partners to abide by our codes of conduct. We promote
awareness and respect for human rights across the value chain, including the adoption of
contractual clauses and supplier screening measures. Grievance mechanisms are available,
including the use of an anonymous third-party whistleblower hotline when instances of
non-compliance with the Enphase Energy Code of Conduct (Code of Conduct) or our
Supplier Code of Conduct are observed or reported. Corrective actions are taken by
managers, executive sponsors, and the Audit Committee of the Board when appropriate.
At a minimum, we expect our business partners to uphold basic human rights pertaining to
minimum wage, maximum working hours, freedom of association and the right to collective
bargaining, corporal punishment and disciplinary practices, acceptable living conditions,
non-discrimination, and compliance with health and safety laws as defined in domestic and
international conventions and frameworks.
50
Eradicating forced labor and human trafficking in supply
chains
We take the issues of slavery and human trafficking very seriously and will continue doing
our part by responsibly managing our supply chain to help eradicate human trafficking and
slavery.
“We are committed to following As stated in our Supplier Code of Conduct, our suppliers must not support, promote, or
all materials guidance and engage in the practice of forced labor, child labor, slavery, or human trafficking. The Supplier
Code of Conduct requires our suppliers, next-tier suppliers, and subcontractors to comply
environmental regulatory
with all international standards and applicable laws regarding slavery and human trafficking
compliance requirements in
and to conduct due diligence on their operations to verify compliance that the materials
all the countries in which we
used in our products comply with laws regarding human trafficking and slavery. Also see our
operate and sell.”
California Transparency in Supply Chains Disclosure.
We are committed to protecting human rights, enforcing fair labor practices, and
addressing the potential risks of forced labor, child labor, human trafficking, and slavery
across our operations and supply chain. We continuously monitor and evaluate our
processes for assessing supply chain risk exposure, with regular updates provided to the
Board of Directors.
Materials sourcing and conflict minerals
We are committed to following all materials guidance and environmental regulatory
compliance requirements in all the countries in which we operate and sell. We do not use
cobalt in our batteries as this mineral represents an increased risk of being sourced from
the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and other conflict-affected areas associated
with unfair labor practices. We expect our suppliers to source materials and operate in
a responsible manner consistent with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development’s Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from
Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. Our conflict minerals disclosure on responsible
sourcing is updated annually and filed with the SEC and posted on our website. For
additional information, please refer to our most recent conflict minerals report and
conflict minerals policy.
We expect our suppliers to acknowledge and agree to the following terms with respect to
conflict minerals:
• to meet the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act
• to provide us with conflict mineral content and country of origin information on
products supplied to us
• to cooperate in our or independent third-party auditing of the supply chain and
procurement process, conflict mineral audits, and due diligence on its suppliers, and
• to collaborate with us in developing a chain of custody for conflict minerals in the
supply chain and identifying and sourcing conflict-free sources for minerals used in
our products.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 51
Supplier selection and auditing
The success of our products would not be possible without positive and long-lasting
relationships with suppliers and partners that share our values of quality, design, and
sustainability. We work closely with all our contract manufacturers - from onboarding to
customer delivery — to ensure that our products are made while adhering to the highest
ethical, environmental, and socially responsible standards.
“The success of our products We provide a Supplier Quality Assurance Manual that outlines our expectations of new and
would not be possible without existing partners. We are committed to producing high quality, reliable, and cost-effective
products that are shipped on time, provide customer value, and conform to national and
positive and long-lasting
international requirements. We, along with our customers, demand and expect defect-free
relationships with suppliers
products and services.
and partners that share our
values of quality, design, and
Potential suppliers are rigorously screened for quality, including performance on
sustainability.” environmental and social factors. Screening and assessment criteria cover:
• Compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct
• Certification to ISO 9001 or ISO/TS 16949 Quality Management System (QMS)
• Certification to ISO 14001 Environmental Management System (EMS)
• Workforce policies and commitments to uphold best practices in human rights, fair
labor, and business ethics
• Presence of environmental policy, and
• Published REACH and RoHS compliance
52
Society
We aim to support a cleaner, more reliable, and better-performing grid, and to
collaborate with a wide range of stakeholders to advance policy outcomes in
support of clean energy across the world.
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002222 5533
S1. Enphase Corporate Social
Responsibility (CSR) initiatives
United States
GRID Alternatives
We have been partnering with GRID Alternatives, a national non-profit leader, for over a
decade. GRID’s mission is to build community-powered solutions to advance economic
and environmental justice through renewable energy. GRID works towards this mission
by handling solar installations and providing job training in low-income communities.
Through the partnership, we have historically donated our industry-leading microinverter
5,120 kW products. Now, as part of an expanded partnership, Enphase will provide IQ™ Batteries
and EV chargers for select GRID projects. These products will help further the nonprofit’s
solar installed important work, bringing energy resilience and clean transportation to disadvantaged
communities with the goal of achieving an equitable energy transition.
1,432
Over the lifetime of our partnership, GRID has installed more than 9,300 solar energy systems
in low-income communities across the United States using Enphase’s products, which
families served
equates to more than 37 megawatts of solar power. These homes will see an estimated lifetime
savings of more than $268 million and help prevent more than 620,000 tons of greenhouse
$31.94 million gas emissions from entering the atmosphere. Enphase’s employees have volunteered more
than 3,000 hours over the past decade, which led to the installation of solar on dozens of
lifetime savings
low-income homes and community buildings. This work has also provided job trainees and
volunteers with more than 550,000 hours of solar education and training. For the most
current information on Enphase’s and GRID’s impact, please visit the website.
96,248 tons
of GHG emissions avoided
5544
The Footprint Project
We provided a cash donation to The Footprint Project in support of its efforts to send solar
powered generators and trailers to aid Ukraine war refugees. The Footprint Project has
a mission to provide clean energy for communities in crisis. The organization was able to
coordinate shipments including 600 solar reading lamps for shelters, 25 solar generators
for medical facilities vulnerable to grid outages, and a solar trailer to provide scene lighting
and clean power access for Ukrainian refugees in Palanca, Moldova.
Semper Cares
We continued our collaboration with Semper Solaris, a leading California solar installer,
to support the company’s Semper Cares Initiative. The initiative provides help to veterans
and their families in need of energy independence and security. We donated solar energy
system equipment to help complete a project and give back to the U.S. military’s veteran
community by providing more affordable and reliable power.
Sulzbacher Village
We partnered with Everybody Solar and Sulzbacher to help bring a 50 kW solar energy
system to support a homeless shelter community in northeast Florida. Sulzbacher is one of
the largest providers for people experiencing or at risk of homelessness in Florida. Enphase
donated hundreds of IQ Microinverters to support the project, which will ultimately
decrease the operating costs of the facility and service more people in the community.
Taylor Energy
Enphase and Taylor Energy partnered to develop a large solar energy system for Greenacre
Homes, a local non-profit agency providing trauma-informed care for boys and young
men. The 25 kW solar project was built on Greenacre’s main campus and offices, which
will help lower their energy costs and enable more resources to go toward supporting the
community. The Enphase Energy System, powered by Enphase IQ Microinverters, will save
Greenacre Homes an estimated $500,000 over the life of the system.
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002222 5555
Australia
Second Life Solar
We partnered with the Blue Tribe Company on a first-of-its-kind second life solar pilot
project for Dubbo Regional Council, funded by the New South Wales Circular Solar Grants
Program. We donated 38 IQ Microinverters to the project, which demonstrated the viability
of reusing fully functional solar panels destined for landfills in behind-the-meter community
solar gardens to deliver renewable energy and circular economy outcomes for commercial
customers. Our microinverter technology was instrumental in allowing more recycled
systems to be developed because different panels could be used with our microinverters
within the same system. Leading industry groups have recognized Second Life Solar as a
winner of the World Wildlife Fund’s (WWF) Impact Challenge, a finalist in The Circle Awards
AUS & NZ 2022, and a finalist in the 2022 NSW Banksia Awards.
Brazil
Miracema City Solar Project
We collaborated with “Domingão com Huck,” a Brazilian TV show with a dedicated segment
about providing support for low-income people. As part of the collaboration, we and the
show supported a charitable project in Miracema City, a remote area in the countryside of
Rio de Janeiro. We donated a 2 kW system to help a local advocate lower his energy bills
while the TV show renovated his entire home.
UNESCO Sost
We partnered with Brazilian solar installer, Solstar, to donate a 6 kW system to UNESCO
Sost Transcriativa Home, based in a quilombola community in Bahia. The home will foster
the creativity of Brazilian leaders and entrepreneurs, and will also feature a creative
sustainability showcase in Brazil and an ideation laboratory for sustainable projects.
India
Indian Institute of Technology
We provided funding to the Indian Institute of Technology (Dharwad) on a project called
“Power Electronics and Controls for Renewable Energy Applications.” The funding helped
with fees for students and interns from underprivileged backgrounds who were working on
the project.
5566
India Sudar
We helped support multiple government schools across rural Karnataka by distributing
notebooks and stationery supplies, funding infrastructure development at two government
aided schools, providing funding for computer centers in four schools, and distributing
science kits and purchasing library books for students at eight schools.
Rotary Club of Bangalore
We have been actively supporting Rotary Club of Bangalore with its various charitable
initiatives, including funding towards the expenses and fees for students and participants
from Lingarajapuram Pre-Primary School in Bangalore, Rotary School in Channapatana,
and RCB’s vocational training programs in Bangalore.
Selco Foundation
We partnered with the Selco Foundation to provide energy efficient medical equipment
to government-run primary healthcare centers in Karnataka (Chamrajnagar district,
Karnataka).
Smt. Rajeshwari Radhakrishnan Charitable Trust
We partnered with Smt. Rajeshwari Radhakrishnan Charitable Trust to help provide access
to clean drinking water for the students at an all-girls high school in Thiruvannamail. We
also funded the building and supplied a library for students at the school, school fees for
students from underprivileged backgrounds, and the education of five students pursuing
science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) degrees.
Society of St. Vincent De Paul
We worked with Society of St. Vincent De Paul in Mandya to provide funding for students
at the Sharon School on the outskirts of Bangalore. The funding assisted with the fees for
60 students at the school - whose parents are mostly migrant laborers or otherwise from
underprivileged backgrounds - and helped revamp and renovate the facilities available to
students.
Trinity Care Foundation
We partnered with Trinity Care Foundation to install a rooftop solar system at a government
aided school in Ramanagara Dst., Karnataka. We donated eight IQ7A Microinverters. We
also helped fund a computer lab equipped with ten computers and accessories, as well as
one year’s salary for the staff to support the lab.
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002222 5577
S2. Enphase
grid services
Adding value to customers and society with Enphase solar
and battery systems.
We expanded our grid services programs, enabling more homeowners with IQ Batteries
the chance to participate in utility programs and earn money. These programs, also known
as virtual power plants (VPPs), create a network of home batteries that are managed by
utilities and grid operators. The programs pay homeowners to send the stored energy in
their home batteries to the grid when it is needed most. As a result, utilities can rely less on
the expensive, polluting power plants that traditionally address peak power demand.
In many grid services programs, customers can sign-up, monitor, and control participation
in the program using the Enphase App™. The incentives reduce the cost of the home
energy system and make home batteries more accessible and affordable to more people.
As these programs scale, we will have cleaner, more affordable, and more reliable energy
for everyone.
Enroll Monitor Backup and opt-out
58
In 2021, we announced our participation in the ConnectedSolutions program, Hawaiian
Electric’s Battery Bonus grid services program, and the Arizona Public Service, or APS,
residential battery grid services program. ConnectedSolutions is an incentive program
implemented by utilities in Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island to reduce
electrical demand during high-use periods. The Hawaiian Electric’s Battery Bonus grid
services program offers incentive for homeowners on the island of Oahu who install a new
home battery. The APS residential battery grid services program offers homeowners who
install Enphase IQ Batteries in APS’s service territory the chance to participate and earn
money through one-time, upfront incentives. We believe this valuable new program from
APS will help further accelerate the adoption of Enphase systems in Arizona.
In 2022, we launched two more grid services programs in the United States, with plans to
expand globally in the coming years:
Green Mountain Power
Enphase and Vermont-based utility Green Mountain Power (GMP) announced an alliance
to offer Enphase Energy Systems suite to customers in a cutting-edge battery lease grid
services pilot program. Homeowners can also enroll in GMP’s “Bring Your Own Device”
(BYOD) grid services program, which enables customers with their own Enphase Energy
Systems to participate and earn an up-front incentive.
As part of the GMP partnership, Enphase also launched Grid Services Manager, a distributed
energy resource management system (DERMS) that GMP will use to manage virtual power
plants with Enphase Energy Systems. Enphase is now licensing this software product for
utility grid managers, installers, and distributed energy resource aggregators to manage
VPPs using Enphase IQ Batteries.
Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E)
Power Saver Rewards Program
PG&E and Enphase launched a home battery energy storage program, with the use of
Enphase IQ Batteries, to support vulnerable, low-income customers during power outages.
Through the initiative, PG&E is providing battery systems at no cost to approximately 100
residential customers who have been frequently impacted by outages because of PG&E’s
Enhanced Powerline Safety Settings (EPSS).
An overview of our grid services programs can be found on our website.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 59
S3. Enphase innovation and
industry leadership
Supporting a more clean, reliable, and
better-performing grid.
Underwriters Laboratory (UL) and the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)
In May 2022 we announced that we were the first in the world to be certified by UL, a global
safety science leader, to UL 1741, 3rd edition including the Supplement SB. This certification
meets the new North American safety and grid interconnection standards for connecting
solar inverters, energy storage systems, and DERs to the grid in compliance with IEEE 1547-
2018 and IEEE 1547-1 2020.
“In May 2022 we announced that Enphase works closely with UL and IEEE, including acting as a co-convener for these
we were the first in the world specific standards and actively participating in the standards process for a variety of safety
to be certified by UL, a global and compliance issues including:
safety science leader.”
• UL Standards Technical Panels participation: UL 1741, UL 3741, UL2703, UL 6703, UL
9540, UL 9540A, and UL 1699B. We hold a group leadership role for Power Control
Systems within the UL 1741 panel.
• Acting Vice Chair of IEEE 1547.10: we are helping to define the recommended
specifications for a DER gateway platform in grid applications across various domains
including recommended procedures for cybersecurity, centralized manageability,
monitoring, grid edge intelligence and control, multiple entities management, error
detection and mitigation, events tracking and notification, communication protocol
translation, and communication network performance monitoring.
Interstate Renewable Energy Council (IREC) and
Sustainable Energy Action Committee (SEAC)
Enphase is a founding member and active participant in SEAC’s work to advance clean
energy permitting and inspection initiatives. Led by IREC, the SEAC provides a forum for
stakeholders to address code enforcement and permitting for sustainable energy systems.
The SEAC clarifies interpretation of confusing codes, which can slow down the deployment
of solar and battery systems and create more work for local officials and project developers.
60
International Code Council
We are working alongside other clean energy stakeholders, in collaboration with the
International Code Council, to develop changes to the International Fire Code and
the International Residential Code to develop practical solutions. The group actively
participates in the code-making process to recommend solutions for future versions of the
Code.
“We have led the development of International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC)
rapid shutdown equipment and
standard setting in the solar The IEC is a global, not-for-profit membership organization, whose work underpins quality
infrastructure and international trade in electrical and electronic goods. We work with the
industry, allowing energized
IEC to support the writing of international codes and standards. Specifically, our team is
equipment to be powered down
actively engaged as members of the IEC Technical Committee 82, which is scoped to look
quickly and safely in an
at solar photovoltaic energy systems. Within this committee, we are actively involved with
emergency.” Working Groups 3 (balance of system components) and 6 (inverter safety). We have also
participated in working groups to develop the following IEC standards:
• IEC 63027 (DC arc fault)
• IEC 62109-1 (Inverter safety)
• IEC 62109-3 (AC module safety)
• IEC 62548 (PV array design requirements)
Supporting emergency response and
first responder safety
In line with our commitment to safety, we have helped train thousands of firefighters across
the United States and Brazil on the critical strategies and tactics needed to mitigate structure
fires involving PV and energy storage systems (ESS). We have led the development of rapid
shutdown (RSD) equipment and standard setting in the solar industry, allowing energized
equipment to be powered down quickly and safely in an emergency. We are committed to
setting the gold standard with respect to PV and ESS safety. For more information, please
see our Energy Story: Safety and Solar.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 61
S4. Promoting clean
energy policy
We collaborated with a wide range of stakeholders to advance policy outcomes in support
of clean energy across the globe. Working with policymakers, public advocacy groups, and
industry partners, we worked on fair valuation for clean energy exports, expanding access
to solar and battery technology, defining codes and standards, and much more.
In the United States, we continued our leadership role with the Solar Energy Industry
Association as members of the Board of Directors, as well as taking on leadership positions
in various committees and subcommittees. We also continued our role as members of the
Board of Directors for the California Solar and Storage Association, which represents the
largest state-affiliated solar and battery industry association in the United States.
We were leading members globally in dozens of industry association groups, including
several across Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Asia, and Latin America. Some of the
highlights include:
United States
U.S. Federal Inflation Reduction Act
“We collaborated with a wide The Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) was passed and signed into law during the second half of
range of stakeholders to 2022. It extends significant tax benefits for solar, storage, energy efficiency retrofits, and
advance policy outcomes in vehicle electrification. The IRA also provides tax credits for manufacturers of advanced
technologies in the renewable energy industry to incentivize the establishment of a U.S.
support of clean energy across
manufacturing base. As a leading producer in the renewable energy industry, we worked
the globe.”
directly with political stakeholders and closely with national trade associations to develop
the tax credits and incentives in the IRA that support the development of a manufacturing
presence in the U.S., as well as to incentivize customer demand for our suite of products.
California
In California, the largest solar and storage market in the U.S., the California Public Utilities
Commission (CPUC) finalized its new tariff for distributed generation customers. The new
tariffs change the rules for net energy metering (NEM) across the state. Recognizing the
outsized impact these new regulations called NEM 3.0 could have, not only on California
customers, but throughout the nation as other public utility commissions follow suit, we
played a critical voice in stakeholder discussions. We advocated on how to improve the
tariff to better transition the market from solar-only to solar-plus- storage, without harming
customers in the process. Specifically, Enphase submitted multiple rounds of written
comments and delivered an oral argument that helped shape the final, and much improved,
decision.
62
Hawaii
In Hawaii, one of the most advanced renewable energy states in the United States, the
Public Utilities Commission (PUC) embarked on creating its new statewide “Bring Your Own
Device” grid services program to provide additional resilience features for Hawaii’s grid.
Our team led a working group with other renewable energy stakeholders to develop the
protocol and testing plan for the new program to ensure that it would be implementable
and achieve its goals. The protocol was accepted by Hawaii Electric and will help ensure
that Hawaii’s distributed generation customers have a reliable and effective program to
compensate them for the benefit their systems can provide to the grid.
Illinois
“Our team led a working group The Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC) embarked on developing a new storage program
with other renewable energy to follow up on its landmark “Climate and Equitable Jobs Act,” signed into law in 2021.
stakeholders to develop the Based on our programmatic experience in multiple jurisdictions, we met with the ICC,
presented at and led a workshop on energy storage best practices, and submitted written
protocol and testing plan for the
comments that helped the ICC develop its report to the Governor and General Assembly,
new program to ensure that it
formally recommending a variety of programs to bolster energy storage in the state. We
would be implementable
are now working through SEIA to pursue legislation to codify one of these programmatic
and achieve its goals.”
recommendations. These programs will help strengthen storage adoption throughout the
state and enable those customers to dispatch their assets to benefit the grid.
Australia
Enphase Australia’s internal policy working group meets bi-monthly to assess our
engagements across the multitude of forums that impact our business. This group
includes experts from our U.S. policy team, along with the local engineering and business
development staff who sit on working groups with the Clean Energy Council, the Smart
Energy Council and Standards Australia.
Policy work
In 2022, we provided submissions to inquiries by the South Australian government,
Queensland government, and national regulatory bodies Australian Energy Regulator
(AER), Australian Energy Market Commission (AEMC), and Australian Energy Market
Operator (AEMO). We are also actively engaged in policy discussions with the Western
Australian government (via Western Power) and the Victorian government (via
SolarVictoria).
We also continued policy activities as a founding member of SaferSolar, an advocacy group
of installers and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) who are advocating for the
adoption of a rapid shutdown equivalent standard in the Australian solar market.
At the federal level, we are working with several key independent Parliament members,
for whom climate action is a key policy priority, to ensure they support advanced power
electronics in the solar industry, focusing on safety.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 63
Technical standards
Though our own direct participation and via electrical industry associations Master
Electricians Australia (MEA) and National Electrical and Communications Association
(NECA), we sit on multiple Standards Australia committees. These committees work
on technical standards that govern solar installations (AS5033), inverters (AS4777.1,
AS4777.2), and batteries (AS5139), along with more general behind-the-meter technology.
In 2022, we contributed directly to discussions, where all four standards were in an active
revision process.
Brazil
Codes and safety policy
The Enphase team in Brazil meets regularly with firefighter associations in the city of Brasilia
to help advance various solar energy safety measures. These policy advancements will
help to make solar energy in Brazil safer for homeowners and businesses, benefitting the
industry overall. In 2022, we worked to draft safety codes and rapid shutdown standards
requirements and developed a variety of educational activities designed to help firefighters
across the country.
“The Enphase team in Brazil
meets regularly with firefighter
associations in the city of
Brasilia to help advance various
solar energy safety measures.”
64
Corporate
governance
Our corporate governance framework is firmly rooted in risk management and
compliance, which serves as the foundation for sustainability and ESG efforts at
Enphase. To support our commitment to drive the adoption of sustainable clean
energy solutions, we participate in the development of policies and regulations
around the world as part of our core governance principles.
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002222 6655
G1. ESG governance
and leadership
Board oversight of ESG
Our Board of Directors (Board) is presided over by an Independent Chair of the Board. We
believe that having an Independent Chair, separate from our CEO, creates an environment
that is more conducive to objective evaluation and oversight of management’s performance.
We further believe this increases management’s accountability and improves the Board’s
ability to monitor whether management’s actions are in the best interests of our company
and our shareholders.
Our governance framework is firmly rooted in risk management and compliance, which
serves as the foundation for sustainability and ESG efforts at Enphase. We appreciate
the importance of ESG risks and opportunities, and the Board and its committees are
responsible for directing our overall ESG strategy.
“We appreciate the importance The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee oversees ESG matters including
of ESG risks and opportunities, strategy, initiatives, policies, and outreach to investors and other interested stakeholders.
and the Board and its Our cross-functional ESG executive leadership team provides regular updates to the
Board’s Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee on emerging ESG trends,
committees are responsible
reporting and regulations, and assessment of strategic objectives over the short-, medium-,
for directing our overall ESG
and long-term on climate and emissions, diversity, human rights, and other material ESG
strategy.”
topics.
The Audit Committee annually identifies and assesses all key financial risks and monitors
our risk mitigation efforts. The risk management program considers material ESG risk
factors, including climate risks, which is reviewed by our management and executives
with oversight by the Audit Committee. In 2022, the Audit Committee made the strategic
decision to move from an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) approach in evaluating risks
and opportunities to an Objective-Centric Risk Management approach (OCRM). The Audit
Committee believed that the objective-centric approach better aligns with our vision and
mission and facilitates the appropriate integration of risk and strategy.
The Compensation Committee oversees matters related to human capital management,
including inclusion and diversity, leadership development, and talent assessments. The
Committee is also responsible for executive compensation and pay metrics.
Additional information about the role of the Board of Directors and its various committees
is available in our Corporate Governance Guidelines and our most recently filed
Proxy Statement.
66
Board diversity and independence
We take seriously our longstanding and continuing commitment to effectiveness in the
boardroom. We believe that our Board should represent diversity of thought, background,
skill, experience, and expertise. We recognize that enhancing demographic diversity on the
Board, through the representation of women and underrepresented groups, encourages a
thoughtful decision-making process that is important to effective corporate governance.
Consistent with our philosophy, we have codified a version of the Rooney Rule in our
Corporate Governance Guidelines, which states that, “the Nominating and Corporate
Governance Committee will ensure each pool of qualified candidates for additional or
vacant Board positions from which Board nominees are chosen includes candidates who
bring racial and/or gender diversity.”
The composition of our seven-person Board reflects a variety of backgrounds, experiences,
and tenures, and we continue to seek opportunities to enhance the diversity and
effectiveness of our Board.
Board composition
Tenure Diversity
0-5 years 11+ years Diverse
2 2 3
7.4 43%
years
Average tenure Diverse
Others
4
6-10 years
3
Independence Age
Non-Independent > 60 years < 50 years
2 2 2
71% 56
years
Independent Average age
Indepedent
5
50-60 years
3
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 67
ESG management structure
Our ESG efforts are overseen by our General Counsel, with participation from an executive
leadership team, along with board-level oversight led by our Nominating and Corporate
Governance Committee. Our cross-functional supporting working groups manage and
operationalize the ESG program across the company, meeting regularly to review ESG risks
and opportunities, develop ESG goals and targets, and allocate necessary resources to
achieve ESG objectives. The supporting ESG working groups include senior leaders and key
internal stakeholders representing legal, investor relations, global policy and government
affairs, facilities, EHS, procurement, supply chain, manufacturing, customer service, human
resources, compliance, and risk management. Progress toward ESG goals and targets is
incentivized through our annual and quarterly bonus programs.
Enphase Energy Board
of Directors
Nominating &
Audit
Corporate Governance
Committee
Committee
Enterprise Risk ESG Executive
Management (ERM) Leadership
Committee Team
ESG
Working Group
68
ESG pay link
“Our ESG program is rooted in We are in the business of providing climate change solutions to the world to mitigate
addressing those issues most the most serious consequences of global warming. Given our purpose, remuneration to
important to both our company executives, senior leadership, managers, and individual contributors drives performance
under the environmental ESG pillar, including quarterly bonus payouts that are a function
and our stakeholders.”
of company profitability, our company performance against targets, and individual
performance. Beyond climate-related goals, employees can also be rewarded in a similar
manner through the quarterly bonus system for advancing progress among other various
ESG initiatives under the social and governance pillars.
Materiality assessment
Our ESG program is rooted in addressing those issues most important to both our company
and our stakeholders. This allows us to identify and prioritize sustainability risks and
opportunities and proactively respond to stakeholder concerns. Our materiality assessment
approach considers the expressed concerns among stockholders, company leadership,
employees, customers and suppliers, and potential investors, alongside with the evolving
regulatory landscape, disclosure requirements, and emerging ESG trends. These issues are
scored and ranked based on stakeholder importance, urgency, and legitimacy and help us
identify those ESG issues that are most relevant for our company.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 69
G2. Business ethics
and compliance
Enphase Code of Conduct
We believe that all people should be treated with dignity and respect. Our Code of
Conduct applies to all officers, directors and employees, contractors, and consultants. It
provides general guidelines to ensure proper and ethical behavior, legal compliance, and
compliance with our standards, policies, and procedures. We are committed to complying
with all applicable laws and regulations everywhere we operate.
Supplier Code of Conduct
We choose business partners who share our mission and intend to work only with those
who agree that our shared success is based on acting ethically and lawfully. We expect
our business partners to adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct, which includes (a)
conducting business with high ethical standards; (b) complying with applicable laws; (c)
supporting the human rights of workers and treat their employees with dignity; (d) adhering
to anti-slavery and human trafficking principles; and (e) maintaining safe and healthy
working conditions.
Compliance training
To meet legal requirements and regulations, such as anti-discrimination laws, health and
safety regulations, and data privacy laws, we offer a set of compliance trainings, with an
objective to provide all the required information and awareness to all employees on the
topics of safety, code of conduct, workplace harassment prevention, ISO training and more.
We achieved 100% completion of our required compliance courses and had no confirmed
cases of breaches to our Code of Conduct in 2022.
Clawback policy
“We achieved 100% completion Our clawback policy applies to all employees and allows us to recover any incentive-
of our compliance courses based compensation that was paid based on erroneous financial information reported
and had no confirmed cases under securities laws. Specifically, we may recoup any incentive compensation from any
employee if: (i) the employee engages in intentional misconduct pertaining to any financial
of breaches to our Code of
reporting policy; (ii) there is a material negative revision of a financial or operating measure
Conduct in 2022.”
on the basis of which incentive compensation was awarded or paid to the employee; or (iii)
the employee engages in any fraud, theft, misappropriation, embezzlement or dishonesty.
Any recoupment will be made irrespective of whether the employee’s conduct contributed
to the need for the restatement and/or revision. For additional information, please refer to
our 2022 Proxy Statement.
70
Whistleblower policy
We take matters of ethics and integrity seriously at all levels of our organization and
provide an anonymous platform to report violations of the Code of Conduct. We empower
each employee to report any witnessed or suspected wrongdoing to ensure the highest
levels of integrity. Under our whistleblower protection and non-retaliation provisions, any
employee, supplier, or other party is encouraged to anonymously or non-anonymously
report concerns and violations of our policies. Our hotline is available 24 hours a day,
seven days a week, and all reports are investigated promptly with the highest degree of
confidentiality. Retribution or retaliation against whistleblowers is strictly prohibited, and
employees are also encouraged to report any suspicious or unethical activity directly to
their manager, human resources, the legal department, or our Compliance Officer. For
additional information, please refer to our Code of Conduct.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 71
G3. Data privacy, cybersecurity,
intellectual property
Data privacy and cybersecurity
We continue to carry out our belief that every global citizen is entitled to strong privacy
protection. This is encapsulated in our commitment and advancement in the ways of data
privacy cybersecurity.
Our data privacy program includes record-keeping, communications, and practices that
are formed using the world’s strictest standards, including the EU’s General Data Protection
Regulation (GDPR), California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), and California Privacy
Rights Act (CPRA). Every processing activity follows this framework, which ensures that we
treat our employees, customers, partners, and general consumers in the proper way. As a
few notable examples:
• We commit to not “sell” personal information
• We have a valued practice of giving consumers notice and choice as to which third-
parties may access their data, including built-in consent in many instances where it is
not legally required
• We comply with data subject requests regardless of where the data subject is located,
including requests to access, delete, know, rectify, or not sell or share
• Our privacy team routinely engages with consumers on data issues, even where there
is no legally recognized privacy request
• We demand best-in-class privacy clauses with our service providers/processors
“We are trained on our Our public privacy policy reflects our privacy practices globally, for every data processing
privacy policy and other data activity in each of our various businesses. Going much deeper than just legal compliance,
processing activities and our privacy policy was created and continues to evolve based on what is “right” rather than
merely what is “required.” Our policy is routinely reviewed and updated in accordance with
frequently refer to it in
leading data privacy laws, internal policies, and to reflect improvements in internal practices
developing and supporting our
consistent with the principles above. We are trained on our privacy policy and other data
products and services.”
processing activities and frequently refer to it in developing and supporting our products
and services.
All partnerships involving personal information are treated by or at the direction of our
privacy team, which seeks to ensure that the relevant responsibilities of the parties are
appropriately defined. This includes best-in-class privacy clauses, definition of flows of
personal information and, in particular, an emphasis on minimizing collection and further
processing personal information, and definition of data retention periods which are defined
in consideration with the length of time that such data is relevant or needed.
We also deeply integrate our privacy and cybersecurity efforts, on the understanding that
the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of personal information inherently impacts our
delivery on privacy principles. During 2022, we certified one of our core architectures with
SOC2 Type 1 and continue to seek third-party cybersecurity certification both to cover
other products and services, and to mature our existing certification.
72
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002222 7733
We have a Security Incident Response Team responsible for identifying and handling
security events. This program continues to mature through improved documentation,
tabletop exercises, cross-functional involvement, and other improvements.
Our other ongoing cybersecurity programs include:
• Vulnerability management intake and remediation
• Enterprise-wide security initiatives designed to constantly adapt to the evolving threat
landscape
• Cybersecurity Training and Awareness Program that includes new employee training,
annual risk-relevant refresher trainings for all employees, quarterly penetration
exercises, just-in-time training assignments, and secure coding training for software
developers
• Next-generation product architectures are designed specifically with security in mind
• Our executive staff and Audit Committee are also engaged in periodic reporting and
improvement in our security posture
Intellectual property
365+ We emphasize developing and protecting our clean technologies through a variety of
intellectual property types. Patents and trade secrets are among our most valuable assets
as they protect our investment in R&D. We place particular emphasis in protecting our digital
patents innovation, including software, through a specifically focused High-Value Trade Secret
program. Our patents, as always, reflect our dedication to innovation, and our industry-
leading portfolio as of the end of 2022 now has more than 365 patents and more than
185 pending applications, spread across microinverters, batteries, EV supply equipment,
185+ grid and microgrid interaction, our supporting hardware and software suite, and various
components and technologies within these major categories. We expect this protection
to grow exponentially in the years ahead, owing both to our increased innovation and our
pending focus on enhancing our intellectual property position.
applications
Chart 4: Patents and pending applications
Patents Pending Applications
74
“Falling between the discrete As a leading international brand, we also protect our trademarks and have a portfolio of
forms of intellectual property, more than 100 unique trademarks, both registered and unregistered. This includes pending
we protect all our confidential marks in more than 40 countries. Our domain protection reflects similar intensity as we
continue to expand internationally. We emphasize protection of our copyrights as well,
information with confidentiality
where we restrict any use of Enphase copyrighted content without an express license
agreements, both with
granted by our intellectual property team.
employees and external parties.”
Falling between the discrete forms of intellectual property, we protect all our confidential
information with confidentiality agreements, both with employees and external parties.
All our R&D personnel have additionally entered into invention assignment agreements
with the company, requiring employees to assign to us all the inventions, designs, and
technologies they develop during their employment with us.
While we expect others to respect our intellectual property, we similarly respect the rights
of others, routinely evaluating relevant portfolios for freedom-to-operate, rigidly enforcing
internal open-source consumption policies, observing Digital Millennium Copyright Act
(DMCA) copyright takedown procedures, and ensuring that we are honoring others’
intellectual property rights.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 75
Appendix
7766
Emissions and energy
calculation methodologies
Avoided metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (MTCOe) figures were derived from
2
actual kilowatt-hour (kWh) production of our deployed microinverter fleet from Enphase’s
inception through December 31, 2022 as recorded in our Enlighten™ monitoring database,
including a gross up factor of 1.2 to account for deployed systems which are not monitored
in the Enlighten database. The conversion of kWh production to carbon dioxide equivalent
figures was made using the U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies calculator.
The 2022 GHG emissions inventory follows the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard, covering
Scope 1, Scope 2, and certain Scope 3 categories. All emissions were calculated using
an operational control and location-based method for electricity and heat consumption
across all leased facilities globally. We forgo market products to reduce emissions, so the
reported location-based figures are equivalent to market-based emissions figures. Note
that heat consumption was only gathered for facilities located in North America. Electricity
consumption for European office locations was estimated by square foot using data from
the U.S. Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS), representing 2%
of energy consumption reported. Electricity and heat consumption were converted to
MTCOe using emission factor data provided in the Emissions Factors for Greenhouse
2
Gas Inventories provided by the U.S. EPA for U.S. locations and the Emissions Factors 2021
data set from the International Energy Agency (IEA) for international locations. Emissions
calculations cover those attributable to carbon dioxide (CO), nitrous oxide (NO), and
2 2
methane (CH ) resulting from electricity generation, heat generation, and transmission and
4
distribution losses. Emissions are converted to COe by multiplying by their global warming
2
potential (GWP), referencing default factors provided by the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change (IPCC). Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulphur
hexafluoride (SF), and nitrogen trifluoride (NF ) gases are excluded from our inventory, as
3
facilities under our operational control do not produce significant amounts of these GHGs.
The data supporting Scope 3 disclosures were provided by our third-party travel agency,
contract manufacturers, and internal logistics team, covering purchased goods and
services (category 1), upstream transportation and distribution (category 4), business
commuting (category 6), and downstream transportation and distribution (category 9).
Emissions attributable to contract manufacturing were made using supplier-specific data,
covering Scope 1 and Scope 2 of manufacturing activity at three manufacturing sites,
representing substantially all of total contract manufacturing spend in 2022. The emissions
disclosed represent only that fraction of activity attributable to the manufacture of Enphase
products.
Emissions from upstream and downstream transportation were estimated using the
distance-based method outlined in the GHG Protocol, covering freight of consigned raw
materials into contract manufacturers (CMs) and distribution centers (DCs) and freight
of finished goods from CMs to DCs or customers. Vehicles considered include aircraft,
medium- and heavy-duty trucks, and waterborne craft, as per the table below. MTCOe
2
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 77
estimates were derived referencing emissions factors made available by the U.S. EPA,
covering CO, CH , and NO GHGs. Emissions were converted to COe referencing IPCC
2 4 2 2
GWP factors.
Freight type Methodology Unit
Air Specific ton-miles pulled directly from internal reports. ton-mile
Average distance per shipment derived from zip code
data, representing least possible theoretical distance.
Truck vehicle-mile
Number of truckloads was estimated using product
shipment figures.
Average distance per shipment derived from zip code
data, representing least possible theoretical distance.
Ocean ton-mile
Tonnage estimated from product shipments in terms of
twenty-foot equivalents (TEUs) converted to ton-miles.
Renewable energy mix was calculated by referencing information made available by local
utility grid operators for all leased facilities globally. Electricity consumption in kWh, as
billed or estimated by square footage, was multiplied by the non-fossil fuel percentage of
the specific utility grid mix and divided by the total kWh consumed. Note that this does
not account for the impact of any PV systems or bi-directional EV chargers installed
across leased facilities, meaning the actual figure may exceed the reported figure of 74%
renewable.
78
GRI index
GRI Standard Disclosure Location
GRI 2: General
2-1 Organizational details See 10-K at https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
disclosures
2-3 Reporting period, frequency, and contact point FY 2022, annually
See About Us and Environment sections; See 10-K (Business Section) at
2-6 Activities, value chain, and other business relationships
https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
2-7 Employees See People Section
See Corporate governance Section; See Proxy Statement at
2-9 Governance structure and composition
https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
See Corporate governance Section (ESG governance and leadership); See
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body
Proxy Statement at https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
See Corporate governance Section (ESG Governance and leadership); See
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body
Proxy Statement at https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the See Corporate governance Section (ESG Governance and leadership); See
management of impacts Proxy Statement at https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
See Corporate governance Section (ESG Governance and leadership); See
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts
Proxy Statement at https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting See Corporate governance Section (ESG Governance and leadership)
2-15 Conflicts of interest See Proxy Statement at https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body See Board of Directors information on Enphase company website
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body See Proxy Statement at https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
2-19 Remuneration policies See Proxy Statement at https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
2-20 Process to determine remuneration See Proxy Statement at https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy See CEO Letter
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts See Enphase Code of Conduct
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns See Corporate governance Section (Business ethics and compliance)
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations See Enphase Code of Conduct
2-28 Membership associations See pp. 62, 82 of this report
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement See p. 69 of this report
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements See 10-K (Business Section) at https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
GRI 3: Material topics 3-1 Process to determine material topics See p. 69 of this report
GRI 201: Economic See Financial Sustainability Section and GAAP to non-GAAP Reconciliation,
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed
performance pp. 93-94
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to
See TCFD Response, p. 82
climate change
GRI 203: Indirect
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported See About us, Envrionment, and Society sections
economic impacts
See Environment and Emissions and energy calculation methodologies
GRI 302 Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization
sections
See Environment and Emissions and energy calculation methodologies
302-3 Energy intensity
sections
See Environment and Emissions and energy calculation methodologies
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption
sections
GRI 305 Emissions See Environment and Emissions and energy calculation methodologies
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
2016 sections
See Environment and Emissions and energy calculation methodologies
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
sections
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 79
GRI Standard Disclosure Location
See Environment and Emissions and energy calculation methodologies
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
sections
See Environment and Emissions and energy calculation methodologies
305-4 GHG emissions intensity
sections
See Environment and Emissions and energy calculation methodologies
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
sections
GRI 306 Waste 2020 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts pp. 29-30
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts pp. 29-30
GRI 308 Supplier
Environmental 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria p. 52
Assessment 2016
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions
pp. 29-30, 50-52
taken
GRI 401 Employment 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided
p. 41
2016 to temporary or part-time employees
GRI 403 Occupational
Health and Safety 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system p. 48
2018
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation p. 48
403-3 Occupational health services p. 48
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on
p. 48
occupational health and safety
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety p. 48
403-6 Promotion of worker health p. 48
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety
p. 48
impacts directly linked by business relationships
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety
p. 48
management system
403-9 Work-related injuries p. 48
403-10 Work-related ill health p. 48
GRI 404 Training and
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee p. 46
Education 2016
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition
pp. 46-47
assistance programs
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and
100%
career development reviews
GRI 405 Diversity and
Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees p. 43
2016
GRI 408 Child Labor
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor pp. 50-52
2016
GRI 409 Forced or
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of
Compulsory Labor pp. 50-52
forced or compulsory labor
2016
GRI 414 Supplier
Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria pp. 50-52
2016
GRI Customer Health 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and
p. 29
and Safety 2016 service categories
GRI Marketing and 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service
Zero
Labeling 2016 information and labeling
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing
Zero
communications
GRI 418 Customer 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer
Zero
Privacy 2016 privacy and losses of customer data
80
SASB index
Topic Accounting Metrics Code Response
Hazardous Waste Management Amount of hazardous waste generated , percentage recycled RR-ST-150a.1 0.45 MT, 100%, see p. 30
Number and aggregate quantity of reportable spills, quantity recovered RR-ST-150a.2 0, n/a
Management of Energy Infrastructure Description of risks associated with integration of solar energy into existing energy RR-ST-410a.1 pp. 58-64
Integration & Related Regulations infrastructure and discussion of efforts to manage those risks
Description of risks and opportunities associated with energy policy and its impact RR-ST-410a.2 pp. 58-64
on the integration of solar energy into existing energy infrastructure
Product End-of-life Management Percentage of products by revenue that contain IEC 62474 declarable substances, RR-ST-410b.3 Estimated less than 0.1%
arsenic compounds, antimony compounds, or beryllium compounds
Product End-of-life Management Description of approach and strategies to design products for high-value recycling RR-ST-410b.4 pp. 22, 29
Materials Sourcing Description of the management of risks associated with the use of critical materials RR-ST-440a.1 pp. 50-52
Total Project Development Assets Reporting currency RR-ST-000.C Financial sustainability
section
Energy Management in Manufacturing (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity, RR-ST-130a.1 See Environment section
(3) percentage renewable
Water Management in Manufacturing (2) Total water consumed* RR-ST-140a.1 7,609 m3
*Water consumption information collected for certain operations in the United States and India only. Water
consumption was drawn from municipal supplies.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 81
TCFD response
The following responses to the Taskforce for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
recommendations are not meant to be an exhaustive review of climate-related issues
impacting the business. Rather, the following should be treated as a supplement to our
2022 Form 10-K filing.
Governance
The Board of Directors (“Board”) oversees company strategy, including all climate risks and
opportunities, with the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee overseeing
the environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) program specifically. The
Board receives periodic updates on sustainability and ESG matters from the Nominating
and Corporate Governance Committee, covering strategy, policies, initiatives, progress
against goals and targets, climate-related performance incentives, and communications
with employees, investors, and other company stakeholders. The Audit Committee reviews
climate risk matters as part of its risk management activities. Please see Leadership and
governance section of the Enphase website for additional information.
The ESG steering committee, led by our General Counsel and comprised of executive
leadership, meets quarterly to prioritize strategic objectives and review status of various
climate-related initiatives, drawing on the results of our ESG materiality assessment and
other inputs as appropriate. Functions represented include legal, investor relations, global
policy and government affairs, facilities, EHS, procurement, supply chain, manufacturing,
customer service, human resources, compliance, and risk management. Updates are
provided to the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and to the Board.
ESG working groups, comprised of department heads, extended leadership, and individual
contributors, manage progress toward climate-related goals and targets as defined by the
steering committee. Supporting activities across global operations are tracked and rolled
up into corporate dashboards, which are reviewed by the director of ESG and shared with
the ESG steering committee on a quarterly basis.
Strategy
Our purpose is advancing a sustainable future for all. Our strategy is to build best-in-class
home energy systems and deliver them to customers through our installer and distributor
partners, enabled by a comprehensive installer platform. Successful execution reduces
GHG emissions, slows the pace of global warming, and accelerates the transition to a clean,
accessible, and resilient energy system.
Thus, the impact of climate issues on our financial condition is positive, so long as climate risk
is managed appropriately over the long-term as discussed below. Key aspects of our low-
carbon transition plan include continued execution of our strategy in service of our purpose,
transitioning operations to renewable energy, and building resilience into the value chain
through enhanced cooperation with suppliers, contract manufacturers, and customers.
82
Our strategy is a function of the economic, technological, legal, market, regulatory, social,
and environmental context in which we operate. Per the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change (IPCC), significant GHG emissions reductions are needed in this decade
to limit warming to below 2°C from pre-industrial levels, allowing for net-zero emissions
by 2050, and avoiding the most catastrophic consequences of global warming. Thus, we
are focused on driving impact as quickly and responsibly as possible while also preparing
for an uncertain future which may follow a variety of warming trajectories informed by
climate science. All climate-related scenarios which require reductions in GHG emissions
are favorable to Enphase.
A trajectory resulting in 2°C or lower warming from pre-industrial levels will require large-
scale, rapid, and equitable deployment of clean energy technologies, including those
engineered by Enphase. In this case, the economic, technological, legal, market, regulatory,
social, and environmental context would create increased demand for our products and
drive rapid growth. However, these scenarios (e.g., Shared Socioeconomic Pathway 1)
require rapid decarbonization across all sectors globally, implying the need to decouple
resource extraction and consumption from economic growth. Thus, significant investment
and financing for accelerated R&D, expanded operations, and enhanced coordination
with value chain partners would be needed. Ultimately, with the proper global investment,
planning, and coordination, a 2°C or lower scenario would allow us to rapidly deploy our
products in the near-term and scale at the commensurate rate to achieve the desired
outcome over the long-term.
Characteristics of short-, medium-, and long-term time horizons for climate issues at
Enphase are defined as follows:
• Short-term (0-3 years) – rapid business growth; low-carbon transition planning and
implementation; qualitative climate risk disclosures; improved emissions tracking and
reporting; and setting and executing on near-term GHG reduction target.
• Medium-term (3-7 years) – manage continued business growth; quantitative climate
scenario analysis and strategic integration; setting and executing long-term GHG
reduction targets.
• Long-term (7-25 years) – manage continued business growth; quantitative climate
scenario analysis integrated with strategic and financial planning; maintain operational
alignment with global climate goals.
Short-term risks (0-3 years)
• Extreme weather events such as floods, cyclones, hurricanes, wildfires, and heatwaves
could result in delays in product shipments, which could adversely affect our revenue,
competitive position, and reputation.
• Delaying operational decarbonization could limit access to third-party capital and
affect operating costs or reputation.
• Not evaluating potential climate risk impacts to key suppliers, contract manufacturers,
and logistics partners may adversely affect our ability to execute our strategy over the
long-term.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 83
Short-term opportunities (0-3 years)
• Improve climate risk analysis and integrate results into strategic planning.
• Implement low-carbon transition plan for facilities and key suppliers.
Medium-term risks (3-7 years)
• Extreme weather events may increase in severity and frequency and disrupt operations,
which could adversely affect our revenue, competitive position, and reputation.
• Chronic climate change impacts such as rising mean temperatures, rising sea levels,
droughts, new diseases, population migration, and water stress may have the potential
to disrupt our business operations in certain geographies.
• Increased insurance premiums for operations in geographies vulnerable to climate risk
may adversely affect cost or force investment in climate mitigation projects to ensure
business continuity.
• Inability to reduce quantity of virgin material inputs or integrate circular principles into
product design, manufacturing, and business processes could adversely affect cost,
reputation, competitiveness, and social license to operate in certain geographies.
Medium-term opportunities (3-7 years)
• Leverage climate scenario planning to inform strategic decision making, such as
determining significant locations of operation.
• Enhance resilience through product lifecycle and business process innovations.
Long-term risks (7-25 years)
• Extreme weather events may further increase in severity and frequency, having the
potential to disrupt our business.
• Chronic climate change impacts may become more pronounced, having the potential
to negatively impact our business operations in certain geographies.
Long-term opportunities (7-25 years)
• Continued integration of climate-risk scenario analyses into strategic planning across
all aspects of the business.
84
Risk Management
A detailed discussion of risks to the business can be found in our 2022 Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2022.
Currently, climate risks are reviewed as part of the ESG materiality assessment process.
The Director of ESG collaborates with key internal and external stakeholders to identify
and rank climate risk and other enviro-social factors. Results are reviewed with the ESG
steering committee to define strategic priorities and goals, which are then managed by a
supporting network of extended leadership and collaborators, both within and outside the
organization. Moving forward, we plan to develop quantitative, forward-looking scenario-
based climate risk assessments over short-, medium-, and long-term time horizons as
recommended by the TCFD and integrate results into existing risk management and
strategic planning processes.
Metrics and Targets
Financial metrics found in our quarterly filings and annual reports reflect how well we are
performing with respect to climate opportunities. Please see page 7, Enphase in numbers,
of this report for additional climate opportunity indicators. Relevant climate risk metrics
can be found in the Emissions and energy section of this report.
Performance against climate metrics and targets is connected to remuneration at all levels
of the organization, as all revenue generated by us ultimately results in emissions reductions
through renewable energy deployments and improved efficiency in energy management.
All employees have the option to explicitly link individual goals to climate metrics. CEO
compensation for 2023 is explicitly tied to increasing on-site generation capacity across
leased facilities and preventing emissions resulting from product deployments. The results
of CEO performance directly modulate bonuses paid out to all employees.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 85
Membership associations
North America
Solar Energy Industry Association (SEIA)
Advanced Energy Economy
Vehicle - Grid Integration Council
Electric Vehicle Charging Association
Interstate Renewable Energy Council
California Solar + Storage Association (CSSA)
The Climate Center
Florida Solar Industries Association
Hawaii Solar Energy Association (HSEA)
Latin America
Solar Energy and Storage Association of Puerto Rico (SESA)
AMF (Association Mexicana de la Industria Fotovoltaica)
Asolmex (Association Mexicana de Industria Solar)
Absolar (Associacao Brasileira de Energia Fotovoltaica)
ABGD (Associacao Brasileira de Geracao Distriuida)
Europe
Solar Power Europe
Enerplan (France)
UNEF (Spain)
APPA (Spain)
BIHEE
Eurelectric
EEBUS
Asia-Pacific
Master Electricians of Australia
Clean Energy Council
Sustainable Energy Association of New Zealand
National Electrical and Communications Association
Smart Energy Council
Jeanes Holland and Associates
AMCHAM India
ASSOCHAM
Bridge to India
Mercon, SolQuarter, REI
86
Contributing to the UN Sustainable
Development Goals
GOAL DESCRIPTION TARGETS ENPHASE CONTRIBUTION
End poverty in all its 1,5 Enphase directly reduces exposure and vulnerability
forms everywhere to extreme climate events and other economic, social,
and environmental shocks and disasters by deploying
renewable energy generation and management systems
across the globe. Renewable energy directly reduces
GHG emissions and mitigates climate risk.
Ensure healthy lives and 3.9 Renewable energy generation and management
promote well-being for promotes environmental justice, good health, and well-
being by avoiding the release of hazardous chemicals
all at all ages
and air, water, and soil pollution associated with
traditional forms of energy production.
Ensure inclusive and 4.3, 4.4, 4.5 We promote technical and vocational education in the
equitable quality education renewable energy industry through our company learning
and promote lifelong learning platform and non-profit partnerships. As our geographic
reach continues to grow, we will expand opportunities for
opportunities for all
adults and children to learn about the renewable energy
industry and create opportunities to contribute to global
deployment of renewable energy technologies.
Achieve gender equality 5.1, 5.2, 5.5 We do not tolerate discrimination in any form, including
and empower all women against women. We are committed to eliminating human
trafficking, slavery, and any type of human rights abuses
and girls
across our supply chain. We have a woman on our
Board of Directors and represented in executive and
managerial positions throughout the company.
Ensure access to affordable, 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.a, 7.b Access to reliable, affordable, and modern energy
reliable, sustainable, and services is what Enphase offers its customers. Enphase
microinverters boast the highest levels of reliability, and
modern energy for all
our next generation off-grid solutions are paving the way
for further access.
As Enphase continues to grow globally and gain market
share, it accelerates its positive impact and contributes
to the goal of increasing the global renewable energy mix.
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002222 8877
Promote sustained, inclusive, 8.2, 8.3, 8.7, 8.8 Through our work in deploying renewable energy systems in
emerging markets, we are supporting economic growth in
and sustainable economic
developing countries. We employ local leaders and attract
growth, full and productive
talent from local markets, helping to provide decent work
employment and decent
globally. We are committed to eradicating forced child
work for all labor and ending modern slavery and human trafficking of
children, including the use of child soldiers as set forth in
our human rights policy.
Build resilient infrastructure, 9.2, 9.4, 9.5 Our core business contributes directly to the “adoption of
promote inclusive and clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial
processes.” We have expanded our manufacturing footprint
sustainable industrialization
globally, accelerating our ability to upgrade infrastructure
and foster innovation
to be more sustainable, particularly regarding clean and
environmentally-sound renewable energy generation and
management technologies.
Make cities and human 11.3 Sustainable urbanization is a priority for residential
settlements inclusive, safe, and small commercial applications of our products and
services. Additionally, we support this goal through
resilient, and sustainable
our long-standing philanthropic activities that help
to provide solar energy for low-income communities
through our partnership with GRID alternatives.
Take urgent action to 13.1 The Enphase® Energy System helps communities be
combat climate change more resilient in the face of climate-related hazards
and natural-disasters through its grid-agnostic and
and its impacts
energy storage capabilities; allowing homeowners and
businesses to stay safe and connected even when grid
services are interrupted or when there is extensive
damage to energy infrastructure due to natural disasters.
8888
About this report
We referenced the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) to identify material
financial ESG metrics for the investor community and referenced the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI) standards to report on additional material sustainability issues. We drew upon
subject matter expertise of our colleagues throughout Enphase to collect and organize
the content relative to the areas we identified for disclosure. Additionally, we provided
disclosures aligned with the four key themes of the Taskforce for Climate-Related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD). Lastly, we compared our activities to the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs) to assess and convey how we are contributing to these
important goals. For specific information about this report or our sustainability program
overall, please contact us at ir@enphaseenergy.com. We intend to issue this report on an
annual basis. All information included in this report is for the twelve-month period ended
December 31, 2022, unless otherwise stated. References to “we,” “us,” “our,” “Enphase” or
“Enphase Energy” throughout this report pertain to Enphase Energy, Inc.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 89
Forward-looking statements
and other important legal
information
This report and the materials or websites cross-referenced contain statements that
are aspirational or reflective of our views about our future performance that constitute
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally identified through the inclusion of
words such as “aim,” “anticipate,” “aspire,” “believe,” commit,” “endeavor,” “estimate,”
“expect,” “goal,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “seek,” “strive,” “target,” “projection,” “will,” and
“work,” or similar statements or variations of such terms and other similar expressions.
The forward-looking statements in this document and the materials or websites cross-
referenced concern our goals, progress or expectations with respect to corporate
responsibility, sustainability, employees, environmental matters, policy, and business risks
and opportunities. Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties
that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such statements.
These statements are based on numerous assumptions that we believe are reasonable, but
are open to a wide range of uncertainties and business risks. In addition, these statements
may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, controls
and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in
the future. Consequently, actual results may vary materially from what is contained in a
forward-looking statement.
For a further description of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to
differ from those expressed in these forward-looking statements, as well as risks relating to
our business in general, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) on February 13, 2023 and our subsequent periodic reports
filed with the SEC from time to time. Copies of these filings are available on the Enphase
website at http://investor.enphase.com/sec.cfm, or on the SEC website at www. sec.gov.
All forward-looking statements in this report are based on information currently available
to us, and we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements in light of
new information or future events.
The information included in, and any issues identified as material for purposes of, this
document may not be considered material for SEC reporting purposes. In the context of
this report, the term “material” is distinct from, and should not be confused with, such term
as defined for SEC reporting purposes. Website references and hyperlinks throughout this
document are provided for convenience only, and the content on the referenced third-
party websites is not incorporated by reference into this report, nor does it constitute a
part of this report. We assume no liability for the content contained on the referenced
third-party references. This report contains non-GAAP financial measures relating to
our performance. You can find the reconciliation of these measures to the most directly
comparable GAAP financial measures on the next page.
.
90
Management assertion
Enphase Energy, Inc. (“Enphase Energy”) is responsible for the completeness, accuracy, and validity of the following Enphase Energy
Eligible Green Bond Disbursement Report (the “Green Bond Report”). Management asserts that an amount equal to or in excess of the
$1,188.44 million net proceeds from the issuance of both 0.0% convertible senior notes due 2026 and 0.0% convertible senior notes due
2028 between March 1, 2021 and March 12, 2021 was disbursed by Enphase Energy during the period from April 1, 2021 through September
30, 2022, for eligible green projects (the “Eligible Green Projects”) that meets the eligible green expenditures criteria described in Note
1 of the Green Bond Report (the “Eligible Green Expenditures”).
Enphase Energy Eligible Green Bond Disbursement Report
$ in millions
Net Proceeds from Green Bond Issuances
Issuance Dates: March 1, 2021 and March 12, 2021
Notes due 2026 $622.53
Notes due 2028 $565.91
Total Net Proceeds $1,188.44
Eligible Green Expenditures from April 1, 2021
Eligible Green Project Categories
through September 30, 20221
Renewable Energy $973.69
Eco-Efficient Production Technologies
$214.75
and Process
Total Disbursed Expenditures $1,188.44
1 Amounts disbursed during the period from April 1, 2021, through September 30, 2022, do not represent the full
costs of the respective Eligible Green Projects.
Note 1: Eligible Green Expenditures Criteria
Enphase Energy’s Eligible Green Projects include projects with expenditures related to one or more of the following eligible criteria:
• Renewable Energy: Expenditures related to research, development, acquisitions, manufacturing, distribution, maintenance and
operation of solar energy generation products and systems, solar energy storage systems and enabling technologies for solar energy
storage and optimization.
• Eco-efficient Production Technologies and Process: Expenditures related to research, development, acquisitions, manufacturing,
distribution, maintenance and operation of energy management hardware and software and building automation systems.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 91
Third party attestation
INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS’ REPORT
To the Audit Committee of Enphase Energy Inc.,
Fremont, CA
We have examined management of Enphase Energy Inc.’s (the “Company”) assertion, included in the
accompanying Management’s Assertion and Enphase Energy Eligible Green Bond Disbursement Report
(“Management’s Assertion Report”), that an amount equal to or in excess of the $1,188.44 million net
proceeds from the March 1, 2021 issuance of 0.0% convertible senior notes due 2026 and the March 12,
2021 issuance of the 0.0% Convertible senior notes due 2028 (collectively the “Green Bond Issuances”
was disbursed by the Company during the period from April 1, 2021 through September 30, 2022, for
Eligible Green Projects in accordance with the criteria in Note 1 set forth in Management’s Assertion
Report (“management’s assertion”). The Company’s management is responsible for its assertion. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s assertion based on our examination.
Our examination was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Those standards require that we plan and perform the
examination to obtain reasonable assurance about whether management’s assertion is fairly stated, in
all material respects. An examination involves performing procedures to obtain evidence about
management’s assertion. The nature, timing and extent of the procedures selected depend on our
judgment, including an assessment of the risks of material misstatement of management’s assertion,
whether due to fraud or error. We believe that the evidence we obtained is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Our examination was not conducted for the purpose of evaluating (i) the completeness of the amount
used for Eligible Green Projects set forth in Management’s Assertion Report, (ii) the environmental
benefits of the Eligible Green Projects, or (iii) conformance of the Eligible Green Projects with any third‐
party published principles, standards or frameworks, such as the Green Bond Principles published by the
International Capital Market Association. Accordingly, we do not express an opinion or any other form of
assurance other than on management’s assertion included in the accompanying Management’s
Assertion Report.
The information included on pages 1 to 90 and pages 93 to 96 the Environmental, Social and
Governance Report 2022 is presented by management and is not part of management’s assertion. The
information included on pages 1 to 90 and pages 93 to 96 has not been subjected to the procedures
applied in the examination engagement, and accordingly, we make no comment as to its completeness
and accuracy and do not express an opinion or provide any assurance on it.
In our opinion, management’s assertion that an amount equal to or in excess of the $1,188.44 million
net proceeds from the Green Bond Issuances was disbursed by the Company during the period from
April 1, 2021 through September 30, 2022, for Eligible Green Projects in accordance with the criteria in
Note 1 set forth in Management’s Assertion Report is fairly stated, in all material respects.
April 7, 2023
92
GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation
Reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures
In millions, except percentages FY’20 FY’21 Q1’22 Q2’22 Q3’22 Q4’22 FY’22
Gross profit (GAAP) $345.9 $554.4 $177.0 $219.0 $267.9 $310.7 $974.6
Stock-based compensation 3.8 7.4 2.5 3.1 3.2 4.3 13.1
Tariff refunds (38.9) - - - - - -
Acquisition related amortization - 0.2 1.3 1.5 1.4 2.1 6.3
Gross profit (non-GAAP) $310.8 $562.0 $180.8 $223.6 $272.5 $317.1 $994.0
Gross margin (GAAP) 44.7% 40.1% 40.1% 41.3% 42.2% 42.9% 41.8%
Stock-based compensation 0.5% 0.6% 0.6% 0.6% 0.5% 0.6% 0.5%
Tariff refunds (5.1%) -% -% -% -% -% -%
Acquisition related amortization -% -% $0.0 $0.0 $0.0 $0.0 0.3%
Gross margin (non-GAAP) 40.1% 40.7% 41.0% 42.2% 42.9% 43.8% 42.6%
Operating expenses (GAAP) $159.6 $338.6 $115.2 $125.0 $132.5 $153.7 $526.3
Stock-based compensation (38.8) (106.9) (45.3) (49.9) (49.1) (59.4) (203.7)
Acquisition related expenses and amortization (2.5) (10.8) (3.6) (3.9) (4.2) (4.8) (16.5)
Restructuring and asset impairment charges - - - - (0.6) (1.8) (2.4)
Operating expenses (non-GAAP) $118.3 $220.9 $66.3 $71.2 $78.6 $87.7 $303.7
Income from operations (GAAP) $186.4 $215.8 $61.8 $94.0 $135.4 $157.0 $448.3
Stock-based compensation 42.5 114.3 47.8 53.1 52.3 63.6 216.8
Tariff refunds (38.9) - - - - - -
Acquisition related expenses and amortization 2.5 11 4.9 5.3 5.6 7 22.8
Restructuring and asset impairment charges - - - - 0.6 1.8 2.4
Income from operations (non-GAAP) $192.5 $341.1 $114.5 $152.4 $193.9 $229.4 $690.3
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 93
Reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures (continued)
In millions, except per share data FY’22
Net income (GAAP) $ 397.4
Stock-based compensation 216.8
Acquisition related expenses and amortization 22.8
Restructuring and asset impairment charges 2.4
Non-cash interest expense 8.1
Non-GAAP income tax adjustment (0.1)
Net income (non-GAAP) $ 647.4
Net income per share, diluted (GAAP) $ 2.77
Stock-based compensation 1.55
Acquisition related expenses and amortization 0.16
Restructuring and asset impairment charges 0.02
Non-cash interest expense 0.06
non-GAAP income tax adjustment 0.06
Net income per share, diluted (non-GAAP) (1) $ 4.62
Shares used in diluted per share calculation GAAP 144.4
Shares used in diluted per share calculation Non-GAAP (2) 140.3
(1) Calculation of non-GAAP diluted net income per share for the year ended December 31, 2022 excludes convertible Notes due 2023 interest expense, net of tax of less than
$0.1 million in each period from non-GAAP net income.
(2) Effect of dilutive in-the-money portion of convertible senior notes and warrants are included in the GAAP weighted-average diluted shares in periods where we have GAAP
net income. We excluded in-the-money portion of convertible Notes due 2026 and Notes due 2028 totaling 2,018 thousand shares in the year ended December 31, 2022 from
non-GAAP weighted-average diluted shares as we entered into convertible note hedge transactions that reduce potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion
of the Notes due 2026 and Notes due 2028.
94
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2022 95
©2023 Enphase Energy, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Enphase Energy, Enphase, the E logo, IQ, IQ5P, IQ7A, IQ7+, IQ8, Enphase Energy System, IQ Microinverter, IQ Battery,
Enphase App, Ensemble, IQ Gateway, IQ Combiner, IQ Load Controller, IQ System Controller, and other trademarks or
service names are the trademarks of Enphase Energy, Inc. Other names and marks used herein may be trademarks or
services marks owned by third parties.
96
