Enphase Energy, Inc.
Environmental,
Social, and
Governance Report
2020
Energy independence starts with
Enphase Solar and Storage
Encharge 3™ Encharge 10™ IQ 7+™
storage system storage system microinverters
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall,, aanndd GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt 22002200 22
Contents
CEO letter 4
About us 6
Our purpose 7
Start-up to industry leader 8
Financial sustainability 9
Our approach to ESG 10
Importance of ESG 11
ESG governance and leadership 12
Board diversity and independence 14
Environment 15
E1. Energy administration 16
E2. Waste and hazardous materials management 20
E3. Product design and lifecycle management 21
Human capital 22
HC1. Employee development programs and policies 24
HC2. Diversity, equity and inclusion 25
HC3. Employee health and safety 27
Social 28
S1. Access and affordability 29
S2. Data security and customer privacy 30
S3. Supply chain management 31
S4. Material sourcing and efficiency 33
Governance 34
G1. Business ethics 35
G2. Risk management 35
G3. Management of energy infrastructure and related regulations 36
SASB Index 37
UN sustainable development goals 39
Methodology 41
Forward-looking statements and non-GAAP measures 42
GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation 43
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 3
A letter from our President and CEO
Sustainability is at the core of what we do at Enphase and our purpose is to advance a
sustainable future for all. We deliver technology solutions that make clean energy more
affordable, reliable, and accessible. Today, Enphase is the world’s leading supplier of
microinverter-based solar-plus-storage systems. Since inception, we have shipped 30 million
solar microinverters and approximately 1.3 million Enphase-based systems have been
deployed in more than 130 countries.1 8.6 gigawatts DC of Enphase microinverters have
Badri Kothandaraman
been installed in solar systems, offsetting 20.8 million metric tons of CO2e - the equivalent of
President and CEO
providing electricity to 3.5 million homes for one year.1
Enphase was founded in 2006 with five key elements to our value proposition: deliver products
that are productive, reliable, smart, simple, and safe. Our value proposition rings as true
today as when the company was established. As I write my letter to you for our inaugural
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Report, I am reminded of when I joined Enphase
in 2017. I was excited about the opportunity to work with such a talented and diverse global
workforce committed to developing technology and products that further enable energy
independence. The same commitment exists at Enphase today, and I am proud of our team
for their ongoing dedication to serve our communities and better the environment.
We know that diversity and an inclusive work culture fuels innovation and helps better
“We know that diversity represent our customers and partners. As we work towards our vision for a solar-powered
planet, we never forget the three commitments that have guided us from the beginning:
and an inclusive work
innovation, quality, and social responsibility. Innovation is the cornerstone of our existence,
culture fuels innovation and
and we have worked hard to develop the world’s best home energy management systems, with
helps better represent our
energy independence as the goal for our customers. Quality is the bedrock of the Enphase
customers and partners.
product design, and we have consistently set the bar high for quality and reliability. We are
As we work towards our
driven by a sense of responsibility towards our planet and our communities as we strive to
vision for a solar-powered
bring solar energy mainstream. We believe it is because of this focus on innovation, quality,
planet, we never forget
and social responsibility we have built a solid financial foundation driven by operational
the three commitments
excellence and the desire for long-term sustainability.
that have guided us from
the beginning: innovation, Our commitment to long-term sustainability starts at the top and extends throughout the
quality, and social organization. Our ESG efforts are overseen by a senior management committee, along with
responsibility.” board-level oversight led by our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. We are
publishing this inaugural report with the world still impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Our topmost priority has been to ensure the health and safety of our employees, customers,
and partners. It is through the collective discipline, efforts, and support of our employees,
customers, and partners that we have been able to successfully manage through this global
pandemic.
1 Estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of 9/30/20 grossed up for non-managed systems
based on cumulative sales records; CO2e calculations based on EPA GHG calculator.
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 4
During 2020, we introduced to customers in North America our Enphase storage system,
featuring our Ensemble™ management technology, which powers the world’s first grid-
independent microinverter-based storage system. The Enphase storage system provides
resiliency in the face of natural disasters and grid outages, ensuring that a home is powered
even during extended periods of inclement weather, delivering energy independence and
peace of mind. We will continue to focus on technology and products that help to improve
quality of life while keeping true to our core purpose of sustainability.
At Enphase, we developed a culture playbook to provide our current and future employees
“At Enphase, we developed a with a blueprint showing our purpose, core values, how we work together and achieve results
culture playbook to provide within the company. We promote and reinforce five core values every day we come to work:
our current and future Customer First, Integrity, Innovation, Teamwork, and Quality. We listen to our customers and
employees with a blueprint take action to deliver a superior customer experience; we tell the truth at all times, without
making excuses; we actively promote innovation through curiosity and continuous learning;
showing our purpose,
we appreciate and respect different behavioral styles and perspectives; and we place safety
core values, how we work
and quality above everything else. These core values unify us and enable us to achieve our
together, and achieve results
purpose.
within the company.”
I would like to thank our employees for their continued hard work and dedication, and our
customers, partners, and shareholders for their strong support. Enphase embraces the
opportunity to create a future of sustainable prosperity for all our stakeholders, while reducing
our environmental footprint. I appreciate your interest and engagement in our ESG efforts.
Sincerely,
Badri Kothandaraman
President and CEO
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 5
About us
The leading microinverter company in the world
2006 789 3,900 30 million
is the year employees and installers microinverters
Enphase was personnel across all worldwide1 shipped
founded our global offices1 worldwide1
20.8 million 29.5 TWh 1.3 million 8.6 GW DC
metric tons of CO2e offset of cumulative systems deployed in of cumulative
equivalent to providing shipments of more than 130 countries2 shipments of
3.5 million homes with microinverters2 microinverters1
electricity for one year2
2.3 billion 51.7 billion
gallons of gas car miles driven
equivalent to equivalent to
cumulative CO2e cumulative CO2e
avoidance2 avoidance2
1. As of 9/30/20
2. Estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of 9/30/20 grossed up for non-managed systems
based on cumulative sales records; CO2e calculations based on EPA GHG calculator
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall,, aanndd GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt 22002200 66
Our purpose
Enphase is a global energy technology company. We deliver smart, easy-to-use solutions
that manage solar generation, storage, and communication on one single platform. We
have revolutionized the solar industry with our microinverter technology and produce a fully
integrated solar-plus-storage solution. We take a systems approach to solar technology
and provide advanced energy monitoring and control through our semiconductor-based
microinverter, proprietary network, and software technologies.
At Enphase, we think big. Our purpose is to advance a sustainable future for all. We’re on a
“We believe we can have the mission to bring solar energy to the next level, one where it is ready to meet the world’s energy
biggest impact on the planet demands. As we work toward our vision for a solar-powered planet, we never lose sight of
the three commitments that have guided us from the beginning: innovation, quality, and
by pursuing our mission
responsibility.
to bring solar energy
mainstream.”
Innovation
We have always pushed the boundaries of solar technology, ever since our founders took one
look at a string inverter and knew they could do better. In 2006, Enphase co-founders Raghu
Belur and Martin Fornage knew that entering the solar industry presented both technological
challenges and opportunities for widespread impact. With a strong focus on innovation, we are
continuously developing new technologies that make energy more intelligent, more connected,
and more cost effective than ever before.
Quality
Quality is at the heart of what we do. It is the bedrock of the Enphase product design, and we
consistently set the bar high for quality and reliability, with the end goal of providing the most
reliable and resilient energy solutions. We’re passionate about building products that people
can count on for years to come and in all climates. That’s why we put quality at the forefront
in every step of our design and production process, and why we’ve established some of the
industry’s most rigorous quality standards.
Responsibility
Behind it all, we are driven by a sense of responsibility towards our planet and our
communities. We believe we can have the biggest impact on the planet by pursuing our
mission to bring solar energy mainstream. On a smaller scale, we are also committed to doing
all we can to serve our communities and better the environment. Our footprint is widespread,
and we recognize that growth comes with great responsibility.
Our company’s purpose is to advance a sustainable future for all. By advancing solar
technology and investing in our people and communities, we believe we can create
sustainable solutions that may benefit generations to come.
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 7
Start-up to industry leader
2006
Founded by Raghu Belur and
Martin Fornage in California
2008
First microinverter-based
solar system introduced
2011
1 million microinverters shipped
since inception
2012
Listed on NASDAQ
under symbol ENPH
2014
Fourth-generation
technology introduced
2015
10 million microinverters
shipped since inception
2016
Sixth-generation
IQ™ technology
2017
AC Modules
Introduced
2018
Seventh-generation
IQ technology introduced
2019
One millionth microinverter-based
solar system deployed
2020
More than 30 million microinverters
shipped since inception
Started shipping Encharge™ storage
systems to customers in North America
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 8
Financial sustainability
We have built a solid financial foundation driven by a focus on profitable top line growth and
operational excellence. Our revenue nearly doubled in 2019 to $624.3 million, from $316.2
million in 2018. We shipped 6.2 million microinverters in 2019, compared to 2.8 million
microinverters in 2018, representing more than a 100% increase. Our non-GAAP gross margin
in 2019 was more than 35.7%, compared to 30.2% in 2018, primarily due to great pricing and
cost management.
We generated $139.1 million of cash flow from operations in 2019, compared to $16.1 million
“We exited the third quarter in 2018. GAAP net income was $161.1 million, resulting in diluted earnings per share of $1.23.
of 2020 at approximately Non-GAAP net income was $124.2 million, resulting in diluted earnings per share of $0.95. We
were pleased to report that 2019 was the first full year of GAAP profitability in Enphase’s history.
41-17-24 – this means 41%
gross margin, 17% operating
At Enphase we believe in measuring what matters. We surpassed our original 30-20-10
expense and 24% operating
target financial model handily for most of 2019. 30-20-10 stands for 30% gross margin, 20%
income, all as a percentage
operating expenses, and 10% operating income, all as a percentage of revenue on a non-GAAP
of revenue – on a non-GAAP
basis. At our Analyst Day in December 2019, we introduced a new baseline financial model of
basis.”
35-15-20. This baseline model represents the minimum financial performance we expect to
achieve over the next 24 months, while demonstrating profitable topline growth. We exited the
third quarter of 2020 at approximately 41-17-24 – meaning 41% gross margin, 17% operating
expenses and 24% operating income, all as a percentage of revenue – on a non-GAAP basis. In
addition, we exited the third quarter of 2020 with an ending cash balance of $661.8 million.
Quarterly revenue by year Quarterly gross margin % by year
45.0%
$250 41.0%
$206 $210 40.0% 39.5% 39.6%
$200 $180 $178.5 36.2% 37.3%
$150 $134 $125.5 35.0% 33.5% 30.5%34.1% 32.8% 30.7%
$100 $92 30.0%
$100 $70 $76 $78 26.5%
$50 25.0%
$0 20.0%
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Quarterly operating expenses % by year Quarterly operating income % by year
30.0% 40.0%
35.0%
25.2% 25.0%
25.0% 23.9% 30.0%
22.3% 25.7% 24.5% 24.9%
20.7% 21.4% 25.0% 22.3%
20.0% 20.0% 17.3%18.9%
16.8% 16.6% 15.0%
11.3%
15.0% 13.9% 13.9% 10.0% 8.9% 9.3%
12.4% 5.4%
5.0%
1.2%
10.0% 0.0%
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Quarterly revenue by year is in millions, Gross Margin, Operating Expenses and Operating Income are 2018 2019 2020
as a percentage of revenue.
All numbers reflected are on a non-GAAP basis. Refer to page 43 for reconciliation to the most
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 9
comparable GAAP measure.
Our approach to ESG
Sustainability is at the core of what we do and our purpose is
to advance a sustainable future for all. Our focus on ESG starts
with our technology solutions that make clean energy more
affordable, reliable, and accessible. As our business continues
to grow, we are committed to increasing the wellbeing of our
stakeholders and communities we serve.
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall,, aanndd GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt 22002200 1100
Importance of ESG
We have recognized the importance of ESG issues since our inception and are committed
to the success of our employees, customers, partners, shareholders, and the communities
“We have recognized the
we serve. We believe tracking and reporting on environmental, social, and governance
importance of ESG issues
business practices makes our company more responsive to a global business environment
since our inception and are
characterized by finite natural resources, changing legislation, and heightened public
committed to the success of
expectations for corporate accountability. In this inaugural ESG report, we describe how
our employees, customers,
we integrate ESG in our own operations, identify gaps and opportunities in our products
partners, shareholders, and
and processes, publicize innovative and environmentally conscious practices, and receive
the communities we serve.”
feedback for continuous improvement.
We have identified key focus areas and fundamental ESG standards relevant to our business
based on guidance from the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) industry-
specific standards to help us understand the areas of most relevance to our investors.
We have also identified four UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which most closely
align with our business activities and strategy.
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall,, aanndd GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt 22002200 1111
ESG governance and leadership
Our ESG program drives the company’s commitment to the triple bottom line of “planet,
people, and profit.” Our commitment to long-term sustainability starts at the top and extends
throughout the organization. Enphase works to not only be a steward in the solar technology
field, but also share best practices and influence standards to collectively advance the industry
and deliver better products and services to our customers. Our management team and Board
of Directors view sustainability as an integral part of our corporate strategy.
Our governance framework is firmly rooted in risk management and compliance and
“Our commitment to long- establishes the foundation for sustainability at Enphase. We take ESG risks and opportunities
seriously and are working to integrate ESG deeper into our existing governance structure
term sustainability starts
and process. This includes expanded oversight and governance by the Board of Directors
at the top and extends
and the executive leadership team. A cross-functional ESG Working Group manages and
throughout the organization.”
operationalizes the program in various parts of the company. The annual Enterprise Risk
Management (ERM ) program incorporates ESG risk factors and is reviewed formally by
Enphase management and executives with oversight from the Audit Committee of the Board
We recently expanded our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter with
language that reflects the Committee’s oversight responsibility regarding our Sustainability
and ESG strategy, initiatives, and policies. The Board will receive reports on sustainability
and ESG matters from the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and Executive
Leadership Team on an annual basis at a minimum. Additional information about the role of
the Board and its various committees is available in our Corporate Governance Guidelines.
The ESG Working Group looks for sustainability opportunities in the company and alignment
to industry stakeholder initiatives and goals. The company’s ESG Working Group is comprised
of senior leaders and key internal stakeholders representing legal, investor relations, global
policy and government affairs, facilities, procurement, supply chain, human resources, IT,
quality, compliance, and risk management. The purpose of the group is to monitor existing
ESG programs and policies and identify opportunities to expand activities.
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 12
Our Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors is charged with overseeing the
company’s compensation policies, plans, and programs on behalf of the Board. The policy of
the Committee includes maintaining an overall compensation structure designed to attract,
retain, and motivate management and other employees by providing appropriate levels of risk
and reward in proportion to individual contribution and performance. In discharging its duties,
the Compensation Committee ensures that the company equitably applies its compensation
programs.
Enphase is committed to providing a work environment free of discrimination and harassment,
in which all individuals are treated with respect and dignity. We apply a compensation
philosophy that helps frame our pay and reward strategy. We follow a pay-for-performance
culture that ties compensation to the performance of the individual and the company. We
provide competitive compensation programs that focus on the following five key elements:
1. Pay-for-performance -- Reward and recognize leading contributors and high potential
individuals, named executive officers excluded, by targeting the 65th percentile of market
for total direct compensation, which includes base salary, quarterly bonus, and stock
awards;
2. External market factors -- Pay levels of compensation that are competitive with respect to
the labor markets in which we compete for talent;
3. Internal equity-- Provide fair pay relationships within the company;
4. Fiscal responsibility -- Establish affordable compensation programs that are within our
budget; and
5. Legal compliance -- Ensure that the company is compliant with the laws of the states and
countries in which we operate.
Enphase Energy
Board of Directors
Nominating and Corporate Compensation
Audit Committee
Governance Committee Committee
Enterprise Risk Managemen t Executive Leadership Team Executive
(ERM) Committee + Leadership Team
ESG Working Group
Human Resources
Organization
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 13
Board diversity and independence
We believe that our Board should represent a diversity of thoughts, backgrounds, skills,
experiences, and expertise. Consistent with this philosophy, the Nominating and Corporate
Governance Committee works to ensure each pool of qualified candidates for additional or
vacant Board positions from which Board nominees are chosen includes candidates who
bring racial and/or gender diversity. In 2020, we appointed our first female director, Jamie
“We believe that our Board
Haenggi, to our Board of Directors. Ms. Haenggi brings more than 25 years of leadership in
should represent a diversity
marketing, sales, and customer experience.
of thoughts, backgrounds,
skills, experiences,
Our seven-person Board is represented by a variety of experience and tenures. We value Board
and expertise.” refreshment in order to provide new perspectives, as represented by the two Board members
added in 2020. We look forward to continued guidance by these leaders as they play an active
role in shaping Enphase’s future in sustainable development.
For more information about our Board of Directors, please see our Proxy Statement.
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 14
Environment
We collectively require a fundamental shift toward a more
circular and low-carbon model. Companies with adequate
sustainability management systems will thrive in a resource
constrained future and will be well placed to help customers
do the same. We are in the business of enabling access to
intelligent, clean energy solutions for our customers in order to
help reduce the world’s carbon footprint. Sustainability is at the
core of what we do.
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall,, aanndd GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt 22002200 1155
E1. Energy administration
Enphase adheres to the strongest environmental regulations and standards. Of our ten offices
“Through various energy worldwide, seven are certified to ISO 14001 standards. Through various energy reduction
initiatives, we are reducing our energy footprint through tailored programs that also benefit our
reduction initiatives, we
employees.
are reducing our energy
footprint through tailored
We are in the process of transitioning almost entirely to the cloud and relying on SAS
programs that also benefit
applications for logistics, payroll, and most internal processes. This means we have a very
our employees.”
small footprint when it comes to data center energy use.
As a company focused on enabling clean energy at scale, we support and encourage our
employees to transition to solar energy at home and use more sustainable transportation
alternatives. We provide our people the infrastructure to make these changes by offering
electric charging stations at our offices and discounts on Enphase solar powered systems
installed in their homes. We also offer rideshare and carpooling subsidies for U.S. offices to
reduce transportation emissions.
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 16
United States case study
16.8 kW In partnership with 603 Solar, we deployed a 16.8 kW solar array in the
town hall building of Shelburne, New Hampshire. This project is expected
Solar array
to offset 100% of the building’s energy needs and provides a wonderful
gathering point for the community. According to estimates by 603 Solar, the
system is expected to offset approximately 12.8 metric tons of CO2e per year.
100%
offset expected to building’s
energy needs
12.8 metric tons CO2e
expected offset per year
18,105 kWh
of electricity per year
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 17
Australia case study
39.6 kW In partnership with Solar Concept, we deployed a 39.6 kW solar array on the
roof of APEI (Association of Parents of Maladjusted Children) in Noumea,
Solar array
New Caledonia, which works to support the education and social integration
of people with intellectual disabilities. The system has eliminated all
power cut disruptions and reduced the association’s electricity bills by
80%
approximately 80%. In addition, the association expects that the system will
approximate electricity bill reduction also offset approximately 36 metric tons of CO2e per year based upon their
calculations.
36 metric tons CO2e
expected offset per year
50,919 kWh
of electricity per year
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 18
Europe case study
78 kW In partnership with SCJ Renewables and Electrical, we deployed a 78 kW solar
array on the roof of Fergyspace, a self-storage facility on the Northumberland
Solar array
Business Park West in Cranlington, Northumberland. Fergyspace boasts
50,000 square feet of rentable space and is one of the biggest facilities of its
kind in the northeast region of England. Based upon estimates made by SCJ
660.9 metric tons CO2e
Renewables and Electrical, the system is anticipated to offset more than 660.9
expected offset over 20 years metric tons of CO2e over 20 years.
934,722 kWh
of electricity over 20 years
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 19
E2. Waste and hazardous
materials management
We realize there are opportunities for reducing our environmental footprint. Due to the
“The goal of our internal critical nature and prevalence of batteries in our industry, we focus significant efforts on
proper disposal and recycling of both household and residential storage battery systems. We
universal waste policy
have collection boxes in every U.S. office, and we work with a third-party provider to recycle
and training is to promote
batteries used in testing centers. We recycle approximately 90% of our total electronic waste
the site’s commitment to
every year.
recycling and removal of
products and materials
In our U.S. offices, we generate approximately 5,000 yd³ of waste every year and about 50%
from landfills, to assure
of it is recycled. We focus on the use of supplies with a low environmental impact, including
compliance with federal,
reusable and compostable materials where possible. In the U.S. and New Zealand, we have
state, and local regulations,
eliminated paper cups and provide our employees with re-usable dishware, utensils, and
and to provide an internal drinkware in our employee cafeterias.
system within the company
for collection, pickup, All site employees who handle hazardous materials in California take additional training to
and recycling.” ensure compliance with universal waste management in California Code of Regulations,
Title 22. The goal of our internal universal waste policy and training is to promote the sites’
commitment to recycling and removal of products and materials from landfills, to assure
compliance with federal, state, and local regulations, and to provide an internal system within
the company for collection, pickup, and recycling. Employees outside of the U.S. working in
labs also undergo annual training, including how to properly dispose of any toxic or hazardous
materials.
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall,, aanndd GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt 22002200 2200
E3. Product design and lifecycle management
Designing for the environment has been a priority since our co-founders first thought about
which technology would yield the most impact. Not only are we using less materials and
increasing efficiency, but we are also taking a systems approach for seamless integration into
broader energy systems. We know that we are at the cusp of major technology and energy
and market transformations. Our strategy is to transform into a home energy management
systems company, providing our customers with clean, reliable energy solutions.
From the beginning, we have understood that installers must have ease of installation while
system owners demand safety and ease of use long after the installation experts have left
their homes. Of course, both require a system that provides years of reliability and high
performance with a simple expansion and upgrade path. Central to realizing this vision
has been a laser-like focus on delivering a superior customer experience. We consider our
customers to be both the installers and the final system owners because both depend on
us delivering products of high quality and exceptional reliability. Solar as well as storage
systems often represent the most significant investment for new construction or renovations.
Energy system upgrades based on our technology are therefore designed to deliver innovative
features that are:
Reliable and resilient -- No moving parts and a fail-safe design supported by a single company
Safe -- Free of high-voltage batteries and powered by fire-resistant battery chemistry
Powerful -- Automatic backup, single-app monitoring and upgradeable
Our microinverters have evolved significantly from the first product released to the market
in 2008. Our cloud-based Enphase Enlighten™ monitoring system allows for remote
problem-solving and saves time on installations. The distributed architecture requires less
maintenance, creating systems without a single point of failure. We are also designing
microinverters to last longer. This is especially important to divert waste from landfills. When
units are sent back to Enphase, they are recycled and disposed of according to local law. In
our testing center in Fuyong, China, products are taken apart and scraps and materials are
collected for reuse.
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 21
Human capital
People and communities build the fabric of our company.
As a growing enterprise, we are dedicated to ensuring the
health, safety, wellbeing, and professional growth of our
employees in order to best serve our external stakeholders.
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall,, aanndd GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt 22002200 2222
At Enphase, we put our people first and foster an environment of innovation, integrity,
teamwork, quality, and exceptional customer service. We promote and reinforce five core
values every day we come to work: Customer First, Integrity, Innovation, Teamwork, and
Quality. These core values are demonstrated in how we work together, how we perform, and
how we all get rewarded.
Our workforce is global, bringing diverse ideas and perspectives to our growing teams. As of
September 30, 2020, we had 789 employees, 41% of which was in North America, including
Canada and Mexico; while 40% was in India; 12% was in Australia and New Zealand; 5% was in
Europe; and 2% was in China.
Headcount*
India
Europe
North America
China
Australia and
New Zealand
*Percentage of worldwide headcount as of 9/30/20
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 23
HC1. Employee development
programs and policies
Successful execution of our strategy is dependent on attracting, developing, and retaining
key employees and members of our management team. The skills, experience, and industry
knowledge of our employees significantly benefit our operations and performance. We
continuously evaluate, modify, and enhance our internal processes and technologies to
increase employee engagement, productivity, and efficiency.
Onboarding
New employees undergo a 30-day onboarding with company-wide trainings, meetings with
company leaders, presentations by industry experts, and tailored material developed by
their manager and team. Standard training includes a robust introduction to the company’s
policies, products, procedures, and expectations. Employees establish development plans with
their managers and set short-term and long-term goals. Managers are expected to provide
feedback on a quarterly basis as they review employee achievements against individual goals.
Training opportunities
As we grow, we also find opportunities for mentorship, cross-training, and continued
education. By fostering professional development opportunities for our employees, we gain
new insights, process improvements, and greater retention. With close to 80 new graduates
onboarded during 2020 in our India office, we brought in experts from the solar energy
industry to provide employees with a broad perspective of solar technology. We also offer
an employee tuition reimbursement program where employees can get sponsored to take
coursework outside of Enphase.
Within Enphase, we leverage specialized learning platforms that allow employees all over
the world to access webinars, trainings, and classes in a variety of subjects. Topics include
Code of Conduct, Environment, Workplace Safety, Human Resources, Customer Service,
Pandemic Response, IT, Harassment Prevention, Intellectual Property Protection, Professional
Development, and more.
Engagement
To measure employee engagement and satisfaction, we conduct an annual team member
survey to assess and track team members’ retention and satisfaction. The 2019 survey
indicated positive responses particularly around aligning to Enphase’s core values and
ethics. Responders believed that decisions were being made for the betterment of the overall
organization and that Enphase has a large focus on customer value. Employees also noted
high performing teams and satisfaction with rewards as a result. These survey responses
inform our initiatives, and we track success over time. In 2019, we expanded participation in
the employee stock purchase plan to include employees outside the U.S. as a result of those
employees voicing their desire to participate.
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 24
We developed a culture playbook in 2019 to provide our current and future employees with
an easy-to-read document stating our purpose, core values, and examples of how we work
together to achieve results. We traveled to all key Enphase sites around the world and worked
with small groups to capture our collective thinking. We will continue to evaluate the playbook
annually so that it accurately reflects the cultural transformation journey we are all on
together.
We are committed to promoting and cultivating an inclusive and diverse workforce that
welcomes and celebrates everyone without bias. During 2020, we executed on our culture
action plan to promote a healthy work environment, employee appreciation, and to incorporate
regular coaching and feedback. We conduct quarterly all-hands meetings to celebrate our
success during the past quarter. Along with a global business review, we showcase all new
employees and those who are celebrating their 5-year and 10-year work anniversaries with
Enphase. We also encourage managers to have periodic gatherings with their teams
(in person prior to the COVID-19 pandemic and virtually during the pandemic) for both team
and community building outside the workplace. In-region activities to recognize local staff are
also popular, as are quarterly contests designed to illustrate our global culture.
HC2. Diversity, equity, and inclusion
“We know that our diversity
fuels innovation and helps
We strive to build a community where everyone feels valued and treated equally, regardless
us better represent our of race, gender, ethnicity, or age. We know that diversity fuels innovation and helps us better
client base.” represent our client base. With most of our workforce outside of the U.S., we find valuable
insight and innovation from having international perspectives and multi-stakeholder teams
that traverse borders. We promote equality and human rights for all people across our value
chain, guided by internal policies as well as external standards such as the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals.
Enphase is an Equal Opportunity Employer (EOE) that is committed to diversity and inclusion
in the workplace. We prohibit discrimination and harassment of any kind based on race,
color, sex, gender, gender expression, religion, sexual orientation, national origin, ancestry,
disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, pregnancy, military or veteran
status, or any other protected characteristic as outlined by federal, state, or local laws. This
policy applies to all employment practices within our organization, including hiring, recruiting,
promotion, termination, layoff, recall, leave of absence, compensation, benefits, training, and
apprenticeship.
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 25
Diversity within Enphase
Gender diversity*
Workforce Women Total % Rounded
Executives 4 25 16%
Managers 15 130 12%
Employees 115 634 18%
Total 134 789 17%
Ethnic diversity*
Ethnicity Employees % Rounded
Caucasian 202 26%
Asian 289 36%
African American 3 0%
Latino/Hispanic 28 4%
Two or More Races 12 2%
Native American, Alaskan Native, Hawaiian Native 2 0%
Not Specified / Not Disclosed 253 32%
Total 789 100%
Age diversity*
Age group Employees % Rounded
Less than 30 years of age 197 25%
30-50 years of age 416 53%
More than 50 years of age 161 20%
Not Specified / Not Disclosed 15 2%
Total 789 100%
*As of 9/30/20
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 26
HC3. Employee health and safety
We are committed to the health, safety and wellbeing of all our employees. This year has
presented unprecedented challenges with employees, suppliers, customers, and partners
affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and climate related disasters. COVID-19 has pushed us to
work creatively and support each other like never before.
Early in 2020, we drew upon our ability to communicate openly and rapidly to employees about
“We are committed to the crisis management related to the pandemic as it was evolving. We developed a task force
that met every other day, and currently meets as necessary and at least every two weeks, to
health, safety and wellbeing
receive updates from each site and to share information regarding the various work-from-
of all our employees.
home orders, supply of appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) and other efforts to
This year has presented
protect the safety of our employees, phased office returns, and employee assistance. We have
unprecedented challenges
supported employees as needed with work equipment and flexible hours to accommodate
with employees, suppliers,
work routines at home. We have taken, and will continue to take, proactive and preventative
customers, and partners
measures to help minimize the risk of COVID-19 in our organization and communities.
affected by the COVID-19
To help our team members stay apprised of the latest information, we share communication
pandemic and climate
resources where they can connect and ask questions about our response to the current
related disasters.” situation through corporate email addresses and a dedicated internal webpage.
Enphase employees undergo health and safety and emergency preparedness training on an
annual basis. We are pleased to have had zero reportable work-related injuries or incidents
from 2011 to the time of this report. Each site undergoes a quarterly safety inspection. Lab
researchers are expected to comply with internal protocols and policies such as our Hazard
Communications/SDS Management Program and Managing Hazardous Materials guide.
We also encourage worker wellbeing by offering facilities and incentives, including discounted
gym memberships for health and fitness. In addition, we are currently building out a fitness
space at our headquarters in Fremont, California.
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall,, aanndd GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt 22002200 2277
Social
At Enphase, we recognize and take seriously our responsibility to help
protect, preserve, and promote human rights around the world.
For us, this means creating accessible, clean technology for underserved
communities, ensuring privacy and security for our partners and users,
and perpetuating ethical practices along our value chain.
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall,, aanndd GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt 22002200 2288
S1. Access and affordability
As a company, we believe strongly in the ability to bring safe and clean power to families.
Our vision has always been to make solar simple and energy smart and to develop advanced
As Tim Sears, co-founder
energy systems with solar and storage accessible to all. In December 2019, we achieved a
of GRID said, “Partnerships
large milestone of installing our one millionth microinverter system, and we did it alongside
like this help to make
one of our long-standing partners, GRID Alternatives (GRID), the nation’s largest nonprofit
the environmental and
solar installer.
economic benefits of the
clean energy economy
We work with GRID to help power the United States’ low-income communities at no cost.
accessible to families and
With Enphase’s technology, GRID helps individual homeowners who qualify as low-income
workers across the country.”
by installing residential solar systems on their single-family homes, as well as working with
affordable housing developers to install residential solar systems on qualified multi-family
developments. The engagement extends beyond installation to provide hands-on job training
for people in low-income communities. Through a combination of donated Enphase products,
sponsored builds and volunteer hours by Enphase employees, we are able to bring added
value to thousands of homes each year, and Enphase employees can be engaged and active in
their communities.
This partnership has yielded some incredible results. Through the donation of Enphase
microinverters, GRID has installed more than 29 MW of solar power for low-income
communities in the U.S., benefitting more than 8,200 families, and has provided job trainees
and volunteers with approximately 524,000 hours of solar education and training. As Tim
Sears, co-founder of GRID said, “Partnerships like this help to make the environmental and
economic benefits of the clean energy economy accessible to families and workers across
the country.”
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall,, aanndd GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt 22002200 2299
S2. Data security and customer privacy
Data privacy and security have become significant issues in the U.S., Europe, and in many
other jurisdictions in which we offer our products and services. We are subject to a variety
“We have made significant
of foreign, federal, state, and local laws, regulations and rules relating to the collection, use,
efforts designed to maintain
storage, retention, security, disclosure, transfer, and other processing of personal information.
the security, integrity, and
availability of our energy
The regulatory frameworks for privacy and security issues are constantly evolving and may
systems and technology.”
be subject to differing interpretations. For example, we are subject to both the California
Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), which went into effect on January 1, 2020, and the European
Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which went into effect on May 25, 2018.
We maintain a significant number of organizational, technical, and physical safeguards
designed to protect the security, integrity, and privacy of the personal information we process
and to achieve compliance with applicable regulatory frameworks, privacy policies, and
contractual obligations. More information on the personal information we collect and how we
use and protect it is outlined in our Privacy Policy.
We have made significant efforts designed to maintain the security, integrity, and availability
of our energy systems and technology. We have implemented substantial security measures
designed to protect our information systems from traditional “hackers”, malicious code (such
as malware, viruses, worms, and ransomware), password spraying, phishing attacks, employee
theft or misuse, and denial-of-service attacks. We continuously evaluate our information
security measures and identify potential areas of improvement.
We devote substantial resources designed to prevent information security incidents. These
methods include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) conducting training about social-
engineering attacks; (ii) cybersecurity training for new employees; and (iii) presenting to
executive management regarding product security, escalations, and information technology
development.
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 30
S3. Supply chain management
The success of our product would not be possible without suppliers and partners that
share our values of quality, design, and sustainability. We work closely with all our contract
manufacturers, from onboarding to client delivery, to ensure that our products are made to the
highest standards. Suppliers are involved in the development of our products right from
the onset.
Vendor assessment
When selecting a supplier, we conduct an in-depth risk assessment and require an extensive
questionnaire where suppliers are evaluated on location, management system, technology,
quality, and risk. If selected as a supplier, these factors carry into ongoing conversations with
management on both sides to ensure proper alignment and continuous improvement.
We see our suppliers as partners. We conduct quarterly reviews and audit our high-risk
suppliers who receive quality scores that factor in their performance discussions. We expect
that suppliers have management systems and oversight of their own suppliers and are open
and transparent with us about issues regarding environmental management and ethics.
If there is an issue, the supplier develops a corrective action plan alongside our supplier
managers and executive sponsors until the issue is corrected.
Social supply chain responsibility
Enphase is committed to protecting human rights, enforcing fair labor practices, and
addressing the potential risks of forced labor, child labor, human trafficking, and slavery across
our operations and supply chain.
Our Code of Conduct sets forth and highlights important legal, ethical, behavioral, and other
requirements for parties that wish to be Enphase suppliers. Specifically, Section 15 of the
Code states that suppliers must not support, promote or engage in the practice of slavery
or human trafficking, and it requires suppliers to comply with all international standards
and applicable laws regarding slavery and human trafficking. Enphase suppliers are further
expected to take reasonable and necessary steps to help ensure their sub-contractors and
sub-suppliers also comply with all international standards and applicable laws regarding
slavery and human trafficking.
Enphase provides its suppliers with a Quality Assurance Manual that outlines our Supply
Chain Expectations and requires suppliers and subcontractors to comply with all international
standards and applicable laws and regulations regarding slavery and human trafficking. It is
our expectation that they do not support, promote or engage in slavery and human trafficking
and that slavery and human trafficking do not exist in their respective organizations and
supply chains. For more information, please read our California Transparency in Supply Chains
Act disclosure.
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 31
Supply chain environmental management
Enphase’s contract manufacturing suppliers are located in different regions to best serve our
different markets. In 2019, we optimized our logistics management to achieve approximately
a 63% reduction in the use of air shipping in the fourth quarter, as compared to the fourth
quarter of 2018.
Our primary suppliers are located in China and Mexico. We focus heavily on quality and
innovation as they are highly specialized and play a large role in both the design and execution
of our microinverters and other products. In order to create further flexibility as we continue to
grow our business and serve our customers, we began microinverter production in Chennai,
India in 2020.
Venlo, Netherlands
Long Beach, CA, USA
Futian, Shenzhen, China
Fuyong, Shenzhen, China
Guadalajara, Mexico
Chennai, India
Sydney, Australia
Manufacturing Site
Distribution Center
One of our primary contract manufacturers has made large strides to reduce their
environmental footprint. We encourage continuous improvement along the supply chain and
transparency around social and environmental risks that impact production in our industry.
In late 2019, a major supplier site in China upgraded their plumbing system with smart leak
control and changed the underground piping to above ground for early detection and quick
repairing of any minor leakage. This upgrade led to a 26% reduction in water consumption,
highlighting the positive impact of incremental changes and innovation.
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 32
S4. Material sourcing and efficiency
As we bring our eighth-generation family of microinverters with Enphase Ensemble™
“Enphase is committed technology to market, Enphase will once again demonstrate how we leverage semiconductor
integration and scalability, a culture of continuous learning, and dedication to high quality in
to following all materials
order to build the world’s most advanced software-defined microinverter.
guidance and environmental
regulatory compliance
Enphase is committed to following all materials guidance and environmental regulatory
requirements in all the
compliance requirements in all the countries in which it operates and sells. We are compliant
countries in which it
with RoHS, REACH, and 7 of our 10 offices are ISO 14001 compliant. A copy of our RoHS
operates and sells.”
certification is updated annually on our website.
One important design target of our batteries that benefits the environment is to make them
for long-term duration, which can help to decrease battery waste. The long-term duration can
be achieved by using Lithium Iron Phosphate (LFP) as the energy storage material for our
batteries. We do not use cobalt in our batteries as this mineral represents an increased risk of
being sourced from areas that have unfair labor practices.
We are cognizant that materials such as cobalt present an increased risk of being sourced
from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and other Conflict-Affected Areas
associated with unfair labor practices. Enphase expects its vendors to source materials and
operate in a responsible manner consistent with the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development’s (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals
from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. Our SEC disclosure on responsible sourcing is
updated annually on our website.
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 33
Governance
We combine strong internal governance with clear
communication to ensure that stakeholder goals and objectives
translate into actionable business practices by all Enphase
employees. To support our commitment to drive the adoption
of sustainable clean energy solutions for our customers, we
participate in the development of policies and regulations
around the world as part of our core governance principles.
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall,, aanndd GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt 22002200 3344
G1. Business ethics
At Enphase, we believe that all people should be treated with dignity and respect. We have
adopted the Enphase Energy Code of Conduct (“Code of Conduct”) that applies to all officers,
directors, employees, contractors, and consultants. It provides general guidelines to ensure
proper and ethical behavior, compliance with laws, and compliance with our standards,
policies, and procedures. Outlined in the Code of Conduct are topics pertaining to anti-
corruption, insider trading, health and safety, conflicts of interest, competition, and others.
Enphase is committed to complying with all applicable laws and regulations everywhere that
we operate.
We also provide information about our Whistleblower policy, an anonymous platform for
reporting violations of the Code of Conduct. Concerns are investigated promptly with the
highest level of confidentiality. Employees also have the option to report any suspicious or
unethical activity to their manager, human resources, or the legal department, directly.
G2. Risk management
We work collectively to mitigate and address all the top risks affecting our company’s ability to
meet its stated objectives. Our ERM Committee annually identifies and assesses key company
risks and monitors risk mitigation efforts. To determine risks year-over-year, 80 risk events
are assessed by approximately 60 cross functional employees. We look at risks associated
with governance, integrity, employee satisfaction, finance, IT, and business processes. The
same employees are also asked to provide input on top risks impacting the company. A robust
methodology then combines risk responses and evaluates risk likelihood, impact, and velocity
to rank risks by priority.
Top risks are identified for every business unit and presented to our Board of Directors. Risk
leaders are identified across the company to help mitigate existing risks and proactively
address emerging risk factors.
Important characteristics of our ERM program are the inclusion of risk inputs from all levels
(all geographies and cost centers - executive, operations, finance, IT, among others) and
treating risks in the collective. This holistic approach to risk management considers how
individual risks interrelate and assists in coordinating risk management strategies spanning
all functions of the company.
ERM program participants are given absolute assurance that responses are anonymous and
individual survey responses are held in confidence. The ERM program is designed to deliver
an aggregation of knowledge sharing from our employees on specific risk topics and to
accumulate information on areas of opportunity and concern for action by leadership.
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 35
G3. Management of energy infrastructure
and related regulations
We track market and regulatory requirements that impact our business and play an active role
“We believe that cross in the development of new standards for the solar industry. We believe that cross industry
collaboration is also critical to address challenges in technology development, grid integration
industry collaboration is
and systems capacity, and permitting. We collaborate with national labs, government
also critical to address
agencies, and university research groups to develop innovative solutions that enable more
challenges in technology
efficient and sustainable products.
development, grid
integration and systems
We work closely with the California Solar and Storage Association (CALSSA) to rationalize
capacity, and permitting.”
requirements for both commercial and residential energy storage systems. In 2020, we
collaborated with the California Office of the State Fire Marshal to clarify and harmonize
the language set forth by the California Fire Code (CFC) and California Residential Code
(CRC). This language was approved unanimously by the California State Building Standards
Commission and will be reflected nationally in the next edition of the International Residential
Code (IRC) and International Fire Code (IFC). We are proud to have influenced this decision
that fosters alignment in requirements for energy storage limits.
Enphase identified a significant barrier within the National Electrical Code which would block
the adoption of Energy Storage Systems (ESS). Through our ongoing participation on the
National Fire Protection Agency (NFPA) Code Making Panel 4, we successfully submitted
proposals for the creation of a new section in the 2020 edition of the National Electrical
Code. This new section acknowledges the ability of Power Control Systems (PCS) to limit
currents to safe levels, thereby eliminating this impediment to the deployment of ESS.
Enphase then formed and led a UL Task Group to develop the corresponding product safety
and performance standard necessary for compliance with the new National Electrical Code
requirements. The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) and the Electric
Power Resource institute (EPRI) have both recognized the potential benefits of PCS and the
scheduling function.
Enphase also partners with numerous prestigious universities throughout the United States
to promote technological innovation, conduct research, and engage in development projects,
including projects funded by the Department of Energy, relating to energy efficiency and
renewable energy.
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall,, aanndd GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt 22002200 3366
SASB Index
According to the SASB Industry Level Materiality Map, the following
categories are “the most likely material issues for companies”
in the Solar Technology industry. The following table references
accounting metrics within this report and other sources.
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall,, aanndd GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt 22002200 3377
SASB Topic Enphase alignment Section in ESG
Energy management in Enphase does not manufacture its products and relies on contract Energy management
manufacturing suppliers and partners who set their own standards and practices for
energy use. We do collect information from high-spending suppliers who
have efforts underway to optimize operations and reduce electricity use.
Water management in With only ten Enphase offices worldwide, our water footprint remains small Supply chain
manufacturing compared to other industry peers and manufacturers. We follow local, management
state, and federal regulations for water use and management. Except for
three small offices with low headcounts, we are ISO 14001 certified for
seven remaining offices where we follow proper wastewater treatment and
have management systems in place that are verified by a third party.
Hazardous waste Enphase does not produce a lot of hazardous waste or material except Waste and
management for labs conducting research and development. All hazardous material hazardous materials
will be stored and disposed of as per Occupational Safety and Health management
Administration (OSHA) requirements.
Ecological impacts of Enphase also relies on a strong network of distributors and partners in the Access and
project development installation, upkeep, and use of our microinverters. We work to address affordability
community and ecological impacts by collaborating with organizations
such as GRID Alternatives, the largest nonprofit solar provider.
Management of energy Enphase identifies annually risks pertinent to our business. We also track Management
infrastructure integration regulations that influence the development and dissemination of solar of energy
and related regulations technology and influence and advance standards affecting our industry. infrastructure
integration and
related regulations
Product end-of life Innovation is one of our core principles. Sustainability is at our core and our Supply chain
management and purpose is to advance a sustainable future for all. We work to continuously management and
materials sourcing make new iterations of our technology that increase efficiency to materials sourcing
extend our products’ lifecycles. We rely on our strong and long-lasting
partnerships to carry out sustainable business practices throughout our
value chain.
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 38
United Nations sustainable
development goals
Enphase supports the United Nations Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs), and remains committed to driving progress on select
goals that are closely aligned to our ESG priorities. The following
table references sections of this report that relate to each such goal.
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall,, aanndd GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt 22002200 3399
SDG Target Report section Alignment to Enphase
7.1 Access and Access to reliable, affordable, and modern energy
7.2 affordability, services is what Enphase offers its customers.
Product design Enphase microinverters boast maximum reliability,
and lifecycle and our next generation of off-grid solutions are
management paving the way for further energy access.
Ensure access to affordable, As Enphase continues to grow and gain market
reliable, sustainable and modern share, it is accelerating the positive impact and
energy for all contribution towards increasing the renewables
energy mix globally.
9.4 Supply chain The core business of Enphase contributes directly
9.5 management, to the “adoption of clean and environmentally
Material sourcing sound technologies and industrial processes.”
and efficiency,
About us Enphase has prioritized the growth of its R&D
teams globally, including in India which now
contains 40% of total company employees with a
Build resilient infrastructure,
strong emphasis on R&D and innovation.
promote inclusive and
sustainable industrialization and
Our energy storage systems provide resiliency and
foster innovation
deliver energy independence.
11.3 Access and Sustainable urbanization is a priority for both the
affordability, residential and small commercial applications
Employee health of Enphase products and services. Additionally,
and safety Enphase supports this goal through its long-
standing philanthropic activities that help to
provide solar energy for low-income communities.
Make cities and human
settlements inclusive, safe,
resilient and sustainable
13.1 Environment The Enphase storage system helps communities
around the world be more resilient in the face of
natural disasters and grid outages, ensuring that
a home is powered during periods of inclement
weather, delivering energy independence and peace
of mind.
Take urgent action to combat
climate change and its impacts
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 40
Methodology
We relied upon the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) to help
us understand the areas that may be most relevant to our U.S. investors and we
referred broadly to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) to help us identify areas
that we may have missed. We drew upon the subject matter expertise of our
colleagues throughout Enphase to collect and organize the content relative to
the areas we identified in our benchmarking. Lastly, we compared our activities
to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to assess how we
may be contributing to these important goals.
EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall,, aanndd GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt 22002200 4411
Forward-looking statements and non-GAAP measures
Use of Forward-Looking Statements measures to analyze its operating performance and future prospects,
develop internal budgets and financial goals, and to facilitate period-
This report contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the
to-period comparisons. Enphase believes that these non-GAAP
Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of its
1995, including but not limited to statements regarding our key initiatives;
operations that, when viewed with its GAAP results, provide a more
our financial results and business strategies; our operations, logistics
complete understanding of factors and trends affecting its business.
and supply chain, including management and efforts to reduce waste,
consumption, emissions and offsetting of carbon dioxide; the capabilities • As presented in the “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures”
and performance of our technology and products; our initiatives related page, each of the non-GAAP financial measures excludes one or
to human capital; our product and data security efforts. Any statements more of the following items for purposes of calculating non-GAAP
that are not of historical fact, may be forward-looking statements. Words financial measures to facilitate an evaluation of the Company’s
used such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “continues,” “designed,” “estimates,” current operating performance and a comparison to its past operating
“expects,” “goal,” “intends,” “likely,” “may,” “ongoing,” “plans,” “projects,” performance:
“pursuing,” “seeks,” “should,” “will,” “would” and similar expressions are • Stock-based compensation expense. The Company excludes stock-
intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward- based compensation expense from its non-GAAP measures primarily
looking statements contain these words. All forward-looking statements because they are non-cash in nature. Moreover, the impact of this
are based on our current assumptions, expectations and beliefs, and expense is significantly affected by the Company’s stock price at the
involve substantial risks and uncertainties that may cause results, time of an award over which management has limited to no control.
performance or achievement to materially differ from those expressed
• Tariff refunds. This item represents approved tariff refunds by the U.S.
or implied by these forward-looking statements. Therefore, you should
Customs and Border Protection that qualify for the tariff exclusion
not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. A detailed
on Chinese imported microinverter products that fit the dimensions
discussion of risk factors that affect our business is included in the filings
and weight limits within a Section 301 Tariff exclusion under U.S.
we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) from time
note 20(ss)(40) to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the Harmonized
to time, including our most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q,
Tariff Schedule of the United States. Approved refunds relate to
particularly under the heading “Risk Factors.” Copies of these filings are
tariffs previously paid from September 24, 2018 to March 31, 2020
available on the Enphase website at http://investor.enphase.com/sec.cfm,
and are excluded from the non-GAAP measures as the refunds are
or on the SEC website at www.sec.gov. All forward-looking statements in
non-recurring in nature for tariff costs incurred in the past and are not
this presentation are based on information currently available to us, and we
reflective of the Company’s ongoing financial performance.
assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements in light
• Restructuring and asset impairment charges. The Company
of new information or future events.
excludes restructuring charges due to the nature of the expenses
being unplanned and arising outside the ordinary course of
Non-GAAP Financial Metrics
continuing operations. These costs primarily consist of fees paid for
• The Company has presented certain non-GAAP financial measures restructuring-related management consulting services, cash-based
in this presentation. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a severance costs related to workforce reduction actions, asset write-
numerical measure of a company’s performance, financial position, downs of property and equipment and lease loss reserves, and other
or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are contract termination costs resulting from restructuring initiatives.
not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable
• Reserve for non-recurring legal matter. This item represents a charge
measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally
taken for the potential settlement cost related to a dispute with a
accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, or
vendor. This item is excluded as it relates to a specific matter and is
GAAP. Reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the
not reflective of the Company’s ongoing financial performance.
most directly comparable GAAP financial measure can be found on
• Acquisition related expenses and amortization. This item represents
page 43 of this report. Non-GAAP financial measures presented by
expenses incurred related to the Company’s acquisition of
the Company include non-GAAP gross margin, operating expenses,
SunPower’s microinverter business, which are non-recurring in nature,
income from operations, and adjusted free cash flow.
and amortization of acquired intangible assets, which is a non-cash
• These non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect a comprehensive
expense. Acquisition related expenses and amortization of acquired
system of accounting, differ from GAAP measures with the same
intangible assets are not reflective of the Company’s ongoing financial
captions and may differ from non-GAAP financial measures with
performance.
the same or similar captions that are used by other companies. In
• Adjusted free cash flow. This item represents cash flows from
addition, these non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do
operating activities excluding payments for the acquisition reported
not reflect all of the amounts associated with the Company’s results
in operating activities less purchases of property and equipment. The
of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. As such, these
Company believes the adjusted free cash flow is the best measure of
non-GAAP measures should be considered as a supplement to, and
how much cash the business generates after accounting for capital
not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in
expenditures.
accordance with GAAP. The Company uses these non-GAAP financial
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 42
GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation
$ in MUSD Q1’18 Q2’18 Q3’18 Q4’18 FY18 Q1’19 Q2’19 Q3’19 Q4’19 FY19 Q1’20 Q2’20 Q3’20
Gross profit (GAAP) $ 18.3 $ 22.7 $ 25.3 $ 28.2 $ 94.4 $ 33.4 $ 45.3 $ 64.7 $ 77.9 $ 221.2 $ 80.7 $ 48.4 $ 95.0
Stock-based compensation 0.2 0.4 0.3 0.1 1.1 0.2 0.4 0.5 0.5 1.7 0.6 1.3 1.2
Tariff refunds - - - - - - - - - - - - (23.0)
Gross profit (Non-GAAP) $ 18.5 $ 23.1 $ 25.6 $ 28.3 $ 95.5 $ 33.6 $ 45.7 $ 65.2 $ 78.4 $ 222.9 $ 81.3 $ 49.7 $ 73.2
Gross margin (GAAP) 26.2% 29.9% 32.4% 30.5% 29.9% 33.3% 33.8% 35.9% 37.1% 35.4% 39.2% 38.5% 53.2%
Stock-based compensation 0.3% 0.6% 0.4% 0.2% 0.3% 0.2% 0.3% 0.3% 0.2% 0.3% 0.3% 1.1% 0.7%
Tariff refunds - - - - - - - - - - - - (12.9)%
Gross margin (Non-GAAP) 26.5% 30.5% 32.8% 30.7% 30.2% 33.5% 34.1% 36.2% 37.3% 35.7% 39.5% 39.6% 41.0%
Operating expenses (GAAP) $ 20.8 $ 23.3 $ 25.6 $ 23.2 $ 92.8 $ 26.2 $ 27.9 $ 31.0 $ 33.4 $ 118.5 $ 36.0 $ 37.5 $ 43.2
Stock-based compensation (1.4) (3.9) (3.7) (1.4) (10.4) (3.0) (4.2) (5.0) (5.6) (17.8) (6.9) (11.0) (13.1)
Restructuring and asset
- - (2.6) (1.5) (4.1) (0.4) (0.7) (0.5) (1.1) (2.6) - - -
impairment charges
Reserve for non-recurring legal
(1.8) - - - (1.8) - - - - - - - -
matter
Acquisition related expenses
- (0.4) (0.7) (0.5) (1.6) (0.5) (0.5) (0.5) (0.6) (2.2) (0.6) (0.5) (0.5)
and amortization
Operating expenses (Non-GAAP) $ 17.7 $ 19.0 $ 18.6 $ 19.7 $ 75.0 22.3 22.5 25.0 26.1 $ 95.9 28.5 26.0 29.6
Income (loss) from operations
$ (2.5) $ (0.6) $ (0.4) $ 5.0 $ 1.6 $ 7.1 $ 17.4 $ 33.7 $ 44.4 $ 102.7 $ 44.7 $ 10.9 $ 51.8
(GAAP)
Stock-based compensation 1.6 4.3 4.1 1.5 11.4 3.3 4.6 5.5 6.2 19.4 7.5 12.3 14.4
Tariff refunds - - - - - - - - - - - - (23.0)
Restructuring and asset
- - 2.6 1.5 4.1 0.4 0.7 0.5 1.1 2.6 - - -
impairment charges
Reserve for non-recurring
1.8 - - - 1.8 - - - - - - - -
legal matter
Acquisition related expenses
- 0.4 0.7 0.5 1.6 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.6 2.2 0.6 0.5 0.5
and amortization
Income from operations
$ 0.9 $ 4.1 $ 7.0 $ 8.6 $ 20.5 $ 11.3 $ 23.2 $ 40.2 $ 52.3 $ 127.0 $ 52.8 $ 23.7 $ 43.7
(Non-GAAP)
Cash flows from operating
$ 3.4 $ 4.1 $ 6.8 $ 1.9 $ 16.1 $ 17.1 $ 14.8 $ 5.0 $ 102.3 $ 139.1 $ 39.2 $ 25.4 $ 67.5
activities
Payments for acquisition
reported in cash flows - - 6.0 4.0 10.0 - - - - - - - -
from operating activities
Purchases of property
(1.0) (0.4) (0.9) (1.8) (4.2) (0.7) (2.5) (4.2) (7.4) (14.8) (3.4) (4.4) (3.9)
and equipment
Adjusted free cash flow $ 2.3 $ 3.6 $ 11.9 $ 4.1 $ 22.0 $ 16.4 $ 12.3 $ 0.8 $ 94.9 $ 124.3 $ 35.8 $ 21.0 $ 63.6
Amounts may not total due to rounding
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 43
©2021 Enphase Energy, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Enphase Energy, Enphase, the E logo, Encharge, Encharge 3, Encharge 10, IQ 7+, IQ, Enlighten,
Ensemble, and other trademarks or service names are the trademarks of Enphase Energy, Inc.
Other names and marks used herein may be trademarks or services marks owned by third parties.
Environmental, Social, and Governance Report 2020 44
