Enphase Energy, Inc.
Environmental
Social and
Governance Report
2023
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 1
Enphase Energy, Inc.
Environmental
Social and
Governance Report
2023
2
Contents
A letter from our President and CEO 04
About us 06
Enphase in numbers 07
Our purpose 08
Our core values 09
Enphase culture playbook 10
Our technology 12
Start-up to industry leader 14
Customer first 15
Financial sustainability 18
Our financial performance 19
Environment 20
E1. Environmental stewardship 21
E2. Clean energy production 23
E3. Emissions and energy 24
E4. Product responsibility 30
E5. Case studies 33
People 42
P1. Company demographics 43
P2. Recruiting and retaining the best 44
P3. Cultivating a diverse, inclusive and equitable workforce 46
P4. Developing our people 50
P5. Promoting a safe and healthy workplace 52
P6. Responsible supply chain 54
Society 58
S1. Enphase Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives 59
S2. Enphase grid services 63
S3. Enphase innovation and industry leadership 66
S4. Promoting clean energy policies 69
Governance 72
G1. ESG governance and leadership 73
G2. Business ethics and compliance 77
G3. Data privacy, cybersecurity, intellectual property 80
Appendix 83
Emissions and energy calculation methodologies 84
GRI index 86
SASB index 88
TCFD response 89
Membership associations 93
Contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals 94
About this report 96
Forward-looking statements and other important legal information 97
GAAP to Non-GAAP reconciliation 98
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 3
A Letter from our
President and CEO
Since the publication of our inaugural Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) report
in 2020, we have made strides in managing our emissions footprint, cultivating a diverse
and inclusive workplace, and raising awareness of ESG issues across the business. I am
pleased to report the ongoing success of our ESG efforts in 2023 as we continued to make
best-in-class renewable home energy systems with a laser focus on product innovation,
quality, and customer experience.
Enphase was founded in 2006 with its purpose: “Advancing a sustainable future for all.”
We are the world’s leading supplier of microinverter-based solar and battery systems.
Our systems are helping millions of people gain access to clean, affordable, and reliable
Badri Kothandaraman energy. As you read this report, you will see our purpose is infused into every part of our
President and CEO business. We acknowledge our responsibility to reduce our emissions footprint, focus on
our customers and partners, and ensure our employees and the people and communities
we serve are treated with transparency and respect, all while continuing to deliver products
that are productive, reliable, smart, simple, and safe.
“We aim to support a cleaner, Since inception, we have shipped more than 73 million solar microinverters and 1.2 GWh
more reliable, and better- of IQ® Batteries. Approximately 4.0 million Enphase-based systems have been deployed
in more than 150 countries. Approximately 25.2 GW DC power of Enphase microinverters
performing grid to help improve
have been installed in solar systems, preventing 56 million metric tons of carbon dioxide
quality of life, and to
equivalent (MTCOe) – the equivalent of providing energy to 7.3 million homes for one year.1
collaborate with a wide range of 2
stakeholders to advance policy
2023 was a challenging year as our industry suffered through a period of slowdown in
outcomes in support of clean overall demand, primarily due to high interest rates in the United States and California’s Net
energy across the world.” Energy Metering (NEM) 3.0, and macroeconomic conditions in Europe. I am proud of the
hard work and resilience shown by our employees around the world who worked tirelessly
to deliver innovative products and services to our customers as we navigated through the
global slowdown. We maintained our operational excellence throughout 2023 and our
culture playbook is a reminder of how we work together to achieve results.
We aim to support a cleaner, more reliable, and better-performing grid to help improve
quality of life and to collaborate with a wide range of stakeholders to advance policy
outcomes in support of clean energy across the world. The passing of the Inflation
Reduction Act (IRA) by the U.S. Congress in 2022 enabled us to begin manufacturing in
the United States, bring back high-technology jobs, and advance the country’s clean
energy economy. During 2023, we began shipments from our new contract manufacturing
partners in the United States, including Flex in South Carolina and Salcomp in Texas.
In 2023, we introduced our products into more countries. We started shipping our IQ8™
Microinverters into 21 countries worldwide. Our IQ Batteries are shipping to customers in
North America, Belgium, Austria, France, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Spain, Portugal,
Sweden, Denmark, and Greece. We also introduced our latest Enphase® Energy System,
powered by IQ8 Microinverters and the IQ Battery 5P. The IQ Battery 5P delivers the best
1 Estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of December 31, 2023 grossed up for non-managed systems
based on performance monitoring data; COe calculations based on U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S.
4 2
EPA) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Equivalencies Calculator.
power specifications and commissioning times of any Enphase battery to date. By the end
of 2023, we were shipping the IQ Battery 5P to the United States, Puerto Rico, Australia,
and the United Kingdom. We plan to enter more countries in Europe and Asia throughout
2024.
“We remain committed to We launched our IQ® electric vehicle (EV) chargers in the United States and Canada in
creating lasting value for all 2023. These Wi-Fi enabled smart chargers are now integrated into the Enphase Energy
stakeholders, delivering a System. This enables use cases such as self-consumption and green charging, and allows
homeowners visibility into the operation of their system through their Enphase® App.
superior customer experience,
and driving sustainable
We remain committed to creating lasting value for all stakeholders, delivering a superior
practices that make a
customer experience, and driving sustainable practices that make a meaningful difference.
meaningful difference.” As we navigate the clean energy market fluctuations due to global macroeconomic
conditions, geopolitical instability, and climate change, our team is excited about the
opportunities in 2024, knowing that sustainability is at the core of what we do at Enphase.
We appreciate your continued interest in our ESG efforts and thank our employees,
customers, partners, and shareholders for their dedication as we continue to embrace our
core values and advance a sustainable future for all.
Sincerely,
Badri Kothandaraman
President and CEO
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 5
About us
66
Enphase in
numbers
2006 3,157 8,701 25.2
GW DC
the year Enphase employees and key installers approximate cumulative
was founded contributors across worldwide1 shipments of
our global offices1 microinverters1
4 73+ 1.2 80.6
million million GWh TWh
approximate number of approximate number of of storage1 of clean energy
systems deployed in more microinverters shipped1 production2
than 150 countries1
56 6.3 144
million billion billion
MTCO₂e prevented from gallons of gasoline miles not driven by an
entering the atmosphere, not consumed3 average gas-powered
enough to power passenger vehicle3
7.3 million homes with
energy for one year3
1 As of December 31, 2023
2 Annual running total estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of December 31, 2023 grossed up for non-managed systems
based on cumulative production records
3 Estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of December 31, 2023 grossed up for non-managed systems based on cumulative
production records; CO₂e calculations based on U.S. EPA GHG Equivalencies Calculator
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002233 77
Our
purpose
Advancing a sustainable future for all.
Founded in 2006, Enphase is a global energy technology company and a leading provider
of solar, battery, and EV charging products. We are working every day to enable whole-
home energy management powered by clean energy, as well as helping to create a more
resilient and reliable electricity grid for everyone.
Enphase transformed the solar industry with its revolutionary microinverter technology
which turns sunlight into a safe, reliable, resilient, and scalable source of energy to power
our lives. Today, our microinverters can be paired with our industry-leading batteries, EV
chargers, and software, creating a comprehensive home energy management system.
The Enphase App provides unprecedented data and control in the palm of your hand. For
the first time in the evolution of our centuries-old grid, people can get paid for the clean
energy they produce and share with their communities, helping to build a new energy
future that harnesses the sun. This clean, free, abundant source of energy can power our
lives and ultimately help replace fossil fuels altogether.
Today, if you see a home with solar panels on it, there is a good chance it is an Enphase
home. As of the end of 2023, more than 73 million microinverters1 have been installed on
approximately four million homes in over 150 countries, helping millions of people gain
access to clean, affordable, and reliable energy while creating jobs and a more carbon-free
future. Enphase is putting people and their power at the center of our shared energy future.
Enphase. Power by people.
1 Estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of December 31, 2023 grossed up for non-managed
systems based on cumulative production records since inception
88
Our core
values
Our company values are reflected in the way we work
together, our performance, and how we are rewarded.
Customer first Integrity
We exist for our customers. We tell the truth at all times, without
making excuses.
We listen to our customers and measure
our success based on their feedback. We do what is best for the company.
We take action to deliver the best We take ownership of our behaviors
customer experience. and results.
Innovation Teamwork
We value innovation and recognize that it is We appreciate and respect different
the cornerstone of our existence. behavioral styles and perspectives.
We encourage appropriate risk-taking and We collaborate globally to achieve
challenge the status quo to find solutions. more together than we can on our
own.
We actively promote innovation through
curiosity and continuous learning. We actively work to break down silos.
Quality
We place safety and quality above
everything else.
We measure everything that matters and
drive continuous improvement.
We make the highest quality products.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 9
Enphase
culture playbook
The pillars of the Enphase Culture Playbook help align and
guide daily interactions with our purpose and values.
High performance
• We set the standard.
• We stretch ourselves to achieve exceptional results.
• We are relentless in the pursuit of excellence.
Recruiting and retaining the best
• We hire only the best.
• We reward and retain the best.
• We promote our people who get results.
Openness and transparency
• We are curious and encourage new ideas.
• We recognize that people have different styles and encourage
diverse perspectives.
• We openly discuss issues and want to learn rapidly from our mistakes.
Accountability and execution
• We acknowledge reality and get things done without making excuses.
• We measure what matters and manage our performance through metrics.
• Our metrics have clear targets that don’t change on a whim, and we publish
progress against these each quarter.
Learning organization
• We encourage innovation.
• We develop employees through two-way coaching and feedback.
• We learn from our mistakes using a structured problem-solving approach
known as 8-D.
• We document and share knowledge freely.
Culture playbook
10
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002233 1111
Our
technology
Enphase was founded on the deep-rooted belief that an AC-coupled distributed
architecture will always win in the long run on cost, safety and reliability. To build products
based on this architecture, we have developed core competencies in semiconductor-
based power conversion, software-defined Internet of Things (IoT) systems, and an energy
management platform. The microinverter, along with our battery, system controller, and
cloud software form a true IoT system. Our Energy System manages energy flows between
the various distributed energy resources (DERs), the utility grid, and home loads, all with
the aim of delivering the most reliable solution at the lowest available energy cost.
“The microinverter, along with The Enphase Energy System brings a high technology, networked approach to solar
our battery, system controller, generation plus energy storage by leveraging our design expertise across power electronics,
and cloud software form a true semiconductors, and cloud-based software technologies. It uses a single technology
platform for seamless management of the whole solution, enabling rapid commissioning
IoT system.”
with the Enphase® Installer App; consumption monitoring with the IQ® Gateway or
IQ® Combiner and the Enphase App, a cloud-based energy management platform; and our
IQ Battery.
The Enphase Energy System has become more sophisticated with the addition of devices
such as batteries, EV chargers and heat pumps. In addition, utility tariffs which historically
were fixed rates, are becoming more complex with time of-use rates, NEM 3.0, demand
charges, and dynamic tariffs. Our home energy management software (HEMS) is evolving
to manage this complexity by leveraging artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning
(ML) for forecasting and optimization.
The increasing penetration of EVs has implications for home energy management, as
households not only consume significantly more power with an EV, but also have a large
battery that can be used for both backup and grid service. Our smart IQ EV chargers are
compatible with most EVs sold in North America. We are working on a smart IQ EV charger
for many countries in Europe that we expect to introduce in 2024.
We are also working on bidirectional EV charger technology enabling vehicle-to-home and
vehicle-to-grid functionality. This new bidirectional EV charger, along with Enphase’s solar
and battery storage, will provide connectivity and control, enabling use cases like green
charging. It will allow homeowners visibility into the operation of their Enphase solar-plus-
battery-plus-EV charger systems through the Enphase App. We expect to introduce this
new bi-directional EV charger in 2025.
12
Enphase Home Energy
Management System
ENPHASE CLOUD
IQ SERIES MICROINVERTERS
IQ EV CHARGER
ENPHASE APP
IQ SYSTEM CONTROLLER
IQ COMBINER
UTILITY METER
IQ BATTERY
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002233 1133
Start-up to industry leader
2006
Founded by Raghu Belur and
Martin Fornage in California
2008
First microinverter-based
solar system introduced
2011
One million microinverters shipped
since inception
2012
Listed on NASDAQ
under symbol ENPH
2014
Fourth-generation
technology introduced
2015
10 million microinverters
shipped since inception
2016
Sixth-generation
IQ technology introduced
2018
Seventh-generation
IQ technology introduced
2019
One millionth microinverter-based
solar system deployed
2020
Started shipping IQ Batteries
in North America
2021
Eight-generation IQ technology
introduced
2022
Started shipping IQ8 Microinverters
in France and the Netherlands
2023
Launched IQ Battery 5P
1144
Customer
first
Customer experience
We exist to serve our customers and communicate consistently with them to review their
experiences and levels of satisfaction with our products. We incorporate customer feedback
into future product design and functionality in real-time, with the end goal of maintaining
a high degree of satisfaction among distributors, installers, and homeowners. The ability
to successfully grow and evolve our business requires open and continuous dialogue to
ensure a smooth experience, and we take this aspect of our business very seriously.
77 100
Net Promoter Score (NPS) field service NPS
among homeowners and
installers worldwide
24/7 30
call center support minute target for
with target wait time improved battery
of 1.8 minutes commissioning times
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 15
Enphase University
The Enphase University platform is an on-demand platform where installers can become
certified in the sales, design, and installation of Enphase’s products. The Enphase University
platform has been in service for several years and supports our remote training team
dedicated to teaching our installers how to successfully install and commission Enphase
systems.
We offer more than 45 different certification and qualification courses for our installers
pertaining to the commissioning of specific Enphase products, which are available in 18
native languages across the United States (U.S.), Latin America, Europe, Australia, Asia
Pacific, Brazil, and South Africa.
In addition, Enphase conducts in-person training events at more than 12 regional training
centers across the globe, and we use vans equipped with Enphase system products to
bring training where possible to installers in remote locations to learn about storage
commissioning best practices. Training is also available on demand via our Enphase Energy
Training YouTube channels where we currently have approximately 6,000 subscribers
worldwide.
23,000+ 25,300+
installers certified in installers certified in
Enphase Energy Systems Enphase photovoltaic
(PV) systems
4,700 516,000
solar installation Enphase University
companies represented courses completed by
worldwide installers
16
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002233 1177
Financial
sustainability
$2.3 We managed well in 2023 with our financial discipline through a difficult global environment.
billion Revenue was $2.29 billion in 2023, compared to $2.33 billion in 2022. We shipped 15.5
million microinverters in 2023, compared to 15.4 million in 2022. Our non-GAAP gross
revenue in 2023 margin expanded to 45.3%1, exclusive of the IRA net benefit, and our non-GAAP gross
margin further increased to 47.1%1, inclusive of the IRA net benefit, by manufacturing our
microinverters in the United States.
15.5 Our balance sheet remained very strong in 2023. We generated approximately $586.0
million million dollars of free cash flow in 2023 and exited the year with $1.70 billion dollars in cash,
cash equivalents and marketable securities, up over $80.0 million dollars year-over-year,
microinverters shipped in 2023
while repurchasing 3.3 million shares of our common stock for approximately $410.0 million
dollars.
47.1%
A responsible investment
non-GAAP gross margin in 2023
We are proud of the reputation we have built as a global leader in home energy management
systems and sustainability. In 2023, we were pleased to be recognized by several third-
party organizations for success in aligning our business with international sustainable
development goals, including placement on both the Corporate Knights Global 100 and
Newsweek’s America’s Greenest Companies lists.
Our performance among third-party ESG ratings agencies also continued to improve in
2023, with Enphase earning an ESG ‘Prime’ rating from Institutional Shareholder Services
(ISS), a ‘AA’ ESG rating from Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI), and reduced risk
rating from Sustainalytics. We remain committed to meeting and exceeding the qualifying
thresholds for sustainable investment under various criteria such as the United Nations
Global Compact (UNGC), the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs),
the EU Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation (SFDR), and the EU taxonomy for
sustainable activities.
1 See Appendix for reconciliation to comparable GAAP measures
18
Our financial
performance
We had another year of profitability in 2023. GAAP net income was $438.9 million, resulting
in diluted earnings per share of $3.08. Non-GAAP net income was $613.2 million, resulting
in non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $4.41 million.1
Quarterly revenue by year Quarterly gross margin % by year
$800.0
$726.0 $711.1 $724.7 55.0%
$700.0 50.3%
$634.7 50.0% 48.4%
$600.0 $530.2 $551.1 45.7% 46.2% 42.9% 43.8%
45.0% 42.2%
$500.0 $441.3 41.1%41.0% 40.8% 40.8% 40.2%
$351.5 $412.7 40.0%
$400.0
$301.8 $316.1 $302.6 35.0%
$300.0
$200.0 30.0%
$100.0 25.0%
$0.0 20.0%
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Quarterly operating expenses % by year Quarterly operating income % by year
30.0% 28.6% 35.0% 32.2% 32.4% 30.6% 30.4% 31.7%
30.0% 26.0% 28.7%
26.6%
25.0% 25.0% 24.4% 24.4% 23.7%
21.7%
20.0%
20.0%
18.0% 15.0%
15.0% 16.4% 16.3% 16.5%
14.5% 13.80% 10.0%
15.0% 13.5% 13.4% 12.4%
12.1% 5.0%
10.0% 0.0%
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2021 2022 2023
1 See Appendix for reconciliation to comparable GAAP measures
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 19
Environment
Enphase’s best-in-class energy management solutions, spanning solar energy
generation, battery storage, EV charging, and cloud-based monitoring and control,
provide the smart energy needed to drive global sustainable development. Our
products and services directly address the urgent challenges presented by climate
change and accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy.
2200
E1. Environmental
stewardship
Enphase’s best-in-class energy management solutions, spanning solar energy generation,
battery storage, EV charging, and cloud-based monitoring and control, provide the smart
energy needed to drive global sustainable development. Our products and services directly
address the urgent challenges presented by climate change and accelerate the transition
to a low-carbon economy.
“At Enphase, we create Climate change strategy
clean energy products and
At Enphase, we create clean energy products and technologies the world needs to help
technologies the world needs
slow the pace of global warming, protect the environment, and accelerate the transition to
to help slow the place of global
a clean, accessible, and resilient energy system. Our climate change strategy disclosures
warming.”
align with the recommendations of the Taskforce for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures
(TCFD) and may be found in the Appendix.
Environmental management system (EMS)
Enphase demands of itself superior environmental performance, and 100% of our facilities
are ISO 14001:2015 certified. Our EMS is continually improved to align with business strategy,
promote positive environmental impacts, and minimize adverse impacts. Through the EMS,
we proactively assess environmental risks and opportunities, define key performance
indicators (KPIs) and targets, and evaluate progress toward environmental goals. Our
executive leadership has direct oversight of the global Environmental Health and Safety
(EHS) program.
Supplier expectations
Enphase works with suppliers who share our commitment to sustainability, and all suppliers
and vendors are expected to uphold the same standards of environmental stewardship
as we do. Suppliers are screened on specific criteria including the presence of an
environmental policy; EMS or Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) certification;
Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and Registration, Evaluation, Authorization,
and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) compliance; conflict minerals reporting; as well as
the establishment of human rights and labor policies.
Auditing
Our environmental audit program includes periodic and complete evaluations of our
product development and research and development (R&D) centers. Audits include air
and water quality, waste management practices, spill prevention and control, hazardous
materials management, and employee awareness.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 21
Reporting and stakeholder consultation
We report our annual environmental performance in line with prevailing sustainability
reporting frameworks. Stakeholders such as our shareholders, local communities,
customers, suppliers and contractors, government agencies, and other organizations
focused on protecting the environment are allies and collaborators, and their priorities and
feedback regarding our environmental performance are considered when assessing our
environmental performance.
“We support pollution prevention Product lifecycle stewardship
programs and efficiently
Our products are designed to be safe for the environment and their intended use. All
use materials and energy to
hazardous waste generated across our operations is disposed of properly or recycled, and
conserve natural resources.”
we comply with all applicable laws and directives where we operate regarding hazardous
waste, including Waste from Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE), RoHs, REACH,
and the European Union (EU) batteries directive. We support pollution prevention programs
and efficiently use materials and energy to conserve natural resources, including measuring
emissions and implementing an emissions reduction strategy.
Legal compliance
Enphase complies in the areas where we operate with all applicable environmental, health
and safety laws, as well as all pertinent industry codes and standards. We also expect our
suppliers, partners, and customers to comply with all appliable environmental, health and
safety laws and regulations.
Empowering employees
We harness the intellect and energy of our employees to achieve positive and lasting
environmental impacts resulting from our business. Employees at all levels actively
participate in environmental goal-setting, allowing for important insight and innovation to
be realized across the company. We incentivize performance toward environmental-related
goals, with all employees eligible to tie short-term bonuses to associated objectives.
22
E2. Clean energy
production
During Since
2023 2006
22 15 80.6 56
TWh million TWh million
generated by Enphase MTCO₂e prevented from generated by Enphase MTCO₂e prevented from
microinverters1 entering the atmosphere2 microinverters1 entering the atmosphere2
1 Annual running total estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of December 31, 2023 grossed up for non-managed systems based on cumulative
production records
2 Estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of December 31, 2023 grossed up for non-managed systems based on cumulative production records;
COe calculations based on U.S. EPA GHG Equivalencies Calculator
2
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002233 2233
E3. Emissions
and energy
This is our third year of completing a greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory. The
calculations follow the guidance provided in the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard,
covering Scope 1 (direct), Scope 2 (electricity-indirect), and select Scope 3 emissions
categories. Please see the Appendix for details on the inventory methodology and energy
and emissions data disaggregated at the individual facility level.
We consider Scope 1 emissions to be negligible given our “OpEx Lite” operating model,
where we do not own or operate any large factories. Emissions from our field service and
training vehicle fleet do not represent more than 5% of our total emissions and are excluded
from our GHG inventory per GHG Protocol guidelines.
Energy consumption among our leased facilities globally creates our Scope 2 emissions.
We are managing Scope 2 emissions by increasing on-site PV generation capacity by
installing new PV systems on leased buildings and completing energy efficiency projects
on a continuing basis. Our energy management program is informed by the ISO 50001
standard, though we do not currently hold ISO 50001 certification.
Note that we intentionally forgo market solutions such as Renewable Energy Certificates
(RECs) to drive down Scope 2 emissions figures. This allows us to confidently claim that our
operations run on renewable energy, while cultivating a net positive outcome. By leaving
installed PV on the leased buildings after we vacate, we leave the facilities in a better
condition than originally found.
We completed a screening inventory as outlined in the GHG Protocol to determine which of
the fifteen Scope 3 categories to include in the GHG inventory. Factors influencing inventory
inclusion or exclusion include relevance and the ability to capture and disclose accurate
data. Several of our key suppliers and customers have set ambitious GHG reduction targets
through the Science-Based Targets Initiative (SBTi), helping to drive down our Scope 3
emissions. We continue to measure our Scope 3 emissions and explore opportunities for
further reductions moving forward.
Table 1: 2023 GHG emissions*
Emissions type Units
Direct emissions (Scope 1) (MTCOe) 0
2
Electricity-indirect emissions (Scope 2) (MTCOe) 15,529
2
Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) (MTCOe) 49,077
2
Total emissions (MTCOe) 64,606
2
*All emissions figures represent location- and market-based calculation.
24
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002233 2255
Managing GHG emissions
We appreciate the need to reduce operational emissions as we continue growing our
business and helping to accelerate the world’s transition to a resilient and efficient
renewable energy system. In 2022, we set a target to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 economic
emissions intensity by 30% by 2030 from a 2021 baseline. To this end, we plan to increase
energy efficiency and reduce energy consumption from non-renewable sources by
continuing to employ the following strategies:
• Expanding facility on-site PV generation capacity
• Participating in utility renewable energy and green tariff programs
• Completing facility energy efficiency projects
• Requiring facilities to provide access to renewable energy
• Installing bi-directional EV chargers at facilities
• Incentivizing emissions reduction and energy conservation initiatives
“Facility on-site PV generation 2023 actions taken
increased by 228% year-over-
• Increased facilities’ on-site generation capacity to 855.9 kW
year to a total of 855.9 kW”
• Completed energy efficiency projects representing annual savings of 195,052 kWh
• Planned energy efficiency projects representing an annual savings of 955,296 kWh
• Completed PV installs for three additional Enphase facility locations
• Joined Austin Energy Green Choice program
Chart 1: On-site PV generation capacity (kW)
1200
1000
800
600
400
200
0
2020.5 2021 2021.5 2022 2022.5 2023 2023.5 2024(Pl2an0)24.5
Installed kW, Scope 2
Chart 2: Renewable energy mix
30%
70%
Renewable (%)
Non-renewable (%)
Renewable (%)
Non-renewable (%)
26
GHG reduction target progress
As of the end of 2023, our scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity has decreased by three
percent from our 2021 baseline. The reported increase in scope 2 emissions is compatible
with our internal target model, and reflects increases in headcount, the number of facility
locations, and facility activity due to the growth of our business. We expect to see
improved performance as the net impact of increases to on-site generation capacity and
participation in green tariff programs made during 2023 are fully realized and as the solar
industry recovers from recent global macroeconomic headwinds. We remain confident
that our continuing efforts to decarbonize while providing the clean energy products and
technologies needed to meet global climate goals will accelerate progress in the coming
years.
Table 2: Progress on GHG emissions reduction target
Emissions metric 2021 2022 2023 2030 Target
Direct emissions
0 0 0 0
(Scope 1) (MTCOe)
2
Electricity-indirect emissions
9,240 10,603 15,529 n/a
(Scope 2) (MTCOe)
2
Revenue ($M) 1,382 2,331 2,291 n/a
Scope 1 + 2 emissions intensity
6.99 4.55 6.78 4.89
(MTCOe / $M revenue)
2
Table 3: Energy consumption detail
Energy metric Units
Grid electricity consumption (MWh) 20,079
Heat consumption (MWh) 2,954
Aggregated energy consumption (MWh) 23,033
Total electrical power used (MWh) 20,507
Normalized electrical power used (kWh / $M revenue) 6,856
Energy intensity (kWh / $M revenue) 10,055
Consumed energy from the grid (%) 99
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 27
Chart 3: Emissions and energy intensity trend*
20000 10
18000
8
16000
14000
6
12000
10000
4
8000
6000 2
4000
2000 0
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
Energy Intensity (kWh / $M) Emissions Intensity (MTCOe / $M)
2
*Scopes 1 and 2 only
28
ytisnetni
ygrenE
ytisnetni
snoissimE
Energy intensity (kWh / $M) Emissions intensity (MTCO2e / $M)
Hazardous air pollutants
Enphase installed products reduce the amount of hazardous air pollutants (HAPs) that
enter the atmosphere, helping to alleviate human health issues related to the release of
particulate matter (PM 2.5), nitrous oxides (NO), sulfur oxides (SO), and other ozone-
x x
depleting substances (ODS). These are typically released from fuel combustion among
both mobile and stationary sources such as cars, trucks, and factories. Many people are
disproportionately impacted by air pollution, including those who live in communities of
color or low-income communities. Every clean kilowatt hour generated by an Enphase
system helps to reduce air pollution and promote environmental justice.
We do not consider the release of HAPs across Enphase’s operations to be significant,
given we do not own or operate a company vehicle fleet or any large factories. However,
we do hold upstream suppliers and contract manufacturers accountable for environmental
performance as outlined in our Enphase Supplier Code of Conduct and proactively work to
reduce Scope 3 emissions, including HAPs, as described earlier in this report.
Table 4: NO and SO emissions
x 2
Annual NO (lbs.) SO (lbs.)
x 2
Enphase U.S. operations 3.726 0.818
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002233 2299
E4. Product
responsibility
Activities across the entire value chain from raw material extraction to end-of-life methods
comprise our product footprint, and we are committed to reducing adverse environmental
impacts as much as possible by following “Design for Environment” (DfE) principles. We
strive to reduce the material inputs needed to build safe, reliable, high-quality products,
integrate recycled materials where possible, and design products that can be repurposed
or recycled safely at the end of their designed lifespan.
“We assess the safety of our Product quality and safety
products at all stages of their
We take a comprehensive approach to quality and safety, with all products thoroughly
life cycle, from prototype
qualified and tested to ensure compliance with rigorous standards while exceeding
development through
customer expectations. All Enphase products and services are certified to the ISO
manufacturing, use, service, and
9001:2015 standard through our Quality Management System (QMS). Executives
recycling or disposal.” overseeing product quality and safety report directly to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO),
with supporting managerial oversight for a wide variety of cross-functional activities such
as product development, defect and failure mode analysis, field service, and product end
of life management.
100% Zero
ISO 9001:2015 product
certified products recalls
We assess the safety of our products at all stages of their life cycle, from prototype
development through manufacturing, use, service, and recycling or disposal. This includes
evaluating the inclusion or use of harmful chemicals in products and designing processes
to ensure safety across all stages of the product lifecycle. Procedures for monitoring and
managing the risks associated with inclusion of harmful chemicals in products are well-
defined in our Product Lifecycle Process (PLCP), applicable to all product lines. All products
are compliant with REACH and RoHS regulations.
Supporting emergency response and first responders
In line with our commitment to safety, we have helped train thousands of firefighters
across the United States and Brazil on the critical strategies and tactics needed to mitigate
structure fires involving PV and energy storage systems (ESS). Enphase is continuing this
effort by engaging fire service consultants to develop training videos for fire professionals.
We remain committed to setting the gold standard with respect to PV and ESS safety. For
more information, please see our Energy Story: Safety and Solar.
30
Repairability
During 2023, we introduced the ability to service batteries and other balance of system
(BOS) components in the field by swapping components rather than replacing the entire
product. This helps to reduce system downtime, improve customer satisfaction, and better
the overall environmental profile of our products. Every component swap in the field
ultimately reduces reliance on raw material inputs, avoids emissions and pollution related
to product disposal, and extends product lifetime. We plan to expand this practice of field
repairability to cover additional products in the future.
“Every component swap in Waste management
the field ultimately reduces
Currently, we are primarily concerned with managing our electronic waste (e-waste),
reliance on raw material inputs,
hazardous waste, and universal waste responsibly across global operations. In 2023, we
avoids emissions and pollution
expanded our tracking and management to include operations in Germany, India, and
related to product disposal, and
New Zealand in addition to the United States. The overall waste is generated through R&D,
extends product lifetime.” prototyping, and creating experimental apparatus for new product development and
improvement across our product portfolio. Our dedication to building innovative, best-in-
class products regarding safety, quality, and reliability requires extensive testing and failure
analysis. Test equipment is disassembled or deconstructed, with the constituent parts
recycled and reclaimed for future use, where possible. We make every effort to divert these
wastes from landfills by sending e-waste, hazardous waste, and universal waste to certified
vendors who provide certificates of destruction, outlining the percent composition, mass,
and recycling method employed for each constituent material.
100% 100%
waste diverted from landfill* RoHS, REACH, WEEE, and EU
Battery Directive compliance
We focus significant efforts on residential, commercial, and industrial battery disposal and
recycling. We evaluate third-party recycling vendors for certifications and compliance
performance prior to engaging with them. Our battery recycler is certified to the R2
standard, which prohibits incineration as a disposal solution. All battery waste is processed
thermally or chemically to recover valuable metals such as nickel, lithium, cobalt, and
copper, with the remaining plastic and byproducts separated for recycling. This allows
for valuable components to be reused as material inputs for new products. We design our
batteries for long-term duration to decrease waste, using lithium iron phosphate (LFP)
chemistry as the storage material. Beyond batteries, we are reviewing the methods of
other third-party vendors to validate that material is diverted from landfill and developing a
vendor audit program to verify the destination of generated waste.
We promote our company’s commitment to recycling and preventing products and
materials ending up in landfills through our internal training and compliance with applicable
federal, state, and local regulations. Employees working in our R&D labs undergo additional
annual training to ensure they understand how to properly dispose of any hazardous
materials that are not eligible for our recycling programs.
*Hazardous waste, e-waste and universal waste across Germany, India, New Zealand and
United States operations”
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 31
Sustainable facilities
We also make a conscientious effort to ensure responsible resource consumption across
our facilities. Water conservation is encouraged, and we have installed auto stop taps to
reduce consumption. Facilities are equipped with reusable and compostable materials,
single-use items are eliminated, and employees are provided with reusable dishware,
utensils, and mugs. Ink cartridges, organics, plastic, glass, cardboard, fluorescent bulbs,
and metal scraps are recycled as standard practice among facilities.
Table 5: Waste management*
Amount Amount Diverted Percent Percent Directed
Waste Type Generated from Landfill Recycled to Landfill
(MT) (MT) (%) (%)
Hazardous Waste 1.03 1.03 100 0.0
E-Waste 105.86 105.86 100 0.0
Universal Waste 33.15 33.15 100 0.0
*Hazardous waste, e-waste and universal waste across Germany, India, New Zealand and United States operations
32
E5. Case studies
United States
Florida Solar Design Group, an installer of Enphase products in the United States, completed
a 45.6 kW rooftop solar energy project for the Conservancy of Southwest Florida in Naples,
Florida. Florida Solar Design Group installed 106 Enphase® IQ8H™ Microinverters, which
are expected to help the Conservancy meet their sustainability goals.
Conservancy of Southwest
Florida
45.6 kW
Organization
solar energy system size
Florida Solar Design Group
Enphase product installer
77.4 MWh
Naples, Florida
Location
estimated annual production
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 33
United States
A1A Solar, an installer of Enphase products in the United States, completed a 43.2 kW
rooftop solar energy project for dtw Research in Fernandina Beach, Florida. A1A Solar
installed 90 Enphase IQ8H Microinverters, which are expected to offset an estimated 41%
of the business’s energy use with clean solar power.
dtw RESEARCH
Organization 43.2 kW
A1A Solar
solar energy system size
Enphase product installer
Fernandina Beach, Florida 56.3 MWh
Location
estimated annual production
34
Canada
Hakai Energy Solutions, an installer of Enphase products in Canada, completed a 26.2
kW rooftop solar energy project on the K’omoks First Nation administration building in
Comox, British Columbia, Canada. The installer calculates that the addition of this Enphase
commercial solar system on the building will offset approximately 35% of their electrical
energy requirements, contributing to significant operating cost savings over the lifetime of
the system.
K’omoks First Nation
Organization 26.2 kW
Hakai Energy Solutions
solar energy system size
Enphase product installer
Comox, British Columbia 26.7 MWh
Location
estimated annual production
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 35
Spain
PROT energía, an installer of Enphase products in Spain, performed a temporary solar
installation for exhibition during the world ski mountaineering championship in the Catalan
Pyrenees to promote the use of renewable energy. The installation covered the supply of
12% of the electricity consumed during the event, achieving a savings of 24 kg of CO. The
2
installation consisted of eight solar panels with Enphase® IQ7A™ Microinverters.
Skimo Championship
(Boí Taüll 2023) 3.4 kW
Organization
solar energy system size
PROT energía
Enphase product installer
Boí Taüll (Lleida)
Location
36
France
Regis Electric, an installer of Enphase products in France, completed a rooftop solar
energy project for a family in Cannes, France. The system was designed to provide clean,
resilient energy to help reduce electricity bills and make the family more self-sufficient. The
installation consisted of 48 solar panels with Enphase® IQ8AC™ Microinverters and two
Enphase IQ Battery 10Ts.
Homeowner
Organization 24 kW
Regis Electric
solar energy system size
Enphase product installer
Cannes 33.6 MWh
Location
estimated annual production
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 37
Australia
Country Solar NT, an installer of Enphase products in Australia, installed a 99.6 kW Enphase
solar system, featuring 240 Enphase IQ7A Microinverters for the iconic Territory Wildlife
Park in Darwin to power their visitor center. Given the different roof azimuths, variable roof
pitch due to a curved roof, and extensive partial shading from surrounding vegetation and
air conditioning units, as well as the region’s tough tropical climatic conditions, Enphase’s
microinverters were the preferred solution for this project.
DICE (Aust) Pty Ltd t/a
Country Solar NT 99.6 kW
Organization
solar energy system size
DICE (Aust) Pty Ltd t/a
Country Solar NT
127 MWh
Enphase product installer
Territory Wildlife Park - estimated annual production
Berry Springs, Darwin NT
0838
Location
38
India
U-Solar Clean Energy Solutions Pvt. Ltd, an installer of Enphase products, built a beautiful
684 panel solar energy system across the 30,000 square foot rooftop space of Indiqube
GVH building in Bangalore, Karnataka. This building functions as Enphase’s research and
development facility and is the headquarters of Enphase-India operations.
Indiqube GVH
Organization 369.4 kW
U-Solar Clean Energy
solar energy system size
Solutions Pvt. Ltd
Enphase product installer
506 MWh
Bangalore (KA)
Location
estimated annual production
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 39
Brazil
Fortlev, an Enphase distribution partner in Brazil, chose Enphase microinverters to power
its warehouse. The installation includes 627 Enphase IQ7A Microinverters on the roof to
generate clean energy and savings for its business.
Fortlev Solar
Organization 210 kW
Allan Realtec
solar energy system size
Enphase product installer
Serra City / Espirito 384 MWh
Santo State
Location
estimated annual production
40
South Africa
The U.S. Embassy and Consulate in South Africa selected Rubicon Renewables as its official
supplier for solar and backup on more than 400 consulate homes in the Western Cape
and Gauteng. Enphase IQ7A Microinverters were selected for their 25-year warranty,
panel-level asset management toolset, all-AC electrical safety, and superior performance
in residential applications.
U.S. Embassy and
Consulate in South Africa 4.8 MW
Organization
aggregated solar energy system size
Smart Energy and
Ramgreen Services
Enphase product installer 9,275 MWh
Pretoria, Cape Town, and
Johannesburg estimated annual production
Location
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 41
People
We strive to make Enphase a great place to work by recruiting and retaining the
best talent, cultivating a diverse, equitable and inclusive workforce, providing
opportunities for learning and development, and ensuring a safe and healthy work
environment.
54%
India
33%
North
America
7% 1%
Europe China
<1% 5%
South Australia and
America New Zealand
4422
P1. Company
demographics
Geographic headcount
54%
India
33%
North
America
7% 1%
Europe China
<1% 5%
South Australia and
America New Zealand
Employee headcount
3,500
3,157
2,821
3,000
2,500 2,260
2,000
1,500
850
1,000
577
427
500 336
0
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002233 4433
P2. Recruiting and
retaining the best
We are committed to attracting and developing a strong, diverse group of employees.
Our robust talent management program includes university outreach, global recruitment,
career progression, and leadership development - empowering our employees to reach
their full potential and find work satisfaction.
Recruitment and onboarding
We leverage employee referral programs, seek talent from specialized conferences, and
work with recruiting agencies to supply a diverse slate of candidates for each job placement
search. In addition, our talent acquisition department sponsors events, partners with
student organizations on university campuses, makes certain all published job descriptions
contain inclusive language, and ensures that interview teams are broadly represented.
Once someone is hired, our world-class, scalable, and blended model for new employee
onboarding and training creates an environment where all employees feel welcomed,
supported, and valued.
Buddy Up!
As part of our new employee onboarding, every new employee is paired with a colleague, a
“buddy,” who is a go-to person for the new employee. The buddy provides assistance and
information during the settling-in period and ensures that the new employee is engaged
and supported. In turn, our buddies benefit from improved self-confidence and the ability
to hone managerial and leadership skills.
Peer
(with longer
tenure)
Maintain
positive Technical
outlook and and process
attitude expert
Buddy
Share
Characteristics
knowledge Approachable,
(Encourage accessible,
self learning) and patient
Listen actively
Open-minded
(Help resolve
(No judgements)
issues and
concerns)
44
Benefits and wellness
The physical, social, emotional, and financial needs of our employees and their families
guide our global wellness program. We provide our employees with competitive
compensation and benefits that enable them to achieve a nice quality of life and plan for
their future, including retirement savings plans, paid vacation days and sick leave, and other
benefits according to local regulations. All employees receive stock-based compensation
through awards of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) and are afforded additional benefits such
as the ability to participate in an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP), quarterly bonus
or commission plans, subsidized health insurance plans, employee assistance programs
(EAP), and virtual fitness programs.
“We recognize the importance We care about our employees and their families. Enphase provides family forming benefits
of maintaining a positive and through Carrot, one of the leading global fertility care platforms. Carrot helps members
explore alternatives to in-vitro fertilization (IVF) and assists employees around the world of
constructive relationship
every age, race, income, sex, sexual orientation, gender and marital status.
with our workforce, as it is
instrumental in our pursuit
of sustainable growth and
Engagement and satisfaction
innovation.”
We conduct an annual Employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS) and employee engagement
survey. This survey drives our employee engagement plans and activities for the upcoming
year. All employees are surveyed, and each functional or business unit prepares its own
action plans for improvement for the year based on the survey results and feedback.
Workforce and labor rights
Enphase supports the fundamental rights enshrined in international labor standards. We
believe that every individual has the right to associate freely and to engage in collective
bargaining as protected by relevant laws and regulations. We are committed to complying
with all applicable labor laws and standards in the countries where we operate, including
the freedom to organize, negotiate, and express collective interests. We recognize the
importance of maintaining a positive and constructive relationship with our workforce, as
it is instrumental in our pursuit of sustainable growth and innovation. Our workforce and
labor commitments include:
• Paying a living wage
• Respecting the right to collective bargaining
• Respecting union rights
• Respecting workers’ freedom of association
• Abiding by specific conventions or standards governing union rights, specifically the
Right to Organize and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98).
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 45
P3. Cultivating a diverse, inclusive
and equitable workforce
Enphase’s ability to innovate relies on the perspective and knowledge from employees across
a broad range of backgrounds and experiences. We ensure our leaders and employees at all
levels of the organization work with each other to foster an inclusive culture and mindset,
and to continuously improve our interactions with each other, our partners, our customers,
and our communities. Our global diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) strategy is focused on
hiring, engagement, retention, and development efforts to achieve an inclusive and diverse
workforce and is driven by a cross-functional council of executive leaders. As an extension
of the efforts from the DEI council, we formed WE SPARK (Women at Enphase - Strong,
Progressive, Ambitious, Resilient, Knowledgeable), an employee resource group (ERG) for
women in 2023. This is a self-sustained community of women at Enphase whose mission
is to inspire change, build and foster networking, and drive women’s professional growth
by addressing the habits that limit them from advancing in the professional landscape. In
2024, WE SPARK aims to offer developmental workshops throughout the year.
“We ensure our leaders and Eliminating bias and ensuring equal opportunity
employees at all levels of the
We address the topic of “unconscious bias” in training that is available to recruiters, hiring
organization work with each
managers, and interviewers to ensure inclusive hiring practices. Through our “Interviewing
other to foster an inclusive
the Enphase Way” and “Hiring the Enphase Way” philosophies and trainings, we evaluate
culture and mindset, and to candidates on merit and do not fall victim to prejudice or discrimination.
continuously improve our
interactions with each other, our We do not tolerate discrimination of any kind based on race, color, sex, gender, gender
expression, religion, sexual orientation, national origin, ancestry, disability, medical
partners, our customers,
condition, genetic information, marital status, pregnancy, military or veteran status, or
and our communities.”
any other protected characteristic as outlined by all applicable laws. This policy applies to
all employment practices within our organization, including hiring, recruiting, promotion,
termination, layoff, recall, leave of absence, compensation, benefits, training, and
apprenticeship.
46
P3. Cultivating a diverse, inclusive
Table 6: Global gender diversity
and equitable workforce Female Male Not disclosed
Employee group
(%) (%) (%)
Executive officers (14) 14.3 85.7 0.0
Leadership (209) 10.5 82.8 6.7
Managers (589) 14.5 80.1 5.4
All employees (3,157) 17.5 75.1 7.4
Table 7: Global age diversity
< 30 Years 31-50 Years > 50 Years
Employee group
(%) (%) (%)
Leadership (209) 0.9 58.4 40.7
Managers (589) 4.6 77.1 18.3
All employees (3,157) 35.8 53.3 10.9
Table 8: U.S. race and ethnicity
All employees Leadership Managers
Ethnicity (No. 1,003) (No. 127) (No. 230)
(%) (%) (%)
American Indian or Alaska Native
0.2 0.0 0.9
(not Hispanic or Latino)
Asian (not Hispanic or Latino) 17.1 42.5 31.3
Black or African American
3.0 0.8 2.2
(not Hispanic or Latino)
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific
2.9 2.4 2.2
Islander (not Hispanic or Latino)
Two or more races
0.5 0.0 0.0
(not Hispanic or Latino)
Not disclosed 21.8 11.0 16.5
White (not Hispanic or Latino) 54.5 43.3 46.9
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 47
DEI organizations and
partnerships
Avtar and Seramount
In 2023, Avtar, India’s premier DEI solutions firm, along with Seramount, a strategic
professional services firm dedicated to advancing DEI in the workplace in the United States,
conducted its eighth successive edition of the Best Companies for Women in India (BCWI)
and the Most Inclusive Companies Index (MICI). The BCWI and MICI studies evaluate
organizations based on their gender diversity initiatives, equal opportunities, career
advancement for women, and overall workplace inclusivity. Enphase again received two
awards – “Top 100 Best Companies for Women in India” and an “Exemplar of Inclusion.”
This accolade highlights Enphase’s commitment to gender diversity and inclusion in the
workplace.
SEIA DEIJ Certification Program
Enphase continued its partnership with the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA) to help
advocate for diversity and inclusion in the solar industry. SEIA’s Diversity, Equity, Inclusion &
Justice (DEIJ) program increases social awareness by promoting solar companies that are
certified, showcasing their progress in this space. The SEIA DEIJ also provides resources
to help with expanding diversity efforts and educates member companies through various
programs, training and resource development. In 2023, Enphase earned bronze level
certification in the SEIA DEIJ program.
Women in Cleantech & Sustainability
Enphase continued its partnership with Women in Cleantech & Sustainability (WCTS),
an organization that fosters an influential network of professionals to further the roles of
women in growing the green economy and making a positive impact on the environment. By
supporting WCTS, we are helping to shine a light on the need for more women in cleantech
and fostering support for clean energy with participation in events and mentorship
opportunities.
4488
CEO Action for D&I
Enphase’s CEO signed the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion pledge in 2021, joining more
than 2,000 other CEOs, to act on supporting more inclusive workplaces. We continued
our pledge to promote diversity in our leadership team and implemented changes focused
on attracting more qualified and diverse talent into the company such as making positive
changes in our hiring process, including rewriting job postings to appeal to women, requiring
that qualified diverse candidates must be interviewed for all new executive-level and Board
of Directors (Board) positions, and ensuring a diverse representation of interviewers are
always included in the process.
ParityPledge
Enphase is a signatory to the corporate “ParityPledge,” alongside a significant number
of established corporations, in support of women and people of color in the workplace.
We are continuing to honor the pledge goal, which requires a commitment to interview
and consider at least one qualified woman and person of color for every open role, vice
president and higher, including C-Suite and the Board.
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002233 4499
P4. Developing
our people
‘Experience-Exposure-Education’ learning model
Our learning model is designed to enable the majority of knowledge gained from job-related
experiences, followed by learning from coaching and mentoring, and formal learning events.
This model reinforces our belief that learning is not just a result of functional responsibility
- it goes beyond formal training. Learning and development are embedded into daily work,
cross-functional interactions, informal mentoring, and stretch assignments at Enphase.
82 100%
NPS for learning compliance course
programs completion
Enphase Learning Academy
Enphase Learning Academy is the hub for learning and development for employees globally,
focusing on job-related training, business awareness training and product overviews, and
soft-skills programs. In 2023, Enphase Learning Academy launched the Management
Development program – a six-month upskilling program for people managers; and the
Leadership Development & Mentoring program – a one-year program aimed at grooming
emerging leaders to take on leadership positions at Enphase.
Career pathing, development and mobility
Enphase offers its employees clear direction and opportunities for continued learning and
growth. Employee career development at Enphase can often be non-linear. It happens in
all directions, including subject matter expertise, lateral growth to new teams, and linear
growth through a job family. We encourage employees to own their development and
engage in career conversations with their managers. Such conversations enable employees
to realize their career goals by identifying lateral and vertical advancement opportunities
through focused development plans.
50
‘Ennovate’ – Enphase’s innovation program
Innovation remains a core value at Enphase and is key to the long-term success of our
organization. Ennovate, Enphase’s annual company-wide hackathon, is one of the programs
that helps drive innovation at Enphase. In 2023, the Ennovate program again received
over 130 ideas across three broad themes - software, systems, and business processes. A
cross-functional team of engineering and business leaders has short-listed 36 proposals
for proof-of-concept demonstration presentations, with prizes awarded to teams with the
best ideas.
Ennovate 2023
Ideate. Innovate. Implement.
Join the hackathon and help build the future of Enphase.
Visit link.enphase.com/ennovate to learn more.
Education Assistance Program
Our Education Assistance Program offers qualifying employees financial support to
advance their educational goals and increase their business knowledge. This benefit is
used by our employees globally to advance their knowledge and career through formal
education.
Enphase behavioral competency framework
Behavioral competencies are attributes that Enphase employees are expected to
demonstrate at the workplace, forming a shared understanding of performance standards
and Enphase’s values and culture. Enphase’s behavioral competency framework is at the
core of internal employee practices such as hiring, performance evaluation, promotions
and career development.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 51
P5. Promoting a safe and
healthy workplace
Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) and Environmental
Health and Safety (EHS)
Enphase’s Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) program has implemented a culture
of safety compliance, framed on identifying hazards, minimizing workplace risks, and
promoting continuous improvement in safety performance. The U.S. Department of Labor’s
Occupational Health & Safety Administration (OSHA) guidelines are the building blocks for
our OHS program in the U.S. and provide significant influence over the development of our
global OHS systems. The OHS program either complies with or exceeds the occupational
health and safety regulations in the countries where we operate.
“In 2023, Enphase had zero The OHS program goes through a continuous monitoring and evaluation process. Our
reportable notices of health and OHS policy provides strategic direction, guiding principles, and relevant responsibilities for
safety violations worldwide.” management, employees, and the Enphase Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) team.
Our EHS team is led by a safety professional trained and certified by the Board of Certified
Safety Professionals (BCSP). In 2023, Enphase had zero reportable notices of health and
safety violations worldwide.
Workplace accident and injury rates
Enphase uses OSHA definitions to calculate recordable incidents, lost time, and restricted-
day injuries. These definitions are also implemented globally for data gathering and analysis.
In 2023, we expanded the accident and injury reporting program to cover operations in
New Zealand and India in addition to those in North America. As a result of these efforts,
our recordable incidents, lost-time, and restricted-day injuries are below industry averages
published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Table 9: Accident and injury rates*
Total Days Away,
Lost Time
Recordable Restricted,
Incident Rate Fatalities**
Incident Rate Transfer
(LTIR)
(TRIR) (DART)
Enphase Energy 0.23 0.13 0.13 0
Industry Benchmark*** 1.10 0.30 0.50 No data
*North America, New Zealand, and India operations
**Includes Enphase and contract employees
***NAICS code 334413 – Semiconductor and Related Device Manufacturing
52
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002233 5533
P6. Responsible
supply chain
Our commitment to human rights
We acknowledge our responsibility to protect, preserve, and promote human rights around
the world. We are committed to ensuring that the people and communities impacted by
our business can live a life of liberty, dignity, and respect. Our internal codes and policies on
human rights are rooted in established frameworks and conventions including:
• United Nations Declaration on Human Rights
• The Code of Conduct of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)
• The United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights (UNGPs)
• The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises
• International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and
Rights at Work
“We believe access to energy Beyond the fundamental rights defined in these frameworks and conventions, we also
helps to reduce poverty, consider access to clean, reliable, and affordable energy as a basic human right and a
improve health, reduce prerequisite for achieving the 2030 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN
SDGs). We believe access to energy helps to reduce poverty, improve health, reduce
inequality, and raise standards
inequality, and raise standards of living. For more information, please refer to our Human
of living.”
Rights Policy.
Business relationships and due diligence
We seek to do business with those who share our values and commitment to human rights
and expect all business partners to abide by our codes of conduct. We protect human rights
across the value chain through the adoption of contractual clauses, supplier screening
measures, grievance reporting, and on-site audits of our contract manufacturing facilities.
At minimum, we expect our business partners to uphold basic human rights pertaining to
minimum wage, maximum working hours, freedom of association and the right to collective
bargaining, corporal punishment and disciplinary practices, acceptable living conditions,
non-discrimination, and compliance with health and safety laws as defined in domestic and
international conventions and frameworks.
All Enphase employees, including supply chain and procurement managers, are educated
annually on expectations regarding human rights as part of compliance training. As of the
end of 2023, all suppliers are under contractual obligation to abide by the expectations set
out in our Supplier Code of Conduct.
5544
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002233 5555
Grievance mechanisms
Grievance mechanisms are available, including the use of an anonymous third-party
whistleblower hotline, when instances of non-compliance with the Enphase Energy Code
of Conduct or our Supplier Code of Conduct are observed or reported. Corrective actions
are taken by managers, the HR department, the Legal department, executive sponsors,
and/or the Audit Committee of the Board when appropriate.
“We are committed to following Eradicating forced labor and human trafficking in supply
all materials guidance and chains
environmental regulatory
compliance requirements of the We take the issues of slavery and human trafficking very seriously and will continue doing
our part by responsibly managing our supply chain to help eradicate human trafficking and
countries in which we operate.”
slavery. As stated in our Supplier Code of Conduct, our suppliers must not support, promote,
or engage in the practice of forced labor, child labor, slavery, or human trafficking. The
Supplier Code of Conduct requires our suppliers, next tier suppliers, and subcontractors
to comply with all international standards and applicable laws regarding slavery and human
trafficking and to conduct due diligence of their operations to verify compliance that the
materials used in our products comply with laws regarding human trafficking and slavery.
Also see our California Transparency in Supply Chains Disclosure.
Materials sourcing and conflict minerals
We are committed to following all materials guidance and environmental regulatory
compliance requirements of the countries in which we operate. We do not use cobalt in our
batteries as this mineral represents an increased risk of being sourced from the Democratic
Republic of the Congo (DRC) and other conflict-affected areas associated with unfair labor
practices. Our conflict minerals disclosure on responsible sourcing is updated annually and
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and posted on our website. For
additional information, please refer to our most recent conflict minerals report and conflict
minerals policy.
We expect our suppliers to source materials and operate in a responsible manner consistent
with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s Due Diligence
Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk
Areas, and are committed to ensuring that private security providers respect human rights.
We expect our suppliers to acknowledge and agree to the following terms with respect to
conflict minerals:
• that we are required to meet the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
and Consumer Protection Act
• to provide us with conflict mineral content and country of origin information on
products supplied to us
• to cooperate in our or independent third-party auditing of the supply chain and
procurement process, conflict mineral audits, and due diligence on its suppliers, and
• to collaborate with us in developing a chain of custody for conflict minerals in the
supply chain and identifying and sourcing conflict-free sources for minerals used in
our products
56
Supplier selection
The success of our products would not be possible without positive and long-lasting
relationships with suppliers and partners that share our values of high quality, design, and
sustainability. We work closely with all our contract manufacturers —from onboarding
to customer delivery —to ensure that our products are made to the highest ethical,
environmental, and socially responsible standards.
“The success of our products We provide a Supplier Quality Assurance Manual that outlines our expectations of new
would not be possible without and continuing partners. We are committed to producing high quality, reliable, and
positive and long-lasting cost-effective products that are shipped on time, provide customer value, and conform
to national and international requirements. We, along with our customers, demand and
relationships with suppliers and
expect defect-free products and services. Prior to onboarding, all potential suppliers are
partners that share our values of
rigorously screened for performance on over 100 factors related to quality, environmental
high quality, design, and
stewardship, and social responsibility such as:
sustainability.”
• Presence of a certified ISO 9001 or ISO/TS 16949 Quality Management System (QMS)
• Presence of a certified ISO 14001 Environmental Management System (EMS)
• Presence of an environmental policy, and
• Published REACH and RoHS compliance
Auditing procedures
We maintain Enphase employee presence at all contract manufacturing locations to ensure
that rigorous standards for quality and environmental and social sustainability are upheld
throughout the duration of the manufacturing partnership. All contract manufacturers
are subject to supplier audits covering environmental, social, and sustainability criteria.
For each contract manufacturer, we complete one audit, issue any corrective actions,
and document corrective actions taken during a follow-up audit. Contract manufacturing
audits are completed at least annually by our on-site teams. We plan to extend our auditing
procedures to additional strategic first tier hardware component suppliers in the future.
• 100% of CMs are certified to ISO 14001 Environmental Management System (EMS)
• 100% of CMs are certified to ISO 9001 or ISO/TS 16949 Quality Management System
(QMS)
Table 10: Supply chain auditing*
Contract
Environmental Social Health and Corrective
manufacturers
non- non- safety non- action
issued
compliance compliance compliance completion
corrective
rate (%) rate (%) rate (%) rate** (%)
actions (%)
9% 3% 0% 100% 88%
*Contract manufacturing partners only
**Remaining unresolved corrective actions to be completed in 2024
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 57
Society
We aim to support a cleaner, more reliable, and better-performing grid, and to
collaborate with a wide range of stakeholders to advance policy outcomes in
support of clean energy across the world.
5588
S1. Enphase Corporate Social
Responsibility (CSR) initiatives
United States
GRID Alternatives
We have been partnering with GRID Alternatives, a national non-profit leader, since
2012. GRID’s mission is to build community-powered solutions to advance economic and
environmental justice through renewable energy. GRID works towards this mission by
handling solar installations and providing job training in low-income communities. Through
the partnership, we donate our industry-leading microinverters, batteries, and EV chargers
for GRID projects.
42 MW Over the lifetime of our partnership, GRID has installed more than 10,300 solar energy
systems using Enphase products in in low-income communities across the United States,
solar installed which equates to more than 42 megawatts of solar power. These homes are expected to
see an estimated lifetime savings of more than $295 million, helping to prevent more than
705,200 tons of greenhouse gas emissions from entering the atmosphere. In addition,
10,300
Enphase employees have volunteered thousands of on-job working hours over the
families served past decade, which led to the installation of solar on dozens of low-income homes and
community buildings. This work has also provided job trainees and volunteers with more
than 592,000 hours of solar education and training.
$295 million
expected lifetime savings
705,200 tons
of GHG emissions avoided
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002233 5599
Matt’s Place Foundation
Enphase donated microinverters to Matt’s Place Foundation in Spokane, Washington, to
support building a living space for families contending with Lou Gehrig’s disease. This eco-
friendly state of the art interactive smart home is designed specifically for ALS patients and
their families and is meant to help those living with ALS lead more independent lives.
Vision Warriors Foundation
Enphase teamed up with the Vision Warriors Foundation to donate microinverters to power
housing for homeless veterans in the Saint Louis area. Located on a 5-acre property in
the heart of St. Louis, the Veterans Community Project (VCP) campus will consist of 50
tiny homes ranging from 240–320 square feet and a VCP Village Community Center. The
community center will serve as a “base camp,” providing case management services,
education, health and wellness programming, and social activities for veterans living in the
village.
The Footprint Project
After the Maui wildfire disaster, Enphase support allowed Footprint Project to stand up
its largest microgrid mobilization ever. In the first three months of response, Footprint
Project deployed over 200 kW of solar and 350 kWh of energy storage to provide clean,
sustainable power to 18 relief hubs across Maui.
Empowered by Light
Enphase joined Empowered by Light to launch a one-year pilot workforce development
program in Juncos, Puerto Rico in an effort to help meet the growing demand for solar
installers in the region. The program seeks to train 60 people during the first year, using GRID’s
Installation Basics Training (IBT) curriculum that consists of three weeks and 120-hours
of interactive classroom learning and hands-on solar training labs with equipment. The
program aims to connect graduating trainees to real jobs which will increase job placement
and the overall impact of the IBT program.
Empower a Billion Lives
The Empower a Billion Lives (EBL) competition, an interdisciplinary, biennial global
competition to identify and promote innovative and scalable solutions to energy poverty.
Teams are invited from across the globe and from all walks of life, including companies,
entrepreneurial startups, research organizations, and student teams from colleges and
universities.
6600
Australia
House of Hope / Foundation 61
Enphase, Australian Women in Solar Energy (AWISE), REC Solar, and Vortex Electrical
collaborated to donate a 30 kW state-of-the-art solar system to House of Hope, a new live-
in facility for women seeking drug and alcohol rehabilitation support in Geelong, Victoria.
Driven by not-for-profit Foundation 61, the solar system is projected to save around $650
monthly on running costs, or the equivalent of one full-time support worker’s salary one
day a week.
Thailand
SCG Future Energy
Enphase and SCG Future Energy collaborated to donate Enphase IQ Microinverter-
powered solar systems to two universities in Thailand. The objective of the donation is to
both educate students about leading solar power technology and offset daytime electricity
costs.
University 1
Organization: Kasetsart University
Enphase installer: SCG Future Energy Co., Ltd.
Location: Kasetsart University BKK, Thailand
Solar energy system size: 2.2 kW
Estimated annual production: 2,882 kWh
University 2
Organization: King Mongkut’s University of Technology Thonburi
Enphase installer: SCG Future Energy Co., Ltd.
Location: King Mongkut’s University of Technology Thonburi BKK, Thailand
Solar energy system size: 4.4 kW
Estimated annual production: 6,107 kWh
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002233 6611
India
Trinity Care Foundation
We continued our support of the Trinity Care Foundation with two new schools (Adarsha
Vidyalaya, Siddepalli and New Government High School, Venkatagirikote) receiving
cutting-edge computer labs to provide underprivileged students with computer literacy,
and implementing Enphase powered solar PV systems to ensure an uninterrupted power
supply, thus fostering a sustainable and eco-friendly learning environment.
India Sudar
We continued our contribution to schools across rural Karnataka by developing essential
facilities infrastructure such as installing female restrooms, computer centers, and libraries.
The project also aims to create employment opportunities in the local village areas
surrounding the schools.
Society of St. Vincent De Paul (Mandya)
We sponsored the education expenses for 35 students at the Sharon School, KG Halli,
Bangalore who hail from underprivileged families, primarily migrant laborers from the
northern parts of India.
Pratham Books
We worked with Pratham books to print and disseminate 18,800 children’s books (in
multiple regional Indian languages such as Assamese, Tamil, Telugu and Marathi) with state
governments, non-profit organizations and the school system. These books introduce
science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) subject matters to children in
underprivileged communities in India’s expansive agricultural hinterland.
Maharaja Energy and SEWA
Enphase collaborated with Maharaja Energy and SEWA to distribute 290 efficient
cookstoves to underprivileged rural households. Both organizations are dedicated to
catalyzing inclusive and sustainable development for vulnerable sections of society by
providing opportunities to improve the overall standard of living.
6622
S2. Enphase
grid services
Adding value to customers and communities with Enphase
solar and battery systems.
In 2023, we expanded our grid services programs, enabling more homeowners with
IQ Batteries to participate in utility programs and earn money. These programs, also known
as virtual power plants (VPPs), create a network of home batteries that utilities and grid
operators manage. Homeowners who enroll in a VPP send the stored energy in their home
batteries to the grid to help electric utilities avoid using power from expensive, polluting
power plants when power demand is higher. In return, homeowners can receive hundreds
to thousands of dollars toward their home battery system purchase or as annual incentive
payments.
In many grid services programs, customers can sign up, monitor, and control participation
in the program using the Enphase App or via their energy providers’ web portal or apps. The
incentives reduce the cost of the home energy system and help make home batteries more
accessible and affordable for more people. Homeowners enrolled in these programs can
still use their reserved energy for backup power when the grid is down, and Enphase Storm
Guard can prioritize a full charge for the battery when triggered.
An overview of our grid services programs can be found on our website.
Enroll Monitor Backup and opt-out
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 63
In 2023, we announced our participation in Pacific Gas and Electric’s (PG&E) Emergency
Load Reduction Program (ELRP), Public Service Enterprise Group (PSEG) Long Island’s
Battery Storage Rewards Program, and Connecticut’s Energy Storage Solutions Program.
We also signed and started many more pilot VPP programs with utilities across the United
States. We also introduced our most powerful home battery, the IQ® Battery 5P, which
offers an industry-leading energy storage solution to help homeowners, utilities, and grid
operators derive more value.
PG&E Emergency Load Reduction Program
California homeowners in PG&E territory who install Enphase IQ Batteries and enroll in
the program will earn $2 per kilowatt-hour from PG&E for using the electricity stored in
their IQ Batteries to help reduce demand on the grid during peak load periods. The ELRP
demand response events are scheduled to occur during hot summer days between May
and October and last from one to five hours between 4 p.m. and 9 p.m. Between 20 and 60
event hours will be scheduled during each ELRP season, with homeowners expecting to
earn between $100 to $250 per year.
PSEG Long Island’s Battery Storage Rewards Program
Currently, Long Island homeowners who install Enphase IQ Batteries and enroll in PSEG Long
Island’s Battery Storage Rewards program will receive an upfront incentive from installers
of Enphase products of at least $250 per kilowatt-hour of useable battery capacity with a
cap of $6,250 per household. For example, homeowners with two IQ Battery 5Ps offering
10 kilowatt-hours of usable capacity will receive an upfront discount of $2,500 from their
Enphase installer as part of the program. Low-to-moderate income homeowners may
be eligible for a larger $400 per kilowatt-hour discount or $4,000 for installing two IQ
Battery 5Ps with 10 kilowatt-hours of usable capacity. In return for the upfront incentive,
participating homeowners agree to let PSEG Long Island use the electricity stored in their
batteries to help reduce demand on the grid during peak load periods about 10 times per
year. The power-sharing would occur automatically, and participants would keep the
functionality of their IQ Batteries, including backup power.
64
Connecticut Energy Storage Solutions Program
Connecticut homeowners who install Enphase IQ Batteries and are electric customers
of United Illuminating or Eversource Energy are eligible to enroll in the Energy Storage
Solutions program. Enrolled homeowners currently receive an upfront incentive from the
Connecticut Green Bank of at least $250 per kilowatt-hour of useable battery capacity
with a cap of $16,000 per project, or 50 percent of the battery plus installation cost
(whichever is lowest). For example, homeowners with two IQ Battery 5Ps offering 10
kilowatt-hours of usable capacity will receive an upfront incentive of at least $2,500
from the program. Underserved communities, lower-income households, and “grid edge”
customers (homeowners in areas with more frequent or longer grid outages) may qualify
for an even more significant incentive of $450 - $900 per kilowatt-hour of usable battery
capacity. In addition, the upfront incentive can be coupled with seasonal performance
incentives from United Illuminating or Eversource of up to $200 per kilowatt each summer
and $25 per kilowatt each winter for sharing the electricity stored in the homeowner’s IQ
Batteries to help reduce demand on the grid during peak load periods.
Our portfolio of grid services programs currently spans nine states, including Arizona,
California, Connecticut, Hawaii, Massachusetts, New York, Rhode Island, Texas, and Vermont.
As we continue to scale these programs, including expanding programs internationally
in the coming years, we expect to provide access to cleaner, more affordable, and more
reliable energy for everyone.
Learn more about these programs on the Enphase website.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 65
S3. Enphase innovation and
industry leadership
Supporting a more clean, reliable, and better-performing
grid through codes and standards.
To support our commitment to drive the adoption of sustainable clean energy solutions, we
participate in the development of policies and regulations around the world as part of our
core principles.
Underwriters Laboratory (UL) and the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)
“We participate in the In 2023, Enphase continued its leadership and collaboration with UL and IEEE, including
development of policies and acting as task group leader and co-convener for several specific standards and actively
regulations around the world as participating in the standards development process for a variety of safety and compliance
issues.
part of our core principles.”
Underwriters Laboratory elevated Power Control Systems (PCS) from a Certification
Requirements Decision under UL 1741 to an Outline of Investigation (OOI) under UL 3141
in 2023. This change reflected UL’s belief that PCS is a critical function which warranted
being a full UL standard. Enphase lead the PCS task group which published the First Edition
of UL 3141 and will continue work on future editions leading to publication as a bi-national
standard in the U.S. and Canada. In addition to leadership on the PCS task group, Enphase
also participated in UL Standards Technical Panels UL 1741, UL 3141, UL 3741, UL2703, UL
6703, UL 9540, UL 9540A, and UL 1699B during 2023.
Enphase continued its support of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers in
2023, serving on the management team developing the next revision of the IEEE P1547
and P1547.1 standards as well as participating in multiple sub-groups supporting this
effort. Enphase also served as co-facilitator of Task Force 2, charged with developing
recommended changes in multiple sub-groups to accommodate Vehicle to Grid applications
in 1547. Enphase co-facilitated the 1547.1a amendment, which corrects or provides clarity
on over 100 issues discovered following original publication of 1547.1 in 2020.
Interstate Renewable Energy Council (IREC) and
Sustainable Energy Action Committee (SEAC)
Led by IREC, the SEAC provides a forum for stakeholders to address code enforcement and
permitting for sustainable energy systems. Enphase is a founding member and an active
participant in SEAC’s work to advance clean energy permitting and inspection initiatives.
The SEAC addresses industry confusion about how to interpret particular codes, which
can slow down the deployment of solar and battery systems and create more work for local
officials and project developers.
66
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002233 6677
US Department of Energy I2X program
In 2023, Enphase submitted a proposal to the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) to study
the impact of PCS on utility service transformers. The project was selected for funding
and assigned to Pacific Northwest National Labs (PNNL) which will conduct the research.
Enphase worked with several utilities to define the goals and objectives of the project and
is supplying PNNL with high resolution performance data for actual systems operating in
the field.
International Code Council
We work alongside other clean energy stakeholders, in collaboration with the International
Code Council (ICC) to develop changes to the International Fire Code (IFC) and the
International Residential Code (IRC) to develop practical solutions. The group actively
participates in the code-making process to recommend solutions for future versions of the
Code. The IFC has gained increased importance, especially in California, as energy storage
systems are beginning to be installed at scale.
International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC)
The IEC is a global, not-for-profit membership organization, whose work underpins quality
infrastructure and international trade in electrical and electronic goods. We work with the
IEC to support the writing of international codes and standards. Specifically, our team
is actively engaged as members of the IEC Technical Committee 82, which is scoped
to look at solar PV energy systems. Within this committee, we are actively involved with
Working Groups 3 (balance of system components) and 6 (inverter safety). We have also
participated in working groups to develop the following IEC standards:
• IEC 63027 (DC arc fault)
• IEC 62109-1 (Inverter safety)
• IEC 62109-3 (AC module safety)
• IEC 62548 (PV array design requirements)
68
S4. Promoting clean
energy policies
In 2023, Enphase was involved in several policy and regulatory initiatives that are expected
to enable the broad adoption of DERs including residential solar, energy storage, and EV
charging.
“The Inflation Reduction Act In the United States, we continued our leadership role with SEIA as members of the Board
(IRA) was signed into law in of Directors, as well as leadership positions in various committees and subcommittees. We
2022 and enabled Enphase continued our role as members of the California Solar & Storage Association (CALSSA),
which represents the largest state-affiliated solar and battery industry association in the
to begin manufacturing in the
United States. We are also members of Advanced Energy United, which represents the full
United States, bring back high-
range of advanced energy technologies and services in the United States.
technology jobs and help
advance the country’s clean In Europe, we are members of Solar Power Europe, the leading trade association for solar
energy economy.” technology on the continent.
Here are some highlights from 2023:
United States manufacturing
The IRA was signed into law in 2022 and enabled Enphase to begin manufacturing in the
United States, bring back high-technology jobs and help advance the country’s clean
energy economy. We began microinverter shipments in 2023 from our new contract
manufacturing locations in the United States, including Flex in South Carolina and Salcomp
in Texas.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 69
DER interconnection policy
Enphase worked with decisionmakers in both the United States and Europe to accelerate
the adoption of new interconnection processes to enable higher penetration levels of DERs
while mitigating against costly grid upgrades by grid operators.
Enphase was also instrumental in developing the regulatory standards necessary to unlock
PCS software for home solar and battery systems. PCS is an advanced software-enabled
feature that enables a more streamlined interconnection process for DERs, reduces the
need for main panel upgrades, and supports increased battery capacity for homeowners.
Enphase undertook these initiatives in 2023 and continues to advance them in order to
help ensure that DERs can safely connect to the grid, provide grid resilience benefits to
customers, and grid services benefits to grid operators.
“Enphase was responsible Virtual power plant (VPP) policy
for advancing policies and
Enphase was responsible for advancing policies and regulations in support of DER-enabled
regulations in support of DER- VPPs that provide reliability services to the electric grid in many markets. This includes
enabled VPPs that provide the development of VPP programs that enable residential customers to modify their DER
reliability services to the electric systems (i.e., decrease energy consumption and/or increase energy exports) to receive
maximum compensation from grid operators. In addition, Enphase worked to advance
grid in many markets.”
the development of incentive programs for customers to acquire DER systems that grid
operators, in turn, may utilize to maintain grid reliability.
Domestic manufacturing policy
Enphase worked with decisionmakers to advance incentivization programs in the United
States and Europe to support the development of a domestic manufacturing industry for
DER systems, as well as new tax and tariff initiatives that serve to increase customer demand
for domestically manufactured products and improve safety and security standards for
DER customers.
70
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002233 7711
Corporate
governance
Our corporate governance framework is rooted in risk
management and compliance, which serves as a foundation
for sustainability and ESG efforts at Enphase.
7722
G1. ESG governance
and leadership
Board oversight of ESG
“Our governance framework is Our Board of Directors is presided over by an Independent Chair of the Board. We believe
rooted in risk management and that having an Independent Chair, separate from our CEO, creates an environment that
is more conducive to objective evaluation and oversight of management’s performance.
compliance, which serves as
We further believe this increases management’s accountability and improves the Board’s
a foundation for sustainability
ability to monitor whether management’s actions are in the best interests of our company
and ESG efforts at Enphase.”
and our shareholders.
Our governance framework is rooted in risk management and compliance, which serves as
a foundation for sustainability and ESG efforts at Enphase. We appreciate the importance
of ESG risks and opportunities, and the Board and its committees are responsible for
overseeing our overall ESG strategy.
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee oversees ESG matters including
strategy, initiatives, policies, and outreach to investors and other interested stakeholders.
Our cross-functional ESG executive leadership team provides regular updates on emerging
ESG trends, reporting and regulations, and assessment of strategic objectives over the
short-, medium-, and long-term on climate and emissions, diversity initiatives, human
rights, and other material ESG topics.
The Audit Committee has the responsibility to consider and discuss our major financial and
accounting risk exposures and the steps our management has taken to monitor and control
these exposures, including the potential financial impact of physical climate risks. The Audit
Committee also monitors compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, including
emerging ESG and sustainability disclosure requirements, as well as the performance of
our internal audit function.
The Compensation Committee oversees matters related to human capital management,
leadership development, and talent assessments. The Committee is also responsible for
executive compensation and pay metrics.
Additional information about the role of the Board and its various committees is available in
our Corporate Governance Guidelines and our most recently filed Proxy Statement.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 73
Board diversity and independence
We are committed to ensuring that our Board is effective and serving the long-term interests
of our shareholders. We believe that our Board should represent diversity of thought,
background, skill, experience, and expertise. We recognize that enhancing demographic
diversity on the Board, through the representation of women and underrepresented
groups, encourages a thoughtful decision-making process that is important to effective
corporate governance. Consistent with our philosophy, we have codified a version of the
Rooney Rule in our Corporate Governance Guidelines, which states that, “the Nominating
and Corporate Governance Committee will ensure each pool of qualified candidates for
additional or vacant Board positions from which Board nominees are chosen includes
candidates who bring racial and/or gender diversity.”
The composition of our seven-person Board reflects a variety of backgrounds, experiences,
and tenures, and we continue to seek opportunities to enhance the diversity and
effectiveness of our Board.
Board composition
Tenure Diversity
0-5 years 2 2 11+ years
8.4 43% 3 Diverse
years
Average tenure Others 4 Diverse
3
6-10 years
Independence Age
Non-Independent 2 > 60 years 2 2 < 50 years
71% 57
years
Independent Average age
5
Indepedent
3
50-60 years
74
ESG management structure
Our cross-functional ESG executive team, led by our General Counsel, and the supporting
working groups manage and operationalize the ESG program across the company. The ESG
team is comprised of representatives from executive management and meets regularly
to review ESG risks and opportunities, develop ESG goals and targets, and allocate the
necessary resources to achieve companywide ESG objectives. The supporting ESG
working groups include senior leaders and key internal stakeholders representing legal,
investor relations, global policy and government affairs, facilities, procurement, supply
chain, quality, manufacturing, customer service, human resources, compliance, and risk
management. Progress toward ESG goals and targets is incentivized through our annual
and quarterly bonus program.
Enphase Energy Board
of Directors
Nominating &
Audit
Corporate Governance
Committee
Committee
ESG Executive
Leadership
Team
ESG
Working Group
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 75
ESG pay link
We are in the business of providing climate change solutions to the world. Given our purpose,
remuneration to executives, senior leadership, managers, and individual contributors helps
drive performance under the environmental ESG pillar, including quarterly bonus payouts
that are a function of company profitability, our company performance against targets, and
individual performance. Beyond climate-related goals, employees can also be rewarded in
a similar manner through the quarterly bonus system for advancing progress among other
various ESG initiatives under the social and governance pillars.
Stakeholder engagement
Our ESG program is rooted in addressing issues most important to both our company
and stakeholders. This allows us to identify and prioritize sustainability risks and
opportunities and proactively respond to stakeholder concerns. Our approach considers
the expressed concerns among stockholders, financial analysts, company leadership,
employees, customers and suppliers against the evolving regulatory landscape, disclosure
requirements, and emerging ESG trends. We use our findings to help identify strategic
priorities and define goals and targets of our ESG program.
76
G2. Business ethics
and compliance
Enphase Code of Conduct
We hold ourselves to operating under the highest ethical standards and believe that
all people should be treated with dignity and respect. The Enphase Code of Conduct
applies to all officers, directors and employees, contractors, and consultants. It sets forth
guidelines to ensure proper and ethical behavior, legal compliance, and adherence to our
standards, policies, and procedures. We are committed to complying with all applicable
laws and regulations everywhere we operate.
“We hold ourselves to operating Supplier Code of Conduct
under the highest ethical
We choose business partners who share our mission and intend to work only with those
standards and believe that all
suppliers who agree that our shared success is based on acting ethically and lawfully. We
people should be treated with
expect our business partners to adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct, which includes
dignity and respect.” (a) conducting business with high ethical standards; (b) complying with applicable laws;
(c) supporting the human rights of workers and treating their employees with dignity; (d)
adhering to anti-slavery and human trafficking principles; and (e) maintaining safe and
healthy working conditions.
Compliance training
To meet legal requirements and regulations, such as anti-discrimination laws, health and
safety regulations, and data privacy laws, we offer a set of compliance trainings, with
an objective to provide required information and awareness to all employees, including
managers, on anti-corruption, bribery, human trafficking and slavery, safety, code of
conduct, workplace harassment prevention, ISO training and more. We achieved 100%
completion of our required compliance courses and had no confirmed cases of breaches
to our Code of Conduct in 2023.
Clawback policy
Effective October 2, 2023, the Compensation Committee approved a new Executive
Compensation Clawback Policy (the “Required Clawback Policy”), which is designed
to comply with, and will be interpreted in a manner consistent with, Section 10D of the
Exchange Act and the applicable Nasdaq rules. In addition, we also maintain clawback
provisions that apply to employees, including our named executive officers, that receive
equity awards under our 2023 Performance Share Program that allows the Board to
recover any incentive-based compensation that was paid based on erroneous financial
information reported under securities laws (“PSP Clawback Provisions”). For additional
information regarding the Required Clawback Policy and the PSP Clawback Provisions,
please refer to our 2024 Proxy Statement.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 77
Whistleblower policy
We take matters of ethics and integrity seriously at all levels of our organization and
provide an anonymous platform available to report violations of the Code of Conduct. We
proactively communicate the existence of the whistleblower hotline and empower each
employee to report any witnessed or suspected wrongdoing. The whistleblower hotline is
also available in most local languages where we operate. Under our whistleblower protection
and non-retaliation provisions, any employee, supplier, or other party is encouraged to
anonymously or non-anonymously report concerns and violations of our policies. Our
hotline is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and structures are in place to ensure
all reports are investigated promptly with the highest degree of confidentiality. Retribution
or retaliation against whistleblowers is strictly prohibited. Employees are also encouraged
to report any suspicious or unethical activity directly to their manager, human resources,
the legal department, or our Compliance Officer. For additional information, please refer to
our Code of Conduct.
78
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002233 7799
G3. Data privacy, cybersecurity,
intellectual property
Data privacy and cybersecurity
We continue to carry out our belief that every global citizen is entitled to strong privacy
protection. This belief is carried out in our data privacy and cybersecurity programs.
Our data privacy program is a single framework governing all processing of personal
information, derived from the world’s strictest standards, including the EU’s General Data
Protection Regulation (GDPR), California’s Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) and California
Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), and the most stringent of requirements from various other state
and federal privacy laws. Every processing activity follows this uniform framework, which
ensures that we treat our employees, customers, partners, and general consumers in the
proper way. As a few notable examples:
“We train our workforce about • We never sell or provide personal information
our privacy policy and other • We give individuals notice and choice – notice of how we process their personal
data processing activities, information, including who we share it with, and a choice of such processing where
possible. This includes built-in consent in many instances where it is not legally required
and frequently refer to it in
• We comply with data subject requests regardless of where the data subject is located,
developing and maintaining our
including requests to access, delete, know, rectify, and not sell or share
products and services.”
• Our privacy team routinely engages with consumers on data issues, even where there
is no legally recognized privacy request
• We demand best-in-class privacy clauses with our service providers/processors
Our public privacy policy reflects our privacy practices globally, including every data
processing activity in each of our various businesses. Going beyond simply legal
compliance, our privacy policy was created and continues to evolve based on what is
“right” rather than merely what is “required.” Our policy is routinely reviewed and updated
in accordance with leading data privacy laws, internal policies, and to reflect improvements
in internal practices consistent with the principles above. We train our workforce about our
privacy policy and other data processing activities, and frequently refer to it in developing
and maintaining our products and services.
All partner engagements involving personal information are done with guidance from our
privacy team, which seeks to ensure that our partners abide by our privacy expectations
above. With our service providers/processors, this includes privacy clauses that including
definition of parties’ respective processing roles, restrictions on use and further transfer
of personal information, definition of data retention periods, and other forms of data
minimization.
We also deeply integrate our privacy and cybersecurity efforts, with the understanding
that the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of personal information inherently impacts
our delivery on privacy principles. In 2023, we obtained SOC2 Type 2 certification for
80
several of our core businesses and architectures. We continue to work with various third-
party cybersecurity experts and certification bodies to demonstrate our commitment to
cybersecurity.
We also significantly matured our cybersecurity operations, including improvements
in Board level oversight, risk identification and management, coordinated vulnerability
reporting, Security Incident Response Team policy and procedures, and management and
evaluation of escalated incidents and outward reporting obligations. Our cybersecurity
program continues to mature through improved documentation, tools and resources,
tabletop exercises, cross-functional involvement, and other improvements.
Intellectual property
We are strongly committed to advancing the state of the art, including developing and
protecting our technologies through various forms of intellectual property. Patents and
trade secrets are among our most valuable assets as they protect our investment in R&D. We
place particular emphasis on protecting our digital innovation, including software, through
a specifically focused High-Value Trade Secret program. Our ASIC designs are similarly
protected through customized High-Value Trade Secret Protection Plans. Our patent
portfolio continues to be a best-in-class representation of our dedication to innovation.
At the end of 2023, we had more than 400 issued patents and more than 250 pending
applications, covering microinverters, batteries, EV supply equipment, grid and microgrid
interaction, our supporting hardware and software suite, and various components and
technologies within these major categories. We expect this protection to continue to grow
in the years ahead, owing both to our increased innovation and our focus on enhancing our
intellectual property position.
Chart 4: Patents and pending applications
700
264
600
186
500
127
400
86
401
300 368
333
317
200
100
0
Q4 20 Q4 21 Q4 22 Q4 23
Patents
Pending applications
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 81
As a leading international brand, we also protect our trademarks and have a portfolio of
more than 100 unique trademarks, both registered and unregistered. This includes pending
marks in more than 40 countries. Our domain protection reflects similar intensity as we
continue to expand internationally. We emphasize protection of our copyrights as well,
where we restrict any use of Enphase copyrighted content without an express license
granted by our intellectual property team.
Falling between the discrete forms of intellectual property, we protect all our confidential
information with confidentiality agreements, both with employees and external parties.
All our R&D personnel have additionally entered into invention assignment agreements
with the company, requiring employees to assign to us all the inventions, designs, and
technologies they develop during their employment with us.
While we expect others to respect our intellectual property, we similarly respect the rights
of others, routinely evaluating relevant portfolios for freedom-to-operate, rigidly enforcing
internal open-source consumption policies, observing Digital Millennium Copyright Act
(DMCA) copyright takedown procedures, and ensuring that we are honoring others’
intellectual property rights.
82
Appendix
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002233 8833
Emissions and energy
calculation methodologies
Avoided metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (MTCOe) figures were derived from
2
actual kilowatt-hour (kWh) production of our deployed microinverter fleet from Enphase’s
inception through December 31, 2023 as recorded in our Enlighten™ monitoring database,
including a gross up factor of 1.2 to account for deployed systems which are not monitored
in the Enlighten database. The conversion of kWh production to carbon dioxide equivalent
figures was made using the U.S. EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies calculator.
The 2023 GHG emissions inventory follows the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard, covering
Scope 1, Scope 2, and certain Scope 3 categories. All emissions were calculated using
an operational control and location-based method for electricity and heat consumption
across all leased facilities globally. We forgo market products to reduce emissions, so the
reported location-based figures are equivalent to market-based emissions figures. Note
that heat consumption was only gathered for facilities located in North America. Electricity
consumption for European office locations was estimated by square foot using data
from the U.S. Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS), representing
two percent of energy consumption reported. Electricity and heat consumption were
converted to MTCOe using emission factor data provided in the Emissions Factors for
2
Greenhouse Gas Inventories provided by the U.S. EPA (eGRID2021) for U.S. locations
and the Emissions Factors 2021 data set from the International Energy Agency (IEA) for
international locations. Emissions calculations cover those attributable to carbon dioxide
(CO), nitrous oxide (NO), and methane (CH ) resulting from electricity generation, heat
2 2 4
generation, and transmission and distribution losses. Emissions are converted to COe by
2
multiplying by their global warming potential (GWP), referencing default factors provided
by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs),
perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulphur hexafluoride (SF), and nitrogen trifluoride (NF ) gases
3
are excluded from our inventory, as facilities under our operational control do not produce
significant amounts of these GHGs.
The data supporting Scope 3 disclosures was provided by our third-party travel agency,
contract manufacturers, and internal logistics team, covering purchased goods and
services (category 1), upstream transportation and distribution (category 4), business
commuting (category 6), and downstream transportation and distribution (category 9).
Emissions attributable to contract manufacturing were made using supplier-specific data,
covering Scope 1 and Scope 2 of manufacturing activity at eight manufacturing sites,
representing substantially all of total contract manufacturing spend in 2023. The emissions
disclosed represent only that fraction of activity attributable to the manufacture of Enphase
products.
84
Emissions from upstream and downstream transportation were calculated using the
distance-based method outlined in the GHG Protocol, covering freight of consigned raw
materials into contract manufacturers (CMs) and distribution centers (DCs) and freight
of finished goods from CMs to DCs or customers. Vehicles considered include aircraft,
medium- and heavy-duty trucks, and waterborne craft. MTCOe estimates were calculated
2
from emissions factors made available by each specific upstream or downstream carrier.
Renewable energy mix was calculated by referencing information made available by local
utility grid operators for all leased facilities globally. Electricity consumption in kWh, as
billed or estimated by square footage, was multiplied by the non-fossil fuel percentage
of the specific utility grid mix and divided by the total kWh consumed. This figure also
accounts for the impact of any PV systems or bi-directional EV chargers installed across
leased facilities.
Table 11: Energy and emissions data disaggregated at facility level
Electrical Energy
Direct Indirect Electrical Electrical
Total power and conservation
GHG GHG power power from
electrical energy project,
Location emissions emissions from grid grid (non-
power use generated completed
(Scope 1) (Scope 2) (renewable) renewable)
(kWh) (renewable) and pending
(MTCOe) (MTCOe) (kWh) (kWh)
2 2 (kWh) (kWh)
U.S. facility #1 0 247.0 866,417 823,096 43,321 - 110,019
U.S. facility #2 0 2596.7 7,043,764 6,691,576 352,188 - -
U.S. facility #3 0 431.9 581,571 541,919 28,522 11,130 14,827
U.S. facility #4 0 316.4 272,166 246,052 12,950 13,164 -
U.S. facility #5 0 393.8 753,093 715,438 37,655 - -
U.S. facility #6 0 73.9 115,172 109,414 5,759 - -
U.S. facility #7 0 342.1 505,608 242,700 242,700 20,208 -
U.S. facility #8 0 4.1 11,132 10,575 557 - 4,892
U.S. facility #9 0 81.4 232,000 109,504 122,496 - 27,600
International facility #1 0 0.3 40,584 40,584 - - -
International facility #2 0 24.7 2,982,320 2,982,320 - 4,058 139,980
International facility #3 0 3.3 397,143 397,143 - - 840,030
International facility #4 0 28.0 76,119 - - - -
International facility #5 0 28.3 77,017 - - - -
International facility #6 0 5.5 91,637 - - - -
nternational facility #7 0 37.0 95,159 - - - -
International facility #8 0 8.3 139,074 - - - -
International facility #9 0 10841.1 6,167,100 549,752 5,237,114 380,234 -
International facility #10 0 93.2 60,901 - - - 13,000
Total 0 15,557.0 20,507,976 13,460,073 6,083,262 428,794 1,150,348
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 85
GRI index
GRI Standard Disclosure Location
GRI 2: General
2-1 Organizational details See 10-K at https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
disclosures
2-3 Reporting period, frequency, and contact point FY 2023, annually
See About Us and Environment sections; See 10-K (Business Section) at
2-6 Activities, value chain, and other business relationships
https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
2-7 Employees See People Section
See Corporate governance Section; See Proxy Statement at
2-9 Governance structure and composition
https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
See Corporate governance Section (ESG governance and leadership); See
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body
Proxy Statement at https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
See Corporate governance Section (ESG Governance and leadership); See
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body
Proxy Statement at https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the See Corporate governance Section (ESG Governance and leadership); See
management of impacts Proxy Statement at https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
See Corporate governance Section (ESG Governance and leadership); See
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts
Proxy Statement at https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting See Corporate governance Section (ESG Governance and leadership)
2-15 Conflicts of interest See Proxy Statement at https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body See Board of Directors information on Enphase company website
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body See Proxy Statement at https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
2-19 Remuneration policies See Proxy Statement at https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
2-20 Process to determine remuneration See Proxy Statement at https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy See CEO Letter
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts See Enphase Code of Conduct
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns See Corporate governance Section (Business ethics and compliance)
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations See Enphase Code of Conduct
2-28 Membership associations See p. 93 of this report
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement See p. 76 of this report
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements See 10-K (Business Section) at https://investor.enphase.com/sec-filings
GRI 3: Material topics 3-1 Process to determine material topics See 2022 ESG Report
GRI 201: Economic See Financial Sustainability Section and GAAP to non-GAAP Reconciliation,
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed
performance pp. 98-99
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to
See TCFD Response, p. 89
climate change
GRI 203: Indirect
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported See About us, Envrionment, and Society sections
economic impacts
See Environment and Emissions and energy calculation methodologies
GRI 302 Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization
sections
See Environment and Emissions and energy calculation methodologies
302-3 Energy intensity
sections
See Environment and Emissions and energy calculation methodologies
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption
sections
GRI 305 Emissions See Environment and Emissions and energy calculation methodologies
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions
2016 sections
See Environment and Emissions and energy calculation methodologies
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions
sections
86
GRI Standard Disclosure Location
See Environment and Emissions and energy calculation methodologies
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions
sections
See Environment and Emissions and energy calculation methodologies
305-4 GHG emissions intensity
sections
See Environment and Emissions and energy calculation methodologies
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
sections
GRI 306 Waste 2020 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts pp. 30-32
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts pp. 30-32
GRI 308 Supplier
Environmental 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria p. 57
Assessment 2016
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions
pp. 30-31, 54-57
taken
GRI 401 Employment 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided
p. 45
2016 to temporary or part-time employees
GRI 403 Occupational
Health and Safety 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system p. 52
2018
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation p. 52
403-3 Occupational health services p. 52
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on
p. 52
occupational health and safety
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety p. 52
403-6 Promotion of worker health p. 52
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety
p. 52
impacts directly linked by business relationships
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety
p. 52
management system
403-9 Work-related injuries p. 52
403-10 Work-related ill health p. 52
GRI 404 Training and
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 17.3
Education 2016
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition
pp. 50-51
assistance programs
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and
100%
career development reviews
GRI 405 Diversity and
Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees p. 47, 74
2016
GRI 408 Child Labor
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor pp. 54-57
2016
GRI 409 Forced or
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of
Compulsory Labor pp. 54-57
forced or compulsory labor
2016
GRI 414 Supplier
Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria pp. 54-57
2016
GRI Customer Health 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and
p. 30-31
and Safety 2016 service categories
GRI Marketing and 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service
Zero
Labeling 2016 information and labeling
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing
Zero
communications
GRI 418 Customer 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer
Zero
Privacy 2016 privacy and losses of customer data
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 87
SASB index
Topic Accounting Metrics Code Response
Hazardous Waste Management Amount of hazardous waste generated , percentage recycled RR-ST-150a.1 1.03 MT, 100%, see p. 32
Number and aggregate quantity of reportable spills, quantity recovered RR-ST-150a.2 0, n/a
Management of Energy Infrastructure Description of risks associated with integration of solar energy into existing energy RR-ST-410a.1 pp. 63-70
Integration & Related Regulations infrastructure and discussion of efforts to manage those risks
Description of risks and opportunities associated with energy policy and its impact RR-ST-410a.2 pp. 63-70
on the integration of solar energy into existing energy infrastructure
Product End-of-life Management Percentage of products by revenue that contain IEC 62474 declarable substances, RR-ST-410b.3 Estimated less than 0.1%
arsenic compounds, antimony compounds, or beryllium compounds
Product End-of-life Management Description of approach and strategies to design products for high-value recycling RR-ST-410b.4 pp. 30, 32
Materials Sourcing Description of the management of risks associated with the use of critical materials RR-ST-440a.1 pp. 54-57
Total Project Development Assets Reporting currency RR-ST-000.C Financial sustainability
section and GAAP to Non-
GAAP Reconciliation,
pp. 98-99
Energy Management in Manufacturing (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity, RR-ST-130a.1 See Environment section
(3) percentage renewable
Water Management in Manufacturing (2) Total water consumed* RR-ST-140a.1 5,223 m3
*Water consumption information collected for certain operations in North America only. Water consumption was
drawn from municipal supplies.
88
TCFD response
The following responses to the Taskforce for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
recommendations are not meant to be an exhaustive review of climate-related issues
impacting the business. Rather, the following should be treated as a supplement to our
2023 Form 10-K filing.
Governance
The Board of Directors has primary oversight of climate risks and opportunities, with the
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee overseeing the environmental, social,
and corporate governance (ESG) program specifically. The Board receives updates on
sustainability and ESG matters from the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
at least annually, covering strategy, policies, initiatives, progress against goals and targets,
and communications with employees, investors, and other company stakeholders. The
Audit Committee reviews climate risk alongside other major financial risk exposures, and
steps taken by management to monitor and control these risks. The Committee also reviews
climate disclosures as required by the jurisdictions in which we operate. Please see the
“Leadership and governance” section of the Enphase website for additional information.
The ESG steering committee, led by our General Counsel and comprised of executive
leadership, meets quarterly to prioritize strategic objectives and review status of various
climate-related initiatives, drawing on the results of our ESG materiality assessment and
other inputs as appropriate. Functions represented include legal, investor relations, global
policy and government affairs, facilities, EHS, procurement, supply chain, manufacturing,
customer service, human resources, compliance, and risk management. Updates are
provided to the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and to the Board.
ESG working groups, comprised of department heads, extended leadership, and individual
contributors, manage progress toward climate-related goals and targets as defined by the
steering committee. Supporting activities across global operations are tracked and rolled
up into corporate dashboards, which are reviewed by the director of ESG and shared with
the ESG steering committee on a quarterly basis.
Strategy
Our purpose is advancing a sustainable future for all. Our strategy is to build best-in-class
home energy systems and deliver them to customers through our installer and distributor
partners, enabled by a comprehensive installer platform. Successful execution reduces
GHG emissions, slows the pace of global warming, and accelerates the transition to a clean,
accessible, and resilient energy system.
Thus, the impact of climate issues on our financial condition is positive, so long as climate risk
is managed appropriately over the long-term as discussed below. Key aspects of our low-
carbon transition plan include continued execution of our strategy in service of our purpose,
transitioning operations to renewable energy, and building resilience into the value chain
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 89
through enhanced cooperation with suppliers, contract manufacturers, and customers.
Our strategy is a function of the economic, technological, legal, market, regulatory, social,
and environmental context in which we operate. Per the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC), significant GHG emissions reductions are needed in this decade to limit
warming to below 2°C from pre-industrial levels, allowing for net-zero emissions by 2050,
and avoiding the most catastrophic consequences of global warming. Thus, we are focused
on driving impact as quickly and responsibly as possible while also preparing for an uncertain
future which may follow a variety of warming trajectories informed by climate science. All
climate-related scenarios which require reductions in GHG emissions are favorable to
Enphase.
A trajectory resulting in 2°C or lower warming from pre-industrial levels will require largescale,
rapid, and equitable deployment of clean energy technologies, including those engineered
by Enphase. In this case, the economic, technological, legal, market, regulatory, social,
and environmental context would create increased demand for our products and drive
rapid growth. However, these scenarios (e.g., Shared Socioeconomic Pathway 1) require
rapid decarbonization across all sectors globally, implying the need to decouple resource
extraction and consumption from economic growth. Thus, significant investment and
financing for accelerated R&D, expanded operations, and enhanced coordination with value
chain partners would be needed. Ultimately, with the proper global investment, planning,
and coordination, a 2°C or lower scenario would allow us to rapidly deploy our products in
the near-term and scale at the commensurate rate to achieve the desired outcome over the
long-term.
Characteristics of short-, medium-, and long-term time horizons for climate issues at Enphase
are defined as follows:
• Short-term (0-3 years) – rapid business growth; low-carbon transition planning and
implementation; qualitative climate risk disclosures; improved emissions tracking and
reporting; and setting and executing on near-term GHG reduction target.
• Medium-term (3-7 years) – manage continued business growth; quantitative climate
scenario analysis and strategic integration; setting and executing long-term GHG
reduction targets.
• Long-term (7-25 years) – manage continued business growth; quantitative climate
scenario analysis integrated with strategic and financial planning; maintain operational
alignment with global climate goals.
Short-term risks (0-3 years)
• Extreme weather events such as floods, cyclones, hurricanes, wildfires, and heatwaves
could result in delays in product shipments, which could adversely affect our revenue,
competitive position, and reputation.
• Delaying operational decarbonization could limit access to third-party capital and
affect operating costs or reputation.
• Not evaluating potential climate risk impacts to key suppliers, contract manufacturers,
and logistics partners may adversely affect our ability to execute our strategy over the
long-term.
90
Short-term opportunities (0-3 years)
• Improve climate risk analysis and integrate results into strategic planning.
• Implement low-carbon transition plan for facilities and key suppliers.
Medium-term risks (3-7 years)
• Extreme weather events may increase in severity and frequency and disrupt operations,
which could adversely affect our revenue, competitive position, and reputation.
• Chronic climate change impacts such as rising mean temperatures, rising sea levels,
droughts, new diseases, population migration, and water stress may have the potential
to disrupt our business operations in certain geographies.
• Increased insurance premiums for operations in geographies vulnerable to climate risk
may adversely affect cost or force investment in climate mitigation projects to ensure
business continuity.
• Inability to reduce quantity of virgin material inputs or integrate circular principles into
product design, manufacturing, and business processes could adversely affect cost,
reputation, competitiveness, and social license to operate in certain geographies.
Medium-term opportunities (3-7 years)
• Leverage climate scenario planning to inform strategic decision making, such as
determining significant locations of operation.
• Enhance resilience through product lifecycle and business process innovations.
Long-term risks (7-25 years)
• Extreme weather events may further increase in severity and frequency, having the
potential to disrupt our business.
• Chronic climate change impacts may become more pronounced, having the potential
to negatively impact our business operations in certain geographies.
Long-term opportunities (7-25 years)
• Continued integration of climate-risk scenario analyses into strategic planning across
all aspects of the business.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 91
Risk Management
A detailed discussion of risks to the business can be found in our 2023 Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2023. Currently, climate risks are reviewed as part of the ESG
materiality assessment process. The Director of ESG collaborates with key internal and
external stakeholders to identify and rank climate risk and other enviro-social factors.
Results are reviewed with the ESG steering committee to define strategic priorities and
goals, which are then managed by a supporting network of extended leadership and
collaborators, both within and outside the organization.
In 2023, we completed our first water risk assessment using the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas
tool provided by the World Resources Institute (WRI). Our assessment included all Enphase
office locations and six contract manufacturing locations, representing substantially all
contract manufacturing activity in 2023. Locations were assessed for both baseline water
stress and water quantity, quality, and access (as defined in the Aqueduct Peak RepRisk
Country ESG Risk Index). We defined risk as those locations which scored either “High” or
“Extremely High” in the Aqueduct risk scale. Moving forward, we plan to further develop
quantitative, forward-looking scenario-based climate risk assessments over short-,
medium-, and long-term time horizons as recommended by the TCFD and integrate results
into risk management and strategic planning processes.
Table 12: Physical climate risk, baseline water assessment
Proportion in
Proportion in
Proportion in areas of high
areas of high
Location high water stress water accessibility,
coastal flood
areas (%) quality, availability
risk (%)
risk (%)
Corporate offices 25% 13% 25%
Contract manufacturers 67% 17% 67%
Metrics and Targets
Financial metrics found in our quarterly filings and annual reports reflect how well we are
performing with respect to climate opportunities. Please see page 7, Enphase in numbers,
of this report for additional climate opportunity indicators. Relevant climate risk metrics
can be found in the Emissions and energy section of this report.
Performance against climate metrics and targets is connected to remuneration at all levels
of the organization, as all revenue generated by us ultimately results in emissions reductions
through renewable energy deployments and improved efficiency in energy management.
All employees have the option to explicitly link individual goals to climate metrics. CEO
compensation for 2023 is explicitly tied to increasing on-site generation capacity across
leased facilities and preventing emissions resulting from product deployments. The results
of CEO performance directly modulate bonuses paid out to all employees.
92
Membership associations
North America
Solar Energy Industry Association (SEIA)
Advanced Energy Economy
Electric Vehicle Charging Association
California Solar + Storage Association (CSSA)
Hawaii Solar Energy Association (HSEA)
Latin America
Solar Energy and Storage Association of Puerto Rico (SESA)
AMF (Association Mexicana de la Industria Fotovoltaica)
Asolmex (Association Mexicana de Industria Solar)
Absolar (Associacao Brasileira de Energia Fotovoltaica)
ABGD (Associacao Brasileira de Geracao Distriuida)
Europe
Solar Power Europe
European Solar Industry Alliance
PV Austria
Asia-Pacific
Master Electricians of Australia
Clean Energy Council
Sustainable Energy Association of New Zealand
National Electrical and Communications Association
Smart Energy Council
AMCHAM India
ASSOCHAM
Bridge to India
Mercon, SolQuarter, REI
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 93
Contributing to the UN Sustainable
Development Goals
GOAL DESCRIPTION TARGETS ENPHASE CONTRIBUTION
End poverty in all its 1,5 Enphase directly reduces exposure and vulnerability
forms everywhere to extreme climate events and other economic, social,
and environmental shocks and disasters by deploying
renewable energy generation and management systems
across the globe. Renewable energy directly reduces
GHG emissions and mitigates climate risk.
Ensure healthy lives and 3.9 Renewable energy generation and management
promote well-being for promotes environmental justice, good health, and well-
being by avoiding the release of hazardous chemicals
all at all ages
and air, water, and soil pollution associated with
traditional forms of energy production.
Ensure inclusive and 4.3, 4.4, 4.5 We promote technical and vocational education in the
equitable quality education renewable energy industry through our company learning
and promote lifelong learning platform and non-profit partnerships. As our geographic
reach continues to grow, we will expand opportunities for
opportunities for all
men, women, and children to learn about the renewable
energy industry and create opportunities to contribute to
global deployment of renewable energy technologies.
Achieve gender equality 5.1, 5.2, 5.5 We do not tolerate discrimination in any form, including
and empower all women against women. We are committed to eliminating human
trafficking, slavery, and any type of human rights abuses
and girls
across our supply chain. Women are represented on
our Board of Directors and in leadership positions
throughout the company.
Ensure access to affordable, 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.a, 7.b Access to reliable, affordable, and modern energy
reliable, sustainable, and services is what Enphase offers its customers. Enphase
microinverters boast the highest levels of reliability, and
modern energy for all
our next generation off-grid solutions are paving the way
for further access.
As Enphase continues to grow globally and gain market
share, it accelerates its positive impact and contributes
to the goal of increasing the global renewable energy mix.
9944
Promote sustained, inclusive, 8.2, 8.3, 8.7, 8.8 Through our work in deploying renewable energy systems in
emerging markets, we are supporting economic growth in
and sustainable economic
developing countries. We employ local leaders and attract
growth, full and productive
talent from local markets, helping to provide decent work
employment and decent
globally.
work for all
We are committed to eradicating forced child labor and
ending modern slavery and human trafficking of children,
including the use of child soldiers.
Build resilient infrastructure, 9.2, 9.4, 9.5 Our core business contributes directly to the “adoption of
promote inclusive and clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial
processes.”
sustainable industrialization
and foster innovation
We have expanded our manufacturing footprint globally,
accelerating our ability to upgrade infrastructure to
be more sustainable, particularly regarding clean and
environmentally-sound renewable energy generation and
management technologies.
Make cities and human 11.3 Sustainable urbanization is a priority for both residential
settlements inclusive, safe, and small commercial applications of our products and
services. Additionally, we support this goal through
resilient, and sustainable
our long-standing philanthropic activities that help
to provide solar energy for low-income communities
through our partnership with GRID alternatives.
Take urgent action to 13.1 The Enphase Energy System helps communities be
combat climate change more resilient in the face of climate-related hazards
and natural-disasters through its grid-agnostic and
and its impacts
energy storage capabilities; allowing homeowners and
businesses to stay safe and connected even when grid
services are interrupted or when there is extensive
damage to energy infrastructure due to natural disasters.
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002233 9955
About this report
We referenced the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) to identify material
financial ESG metrics for the investor community and referenced the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI) standards to report on additional material sustainability issues. We drew upon
subject matter expertise of our colleagues throughout Enphase and value chain partners
to collect and organize the content relative to the areas we identified for disclosure.
Additionally, we provided disclosures aligned with the four key themes of the Taskforce
for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Lastly, we compared our activities to
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to assess and convey how we
are contributing to these important goals. For specific information about this report or our
sustainability program overall, please contact us at ir@enphaseenergy.com. We intend to
issue this report on an annual basis. All information included in this report is for the twelve-
month period ended December 31, 2023, unless otherwise stated. References to “we,”
“us,” “our,” “Enphase” or “Enphase Energy” throughout this report pertain to Enphase
Energy, Inc.
96
Forward-looking statements
and other important legal
information
This report and the materials or websites cross-referenced contain statements that
are aspirational or reflective of our views about our future performance that constitute
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally identified through the inclusion of
words such as “aim,” “anticipate,” “aspire,” “believe,” commit,” “endeavor,” “estimate,”
“expect,” “goal,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “seek,” “strive,” “target,” “projection,” “will,” and
“work,” or similar statements or variations of such terms and other similar expressions.
The forward-looking statements in this document and the materials or websites cross-
referenced concern our goals, progress or expectations with respect to corporate
responsibility, sustainability, employees, environmental matters, policy, and business risks
and opportunities. Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties
that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in such statements.
These statements are based on numerous assumptions that we believe are reasonable, but
are open to a wide range of uncertainties and business risks. In addition, these statements
may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, controls
and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in
the future. Consequently, actual results may vary materially from what is contained in a
forward-looking statement.
For a further description of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to
differ from those expressed in these forward-looking statements, as well as risks relating to
our business in general, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) on February 9, 2024 and our subsequent periodic reports
filed with the SEC from time to time. Copies of these filings are available on the Enphase
website at http://investor.enphase.com/sec.cfm, or on the SEC website at www.sec.gov.
All forward-looking statements in this report are based on information currently available
to us, and we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements in light of
new information or future events.
The information included in, and any issues identified as material for purposes of, this
document may not be considered material for SEC reporting purposes. In the context of
this report, the term “material” is distinct from, and should not be confused with, such term
as defined for SEC reporting purposes. Website references and hyperlinks throughout this
document are provided for convenience only, and the content on the referenced third-
party websites is not incorporated by reference into this report, nor does it constitute a
part of this report. We assume no liability for the content contained on the referenced
third-party references. This report contains non-GAAP financial measures relating to
our performance. You can find the reconciliation of these measures to the most directly
comparable GAAP financial measures on the next page.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 97
GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation
Reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures
In millions, except percentages Q1’21 Q2’21 Q3’21 Q4’21 Q1’22 Q2’22 Q3’22 Q4’22 Q1’23 Q2’23 Q3’23 Q4’23
Gross profit (GAAP) $122.9 $127.8 $140.4 $163.3 $177.0 $219.0 $267.9 $310.7 $177.0 $219.0 $267.9 $310.7
Stock-based compensation 1.0 1.1 2.9 2.4 2.5 3.1 3.2 4.3 2.5 3.1 3.2 4.3
Acquisition related amortization - - - 0.2 1.3 1.5 1.4 2.1 1.3 1.5 1.4 2.1
Gross profit (Non-GAAP) $123.9 $128.9 $143.3 $165.9 $180.8 $223.6 $272.5 $317.1 $180.8 $223.6 $272.5 $317.1
Gross margin (GAAP) 40.7% 40.4% 39.9% 39.6% 40.1% 41.3% 42.2% 42.9% 40.1% 41.3% 42.2% 42.9%
Stock-based compensation 0.4% 0.4% 0.9% 0.6% 0.6% 0.6% 0.5% 0.6% 0.6% 0.6% 0.5% 0.6%
Acquisition related amortization -% -% -% -% 0.3% 0.3% 0.2% 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% 0.2% 0.3%
Gross margin (Non-GAAP) 41.1% 40.8% 40.8% 40.2% 41.0% 42.2% 42.9% 43.8% 41.0% 42.2% 42.9% 43.8%
Operating expenses (GAAP) $61.6 $68.4 $103.0 $105.6 $115.2 $125.0 $132.5 $153.7 $115.2 $125.0 $132.5 $153.7
Stock-based compensation (13.9) (14.3) (44.1) (34.8) (45.3) (49.9) (49.1) (59.4) (45.3) (49.9) (49.1) (59.4)
Acquisition related expenses and amortization (4.0) (2.5) (1.6) (2.7) (3.6) (3.9) (4.2) (4.8) (3.6) (3.9) (4.2) (4.8)
Restructuring and asset impairment charges - - - - - - (0.6) (1.8) - - (0.6) (1.8)
Operating expenses (Non-GAAP) $43.7 $51.6 $57.3 $68.1 $66.3 $71.2 $78.6 $87.7 $66.3 $71.2 $78.6 $87.7
% of Revenue (Non-GAAP) 14.5% 16.4% 16.3% 16.5% 15.0% 13.4% 12.4% 12.1% 15.0% 13.4% 12.4% 12.1%
Income (loss) from operations (GAAP) $61.4 $59.4 $37.4 $57.7 $61.8 $94.0 $135.4 $157.0 $61.8 $94.0 $135.4 $157.0
Stock-based compensation 14.8 15.3 46.9 37.1 47.8 53.1 52.3 63.6 47.8 53.1 52.3 63.6
Acquisition related expenses and amortization 4.0 2.5 1.6 2.9 4.9 5.3 5.6 7 4.9 5.3 5.6 7
Restructuring and asset impairment charges - - - - - - 0.6 1.8 - - 0.6 1.8
Income from operations (Non-GAAP) $80.2 $77.2 $85.9 $97.7 $114.5 $152.4 $193.9 $229.4 $114.5 $152.4 $193.9 $229.4
% of Revenue (Non-GAAP) 26.6% 24.4% 24.4% 23.7% 26.0% 28.7% 30.6% 31.7% 26.0% 28.7% 30.6% 31.7%
98
Reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures (continued)
In millions, except per share data FY’23
Net income (GAAP) $ 438.9
Stock-based compensation 212.8
In millions, except percentages Q1’21 Q2’21 Q3’21 Q4’21 Q1’22 Q2’22 Q3’22 Q4’22 Q1’23 Q2’23 Q3’23 Q4’23 Acquisition related expenses and amortization 22.9
Restructuring and asset impairment charges 15.7
Gross profit (GAAP) $122.9 $127.8 $140.4 $163.3 $177.0 $219.0 $267.9 $310.7 $177.0 $219.0 $267.9 $310.7
Non-cash interest expense 8.4
Stock-based compensation 1.0 1.1 2.9 2.4 2.5 3.1 3.2 4.3 2.5 3.1 3.2 4.3
Non-GAAP income tax adjustment (85.5)
Acquisition related amortization - - - 0.2 1.3 1.5 1.4 2.1 1.3 1.5 1.4 2.1 Net income (non-GAAP) $ 613.2
Gross profit (Non-GAAP) $123.9 $128.9 $143.3 $165.9 $180.8 $223.6 $272.5 $317.1 $180.8 $223.6 $272.5 $317.1
Net income per share, diluted (GAAP) $ 3.08
Stock-based compensation 1.57
Gross margin (GAAP) 40.7% 40.4% 39.9% 39.6% 40.1% 41.3% 42.2% 42.9% 40.1% 41.3% 42.2% 42.9% Acquisition related expenses and amortization 0.16
Stock-based compensation 0.4% 0.4% 0.9% 0.6% 0.6% 0.6% 0.5% 0.6% 0.6% 0.6% 0.5% 0.6% Restructuring and asset impairment charges 0.11
Non-cash interest expense 0.06
Acquisition related amortization -% -% -% -% 0.3% 0.3% 0.2% 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% 0.2% 0.3%
Non-GAAP income tax adjustment (0.57)
Gross margin (Non-GAAP) 41.1% 40.8% 40.8% 40.2% 41.0% 42.2% 42.9% 43.8% 41.0% 42.2% 42.9% 43.8%
Net income (loss) per share, diluted (Non-GAAP) (1) $ 4.41
Shares used in diluted per share calculation GAAP 142.3
Operating expenses (GAAP) $61.6 $68.4 $103.0 $105.6 $115.2 $125.0 $132.5 $153.7 $115.2 $125.0 $132.5 $153.7
Shares used in diluted per share calculation Non-GAAP 139.2
Stock-based compensation (13.9) (14.3) (44.1) (34.8) (45.3) (49.9) (49.1) (59.4) (45.3) (49.9) (49.1) (59.4)
Acquisition related expenses and amortization (4.0) (2.5) (1.6) (2.7) (3.6) (3.9) (4.2) (4.8) (3.6) (3.9) (4.2) (4.8)
Income-based government grants (GAAP) $ 53.5
Restructuring and asset impairment charges - - - - - - (0.6) (1.8) - - (0.6) (1.8) Incremental cost for manufacturing in U.S. (11.6)
Operating expenses (Non-GAAP) $43.7 $51.6 $57.3 $68.1 $66.3 $71.2 $78.6 $87.7 $66.3 $71.2 $78.6 $87.7 Net IRA benefit (Non-GAAP) $ 41.9
% of Revenue (Non-GAAP) 14.5% 16.4% 16.3% 16.5% 15.0% 13.4% 12.4% 12.1% 15.0% 13.4% 12.4% 12.1%
Net cash provided by operating activities (GAAP) $ 696.8
Purchases of property and equipment (110.4)
Income (loss) from operations (GAAP) $61.4 $59.4 $37.4 $57.7 $61.8 $94.0 $135.4 $157.0 $61.8 $94.0 $135.4 $157.0 Free cash flow (Non-GAAP) $ 586.4
Stock-based compensation 14.8 15.3 46.9 37.1 47.8 53.1 52.3 63.6 47.8 53.1 52.3 63.6
Acquisition related expenses and amortization 4.0 2.5 1.6 2.9 4.9 5.3 5.6 7 4.9 5.3 5.6 7
Restructuring and asset impairment charges - - - - - - 0.6 1.8 - - 0.6 1.8
Income from operations (Non-GAAP) $80.2 $77.2 $85.9 $97.7 $114.5 $152.4 $193.9 $229.4 $114.5 $152.4 $193.9 $229.4
% of Revenue (Non-GAAP) 26.6% 24.4% 24.4% 23.7% 26.0% 28.7% 30.6% 31.7% 26.0% 28.7% 30.6% 31.7%
(1) Calculation of non-GAAP diluted net income per share for the year ended December 31, 2023 excludes convertible
Notes due 2023 interest expense, net of tax of less than $0.1 million in each period from non-GAAP net income.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 99
Non-GAAP Financial Metrics
Enphase Energy has presented certain non-GAAP financial measures in this Environmental Social Governance Report 2023. Generally, a non-GAAP
financial measure is a numerical measure of a company’s performance, financial position, or cash flows that either exclude or include amounts that
are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial
measure can be found in the accompanying tables to this press release. Non-GAAP financial measures presented by Enphase Energy include non-GAAP
gross profit, gross margin, operating expenses, income from operations, net income, net income per share (basic and diluted) and free cash flow.
These non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect a comprehensive system of accounting, differ from GAAP measures with the same captions and may
differ from non-GAAP financial measures with the same or similar captions that are used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures
have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with Enphase Energy’s results of operations as determined in accordance with
GAAP. As such, these non-GAAP measures should be considered as a supplement to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures
calculated in accordance with GAAP. Enphase Energy uses these non-GAAP financial measures to analyze its operating performance and future
prospects, develop internal budgets and financial goals, and to facilitate period-to-period comparisons. Enphase Energy believes that these non-GAAP
financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of its operations that, when viewed with its GAAP results, provide a more complete
understanding of factors and trends affecting its business.
As presented in the “GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation” pages, each of the non-GAAP financial measures excludes one or more of the following items for
purposes of calculating non-GAAP financial measures to facilitate an evaluation of Enphase Energy’s current operating performance and a comparison
to its past operating performance:
• Stock-based compensation expense. Enphase Energy excludes stock-based compensation expense from its non-GAAP measures primarily
because they are non-cash in nature. Moreover, the impact of this expense is significantly affected by Enphase Energy’s stock price at the time of
an award over which management has limited to no control.
• Acquisition related expenses and amortization. This item represents expenses incurred related to Enphase Energy’s business acquisitions, which are
non-recurring in nature, and amortization of acquired intangible assets, which is a non-cash expense. Acquisition related expenses and amortization
of acquired intangible assets are not reflective of Enphase Energy’s ongoing financial performance.
• Restructuring and asset impairment charges. Enphase Energy excludes restructuring and asset impairment charges due to the nature of the
expenses being unusual and arising outside the ordinary course of continuing operations. These costs primarily consist of fees paid for cash-based
severance costs and asset write-downs of property and equipment and acquired intangible assets, and other contract termination costs resulting
from restructuring initiatives.
• Non-cash interest expense. This item consists primarily of amortization of debt issuance costs and accretion of debt discount because these
expenses do not represent a cash outflow for Enphase Energy except in the period the financing was secured and such amortization expense is not
reflective of Enphase Energy’s ongoing financial performance.
• Non-GAAP income tax adjustment. This item represents the amount adjusted to Enphase Energy’s GAAP tax provision or benefit to present the
non-GAAP tax amount based on cash tax expense and reserves for periods prior to 2023. Effective January 1, 2023, Enphase Energy updated
its methodology of computing the non-GAAP income tax adjustment from reporting cash tax expense and reserves to the projected non-GAAP
annualized effective tax rate as Enphase Energy utilized most of its net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards in the year ended December 31,
2022, and became a significant cash taxpayer in the United States. Going forward, Enphase Energy will exclude the income tax effects of GAAP
adjustments such as stock-based compensation, amortization of purchased intangibles, and other non-recurring items that are not reflective of
Enphase Energy ongoing financial performance.
• Non-GAAP net income per share, diluted. Enphase Energy excludes the dilutive effect of in-the-money portion of convertible senior notes as they
are covered by convertible note hedge transactions that reduce potential dilution to our common stock upon conversion of the Notes due 2025,
Notes due 2026 and Notes due 2028, and includes the dilutive effect of employee’s stock-based awards and the dilutive effect of warrants. Enphase
Energy believes these adjustments provide useful supplemental information to the ongoing financial performance.
• Net IRA benefit. This item represents the advanced manufacturing production tax credit (“AMPTC”) from the IRA for manufacturing microinverters in
the United States, partially offset by the incremental manufacturing cost incurred in the United States relative to manufacturing in Mexico, India, and
China. The AMPTC is accounted for by Enphase Energy as an income-based government grants that reduces cost of revenues in the consolidated
statements of operations.
• Free cash flow. This item represents net cash flows from operating activities less purchases of property and equipment.
100
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2023 101
© 2024 Enphase Energy. All rights reserved.
Enphase, the e logo, IQ, and certain other marks listed at https://enphase.com/trademark-usage-guidelines are
trademarks of Enphase Energy, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries.
102
