Enphase Energy, Inc.
Environmental,
Social, and
Governance Report
2021
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 1
Enphase Energy, Inc.
Environmental,
Social, and
Governance Report
2021
2
Contents
A Letter from our President and CEO 4
About Us 6
Enphase in numbers 7
Our purpose 8
Our core values 9
Our technology 10
Enphase culture playbook 12
Financial sustainability 14
Our financial performance 15
Environment 16
E1. Global environmental policy 17
E2. Climate change strategy 19
E3. Clean energy production 21
E4. Emissions and energy 22
E5. Energy efficency 24
E6. Product lifecycle and waste management 25
People
26
P1. Company demographics 27
P2. Health and wellness 28
P3. Diversity, equity, inclusion 29
P4. Talent 32
P5. Human rights and responsible supply chain 34
P6. Global occupational health and safety 38
Society
40
S1. Enphase corporate social responsibility initiatives 41
S2. Enphase grid services 44
S3. Enphase backup report 46
S4. Enphase innovation 48
S5. Promoting clean energy policy 50
Corporate governance
52
G1. ESG governance and leadership 53
G2. Business ethics and compliance 56
G3. Risk management 57
G4. Cybersecurity and data privacy 58
Appendix
60
Carbon and emissions calculation methodology 61
GRI and SASB index 62
Contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals 64
About this report 66
Forward looking statements and other important legal information 67
GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation 68
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 3
A Letter from our
President and CEO
I am pleased to share our 2021 Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) report,
where we discuss ongoing efforts to realize Enphase’s purpose of advancing a sustainable
future for all. Since the publication of our inaugural ESG report in 2020, we have made
strides in measuring our carbon footprint, cultivating a diverse and inclusive workplace,
and raising awareness of ESG issues across the business. We are committed to building on
this foundation to establish long-term goals aligned with the needs of global sustainable
development, and I remain optimistic for what the future holds as we continue our ESG
journey.
Since Enphase was founded in 2006, we have developed five key elements to our
Badri Kothandaraman
value proposition: deliver products that are smart, simple, reliable, productive, and
President and CEO
safe. We understand the threat with climate change and have been creating clean
energy technologies needed to directly combat it, protect our environment, and enable
sustainable development. The future relies on universal access to clean, reliable, and
affordable energy. Our best-in-class energy management solutions include solar
generation, battery storage, electric vehicle (EV) charging, smart load control, and cloud-
based monitoring and control.
Over the course of the past couple of years, we took steps to manage our business
through the challenges arising from the COVID-19 pandemic. Supporting our employees,
customers, partners, and communities was the topmost priority for us. I am proud of our
employees around the world as they continue to work tirelessly to develop innovative
products and services for our customers. Our culture playbook provides both current and
future employees with a blueprint of our purpose, our core values, and examples of how
“I am proud of our employees we work together to achieve results within Enphase.
around the world as they
continue to work tirelessly to The lessons we learned over the past few years and our ability to see the bigger picture
helped us to enact transformative, sustainable growth. We remain the world’s leading
develop innovative products
supplier of microinverter-based solar and battery systems. We have cumulatively shipped
and services for our customers.”
more than 42 million microinverters, and more than 307 megawatt hours (MWh) of our
Enphase® Energy Systems,1 powered by Enphase IQ® Microinverters and IQ™ Batteries.
Approximately 12 gigawatts (GW) DC of Enphase microinverters have been installed in
solar systems since inception, reducing 31 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent
(MT CO₂e) - the equivalent of providing energy to 3.9 million homes for one year.1
Sustainability is evident in every aspect of our operations − financial performance;
products and services; manufacturing; supplier, customer, and partner relationships;
employee relations; corporate social responsibility (CSR); and corporate governance.
As you read this report, you will see several examples of our operational excellence; our
ability to incorporate environmental safeguards into our practices; the care we take in
1All data as of December 31, 2021; estimate based on Enphase managed systems data grossed up for non-managed
systems based on cumulative sales records; COe calculations based on EPA GHG calculator
2
4
hiring, training, and managing our global workforce; our commitment to expanding access
to clean energy through our CSR initiatives; and the accountability of our governance and
leadership.
Our strategy is simple. We focus on making best-in-class home energy systems that
enable homeowners to make, use, save, and sell their own power. We are deeply
committed to making these systems innovative, high-quality, and easy-to-use, helping
millions of people gain access to cleaner, affordable, and more reliable energy while
creating jobs and contributing towards a carbon-free future.
“Our company embraces the There have been many large-scale power outages that left communities in the U.S.
opportunity to create a future of without power for several days. The aging and overly-constrained grid has been struggling
sustainable prosperity for all our to manage the devastating impact of extreme weather caused by grid outages. Our IQ™
Batteries, powered by solar energy, provide resilience in the face of natural disasters and
stakeholders, while reducing our
grid outages, ensuring that a home can be powered and delivering energy independence
environmental footprint.”
and peace of mind. This clean, free, abundant source of energy can power lives and
ultimately help replace non-renewable energy altogether.
We started shipping our IQ8™ Microinverters to customers in North America in 2021.
IQ8 fundamentally changes the paradigm for solar technology, which otherwise
requires a grid connection to operate. IQ8 Microinverters can form a microgrid during a
power outage, using only sunlight, providing backup power even without a battery. For
homeowners who want battery backup, there are no sizing restrictions on pairing an
Enphase IQ Battery with IQ8 Microinverters. In addition, with the Sunlight Jump Start™
feature, IQ8 Microinverters can restart a home energy system using sunlight only after
prolonged grid outages that may result in a fully depleted battery. The innovation in IQ8
microinverters enables us to utilize the power of the sun better and provides increased
resilience to homeowners.
Enphase was founded on three commitments that still guide us today: innovation, quality,
and social responsibility. Our company embraces the opportunity to create a future of
sustainable prosperity for all our stakeholders, while reducing our environmental footprint.
We are making it possible for people to become producers and participants in a clean
energy future—when people and the planet need it most.
We appreciate your continued interest in our ESG efforts and thank our employees,
customers, partners, and shareholders for their dedication as we continue to embrace our
core values.
Sincerely,
Badri Kothandaraman
President and CEO
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 5
About us
66
Enphase in
numbers
2006 2,260 5,315 43.4
TWh
the year Enphase employees and key installers of cumulative
was founded contributors across worldwide1 shipments of
our global offices1 microinverters2
1.9 42+ 300+
million million MWh
systems deployed in more microinverters of storage1
than 130 countries1 shipped1
31 12
million GW DC
metric tons of COe cumulative shipments
2
prevented from entering of microinverters1
the atmosphere, enough to
power 3.9 million homes with
energy for one year2
3.5 76
billion billion
gallons of gasoline miles not driven by an
not consumed2 average gas-powered
passenger vehicle2
1 As of December 31, 2021
2 Estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of December 31, 2021 grossed up for non-managed systems based on cumulative sales records; CO₂e
calculations based on EPA GHG calculator
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002211 77
Our
purpose
Enphase Energy has transformed the solar industry with our revolutionary microinverter
technology which enables sunlight to be a safe, reliable, resilient, and scalable source of
energy to power our lives. Today, our intelligent microinverters work with virtually every
solar panel made, and when paired with our award-winning smart battery technology, we
engineer one of the industry’s best-performing clean energy systems.
“The Enphase® Energy System The Enphase® Energy System enables people to make, use, save, sell, and own their power.
enables people to make, use, This includes our industry-leading app, which provides unprecedented data and control
in the palm of their hand. For the first time in the evolution of the centuries-old electricity
save, sell, and own their power.”
grid, people can get paid for the clean energy they produce and share with their
communities - helping to build a new energy future that harnesses the sun. This clean,
free, abundant source of energy can power our lives and ultimately help replace
non-renewable energy altogether.
Our purpose is advancing a sustainable future for all. If you see a home in the U.S. with
solar panels on it, there is a good chance it is an Enphase home. We’re making it possible
for people to become producers and participants in a clean energy future — when people
and the planet need it most.
System owners can view and control their Enphase® Energy System through
their mobile phone app
8
Our core
values
Our company values are reflected in the way we work
together, our performance, and how we are rewarded.
Customer first Integrity
We exist for our customers. We tell the truth at all times, without
making excuses.
We listen to our customers and measure
our success based on their feedback. We do what’s best for the company.
We take action to deliver the best We take ownership of our behaviors
customer experience. and results.
“We collaborate globally to Innovation Teamwork
achieve more together than we
We value innovation and recognize that it is We appreciate and respect different
can on our own.”
the cornerstone of our existence. behavioral styles and perspectives.
We encourage appropriate risk-taking and We collaborate globally to achieve
challenge the status quo to find solutions. more together than we can on our
own.
We actively promote innovation through
curiosity and continuous learning. We actively work to break down silos.
Quality
We place safety and quality above
everything else.
We measure everything that matters and
drive continuous improvement.
We make the highest quality products.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 9
Our
technology
Enphase was founded on the deep-rooted belief that an AC-coupled distributed
architecture will always win in the long run on both cost and reliability. To build products
based on this architecture, we have developed core competencies in semiconductor-
based power conversion, software-defined Internet of Things (IoT) systems, and an energy
management platform. Our homegrown high-speed digital ASIC, which is responsible for
power control and power line communication, forms the brain of our microinverters. The
microinverter, along with our battery, system controller, and cloud software form a true IoT
system. Our Ensemble™ technology energy management system manages energy flows
between the various distributed energy resources (DERs), the utility grid, and home loads,
all with the aim of delivering the most reliable solution at the lowest available energy cost.
ENPHASE
CLOUD
IQ MICROINVERTER
UTILITY METER
EV CHARGER
GENERATOR OR FUEL CELL MAIN LOAD CENTER
IQ SYSTEM CONTROLLER
IQ BATTERY
IQ LOAD CONTROLLER
The AC-coupled Enphase® Energy System with all the
distributed energy resources
10
Start-up to industry leader
2006
Founded by Raghu Belur and
Martin Fornage in California
2008
First microinverter-based
solar system introduced
2011
One million microinverters shipped
since inception
2012
Listed on NASDAQ
under symbol ENPH
2014
Fourth-generation
technology introduced
2015
10 million microinverters
shipped since inception
2016
Sixth-generation
IQ™ technology
2017
AC Modules
Introduced
2018
Seventh-generation
IQ technology introduced
2019
One millionth microinverter-based
solar system deployed
2020
Started shipping IQTM Batteries
to customers in North America
2021
Started shipping IQ8TM Microinverters
to customers in North America and
more than 42 million microinverters
shipped since inception
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 11
Enphase
culture playbook
We abide by the Enphase culture playbook to define and socialize our purpose, core
values, and relevant examples of how we collaborate to get results.
Culture playbook
We promote and reinforce
these five core values.
Six pillars of our culture
Pillars that are aligned to our purpose and values.
Our core values
High performance
Recruiting and retaining the best
Openness and transparency
Accountability and execution
Learning organization
12
Six pillars of our culture
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002211 1133
Financial
sustainability
Our solid financial performance enables us to advance our long-term commitment to
78%
sustainability. In 2021, our revenue increased 78% to $1.4 billion, from $774.4 million
in 2020. We shipped 10.4 million microinverters in 2021, compared to 6.8 million
increased revenue in 2021 microinverters in 2020. Our non-GAAP gross margin in 2021 was 40.7%1 compared
to 40.1%1 in 2020, primarily due to disciplined pricing and cost management, despite
inflation.
$1.4 billion
We have a very strong balance sheet that we believe will allow us to capitalize on future
opportunities. We exited 2021 with $1.0 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable
revenue in 2021 securities. In March 2021, we successfully completed the issuance of approximately $1.2
billion in green convertible notes (the Green Bond Notes).
10.4 million As part of the Green Bond Notes offering, we established a Green Financing Framework
that reinforces our commitment to our planet and our communities. In 2021, we allocated
a portion of the proceeds of the Green Bond Notes to finance a variety of environmentally
microinverters shipped in 2021 impactful projects as summarized in the table below, which included research and
development (R&D) for new products, capital expenditures to increase our manufacturing
capabilities to support our global product portfolio, the cost of goods sold, and increased
40.7% headcount. We intend to allocate the remaining funds during 2022. The terms of this
capital raise were some of the most favorable to an issuer in history, and we were
bestowed with an ESG Award and a Structured Equity Award from IFR in February 2022.
non-GAAP gross margin in 2021
Green Bond Notes allocations
Amount allocated
Eligible category
to date ($000,000)
Renewable energy $754.14
Eco-efficient production technologies
$88.11
and processes
Total allocated $842.25
Net proceeds from Green Bond Notes $1,188.44
Proceeds remaining to be allocated $346.19
1 See GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation in the Appendix for a reconciliation of our most comparable U.S. GAAP measures to our non-GAAP measures
1144
Our financial
performance
Our focus on operational excellence has been important for our solid financial foundation.
We had a record year in 2021 for profitability. We also generated a record $352.0 million in
cash flow from operations in 2021, compared to $216.3 million in 2020.
We introduced our 35-15-20 baseline financial model at our Investor Day in 2019. 35-15-
“Our focus on operational 20 stands for 35% gross margin, 15% operating expenses, and 20% operating income,
excellence has been important all as a percentage of revenue on a non-GAAP basis. In 2021 our actual results were
for our solid financial approximately 41-16-25, beating the baseline financial model in terms of gross margin
and operating income. Our 2021 GAAP net income was $145.4 million, resulting in diluted
foundation.”
earnings per share of $1.02. Non-GAAP net income was $340.3 million, resulting in diluted
earnings per share of $2.41.1
Quarterly revenue by year Quarterly gross margin % by year
$450.0 $412.7 45.0%
$400.0 41.1% 40.8% 41.0%40.8% 40.2%
$350.0 $351.5 40.0% 39.5% 39.6% 40.2%
$300.0 $301.8 $316.1 36.2% 37.3%
$264.8
$250.0 35.0% 33.5% 34.1%
$205.5 $180.1 $210.0
$200.0 $178.5
$134.1 30.0%
$150.0 $125.5
$100.2
$100.0
25.0%
$50.0
$0.0 20.0%
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Quarterly operating expenses % by year Quarterly operating income % by year
30.0%
30.0% 26.6% 27.3%
25.0% 25.7% 24.4% 24.5%24.4% 24.9% 23.7%
22.3%
25.0%
20.0% 18.9%
22.3% 17.3%
20.7%
15.0%
20.0%
11.3%
16.8% 16.4% 16.6% 16.3% 16.5% 10.0%
14.5%
15.0% 13.9% 13.9% 12.9%
12.4% 5.0%
10.0% 0.0%
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2019 2020 2021
Quarterly revenue by year is in millions; Gross Margin, Operating Expenses and Operating Income are as a percentage of revenue.
All numbers reflected other than revenue are on a non-GAAP basis. Refer to Appendix for reconciliation of our most comparable U.S. GAAP measures to
our non-GAAP measures
1 See GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation in the Appendix for a reconciliation of our most comparable U.S. GAAP measures to our non-GAAP measures
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002211 1155
Environment
Our best-in-class energy management
solutions include solar generation, battery
storage, electric vehicle (EV) charging,
smart load control, and cloud-based
monitoring and control. While our products
and services directly address the urgent
challenges presented by climate change
and the transition to a low-carbon economy,
we appreciate that our ability to continue
to do so rests in attending to, and taking
accountability for, environmental impacts
across the entire value chain.
1166
E1. Global
environmental policy
Environmental management system (EMS)
Enphase strives to achieve exceptional environmental performance, and 100% of our
facilities are ISO 14001:2015 certified. Our EMS is continually improved to align with
business strategy, promote positive environmental impacts, and minimize adverse ones.
Through the EMS we proactively assess environmental risks and opportunities, define key
performance indicators (KPIs) and targets, and evaluate progress toward environmental
goals.
“Enphase strives to achieve Auditing program
exceptional environmental
Our environmental audit program includes periodic and complete evaluations of our
performance, and 100% of our
product development and R&D centers. Audits include air and water quality, waste
facilities are ISO 14001:2015
management practices, spill prevention and control, hazardous materials management,
certified.”
and employee awareness.
Supplier expectations
Enphase works with suppliers who share our commitment to environmental stewardship.
Suppliers are screened on specific criteria including the presence of an environmental
policy, EMS or EMAS certification, RoHs and REACH compliance, conflict minerals
reporting, as well as human rights and labor policies.
Legal compliance
Enphase complies in the areas where we operate with all applicable environmental,
health, and safety laws, as well as all pertinent industry codes and standards, and we
expect our suppliers, partners, and customers to comply with all applicable environmental
laws and regulations as well.
Empowering employees
Employees at all levels actively participate in environmental goal-setting
processes, allowing for important insights and innovation to be realized across the
company. Employee bonuses are also tied to progress toward environmental-related
goals, helping to ensure objectives are met.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 17
Reporting and stakeholder consultation
We transparently report our environmental performance in line with prevailing
sustainability reporting frameworks on an annual basis. Stakeholders such as local
communities, suppliers and contractors, government agencies, and other organizations
focused on protecting the environment are allies and collaborators, and their priorities
and feedback regarding our environmental performance are considered when assessing
our environmental performance.
Product lifecycle stewardship
Our products are designed to be safe for the environment and their intended use. All
hazardous waste generated across our operations is disposed of properly or recycled,
and we comply with all applicable laws and directives regarding hazardous waste where
we operate, including WEEE, RoHs, REACH, and the EU batteries directive. We support
pollution prevention programs and use materials and energy efficiently to conserve
natural resources, including measuring emissions and developing an emissions reduction
regime.
18
E2. Climate
change strategy
At Enphase, we have understood the climate change threat from the beginning and
have been creating clean energy technologies needed to directly combat it, protect our
environment, and enable sustainable development. We recognize our ability to do so rests
on our capacity to understand, anticipate, and successfully navigate various types of
climate risk. We align our risk assessment and climate strategy with the recommendations
of the Taskforce for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and emerging climate-
risk disclosure recommendations from the International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS) Foundation.
Governance
“Our strategy is advancing Our Board of Directors (Board) oversees climate risks and opportunities. Our products
solutions to meet any number and services mitigate climate change, so the Board’s actions in guiding strategy and
of climate risk mitigation assessing risks address a myriad of climate risks.
opportunities – solar energy
The Nominating and Corporate Governance and Audit Committees of the Board oversee
equipment, battery storage,
the overall ESG program, which includes an annual update from the executive ESG team
EV charging, smart load
on climate risks, efforts, goals, and performance against targets.
management, and integration
with grid modernization efforts.” Strategy
Our strategy is advancing solutions to meet any number of climate risk mitigation
opportunities – solar energy equipment, battery storage, EV charging, smart load
management, and integration with grid modernization efforts.
We plan to broaden our climate strategy to include a defined approach and roadmap
for reducing our carbon footprint and reliance on non-renewable energy as a hedge
against uncertainty in carbon markets, to enhance operational efficiency, and to support
renewable energy deployments.
Risk management
We are currently developing scenario-based climate risk assessments over short-,
medium-, and long-term time horizons and integrating results into existing enterprise risk
management (ERM) practices. This will allow us to anticipate potential climate risk to our
business, understand strategic implications, and estimate financial impacts.
We intend to incorporate climate risk assessments into the annual ERM process, which
is reviewed by our senior management with oversight from the Audit Committee of the
Board.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 19
Metrics and targets
“Efficient and reliable We measure the success of our climate strategy by how well we grow our business.
microinverters and batteries Examples include the number of microinverters and batteries sold, new markets entered,
deployed in the field can market share captured, and kWh produced by the deployed microinverter fleet.
produce more clean energy over
Our product development targets such as production cost, materials used, efficiency,
a longer time horizon, directly
reliability, and power output directly support our climate strategy. Efficient and reliable
preventing harmful greenhouse
microinverters and batteries can produce more clean energy over a longer time horizon,
gas (GHG) emissions.” directly preventing harmful greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
We are measuring and disclosing our emissions for the first time in this report and will
be using this process to inform a low-carbon transition approach for the business going
forward.
20
E3. Clean energy
production
During Since
2021 2006
11.3 43.4
billion billion
kilowatt-hours (kWh) kilowatt-hours (kWh)
were generated by were generated by
Enphase microinverters1 Enphase microinverters2
8 31
million million
metric tons of carbon dioxide metric tons of carbon dioxide
equivalent (MT COe) were equivalent (MT COe) were
2 2
prevented from entering the prevented from entering the
atmosphere¹ atmosphere2
1 Estimate based on Enphase managed systems data for calendar year 2021 grossed up for non-managed systems based on
cumulative sales records; COe calculations based on EPA GHG calculator
2
2 Estimate based on Enphase managed systems data as of December 31, 2021 grossed up for non-managed systems based on
cumulative sales records; CO2e calculations based on EPA GHG calculator
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002211 2211
E4. Emissions
and energy
We completed our first GHG emissions inventory in 2021. The calculations drew on the
guidance provided in the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard, covering direct (scope
one), electricity indirect (scope two), and business travel (scope three) categories. Given
that our products were produced by third-party contract manufacturers, and we did
not operate a company vehicle fleet, our scope one emissions for 2021 were considered
negligible. Our scope two emissions attributed to the energy usage among our facilities
were calculated by using a location-based method for electricity and heating across
leased facilities.
We are continuing our characterization of scope two purchased electricity and heating to
identify opportunities to reduce our footprint by increasing the proportion of renewable
energy in our energy mix. We are also actively engaged with upstream and downstream
entities to map scope three impacts and discover opportunities for energy conservation
as we move forward.
A summary of our GHG inventory details can be found in the Appendix.
GHG emissions and intensity (2021)
Emissions type Units
Direct + electricity indirect emissions
9,240
(Scope 1 + Scope 2) (MT COe)
2
Other indirect emissions
281
(Scope 3) (MT COe)
2
Total emissions (MT COe) 9,521
2
Scope 1 + 2 emissions intensity
6.99
(MT COe/$M revenue)
2
Energy use and intensity (2021)
Energy type Units
Purchased electricity (kWh)* 12,560,067
Heating (kWh)** 1,801,127
Total energy consumption (kWh) 14,361,194
Energy Intensity (kWh / $M revenue) 10,391
*Does not account for renewable energy generated at the Petaluma, Calif. office
**North America operations only
2222
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002211 2233
E5. Energy
efficiency
Given our structure, opportunities for efficiency improvements and reductions in
emissions and energy intensity exist across scopes two and three. We are working to
quantify the impacts of energy efficiency efforts so we can make informed decisions on
energy reduction strategies and reduction targets, drawing on guidance provided in the
ISO 50001 standard. We have taken a number of measures to date to reduce our energy
intensity.
Shifting to EV
renewables Charger
“We are working to quantify the Shifting the energy mix to renewables Installing electric vehicle (EV) chargers at
impacts of energy efficiency across our leased facilities, including our North American offices
installing photovoltaic (PV) systems on all
efforts so we can make informed
North America offices. Installing a 119KW
decisions on energy reduction
PV system for our Petaluma office
strategies and targets, drawing
on guidance provided in the ISO
50001 standard.”
LED light Education
fixtures
Launching employee campaigns to turn
off inactive equipment in our offices
Installing motion-sensing LED light
fixtures across all leased facilities
Cost Reduce data
savings consumption
Achieving cost savings through strategic Transitioning to the cloud and SAAS
siting of contract manufacturing and applications for logistics, payroll, and
distribution facilities, which translates to most internal processes to reduce our
scope three emissions reductions data center energy consumption
2244
E6. Product lifecycle and
waste management
We understand our carbon footprint is embedded across the entire value chain from
raw material extraction to product end-of-life and are committed to reducing the
adverse environmental impacts to the fullest extent possible. We continually seek
opportunities to reduce the inputs needed to build reliable, high-quality products;
integrate recycled materials where possible; and design equipment that can be
repurposed or recycled at the end of its designed lifespan. Designing products in
this manner spurs innovation and positions us to compete in the nascent circular
economy.
“We understand our carbon We are committed to reducing and properly disposing of hazardous waste across
footprint is embedded across all our operations. We focus significant efforts on residential, commercial, and
industrial battery disposal and recycling. Our recycling program covers e-waste and
the entire value chain from raw
batteries of all types which are recycled through licensed vendors to the point of
material extraction to product
complete destruction, allowing for valuable components to be reused as material
end-of-life and are committed
inputs for new products. In addition, products evaluated in our testing centers
to reducing the adverse
are disassembled and parts are collected for reuse. We design our batteries for
environmental impacts to the long-term duration to decrease battery waste, using lithium iron phosphate (LFP)
fullest extent possible.” chemistry as the storage material.
We promote our company’s commitment to recycling and preventing products and
materials ending up in landfills through our internal training and compliance with
applicable federal, state, and local regulations. Employees working in our R&D labs
undergo additional training annually to ensure they understand how to properly
dispose of any hazardous materials that are not eligible for our recycling programs.
Our efforts to educate our workforce have yielded positive results.
We conscientiously select supplies for our facilities that have a low environmental impact,
including those with reusable and compostable materials where possible. Across our
North America and New Zealand facilities, we have eliminated single-use cups and have
provided employees with their own personal set of reusable dishware, utensils, and mugs
to use in cafeterias. We plan to implement similar strategies at our other global sites.
100% 100%
of e-waste generated across of our facilities are
operations in North America, India, ISO 14001 certified
and New Zealand are recycled
Compliance
with RoHs, REACH, and the
EU Battery Directive
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 25
People
We are building a community where
everyone feels valued and treated equally at
Enphase. We encourage employee wellbeing
by offering facilities and incentives. We
have laid the foundation for a robust talent
management program covering recruitment,
career progression pathways, and global
leadership development - empowering
employees, both new and existing, to reach
their full potential and find satisfaction in
their work.
2266
P1. Company
demographics
Geographic headcount (%)
as of December 31, 2021
63.2
%
India
24.8
%
United States
1.9
%
0.9
%
Netherlands
China
0.8
%
Mexico
1.0
%
France
3.8
%
2.1 % 0.4 %
New
Brazil
Canada Zealand
1.1
%
Australia
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 27
P2. Health
and wellness
COVID-19
In 2021, we continued to assist our employees through the challeging times of the
COVID-19 pandemic. We adapted to this new “normal” with protocols and decisions made
by a dedicated task force that had regular communications with all employees. We offered
support and guidance to our employees with suspected COVID-19 cases. We continued
our adherence to working remotely as required or desired, social distancing, mask-
wearing, and temperature screening at all our offices in compliance with the local rules,
ordinances, and regulations.
Newly expanded workspaces and fitness center
We encourage our employees to focus on their health and to take breaks. In 2021, we
“In 2021, we continued our added a 1,500 square foot break room at our headquarters in Fremont, California, which
adherence to working remotely, offers: 1) healthy choice snacks and branded reusable water bottles containing purified
social distancing, mask-wearing, pH-balanced water through a clean water partnership; 2) multiple seating areas for
employee engagement; 3) the use of assorted entertainment, including a ping pong
and temperature screening at all
table and related accessories. Standing desks were added in the corporate office space
our offices in compliance with
to promote physical movement and ergonomics. We also built a fully-functioning 1,000
the local rules, ordinances, and
square foot employee gym, and employees may use private showers after a workout. Our
regulations.” Fremont office is also near outdoor walking trails.
28
BurnAlong corporate wellness platform
To further our employees’ overall health, especially during a pandemic, we began a
partnership with BurnAlong, a health and fitness company. This health and wellbeing
program provides each employee with a complimentary membership plus four family
and friend memberships. The course offerings range from beginner to advanced levels
and include a wide variety of activities such as yoga, meditation, cardiovascular fitness,
dance, and weightlifting. There are also fun challenges for employees and their families,
allowing for healthy competition in areas unrelated to work.
P3. Diversity, equity,
and inclusion
“We are committed to filling We are building a community where everyone feels valued and treated equally at Enphase.
our talent pipeline with a range As an Equal Opportunity Employer (EOE), we are committed to diversity and inclusion in
the workplace, and do not tolerate discrimination and harassment of any kind based on
of candidates representing
race, color, sex, gender, gender expression, religion, sexual orientation, national origin,
a broad spectrum of cultural
ancestry, disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, pregnancy,
backgrounds, work experience,
military or veteran status, or any other protected characteristic as outlined by federal,
and technical expertise.”
state, or local laws. This policy applies to all employment practices within our organization,
including hiring, recruiting, promotion, termination, layoff, recall, leave of absence,
compensation, benefits, training, and apprenticeship.
We have set a company goal to increase the number of females that are recruited and
interviewed, including at the manager level or higher. In addition, we set a goal to increase
the number of female candidates in the U.S. who are new college graduates.
We are committed to filling our talent pipeline with a range of candidates representing
a broad spectrum of cultural backgrounds, work experience, and technical expertise.
Enphase leverages diverse employee referral programs, seeks talent from specialized
conferences, such as the Grace Hopper Conference, and requires recruiting agencies to
supply a diverse slate of candidates for each job placement search. In addition, our talent
acquisition department sponsors events and partners with diverse student organizations
on university campuses, makes certain all published job descriptions contain inclusive
language, and ensures that interview teams are broadly represented.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 29
Gender diversity (globally)
Percentage
Workforce Women Total
(rounded)
Executives 5 34 15%
Managers 41 296 14%
Employees 300 1,930 16%
Total 346 2,260 15%
Ethnic diversity* (U.S.)
Ethnicity Employees Percentage
Asian 118 21%
Black or African American 18 3.2%
Caucasian 334 59.5%
Hispanic or Latino 47 8.4%
Native American, Alaskan Native, Hawaiian
6 1.1%
Native
Two or More Races 19 3.4%
Declined to disclose 19 3.4%
Total 561 100%
Age diversity (globally)
Age Group Employees Percentage
Less than 30 Years of Age 1,120 49.6%
30-50 Years of Age 920 40.7%
More than 50 Years of Age 217 9.6%
Not Specified / Not Disclosed 3 0.1%
Total 2,260 100%
3300
Enphase works with outside organizations to promote
diversity, equity, and inclusion in the workplace.
Women in Cleantech
& Sustainability
In 2021, we launched a partnership with Women in Cleantech & Sustainability (WCTS),
an organization that fosters an influential network of professionals to further the roles of
women in growing the green economy and making a positive impact on the environment.
By joining WCTS, we are helping to shine a light on the need for more women in cleantech
and fostering support for clean energy with participation in events and mentorship
opportunities.
ParityPledge
In 2021, Enphase joined a significant number of established corporations by signing the
corporate “ParityPledge” in support of women and people of color in the workplace. The
pledge goal requires a commitment to interview and consider at least one qualified
woman and person of color for every open role, vice president and higher, including
c-suite and the Board.
CEO Action for
Diversity & Inclusion
In 2021, our CEO joined more than 2,000 other CEOs by signing the CEO Action for
Diversity & Inclusion pledge to act on supporting more inclusive workplaces. We pledged
to promote diversity in our leadership team and began to implement changes focused
on attracting more qualified and diverse talent into the company. We also pledged to
make positive changes in our hiring process, including rewriting job postings to appeal
to women, requiring that qualified diverse candidates must be interviewed for all new
executive-level and Board positions, and ensuring a diverse representation of interviewers
are always included in the process.
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002211 3311
P4. Talent
We are committed to attracting and developing a strong, diverse group of employees.
Our robust talent management includes global recruitment, career progression goals, and
leadership development - empowering employees to reach their full potential and find
satisfaction in their work.
70-20-10 learning model
Our learning model is designed to enable 70 percent of knowledge from job-related
experiences, 20 percent from interactions with others, and 10 percent from formal
learning events. This model reinforces our belief that learning is not just a result of
functional responsibility as it goes beyond goes beyond formal training. Learning and
development are therefore embedded into daily work, interactions, informal mentoring,
and stretch assignments at Enphase.
Blended model of new employee onboarding
“We are committed to attracting We have built a world-class, scalable, and blended model for new employee onboarding.
and developing a strong, diverse New employees can learn about Enphase, its products, and business units at a self-paced
group of employees.” mode, anytime, anywhere. Additionally, new employees have “connect” sessions with
local human resources and regional leaders to ensure face time with other team members
and company leadership, even during situations that make in-person interactions
prohibitive.
Enphase Learning Academy
In 2021, we built our learning wing, named Enphase Learning Academy. The Academy
utilizes EdCast’s Learning Experience Platform (LXP) and has a long-term goal of creating
a centralized learning hub for our employees. The LXP brings together internal, external,
formal, and informal sources of learning and knowledge in a simple, easy-to-use interface.
The platform uses artificial intelligence and machine learning to personalize the content,
driving an intuitive user experience for our employees.
Apart from self-paced learning, we offer tech talks on niche technical topics, webinars on
wellness and work-life balance, short management development modules, solar industry
orientation, and functional product and technical training programs.
Upskilling and reskilling for existing employees
The Enphase Learning Academy also offers a range of training programs for existing
employees focused on topics from leadership development and technology to risk and
compliance and business processes. We encourage our employees to evaluate their
abilities and identify development opportunities as part of their career goals.
32
Benefits
We believe our employees are our most valuable asset. Providing a competitive benefit
package to them and their families is critical to ensuring their continued success with
the company. The physical, mental, and financial well-being of our employees is very
important to us, and we make a concerted effort to continue to provide a holistic benefit
offering.
Employee engagement
“We encourage our employees We conduct an annual Employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS) and employee engagement
to evaluate their abilities survey, with a goal of achieving at least a 30% eNPS score. This survey drives our
employee engagement plans and activities for the upcoming year. Each function and
and identify development
business unit also prepares its own action plans for the year based on the survey results.
opportunities as part of their
career goals.”
In 2019, we launched our “Culture Revitalization” plan, which includes facilitated
“Unfreezing Workshops” conducted worldwide for all employees. These workshops
are intended to produce healthy, high-performance leaders, teams, and organizational
cultures. Due to the global health crisis in 2020 and 2021, our trained facilitators had to
pivot to “Virtual Unfreezing Workshops,” which we continue to offer quarterly so that new
employees can engage with the content.
We also introduced our Culture Playbook in 2019 that reflects our purpose and values,
and we continue to refine it annually each September. The current version, updated in
2021, can be found on the Enphase website.
Culture playbook
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 33
P5. Human rights and
responsible supply chain
Our commitment to human rights
We acknowledge and take seriously our responsibility to protect, preserve, and promote
human rights around the world. As we expand our global reach and impact, the need for
vigilance and due diligence regarding human rights issues throughout our operations will
grow, and we are committed to ensuring that the people and communities impacted by
our business are able to live a life of liberty, dignity, and respect. Our internal codes and
policies on human rights are rooted in established frameworks and conventions including:
“We acknowledge and take • United Nations Declaration on Human Rights
seriously our responsibility to • The Code of Conduct of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)
protect, preserve, and promote • The United Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights (UNGPs)
• OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises
human rights around the world.”
• International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and
Rights at Work
Beyond the fundamental rights defined in these instruments, we also consider access
to clean, reliable, and affordable energy as a basic human right and prerequisite for
achieving the 2030 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). Access to
energy helps to reduce poverty, improve health, reduce inequality, and raise standards of
living.
Business relationships
We seek to do business with those who share our values and commitment to human
rights and expect all business partners to abide by our codes of conduct. We promote
awareness and respect for human rights across the value chain, including the adoption of
legal contractual clauses and supplier screening measures. Grievance mechanisms are
available, including the use of an anonymous third-party whistleblower hotline available,
when instances of non-compliance with the Enphase Energy Code of Conduct (Code of
Conduct) or our Supplier Code of Conduct are observed or reported. Corrective actions
are taken involving managers, executive sponsors, and the Audit Committee of the Board
when appropriate.
At minimum, we expect our business partners to uphold basic human rights pertaining
to minimum wage, maximum working hours, freedom of association and the right to
collective bargaining, corporal punishment and disciplinary practices, acceptable living
conditions, non-discrimination, and compliance with health and safety laws as defined in
domestic and international conventions and frameworks.
34
Eradicating forced labor and human trafficking in
supply chains
We take the issues of slavery and human trafficking very seriously and will continue doing
our part by responsibly managing our supply chain to eradicate human trafficking and
slavery.
As stated in Section 15 of our Supplier Code of Conduct our suppliers must not support,
promote, or engage in the practice of forced labor, child labor, slavery, or human
trafficking. The Supplier Code of Conduct requires our suppliers, its next tier suppliers,
and subcontractors to comply with all international standards and applicable laws
regarding slavery and human trafficking and to conduct due diligence of their operations
to verify compliance that the materials used in our products comply with laws regarding
human trafficking and slavery. Also see our California Transparency in Supply Chains
Disclosure.
Materials sourcing and conflict minerals
We are committed to following all materials guidance and environmental regulatory
compliance requirements in all the countries in which we operate and sell. We do not
use cobalt in our batteries as this mineral represents an increased risk of being sourced
from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and other conflict-affected areas
associated with unfair labor practices. We expect our suppliers to source materials
and operate in a responsible manner consistent with the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development’s Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains
of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. Our SEC conflict minerals
disclosure on responsible sourcing is updated annually on our website. For additional
information, please refer to our most recent conflict minerals report and conflict minerals
policy.
“We are committed to following We expect our suppliers to acknowledge and agree to the following terms with respect to
all materials guidance and conflict minerals:
environmental regulatory
• Acknowledge that Enphase is required to meet the requirements of the Dodd-Frank
compliance requirements in
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
all the countries in which we
• Agree to provide Enphase with conflict mineral content and country of origin
operate and sell.”
information on products supplied to Enphase
• Agree to cooperate in Enphase or independent third-party auditing of supply chain and
procurement process, conflict mineral audits, and due diligence on its suppliers, and
• Agree to collaborate with Enphase in developing a chain of custody for conflict minerals
in the supply chain and identifying and sourcing conflict-free sources for minerals used
in Enphase products.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 35
Supplier selection and auditing
The success of our products would not be possible without positive and long-lasting
relationships with suppliers and partners that share our values of quality, design, and
sustainability. We work closely with all our contract manufacturers, from onboarding to
customer delivery, to ensure that our products are made while adhering to the highest
ethical, environmental, and socially responsible standards.
“Potential suppliers are We provide a Supplier Quality Assurance Manual that outlines our expectations of new
rigorously screened for quality, and existing partners. We are committed to producing high quality, reliable, and cost
including performance on effective products that are shipped on time, provide customer value, and conform to
national and international requirements. We, along with our customers demand and
environmental and social
expect defect-free products and services.
factors.”
Potential suppliers are rigorously screened for quality, including performance on
environmental and social factors. We began incorporating environmental and social
factors in our supplier quality assessment surveys in 2020, and during 2021 we screened
42% of new suppliers for quality, including environmental and social criteria, and are
preparing to increase coverage to 100% of new suppliers over time. Our screening criteria
includes:
• Presence of certified ISO 9001 or ISO/TS 16949 Quality Management System (QMS)
• Presence of certified ISO 14001 Environmental Management System (EMS)
• Presence of environmental policy, and
• Published REACH and RoHs compliance.
Due diligence and risk impact assessments
Enphase is committed to protecting human rights, enforcing fair labor practices,
and addressing the potential risks of forced labor, child labor, human trafficking, and
slavery across our operations and supply chain. We are strengthening our processes
for assessing supply chain risk exposure, with director-level oversight of developing a
risk impact assessment to monitor and report the impact to human rights which will be
reported annually to the Board.
36
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002211 3377
P6. Global occupational
health and safety
Our Occupational Health and Safety (OH&S) approach and Injury and Illness Prevention
Program (IIPP) are overseen by our Global Head of Environmental Health and Safety. They
are designed to anticipate and prevent occupational illness and promote an injury-free
workplace, while preparing a quick response to potential emergencies. We take a proactive
approach to health and safety management and are designing our systems on the guidance
provided in global standards such as ISO 14001 and ISO 45001. Our global senior leadership
is ultimately responsible for the safety and health commitments outlined below.
2021 Health and safety figures*
“We take a proactive
approach to health and safety
management and are designing Year 2021
our systems on the guidance
provided in global standards Lost time incident rate (LTIR) 0
such as ISO 14001 and ISO
45001.” Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) 0
Near-miss frequency rate (NMFR)** 0
Fatality rate 0
* North America and New Zealand facilities only
** New Zealand facility only
3388
We operate in a manner that protects the health and safety of our employees, visitors,
and communities. This is rooted in maintaining compliance with regulations and laws in
the areas that we operate. Beyond compliance, we will implement more stringent internal
requirements to protect our employees when existing regulations and laws may not
address specific internal risks that we have identified.
Health and safety are critical considerations during the design of our products and
processes. Through the development of a management system approach, we will
evaluate existing and potential hazards and risks and strive to eliminate them to prevent
occupational injuries and illnesses.
We openly communicate the opportunity for employees to participate in the development
of health and safety programs and processes, including encouraging suggestions and
requesting insight regarding hazards, risks and concerns. We are proud of our health and
safety record, with zero recordable incidents over the last year in our North America and
New Zealand locations and are committed to tracking and reporting safety figures across
all our global facilities.
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002211 3399
Society
We take seriously our responsibility to help
expand access to clean energy. We support
a more clean, reliable, and better-performing
grid, and we collaborate with a wide range of
stakeholders to advance policy outcomes in
support of clean energy across the world.
4400
S1. Enphase corporate
social responsibility initiatives
GRID Alternatives
We have been partnering with GRID Alternatives (GRID), a national non-profit leader,
for over a decade. GRID’s mission is to build community-powered solutions to advance
economic and environmental justice through renewable energy. GRID works towards
this mission by handling solar installations and providing job training in low-income
communities. GRID has installed nearly 9,000 systems in low-income communities
across the United States using Enphase technology, which is the equivalent of more
than 33 megawatts (MW) of solar power. These homes in the aggregate can enjoy an
estimated lifetime savings of more than $235 million and help prevent nearly 531,000 tons
of greenhouse gas emissions. Through our association, we have donated our industry-
leading microinverter products and our employees have volunteered more than 3,000
labor hours for the installation of solar on dozens of low-income homes and community
buildings over the past decade. GRID’s work has helped provide job trainees and
volunteers with more than 500,000 hours of solar education and training.
Children’s Haven + Solar Austin
In 2021, we collaborated with Solar Austin in a project to provide an Enphase®
Energy System, powered by IQ® Microinverters and IQ™ Batteries, at The Children’s
Haven Association, a nonprofit organization that provides increased opportunities to
underprivileged children and families in the Austin community of Travis County, Texas.
Through the collaboration, our technology will provide Solar Austin with reliable and
affordable power, enabling them to deliver more services and act as a resilient hub for
their community.
Let’s MOD
We partnered with Let’s MOD, formerly PolyUp, in 2021 to support its online program
that encourages kids to use innovation and science, technology, engineering, and
mathematics (STEM) skills for problem solving. We helped Let’s MOD create a digital
library of energy management tools to encourage students to learn more about the
sector. In addition, we supported a scholarship program for financially challenged
students interested in participating with this educational platform in India.
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002211 4411
YMCA Camp Cory
We partnered with Everybody Solar and Paradise Energy Solutions to help bring a solar
energy system to Camp Cory, a YMCA division camp in the state of New York that serves
youth, adults, families, and seniors. We donated our IQ® Microinverters to support the
project, which ultimately decreases the operating costs of the camp and allows it to serve
more children and families at the camp.
The Living Room Project
In 2021, we partnered with Taylor Energy to develop a large solar energy system for The
Living Room Project, a shelter that services over 1,200 women and children each year in
the Sonoma County region of California. The shelter provides housing, food, and outreach
to those in need. The solar energy system, powered by Enphase IQ Microinverters, is
projected to save The Living Room Project more than $150,000.
Semper Cares
We partnered with leading California solar installer, Semper Solaris, to support the
company’s Semper Cares Initiative. The initiative provides help to veterans and their
families in need of energy independence and security. Enphase donated solar energy
system equipment to help complete the project and give back to the U.S. Military veteran
community with more affordable and reliable power.
The Footprint Project
After the disaster of Hurricane Ida in 2021, we donated to The Footprint Project,
supporting the construction of solar-powered microgrids in areas of New Orleans,
Louisiana without power. The Footprint Project’s mission is to provide clean energy for
communities in crisis. The organization was able to play a role in providing power to those
in need by using microgrids at community centers, hospitals, and other sites.
Solar in the regions
We partnered with RACV Solar, one of Australia’s oldest and most trusted member-based
organizations, for its Solar in the Regions investment program. The initiative is designed
to improve safety for regional towns in Victoria by adapting community buildings and
installing solar power and battery storage to give them a reliable power supply when
the grid goes down, such as during extreme weather events and bushfires. The first of
three Enphase systems to be donated was installed at Yea Showgrounds and Recreation
Reserve.
4422
BuildHer Collective
BuildHer Collective is an organization committed to supporting women to build and
renovate their own homes, focusing on promoting diversity and sustainability. We
partnered with RACV Solar, the solar installation arm of the RACV, to install solar
with donated equipment on a key project called BuildHer8, which includes two new,
architecturally designed, all-electric homes in Fairfield, Victoria, Australia.
Stokes Bay Community Hall
We donated microinverters for the $1.3 million rebuilding of the Stokes Bay Community
Hall, destroyed by catastrophic Australian bushfires in 2020. Located on the northern
coast of Kangaroo Island, Stokes Bay has a population of more than 200 people, for
whom the 60-year-old hall is the heart of the community. The donation was made through
the Enphase Giveawatt social impact program and in partnership with Adelaide-based
Enphase Platinum installer partner, Energy SA.
The S-Series Microinverter repurposing program
In partnership with Solar Lifeline in Southeast Queensland, Australia, we donated
more than 300 S-Series microinverters to support the installation of solar systems for
Cleveland City Council’s low-income households and government housing programs in
Australia.
Stokes Bay Community Hall
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002211 4433
S2. Enphase grid
services
Adding value to customers and society with
home batteries
In 2021, for the first time, we offered customers with IQ™ Batteries the chance to
participate and earn money in a grid services program. These programs, also known as
“virtual power plants” (VPPs), create a network of home batteries that are managed by
utilities and grid operators. The programs pay homeowners for the stored energy in their
home batteries when the grid needs it the most. As a result, utilities do not need to turn
to the kinds of expensive, polluting power plants that traditionally address peak power
demand. A stable grid, powered by sustainable energy, and extra money for homeowners
— a win-win-win situation.
“A stable grid, powered by In many grid services programs, customers can sign up, monitor, and control participation
sustainable energy, and extra using our Enphase App right from the palm of their hand. The incentives reduce the cost
money for homeowners — a win- of the home energy system and make home batteries more accessible and affordable to
more people. As these programs scale, we will have cleaner, more affordable, and more
win-win situation.”
reliable energy for everyone.
We are now participating in four different grid services programs across the United States,
with plans to expand in the coming years. The following describes three of the utility
programs launched in 2021.
Arizona Public Service
We teamed up with Arizona Public Service (APS) for the utility’s residential battery pilot
grid services program. The program offers homeowners with Enphase IQ Batteries in
APS’s service territory two ways to participate and earn money through one-time, upfront
incentives. Customers who sign up for the program and simply share their data with APS,
including basic information about them and their Enphase® Energy System, will earn $500
per installed kilowatt of battery capacity with a cap of $2,500 per home.
Alternatively, homeowners can enroll in the program, share their data with APS, and allow
the utility to use the stored energy from their batteries on demand. These customers may
be eligible to earn the same $500 per installed kilowatt of battery capacity (up to $2,500
per home), plus an additional one-time payment of up to $1,250, for a total maximum
incentive of $3,750 per home.
ConnectedSolutions
Enphase customers with IQ Batteries in select utilities across Connecticut,
Massachusetts, and Rhode Island can participate and earn money through the
ConnectedSolutions program, a utility-run incentive program to reduce electrical demand
during high-use periods.
44
Once an Enphase battery is commissioned, homeowners may be eligible to enroll their
battery in the program. The utility will send a signal to the battery telling it to discharge
during “peak demand events.” These events occur when the grid is stressed from high
demand and can be expected up to 60 times every year. Discharging energy during these
times helps stabilize the grid all while using clean, sustainable energy.
Participating in these peak demand events is 100% optional for homeowners. But the
more they participate, and the more energy they make available, the more money they can
earn.
Hawaiian Electric
Hawaiian Electric’s Battery Bonus grid services program offers incentives to homeowners
who install a new IQ Battery on the island of Oahu. The first customers accepted by
the utility into the Battery Bonus program will be eligible to receive $850 per kW that
they commit to make available to HECO during a fixed two-hour period each day — for
example, qualified new IQ Battery 10 owners may be eligible to earn up to $3,264.
Adding more battery capacity onto the grid will help manage the retirement of a coal plant
and support Hawaii’s goal of 100 percent clean energy by 2045.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 45
S3. Enphase
backup report
Grid outage events
backed up by Enphase®
Energy Systems in 2021
53,942
in total
4,495
per month
147
per day
4466
Giving families peace of mind with home batteries
In 2021, we witnessed more large-scale power outages that left communities without power for days and even weeks at a time.
Our aging and overly constrained grid is struggling to deal with the increasingly devastating impacts of extreme weather caused
by climate change.
With more than 300 MWh of home batteries deployed by the end of 2021, we are a leader in giving homeowners peace of mind
and energy security as they navigate uncertain times. Enphase IQ™ Batteries and IQ® microinverters can be paired together
to back up just the essentials or an entire home. We have even made it possible for homeowners to integrate existing home
generators and power through even longer, more severe power outages.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 47
S4. Enphase
innovation
Supporting a more clean, reliable, and
better performing grid
Enphase Energy and the U.S. Department of Energy
In 2021, the Biden Administration released a plan to produce almost half of the nation’s
electricity from solar energy by 2050 as part of its effort to decarbonize and modernize
the grid. The Solar Futures Study by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) included a
significant focus on the study of storage and advanced inverter technology as a catalyst
for supporting a more reliable, better-performing grid with significant renewable energy
deployment. We are proud to be supporting two DOE projects that received a total of $31
million in funding to support this research.
Universal Interoperability for Grid-Forming Inverters (UNIFI) Consortium
We are part of the UNIFI consortium, which was formed by the National Renewable Energy
Laboratory, the University of Washington, and the Electric Power Research Institute. UNIFI
brings together leading researchers, industry stakeholders, utilities, and system operators
to advance grid-forming inverter technology and has been awarded $25 million from the
DOE’s Solar Energy Technologies Office. UNIFI is focused on integrating these inverters
into electric grids at any scale to enable high penetration of inverter-based resources like
solar and battery storage.
We have a leadership role in the Consortium and will be leveraging its expertise and
industry-leading microinverter technology for research and development to support the
project. Ultimately, our systems will be part of a 20 MW demonstration project with select
utilities that will showcase the group’s efforts to create a more modern, smart, clean
energy grid for everyone.
GridBright and the University of Pittsburgh
We also support GridBright and the University of Pittsburgh on a research project to
advance the integration of local solar into the existing electrical grid by providing data and
in-kind technical support. The project was awarded $6 million by the DOE.
48
Building the 21st Century Electricity System
“We worked with industry The electricity system in the United States today stands at the threshold of a bottom-up
experts in 2021 to outline and transformation, in which customers of all types become network participants, local energy
advocate for this transformed resources power electrification of buildings and transportation, and all communities enjoy
the resilience, economic, and health benefits of local clean energy. New technologies are
future.”
offering these possibilities just when we urgently need to change our energy practices to
meet the challenges of climate disruption.
We worked with industry experts in 2021 to outline and advocate for this transformed
future. In partnership with well-known electric power system reform and market design
expert, Lorenzo Kristov, we endorsed a white paper titled “Building the 21st Century
Electricity System.” The white paper sets forth the strategies and policies for moving to a
decarbonized, resilient, equitable, and customer-focused electric power system.
You can read the paper here:
Building the 21st century electricity system
Transmission
System Operator (TSO)
Enphase Utility Distribution
Local Distribution Area
Cloud Cloud System Operator (DSO)
Virtual Area Virtual Area
Virtual Area Virtual Area
DERs
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002211 4499
S5. Promoting clean
energy policy
We collaborate with a wide range of stakeholders to advance policy outcomes in support
of clean energy across the world. Working with policymakers, public advocacy groups,
and industry partners, we help drive meaningful progress toward the fair valuation of local
solar and battery technology, while expanding access to more people.
In the U.S., we strengthened our leadership role by joining the Solar Energy Industry
Association’s Board of Directors, as well as taking on leadership positions in various
committees and subcommittees. We also joined the Board of Directors for the California
Solar and Storage Association, which represents the largest state-affiliated solar and
battery industry association in the US.
“We collaborate with a wide We are a leading advocate for both the production tax credit for solar inverter
range of stakeholders to manufacturing, as well as the investment tax credit for solar and batteries. Our Chief
Operating Officer, Jeff McNeil, has presented alongside the United States Secretary of
advance policy outcomes in
Energy, Jennifer Granholm, advocating for domestic manufacturing and clean energy
support of clean energy across
jobs. Investments in advanced energy can bolster U.S. manufacturing, create good jobs,
the world.”
and expand business opportunities for companies in our industry.
In Australia, we actively participate in various working groups and elected committees
representing the distributed energy industry. These groups include Standards Australia,
Smart Energy Council, Clean Energy Council, Master Electricians Association, and more.
Through our local team, we are also participating in working groups and offering formal
submissions with key market bodies such as the Australian Energy Market Operator
(AEMO), the Australian Energy Market Commission (AEMC), the Australian Energy
Regulator (AER), and the Electricity Networks Association (ENA). These advocacy efforts
aim to demonstrate what is possible with advanced energy management and remove
functionality to appropriately define the future energy network in Australia.
50
Advancing local solutions
Illinois
We worked with industry stakeholders to help shape policy at the Illinois Commerce
Commission aimed at assigning more value to behind-the-meter solar and batteries.
Through working sessions and official comment submissions, we helped advance
conversations to bring grid services programs to Illinois. Grid services will provide
additional value to homeowners that install solar and batteries, while reducing the need
for expensive and polluting fossil fuels across the state.
Washington
Working with the Washington Utilities and Transportation Commission and Puget Sound
Energy, we helped create additional value streams for local solar and batteries. This
industry-backed policy effort drove policymakers to allow behind-the-meter batteries
to export energy, creating clean energy VPPs that will help the state meet its renewable
energy goals.
Arizona
We are one of only three companies participating in the State’s “Bring Your Own Device”
battery program. We have led discussions with the Arizona Corporation Commission and
Arizona Public Service Company to advocate for the utility to implement new demand
response programs and a new distributed demand-side resource (DDSR) tariff that will
ultimately compensate homeowners for a multitude of services their behind-the-meter
solar and battery assets can bring to the grid in a simple and predictable way.
California
Starting in 2021, we collaborated with industry stakeholders to begin working with
policymakers across California to develop advanced energy policy that will shape
the state’s new grid services program aimed at preventing utility blackouts caused by
weather-related surges in energy demand. The Emergency Load Reduction Program was
created, which is a new “demand response” approach to help avoid rotating outages
during peak summer electricity usage periods. We continue to advocate for state officials
to modernize the way they measure home battery discharge, ensuring maximum value for
homeowners that provide critical support to the overall grid.
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002211 5511
Corporate
governance
We regularly evaluate a myriad of
risks associated with climate change,
governance, human rights, integrity,
employee satisfaction, finance, information
technology, and other business processes
to ensure a strong internal governance with
clear communication. We participate in the
development of policies and regulations
around the world as part of our core
governance principles.
5522
G1. ESG governance
and leadership
Board oversight of ESG
The Board is presided over by a Lead Independent Director. We believe that having a
Lead Independent Director creates an environment that is more conducive to objective
evaluation and oversight of management’s performance, increasing management
accountability and improving the ability of the Board to monitor whether management’s
actions are in the best interests of our company and our stockholders.
“We appreciate the importance Our governance framework is firmly rooted in risk management and compliance, which
of ESG risks and opportunities, serves as the foundation for additional voluntary sustainability and ESG efforts at
Enphase. We appreciate the importance of ESG risks and opportunities, and the Board
and the Board and its
and its committees are responsible for directing our overall ESG strategy.
committees are responsible
for directing our overall ESG
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee oversees ESG matters including
strategy.”
strategy, initiatives, and policies, communication with employees, investors, and other
interested stakeholders. Our cross-functional ESG executive leadership team updates
the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee on at least an annual basis on
emerging ESG trends, reporting and regulations, and assessment of strategic objectives
over the short-, medium-, and long-term on climate and emissions, diversity, human rights,
and other material ESG topics.
The Audit Committee annually identifies and assesses all key company risks and monitors
our risk mitigation efforts. The annual ERM program incorporates material ESG risk factors
and is reviewed formally by our management and executives with oversight from the Audit
Committee of the Board. This process includes reviewing potential financial impacts of
transition and physical climate risks outlined in the TCFD.
The Compensation Committee oversees matters related to human capital management,
including inclusion and diversity initiatives, leadership development and talent
assessments. The Committee is also responsible for executive compensation and pay
metrics.
Additional information about the role of the Board and its various committees is available
in our Corporate Governance Guidelines.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 53
ESG management structure
Our cross-functional ESG executive team led by our General Counsel and the supporting
working groups manage and operationalize the ESG program across the company.
The ESG team is comprised of executive management representatives and meets at
least quarterly to review ESG risks and opportunities, develop ESG goals and targets,
and allocate the necessary resources to achieve company-wide ESG objectives. The
supporting ESG working groups include senior leaders and key internal stakeholders
representing legal, investor relations, global policy and government affairs, facilities,
procurement, supply chain, manufacturing, human resources, compliance, and risk
management. Progress toward ESG goals and targets is incentivized through our quarterly
bonus system accessible to all employees and executives.
Enphase Energy Board
of Directors
Nominating &
Audit
Corporate Governance
Committee
Committee
Enterprise Risk ESG Executive
Management (ERM) Leadership
Committee Team
ESG
Working Group
54
Board diversity and independence
We take seriously our longstanding and continuing commitment to effectiveness in the
boardroom. We believe that our Board should represent diversity of thought, background,
skill, experience, and expertise. We recognize that enhancing demographic diversity
on the Board, through the representation of women and underrepresented groups,
encourages a thoughtful decision-making process that is important to effective corporate
governance. Consistent with our philosophy, we have codified a version of the Rooney
Rule in our Corporate Governance Guidelines, which states that, "the Nominating and
Corporate Governance Committee will ensure each pool of qualified candidates for
“We believe that our Board additional or vacant Board positions from which Board nominees are chosen includes
should represent diversity of candidates who bring racial and/or gender diversity." In 2020, we implemented this
thought, background, skill, provision in our director search and as a result appointed our first female member, Jamie
Haenggi, to our Board. The composition of our seven-person board reflects a variety
experience, and expertise.”
of backgrounds, experiences, and tenures, and we continue to seek opportunities to
enhance the diversity and effectiveness of our Board.
Gender diversity
1 6
Female Male
Demographic background
1 1
Asian Hispanic
or Latinx
3 2
White Did not
disclose
Age diversity
1 3
between ages of between ages of
30–40 41–55
1 2
between ages of over the age of
56–70 70
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002211 5555
G2. Business ethics
and compliance
Enphase Energy code of conduct
At Enphase, we believe that all people should be treated with dignity and respect.
The Code of Conduct applies to all officers, directors and employees, contractors,
and consultants. It provides general guidelines to ensure proper and ethical behavior,
compliance with laws, and compliance with our standards, policies, and procedures.
We are committed to complying with all applicable laws and regulations everywhere we
operate.
Clawback policy
Our clawback policy applies to all employees and allows us to recover any incentive-
based compensation that was paid based on erroneous financial information reported
under securities laws. Specifically, we may recoup any incentive compensation from any
employee if: (i) he or she engages in intentional misconduct pertaining to any financial
reporting policy; (ii) there is a material negative revision of a financial or operating
measure on the basis of which incentive compensation was awarded or paid to the
employee; or (iii) he or she engages in any fraud, theft, misappropriation, embezzlement or
dishonesty. Any recoupment will be made irrespective of whether the employee’s conduct
contributed to the need for the restatement and/or revision. For additional information,
please refer to our 2022 Proxy Statement.
Supplier conduct
We choose business partners who share our mission and intend to only work with those
who agree that our shared success is based on acting ethically and lawfully. We expect
our business partners to adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct, which includes (a)
conducting business with high ethical standards; (b) complying with applicable laws;
(c) supporting the human rights of workers and treat their employees with dignity; (d)
adhering to anti-slavery and human trafficking principles; and (e) maintaining safe and
healthy working conditions.
Whistleblower policy
We take matters of ethics and integrity seriously at all levels of our organization and
provide an anonymous platform to report violations of the Code of Conduct. Concerns
may be reported anonymously through a third-party, independent whistleblower
service, available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and are investigated promptly with
the highest degree of confidentiality. Retribution or retaliation against whistleblowers
is strictly prohibited, and employees are also empowered to report any suspicious or
unethical activity directly to their manager, human resources, legal, or our Compliance
Officer. For additional information, please refer to our Code of Conduct.
56
G3. Risk
management
We regularly evaluate a myriad of risks associated with climate change, governance,
human rights, integrity, employee satisfaction, finance, information technology, and other
business processes through our ERM program. Our ERM Committee annually identifies
and assesses all key company risks and monitors risk mitigation efforts.
“We collaborate with national To determine risks year-over-year, the employee population is stratified. Select employees
labs, government agencies, and representing various functions at all levels across all geographies and cost centers -
executive, operations, finance, sales, engineering, IT, etc. - respond to an extensive risk
university research groups to
questionnaire encompassing regulation, health and safety, human resources, integrity,
develop innovative solutions
and other factors.
that enable more efficient and
sustainable products.”
The ERM program is designed to deliver knowledge sharing from our employees on
specific risk topics and to accumulate information on opportunities and actions to be
taken by leadership. Risk events are assessed by cross functional employees each year.
Participants are given absolute assurance that their responses are anonymous and
individual survey responses are held in confidence. A robust methodology then combines
risk responses and evaluates risk likelihood, impact, and velocity to rank risks for priority
treatment by functional leaders. Top risks are identified for every business unit and
presented to our Board. We then work collectively to mitigate and address all top risks
affecting our company’s ability to meet its stated objectives.
We also track market and regulatory requirements that impact our business and play an
active role in the development of new standards for the solar industry. We collaborate
with national labs, government agencies, and university research groups to develop
innovative solutions that enable more efficient and sustainable products.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 57
G4. Cybersecurity
and data privacy
We believe that cybersecurity and privacy is a basic right that should apply globally,
regardless of where someone resides and what laws may apply, and whether they are an
employee, customer, or general consumer. This approach is part of our daily practices and
in nearly everything we do, including new product features, management of data subject
access requests, how we treat our employees, and in our relationships with partners.
“We believe that cybersecurity In implementing this unified approach, we look to the world’s strictest laws, regulations,
and privacy is a basic right that and rules, including the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and California’s
should apply globally, regardless Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) and California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), while also staying
abreast of many other federal, state, and local laws and proposed laws. We adhere to
of where someone resides
these stringent regulations in all processing of personal information, including collection,
and what laws may apply, and
use, storage, retention, security, disclosure, and transfer. The details disclosed in our
regardless of whether they
privacy policy demonstrate our commitment and serve as a frequent source of truth for
are an employee, customer, or ongoing business operations. We continue to review and update our privacy policy as our
general consumer.” business evolves and expands.
We recognize that enterprise and product security is a backbone of sound privacy
practices. We have implemented a combination of organizational, technical, and physical
safeguards designed to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and accuracy of information,
including personal information. Our security programs include:
• Enterprise-wide security initiatives designed to constantly adapt to the evolving threat
landscape
• Cybersecurity Training and Awareness Program that includes new employee training,
annual risk-relevant refresher trainings for all employees, quarterly penetration
exercises, just-in-time training assignments, and secure coding training for software
developers, and
• Next-generation product architectures are designed specifically with security in mind
Our executive staff and Audit Committee are also engaged in periodic reporting and
improvement in our security posture.
58
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002211 5599
Appendix
6600
Carbon and emissions
calculation methodology
Prevented metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (MT COe) figures are derived
2
from actual kilowatt-hour (kWh) production of our deployed microinverter fleet from
company inception through December 31, 2021 as recorded in our Enlighten™ monitoring
database, including a gross up factor of 1.2 to account for deployed systems which are
not monitored in the Enlighten database because the system owner has not chosen to
connect to the Enlighten system. The conversion of actual kWh production to carbon
dioxide equivalent figures was made using the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator.
The GHG emissions inventory follows the guidance provided in the GHG Protocol
Corporate Standard, covering direct (scope one), electricity indirect (scope two),
and business travel (scope three) categories. Our scope one emissions for 2021 are
considered negligible given that our products are assembled by third-party contract
manufacturers and we do not operate a company vehicle fleet.
Our scope two emissions are calculated using a location-based method for electricity
and heat consumption across leased facilities, globally. Note that heat consumption
was only gathered for facilities located in North America for the 2021 GHG emissions
inventory. Electricity and heat consumption were converted to MT COe using emission
2
factor data provided in the Emissions Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories provided
by the U.S. EPA and information provided in the Emission Factors 2021 data set made
available by the International Energy Agency (IEA). Emissions calculations cover those
emissions attributable to CO, NO, CH from electricity and heat generation, as well as
2 2 4
those resulting from transmission and distribution losses. Gases are converted to COe by
2
multiplying by their global warming potential (GWP), referencing default factors provided
by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Scope three emissions
attributable to business travel were provided by our third-party travel agency.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 61
GRI index
GRI Standard Disclosure Location
GRI 2: General
2-1 Organizational details See About Us section; Back cover
disclosures
2-3 Reporting period, frequency, and contact point 2021, annually, ir@enphaseenergy.com
See About Us and Environment sections; See 2021 Report on Form 10-K
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships
(Business Section)
2-7 Employees See People Section
2-9 Governance structure and composition See Corporate Governance Section; See 2022 Proxy Statement
See Corporate Governance Section (Board Diversity and Independence);
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body
See 2022 Proxy Statement
See Corporate Governance Section (ESG Governance and Leadership); See
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body
2022 Proxy Statement
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the See Corporate Governance Section (ESG Governance and Leadership); See
management of impacts 2022 Proxy Statement
See Corporate Governance Section (ESG Governance and Leadership); See
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts
2022 Proxy Statement
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting See Corporate Governance Section (ESG Governance and Leadership)
2-15 Conflicts of interest See 2022 Proxy Statement
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body See Board of Directors information on Enphase company website
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body See 2022 Proxy Statement
2-19 Remuneration policies See 2022 Proxy Statement
2-20 Process to determine remuneration See 2022 Proxy Statement
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy See 2022 CEO Letter
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts See Enphase Code of Conduct
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns See Corporate Governance Section (Business Ethics and Compliance)
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations See Enphase Code of Conduct
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 66
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements See 2021 Report on Form 10-K (Business Section)
GRI 3: Material topics 3-1 Process to determine material topics p. 66
GRI 201: Economic
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed pp. 14-15
performance
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to
See Climate Change Strategy Section, p. 19
climate change
GRI 203: Indirect
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported pp. 40-51, 64-65
economic impacts
GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization p. 22
302-3 Energy intensity p. 22
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption p. 24
GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions p. 22
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions p. 22
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions p. 22
305-4 GHG emissions intensity p. 22
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions pp. 22-24
GRI 306: Waste 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts p. 25
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts p. 25
62
GRI Standard Disclosure Location
GRI 308: Supplier
environmental 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria p. 36
assessment
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions
pp. 34-36
taken
GRI 403: Occupation-
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system pp. 38-39
al health and safety
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation pp. 25, 38-39
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on
pp. 38-39
occupational health and safety
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety pp. 38-39
403-6 Promotion of worker health pp. 28-29
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety
pp. 38-39
impacts directly linked by business relationships
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety
100%
management system
403-9 Work-related injuries pp. 38-39
403-10 Work-related ill health pp. 38-39
GRI 404: Training 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition
pp. 32-33
and education assistance programs
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and
100%
career development reviews
GRI 405: Diversity
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees pp. 30, 55
and equal opportunity
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men p. 31
GRI 408: Child labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor pp. 34-36; Also see Enphase Code of Conduct
GRI 409: Forced or 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of
pp. 34-36; Also see Enphase Code of Conduct
compulsory labor forced or compulsory labor
GRI 414: Supplier
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria p. 36
Social Assessment
GRI 416: Customer 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and
p. 25
health and safety service categories
GRI 417: Marketing 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service
Zero
and Labeling information and labeling
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing
Zero
communications
GRI 418: Customer 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer
Zero
Privacy privacy and losses of customer data
SASB index
Topic Accounting Metrics Code Location
Hazardous Waste Management Amount of hazardous waste generated RR-ST-150a.1 2.24 metric tons RCRA and
non-RCRA (CA)
Number and aggregate quantity of reportable spills, quantity recovered RR-ST-150a.2 Zero, n/a
Management of Energy Infrastructure Description of risks associated with integration of solar energy into existing energy RR-ST-410a.1 pp. 44-51
Integration and Related Regulations infrastructure and discussion of efforts to manage those risks
Description of risks and opportunities associated with energy policy and its impact RR-ST-410a.2 pp. 44-51
on the integration of solar energy into existing energy infrastructure
Product End-of-life Management Description of approach and strategies to design products for high-value recycling RR-ST-410b.4 p. 25
Materials Sourcing Description of the management of risks associated with the use of critical materials RR-ST-440a.1 pp. 34-36
Total Project Development Assets Reporting currency RR-ST-000.C pp. 7-8, 14-15, 68-69
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 63
Contributing to the UN Sustainable
Development Goals
GOAL DESCRIPTION TARGETS ENPHASE CONTRIBUTION
End poverty in all its 1,5 Enphase directly reduces exposure and vulnerability
forms everywhere to extreme climate events and other economic, social,
and environmental shocks and disasters by deploying
renewable energy generation and management systems
across the globe. The renewable energy directly reduces
GHG emissions and mitigates climate risk.
Ensure healthy lives and 3.9 Renewable energy generation and management
promote well-being for promotes environmental justice, good health, and well-
being by avoiding the release of hazardous chemicals
all at all ages
and air, water, and soil pollution associated with
traditional forms of energy production.
Ensure inclusive and 4.3, 4.4, 4.5 We promote technical and vocational education in the
equitable quality education renewable energy industry through our company learning
and promote lifelong learning platform and non-profit partnerships. As our geographic
reach continues to grow, we will expand opportunities for
opportunities for all
men, women, and children to learn about the renewable
energy industry and create opportunities to contribute to
global deployment of renewable energy technologies.
Achieve gender equality 5.1, 5.2, 5.5 We do not tolerate discrimination in any form, including
and empower all women against women. We are committed to eliminating human
trafficking, slavery, and any type of human rights abuses
and girls
across our supply chain. We have a woman on our Board
of Directors and women are represented in managerial
positions throughout the Company.
Ensure access to affordable, 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, 7.a, 7.b Access to reliable, affordable, and modern energy
reliable, sustainable, and services is what Enphase offers its customers. Enphase
microinverters boast the highest levels of reliability, and
modern energy for all
our next generation off-grid solutions are paving the
way for further access. As Enphase continues to grow
globally and gain market share, it accelerates its positive
impact and contributes to the goal of increasing the
global renewable energy mix.
6644
Promote sustained, inclusive, 8.2, 8.3, 8.7, 8.8 Through our work in deploying renewable energy systems in
and sustainable economic emerging markets, we are supporting economic growth in
developing countries. We employ local leaders and attract
growth, full and productive
talent from local markets, helping to provide decent work
employment and decent
globally. We are committed to eradicating forced child
work for all
labor and ending modern slavery and human trafficking of
children, including the use of child soldiers.
Build resilient infrastructure, 9.2, 9.4, 9.5 Our core business contributes directly to the “adoption of
promote inclusive and clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial
processes.” We have expanded our manufacturing footprint
sustainable industrialization
globally, accelerating our ability to upgrade infrastructure
and foster innovation
to be more sustainable, particularly regarding clean and
environmentally-sound renewable energy generation and
management technologies.
Reduce inequality within 10.1, 10.2 We are creating opportunities for economic growth and
and among countries social inclusion as we expand our operations across the
world. Over the past five years we have expanded our
operations in India from 20 to over 1500 employees, and look
forward to our continued growth and impact in developing
countries.
Make cities and human 11.3 Sustainable urbanization is a priority for both residential
settlements inclusive, safe, and small commercial applications of our products and
services. Additionally, we support this goal through
resilient, and sustainable
our long-standing philanthropic activities that help
to provide solar energy for low-income communities
through our partnership with GRID alternatives.
Ensure sustainable 12.2, 12.4, 12.5, Advancing a sustainable future for all includes taking
consumption and 12.6, 12.7, 12.8, 12.a responsibility for managing natural resources efficiently,
especially with respect to product life cycle and waste
production patterns
streams. We are committed to environmental stewardship,
responsible resource use, and contributing to the
development of a circular economy.
Take urgent action to 13.1 The Enphase® Energy System helps communities be
combat climate change more resilient in the face of climate-related hazards
and natural-disasters through its grid-agnostic and
and its impacts
energy storage capabilities; allowing homeowners and
businesses to stay safe and connected even when grid
services are interrupted or when there is extensive
damage to energy infrastructure due to natural disasters.
EENNVVIIRROONNMMEENNTTAALL,, SSOOCCIIAALL,, AANNDD GGOOVVEERRNNAANNCCEE RREEPPOORRTT 22002211 6655
About this
report
We referenced the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) to identify material
financial ESG metrics for the investor community and referenced the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI) standards to report on additional material sustainability issues. We drew
upon subject matter expertise of our colleagues throughout Enphase to collect and
organize the content relative to the areas we identified for disclosure. Additionally, we
provided disclosures aligned with the four key themes of the Taskforce for Financial-
Related Climate Disclosure (TCFD). Lastly, we compared our activities to the United
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to assess and convey how we are
contributing to these important goals.
For specific information about this report or our sustainability program overall, please
contact us at ir@enphaseenergy.com. We intend to issue this report on an annual basis.
All information included in this report is for the twelve-month period ended December 31,
2021, unless otherwise stated.
References to “we,” “us,” “our,” “Enphase” or “Enphase Energy” throughout this report
pertain to Enphase Energy, Inc.
66
Forward-looking statements
and other important legal
information
This report and the materials or websites cross-referenced contain statements that
are aspirational or reflective of our views about our future performance that constitute
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are generally identified through the
inclusion of words such as “aim,” “anticipate,” “aspire,” “believe,” commit,” “endeavor,”
“estimate,” “expect,” “goal,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “seek,” “strive,” “target,”
“projection,” “will,” and “work,” or similar statements or variations of such terms and other
similar expressions. The forward-looking statements in this document and the materials
or websites cross-referenced concern our goals, progress or expectations with respect
to corporate responsibility, sustainability, employees, environmental matters, policy, and
business risks and opportunities. Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in
such statements. These statements are based on numerous assumptions that we believe
are reasonable, but are open to a wide range of uncertainties and business risks. In
addition, these statements may be based on standards for measuring progress that are
still developing, controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that
are subject to change in the future. Consequently, actual results may vary materially from
what is contained in a forward-looking statement.
For a further description of the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to
differ from those expressed in these forward-looking statements, as well as risks relating
to our business in general, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC) on February 11, 2022 and our subsequent periodic
reports filed with the SEC from time to time. Copies of these filings are available on the
Enphase website at http://investor.enphase.com/sec.cfm, or on the SEC website at www.
sec.gov. All forward-looking statements in this report are based on information currently
available to us, and we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements
in light of new information
or future events.
The information included in, and any issues identified as material for purposes of, this
document may not be considered material for SEC reporting purposes. In the context
of this report, the term “material” is distinct from, and should not be confused with,
such term as defined for SEC reporting purposes. Website references and hyperlinks
throughout this document are provided for convenience only, and the content on the
referenced third-party websites is not incorporated by reference into this report, nor does
it constitute a part of this report. We assume no liability for the content contained on the
referenced third-party references. This report contains non-GAAP financial measures
relating to our performance. You can find the reconciliation of these measures to the most
directly comparable GAAP financial measures on the next page.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 67
GAAP to Non-GAAP reconciliation
Enphase Energy, Inc. reconciliation of Non-GAAP financial measures
In millions, except Q1’19 Q2’19 Q3’19 Q4’19 Q1’20 Q2’20 Q3’20 Q4’20 FY’20 Q1’21 Q2’21 Q3’21 Q4’21 FY’21
percentages
Gross profit (GAAP) $33.4 $45.3 $64.7 $77.9 $80.7 $48.4 $95.0 $121.9 $346.0 $122.9 $127.8 $140.4 $163.3 $554.4
Stock-based 0.2 0.4 0.5 0.5 0.6 1.3 1.2 0.5 3.7 1 1.1 2.9 2.4 7.4
compensation
Tariff refunds - - - - - - (23.0) (15.9) (38.9) - - - - -
Acquisition related - - - - - - - - - - - - 0.2 0.2
amortization
Gross profit (Non-GAAP) 33.6 45.7 65.2 78.4 81.3 49.7 73.2 106.5 310.8 123.9 128.9 143.3 165.9 562
Gross margin (GAAP) 33.3% 33.8% 35.9% 37.1% 39.2% 38.5% 53.2% 46.0% 44.7% 40.7% 40.4% 39.9% 39.6% 40.1%
Stock-based 0.2% 0.3% 0.3% 0.2% 0.3% 1.1% 0.7% 0.2% 0.5% 0.4% 0.4% 0.9% 0.6% 0.6%
compensation
Tariff refunds -% -% -% -% -% -% -12.9% -6.0% (5.1%) -% -% -% -% -%
Acquisition related -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -% -%
amortization
Gross margin (Non-GAAP) 33.5% 34.1% 36.2% 37.3% 39.5% 39.6% 41.0% 40.2% 40.1% 41.1% 40.8% 40.8% 40.2% 40.7%
Operating expenses 26.2 27.9 31 33.4 36 37.5 43.2 42.8 159.5 61.5 68.4 103.1 105.6 338.6
(GAAP)
Stock-based (3.0) (4.2) (5.0) (5.6) (6.9) (11.0) (13.1) (7.8) (38.7) (13.8) (14.2) (44.2) (34.7) (106.9)
compensation
Restructuring and asset (0.4) (0.7) (0.5) (1.1) - - - - - - - - - -
impairment charges
Acquisition related (0.5) (0.5) (0.5) (0.6) (0.6) (0.5) (0.5) (0.8) (2.5) (4.0) (2.5) (1.6) (2.7) (10.8)
expenses and amortization
Operating expenses 22.3 22.5 25 26.1 28.5 26 29.6 34.2 118.3 43.7 51.7 57.3 68.2 220.9
(Non-GAAP)
Income from operations 7.1 17.4 33.7 44.4 44.7 10.9 51.8 79.1 186.4 61.4 59.4 37.3 57.7 215.8
(GAAP)
Stock-based 3.3 4.6 5.5 6.2 7.5 12.3 14.4 8.3 42.5 14.8 15.3 47.1 37.1 114.3
compensation
Tariff refunds - - - - - - (23.0) (15.9) (38.9) - - - - -
Restructuring and asset 0.4 0.7 0.5 1.1 - - - - - - - - - -
impairment charges
Acquisition related 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.9 2.5 4 2.5 1.6 2.9 11.0
expenses and amortization
Income from operations 11.3 23.2 40.2 52.3 52.8 23.7 43.7 72.4 192.5 80.2 77.2 86 97.7 341.1
(Non-GAAP)
68
Enphase Energy, Inc. reconciliation of Non-GAAP financial measures (continued)
In millions, except per share data FY’21
Net income (GAAP) $145.4
Stock-based compensation 114.3
Acquisition related expenses and amortization 10.9
Non-cash interest 44.4
Loss on partial settlement of convertible notes 56.5
Non-GAAP income tax adjustment (31.2)
Net income (Non-GAAP) $340.3
Net income per share, diluted (GAAP) $1.02
Stock-based compensation 0.81
Acquisition related expenses and amortization 0.08
Non-cash interest expense 0.32
Loss on partial settlement of convertible notes 0.40
Non-GAAP income tax adjustment (0.22)
Net income per share, diluted (Non-GAAP) (1) $2.41
Shares used in per share calculation GAAP 142.9
Shares used in per shares calculation Non-GAAP (2) 141.8
1. Calculation of non-GAAP diluted net income per share for the year ended December 31, 2021, excludes convertible notes due 2023 interest expense, net of tax of less than
$0.1 million from non-GAAP net income.
2. Effect of dilutive in-the-money portion of convertible senior notes and warrants are included in the GAAP weighted-average diluted shares in periods where the Company
has GAAP net income. The Company excluded the in-the-money portion of convertible notes due 2024 totaling 0.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, from non-
GAAP weighted-average diluted shares as the Company entered into convertible note hedge transactions that reduce potential dilution to the Company’s common stock
upon any conversion of the notes due 2024. The Company excluded the in-the-money portion of convertible notes due 2025 totaling 0.9 million shares for the year ended
December 31, 2021, from non-GAAP weighted-average diluted shares as the Company entered into convertible note hedge transactions that reduce potential dilution to the
Company’s common stock upon any conversion of the notes due 2025.
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2021 69
©2022 Enphase Energy, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Enphase Energy, Enphase, the E logo, IQ, IQ8, Enlighten, Ensemble, and other trademarks or service names are the trademarks of
Enphase Energy, Inc. Other names and marks used herein may be trademarks or services marks owned by third parties.
70
