Engagement Report
Franklin Templeton Fixed Income Sustainability
January 2024
Introduction
Open and transparent communication is crucial in the face of “
Our view around
In last year’s report, we highlighted our view that transparency
a rapidly expanding sustainable finance market. At Franklin
is the foundation for sustainable finance, and we hope to build this is that there
Templeton Fixed Income (FTFI), we have a fiduciary duty to
on that view this year by continuing to share engagement is growing
represent the best interest of our investors, while our global
insights on some of the same topics, as well as new areas of
recognition of the
reach means that we are uniquely positioned to do so. We firmly
regulation and market interest.
value of being an
believe that we can use our exposure to, and relationships with,
The level of engagement that we have received from our ‘ engaged’ market
issuers across the world to help work towards solutions that
investee companies has been very positive, and our view
deliver strong results for everyone involved. participant.”
around this is that there is growing recognition of the value of
being an ‘engaged’ market participant, and the insights that Engagement is about encouraging issuers to improve their
these engagements have given us. environmental, social, and governance (ESG) practices over
the long run through a constructive and structured dialogue.
This year, we continued with our four-year-long focus on the
We understand that many of our clients wish to not only invest
energy transition—this time through the lens of the important
in support of a more sustainable future, but also improve their
‘Science Based Targets’ tool—and we gained important
financial returns. We certainly believe that those issuers that
insights into how these target setting tools are being viewed
think critically about the environment in which they operate are
and used by the markets. The engagement was a cornerstone
more likely to be well-positioned to weather various challenges
of our biodiversity strategy, and we had an opportunity to
discuss financing ecosystems protection with both sovereign and may outperform throughout both peaks and troughs of
and corporate issuers. We also spent a fair amount of time a market cycle.
trying to understand how our investee companies were
responding or planning to respond to the EU Pay Transparency
Directive that comes into effect in 2024. I invite you to explore
those and other topics in the report.
In the 2023 calendar year, we made use of far more efficient
engagement tools than ever before, allowing us to reach well
over half thousands of our portfolio companies and sovereigns
on a variety of topics.
DAVID ZAHN, CFA, FRM
Head of Sustainable Investment & Europe, Fixed Income
Senior Vice President, Portfolio Manager
Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited
franklintempleton.com Engagement Report 1
Our engagement process in 2023
Purpose of engagement Figure 1. Purpose of Engagement within Idiosyncratic Engagement
We distinguish between two main
100%
purposes of engagement—
information (e.g., clarification, 80%
exchange of views) or change (e.g.,
improving disclosure of sustainability 60%
information, addressing a material
issue). Sometimes engagement can 40%
include both these goals.
20%
0%
Corporates Sub-Sovereigns and Agency (SAA)
Information Change Both
Data from Franklin Templeton Fixed Income Engagement Tracker. As of December 2023.
Method of engagement Figure 2. Methods of Contact
The ‘purposeful dialogue’ that analysts
Survey 45%
undertake can occur in many different
forms. Idiosyncratic engagement 1-1 Meeting 25%
Over the last year, we
Our engagement process is twofold usually compromises emails, 1:1 Email 23%
engaged with approximately
meeting, or roadshow attendance. Roadshow 7%
570 issuers on topics related Cross sectional engagement consists
to the energy transition, of questionnaires or surveys to
compare information from large
biodiversity, social coherence
amounts of issuers.
and the quality of disclosure. Data is based on the total number of interactions.
Data from Franklin Templeton Fixed Income Engagement Tracker. As of December 2023.
Idiosyncratic (issuer- Cross sectional
Sovereign and credit analysts
specific) engagement (thematic) engagement
regularly engage with
government departments,
As part of analysts’ routine One theme, discussed with
Sectors engaged Figure 3. Sectors Engaged
policymakers, and company fundamental analysis—seeking many companies to deepen our
We do not overlook any sector
clarification, greater disclosure or understanding of it. This year
management on ESG issues. Financials 25%
and try to engage in all of them.
pushing a company to deliver was anchored in consideration
A lower percentage of sectors Utilities 12%
a certain outcome. In 2023, 319 of biodiversity conservation,
engaged does not necessarily mean Materials 10%
issuers were contacted as part of Science Based Targets initiative
this engagement process—273 among electric utilities and that we have not engaged, but rather Industrials 9%
reflects a lower exposure to those
corporate issuers and 46 sub- other companies, and gender Consumer Staples 9%
sectors in the portfolios
sovereigns and agency (SSA) diversity and pay gap within
Consumer Discretionary 8%
issuers (including 30 countries)— financial institutions. In 2023,
Energy 8%
resulting in a total of 399 329 issuers were contacted as
Real Estate 6%
engagements interactions. part of this engagement process.
Communication Services 6%
Health Care 5%
Information Technology 2%
Data from Franklin Templeton Fixed Income Engagement Tracker. As of December 2023.
2 Engagement Report franklintempleton.com franklintempleton.com Engagement Report 3
What issues have we spent Figure 4. Overall ESG Themes
the most time engaging on?
Environmental 53%
Below, we have outlined a high-level
Social 13%
view of the topics on which we have
spent the most time on. Governance 34%
Each environmental topic has its
significant share of engagement
interactions. “GHG Emissions & Fossil
Fuels” and “Energy Consumption &
Production” are covered in the Energy
transition theme. Other environmental Figure 5. Environmental Themes
topics we addressed are included in
the Biodiversity theme. Biodiversity, Forestry, and Land Use 24%
Waste Management Incl. Circular Economy 21%
Social engagement this year focused
Greenhouse Gas Emissions & Fossil Fuels 20%
mainly on the gender pay gap and
gender diversity (“Human Capital Water 19%
Management”), but we also continued Energy Consumption & Production 15%
to concentrate on adhering to
Other 1%
frameworks such as the United
Nations Global Compact (UNGC),
responding to any social violations if
Figure 6. Social Themes
they occur, and other topics like
digital inclusion. Refer to the
Human Capital Management, Incl. Employee Safety 34%
paragraphs of the Social coherence
theme for more information. Gender Pay Gap 27%
Product/Customer Safety 8%
In the area of governance, we
Data Privacy & Cyber Security 7%
continued to focus on the quality of
United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), 7%
ESG disclosures, with almost half of
United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and
our interactions devoted to this issue.
Human Rights (UNGP), Organization for Economic
For more details see paragraphs
Cooperation and Development (OECD) Guidelines
Sharing Best Practices in Use of
Proceeds Bond Reporting Social Violations, Incl. Human Rights & Modern Slavery 6%
and Principal Adverse Impact (PAI) Other 11%
Indicators Reporting and Beyond.
Figure 7. Governance Themes
Reporting and Other Disclosures, Incl. Environmental, 46%
Social, Governance (ESG)/Principle Adverse Impact
Indicators (PAII) Reporting
Business Strategy, Incl. Mergers & Acquisitions (M&As) 14%
Board Diversity 13%
Capital Structure 12%
Board Independence 5%
Adherence to Laws/Regulations, Incl. 4%
Bribery and Corruption
Accounting and Audit 3%
Other 2%
Data from Franklin Templeton Fixed Income Engagement Tracker. As of December 2023.
4 Engagement Report franklintempleton.com franklintempleton.com Engagement Report 5
#1
THEME
Energy
transition
The impact we humans are having on the
climate has become impossible to ignore in
light of the ever more frequent and extreme
weather events, such as floods, droughts
and fires. Thankfully, the threat that global
warming poses has now been widely
accepted. Governments, companies and,
increasingly, investors have begun the
journey towards a net-zero economy by
setting strict decarbonisation targets. In
2023, we spoke with a wide variety of market
participants to understand their perspective
on, and role in, the energy transition.
6 Engagement Report franklintempleton.com franklintempleton.com Engagement Report 7
THEME #1: Energy transition
Energy transition through the lens of Utilities and science based targets Emerging market (EM) sovereigns and Additionally, the government is focused on increasing
access to safe and efficient electricity, aiming for a 100%
tools available to market participants— Regarding the surveyed utilities companies, all confirmed greenhouse gas emissions
access rate by 2025. In order to ensure that this target is
focus on SBTi uptake they had used the SBTi target setting tool—an indication The great diversity across EMs makes it nearly impossible
reached, significant funds have been invested in the
2023 has seen us continue our focus on energy transition, that the criteria and methodology used by SBT are widely to generalise. However, we have noticed that this part of the expansion of installed capacity and the construction of new
albeit from a slightly different angle compared to our accepted as best practice. With respect to the percentage world can provide some unique opportunities to influence distribution lines, with an emphasis on hydropower, solar
previous engagements with companies. Across Europe, the of R&D spending, a large majority (more than 80%) of our change. This can include advocating for governments to and biomass projects.
energy transition is theoretically well-supported in terms of utilities cohort are allocating over 50% of their research and recognise the productive capacity of their labour force, for
frameworks, reporting protocols and tools such as the development budget to renewables. This same cohort has example through better utilizing the country’s female Serbia is currently working on finalizing its decarbonisation
Science Based Targets (SBT), Task Force on Climate- reported that, on average, they have reached 50% of their human capital. Alternatively, since particularly smaller and strategy, and FTFI has expressed its intent to support the
Related Finance Disclosures (TCFD), and European Union 2030 target, which we consider to be excellent progress. less industrialised EMs will have relatively lower levels of country throughout this process. Our first engagement with
(EU) Taxonomy. Programs such as these work to stratify and Around half of these respondents have leveraged the SBTi energy consumption, early decisions can prioritize policymakers centred around the work that has been done
organize data into a consistent format so that risk-takers target as a key performance indicator (KPI) in their renewable resources as they built up their energy so far. Serbia put forward two main goals: phasing out coal-
can make assessments using 'like for like' as much as sustainability-linked loan or bond framework, suggesting generation capacity. powered energy by 2050 and reducing GHG emissions by
possible. We are interested in the corporate response and that the SBTi framework holds considerable credibility with In 2023, we engaged with government representatives approximately 40% by 2030. This will be achieved through
up-take of these tools—specifically, the Science Based investors. Furthermore, regarding the perceived from Côte d’Ivoire, Senegal, Uruguay, Brazil, and Serbia. investments in renewable energy, particularly focusing on
Targets tool—and how these tools interact with new deal significance of labels such as Towards Sustainability, Our conversations revealed that many EM governments photovoltaic farms and tapping into the hydropower
finance, R&D and actual—‘real world’—decarbonisation. LuxFLAG and SRI, responses from our utilities cohort either already have formalized policies to mitigate and potential of the Danube River. We are optimistic about
Serbia’s green transition, as the government is a part-owner
While all our survey respondents were signed up to SBT, indicate that their investors place greater significance on adapt to climate change or are in the final stages of of the country’s dominant energy utility company,
only slightly more than half were using the target-setting these labels compared to our non-utility respondents. developing these policies. At the same time, as these Elektroprivreda Srbije (EPS). This ownership structure is
tool. The comprehensive detail we received in subsequent In conclusion, our findings have been positive across our economies become richer, there is a heightened awareness expected to facilitate progress. We plan to follow up with
questions made it clear that internal target setting was deep dive into the Science Based Targets framework. Our of the need to safeguard natural capital, such as native government officials in 2024, as well as engage EPS to
either sophisticated enough to eliminate the need for objective was to understand the extent to which companies forests or biodiversity. Policymakers have to balance the encourage the company to set a Science Based Targets
external tools or that plans were in place to utilize the tool. authentically engage with the framework, invest to meet the goals of economic development and poverty eradication initiative (SBTi) target.
with the need to tackle climate change. However, we see
interim 2030 targets outlined within it, utilize the target
One of the most interesting pieces of information we large scope for investors to be able to have a large impact In 2024, we aim to continue our engagement with EM
setting tool designed by the SBT program, and employ the
received was the extent of internal preparation, processes here, as well as participate in a still small but rapidly sovereigns. We trust that this is an opportune time to have
agreed-upon KPIs in any new green financing frameworks.
and frameworks supporting SBT participation. The growing sustainable finance market. some important conversations, considering that the 2023
requirement to strategize and segment emissions across Our findings indicate that there is meaningful engagement United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP28) has
different scopes had given rise to increased insights and with the framework, significant investment (over 50% of R&D During our meeting with Côte d’Ivoire, we learned that turned the spotlight on net-zero financing for developing
a focus on product-specific decarbonisation. Many of these budget) to meet the 2030 interim targets, and that policymakers had made a commitment to improve the countries and the Global South. From an FTFI perspective,
insights resulted from multi-year analyses by dedicated respective targets and KPIs are being leveraged in new country’s energy mix by 2023, with a goal of reaching our development of EM-focussed investment products
carbon analysts, leading us to conclude that participation sustainability-linked bond or loan frameworks. The corporate a 45% share of renewable power (up from approximately provides some additional positive momentum.
in the program is backed by significant time and resource response or ‘uptake’ of the SBTI tool is very positive and 35% in 2022).
on the part of participants. Around 60% of respondents correlates to material decarbonisation progress.
cited allocating less than 25% of their R&D spend to
decarbonisation projects or product lines; while more than
20% of respondents cited allocating greater than 25%.
An area of emerging interest was the perceived significance
of labels such as Towards Sustainability, LuxFLAG and the
SRI label. We aimed to understand, based on interactions
organizations have with their investor bases, how important
they perceived these labels to be to their respective
investor bases. Across all three labels, the average
response was between neutral and ‘not very significant’—
providing insight into the fact that ESG investors are still the
minority for many corporate investor relations teams.
8 Engagement Report franklintempleton.com franklintempleton.com Engagement Report 9
#2
THEME
Biodiversity
In the fight against climate change,
reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
has taken centre stage. However, that goal
cannot stand on its own. A significant part
of the global economy is dependent on
nature. Furthermore, there are significant
interdependencies between climate change
and the depletion and pollution of our
natural resources. We therefore believe that
biodiversity deserves the same kind of focus
as does the transition towards a net-zero
economy. As a result, we engaged multiple
stakeholders on the subject in 2023, wanting
to understand their treatment of the subject
and encourage the formalization of policies
to protect biodiversity.
10 Engagement Report franklintempleton.com franklintempleton.com Engagement Report 11
THEME #2: Biodiversity
Biodiversity survey Plastic packaging waste in food and It is crucial to remember that plastic is a global issue
Biodiversity is increasingly recognised as a crucial topic in Some key highlights that emerged from the results: beverage industry without a single, unique solution thus far. Changing
packaging production methods and materials is a step
discussions about climate change, and rightly so. Without • Our survey found that 94% of companies prioritise Each year, 430 million metric tons of plastic are produced,
forward, but waste management, policies, and consumer
safeguarding it, we cannot effectively mitigate the impacts biodiversity as a means of showing their half of which is designed for single use. Less than 10
awareness also play vital roles. Given that companies
of climate change. The biodiversity contained in both land customers that their business does not negatively percent of that is recycled.3 According to the Organisation
operate globally, recycling capabilities are still nascent or
and ocean ecosystems acts as natural carbon sinks, impact the environment in which they operate. for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD),
inexistent in some areas. They have initiated interesting
providing so-called nature-based solutions to climate global plastic use and waste are expected to triple by
change.1 Biological diversity is also increasingly appearing • A biodiversity-related policy was in place in 77% of 2060.4 Plastic pollution is a major concern, especially within projects to prevent waste from entering the environment,
the companies we surveyed. However, 9% of such as converting multi-layered plastic packaging waste
in discussions among investors. Our Fixed Income Team is the food and beverage industry, where packaging waste
respondents did not consider it relevant to their into construction materials. However, companies are
also pursuing this direction, as we believe it is imperative poses a significant problem for the environment. This year,
activities to have such policy. realizing that such solutions are not long-term, and the
that investors raise awareness and drive action for we met with four major food manufacturers—Mondelez
focus should shift towards progressing up the waste
prioritizing the consideration of risks and opportunities • A total of 54% of companies operated in or near International, Nestle, Unilever and Danone—to discuss their hierarchy, starting with recycling but ultimately aiming for
related to biodiversity in business practices. biodiversity-sensitive areas and implemented all solutions for tackling this issue. reuse and prevention.
necessary mitigation measures to prevent adverse
We wanted to find out the approach our issuers have All these companies are part of the Global Commitment
impacts. However, we found that 11% of the The projected rise of plastic waste mentioned in the first
toward biodiversity. To reach as many of them as possible, created by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation in collaboration
companies in our sample were unaware of where paragraph highlights the urgency and significance of
we conducted a survey. We sent the survey to 224 with the UN Environment Programme, where their common
their facilities were located in relation to preventing, minimising and efficiently managing plastic
companies that we hold across our portfolios and received vision is a circular economy in which plastic is eliminated,
biodiversity-sensitive areas, highlighting the need waste on a global scale. In an ideal scenario, plastic never
an answer from 70 of them. Based on Finance for new materials and business models are created, and
for greater engagement and awareness. becomes waste. We hope to see greater collaboration
Biodiversity Foundation’s Guide on engagement with everything used is recycled.5 This encapsulates the goal
between the waste management sector and companies
companies, we chose to focus on industries that have the • Overall, we observed weak disclosures about these companies are striving for. Their key target over the extensively using plastic packaging, continually improving
largest impacts on biodiversity, as well as those that rely
species conservation. Therefore, we will strive to coming years is to ensure that 100% of their packaging is waste treatment, strengthening recycling infrastructure,
heavily on it—some industries fall into both categories.2
encourage better disclosure standards in future reusable, recyclable, compostable. and enhancing overall resource efficiency. Ideally, this
Industries included ranged from food and beverage, utility,
engagement. effort would lead to a circular economy, which could have
materials, to real estate. In the survey, we included We were pleased to hear that these companies recognised
profound economic, environmental, and societal benefits.
questions on deforestation, hazardous waste, other waste • Companies often depend on a wide network of the importance of collaborating with regulators to address
(e.g., plastic), water management, and more due to the link suppliers and do not operate as stand-alone plastic pollution. Some pointed out that legislations need to
between these factors and the loss of biodiversity. We entities. Yet the integration of supply chains with be even more rigorous, and stressed the need for a global,
considered the 31% response rate satisfactory, given the companies’ biodiversity conservation efforts still holistic approach—i.e., placing pressure on multiple
highly targeted nature of this survey and the detailed needs much improvement. stakeholders and implementing mandatory, legally binding
character of the questions. rules for all players.
We believe that the first step to improvement or change is
engagement and awareness, and our survey also proved
that. Engaging companies on biodiversity risks and
opportunities is essential to bringing about real impact.
12 Engagement Report franklintempleton.com franklintempleton.com Engagement Report 13
European sovereigns and biodiversity The main initiatives that are implemented on the federal
level include the preservation of marine biodiversity and
December 2022 saw the adoption of the Kunming-Montreal
the protection of various species and habitats. Additionally,
Global Biodiversity Framework, which includes 23
the government will promote sustainability in some key
biodiversity-related targets, one of which deals specifically
areas, such as agriculture, fishery, hunting, forestry, and
with biodiversity protection financing. As a financial
tourism. The government of Walloon has a binding goal to
institution, we therefore wanted to find out more about what
preserve local biodiversity. Other local initiatives include
various governments were doing to reach the agreed-upon
the maintenance, restoration and development of potential
targets, which would hopefully help deploy capital more
hosts for wildlife across the region, as well as the
effectively. At the same time, these conversations provided
propagation of nature education.
an opportunity to share our opinions on best practices
pertaining to biodiversity financing.
As a result of our prior contact with the German DMO, FTFI
was invited to join the public consultation of the country’s
In 2023, we engaged with national government
National Biodiversity Strategy. One of the Strategy’s key
representatives from Austria, Belgium, Germany, Slovakia,
pillars is redirecting some government funding from farming
Latvia, and Romania, along with local government officials
towards nature conservation. The document includes
from Belgium’s Walloon region. We were satisfied to
proposals for protecting marine environments (e.g., by
observe that policymakers seemed to understand the
banning fishing in Natura 2000 areas) and solutions for
importance of protecting biodiversity as part of their
allowing 10% of state-owned forests to develop naturally.
transition towards a net-zero economy. Many of the
sovereigns had a clearly delineated policy relating to
Multiple other countries we engaged with indicated that
biodiversity, with set targets and commitments. These goals
they would be relying heavily on European Union (EU)
encompassed conservation and restoration efforts,
legislation, particularly since EU programs are an important
increased focus on biodiversity-related research and
source of financing for nature conservation projects. Moving
awareness, and support for some key sectors in becoming
forward, we will continue to monitor the adoption of national
more nature-friendly.
and local policies for the protection of biodiversity and will
advocate for the issuance of green UoP instruments.
Belgium presents an interesting case due to the country’s
federal structure, dividing responsibility for climate
protection between the state and local governments.
The national government’s debt management office (DMO)
has a separate unit responsible for sustainable finance.
14 Engagement Report franklintempleton.com franklintempleton.com Engagement Report 15
#3
THEME
Social
cohesion
The last few years serve as a compelling
example of how interconnected the world is.
From the COVID-19 pandemic and surging
inflation to armed conflict in Ukraine and the
Middle East, these events highlight the
importance of solidarity as well as the need
to work together in tackling social
challenges. We therefore engaged with
various corporations and sub-sovereigns on
issues such as gender diversity and digital
inclusion, to encourage economic
development that is fair and equitable.
16 Engagement Report franklintempleton.com franklintempleton.com Engagement Report 17
THEME #3 Social cohesion
Gender diversity and pay gap in From a numbers point of view, those that had already Telecommunications providers and Additionally, the company offers special services for people
started reporting their gender pay gaps reported numbers with disabilities, such as a deaf hotline.
banking and finance digital inclusion
to us that ranged from 3.5% to 26%—in some cases, the
In order to dive deep into gender diversity, we aimed to Over the past year, we took a closer look at telecom In future, we would like to continue our engagement with
employee base was divided into practical segments to
understand our investee companies’ responses or plans providers that are seeking to lower their GHG emissions, issuers from the technology, media and telecom (TMT)
accommodate different pay gap numbers. In every case,
regarding how they are addressing the EU Pay Transparency wanting to understand whether the optimalisation of sector to encourage the pursuit of technological
there was transparency regarding whether the gap applied
Directive. Additionally, we sought information that would their networks may be leading to reduced coverage and development that supports the betterment of humanity and
solely to base pay or encompassed bonuses. It is clear from
assist us in better understanding our portfolio level the exclusion of vulnerable communities. FTFI’s dedicated growth that leaves no one behind. A topic of particular
the clarity of responses that the legislation is well designed
management of principle adverse impacts. team of ESG analysts will only deem an investment eligible concern coming into 2024 is artificial intelligence (AI)
and will contribute to materially improving data in this
for inclusion in sustainable portfolios if neither the issuer safety, its impact on employment and the ethics of using AI
underreported area.
The lack of pay transparency has been identified as one of
of a bond nor the project that is financed via the bond’s people in advertising.
the key obstacles to ensuring equal pay, and the EU Pay
With respect to female representation at c-suite level, those issue cause any significant harm to other environmental
Transparency Directive is aimed at ensuring that the right to
without set targets had an average of 20% representation; or social objectives. Therefore, while commendable, the
equal pay is upheld across the EU. It came into force in
and those with set targets had an average of 33%. reduction of GHG emissions cannot be done at the cost
June 2023, and member states have until June 2026 to
of digital exclusion.
transpose the directive into national legislation. Ahead of With respect to board composition, those with set targets
this, we are interested in understanding how our investee for female representation had an average of 42% female We initiated conversations on this topic with multiple
companies are organising themselves internally, in order to representation at board level; those without set targets had telecom companies, including Orange, Deutsche
produce the information required. Nearly all of our an average of 34%. Telekom, Swisscom, BT, and Verizon. Overall, a common
respondents were within the geographical scope of the theme we observed during our conversations with the
Even prior to the point at which this directive needs to be
legislation—only two fell outside. One has opted to comply aforementioned issuers was an effort to expand
transposed into national legislation, we observe high level
with the reporting requirements, while the other has not. connectivity, while at the same time making it more
of compliance, and female representation levels which
Our view would be that this is a universally significant metric accessible and affordable. Another big focus was digital
clearly shows that where metrics are targeted and reported,
to track and report and we would encourage all our investee literacy, investments in which can support digitalisation and
there is vast improvement in the metric.
companies to recognise the value in doing so. At the time of a more equitable distribution of access to the opportunities
our survey, 25% of respondents were already compliant with this provides. To provide the reader with some added
In conclusion, we found the directive to be well supported
the legislation. Consequently, they were able to share details, we highlight two examples below.
in terms of the internal preparation and processes that
various internally adopted processes and frameworks
companies are implementing, to be able to gather and
Representatives from Orange, the French telecom
supporting efforts to comply with the legislation.
measure the required information.
corporation, ensured us that the company is committed not
only to providing connectivity, but also to digital equality
and the climate change mitigation. One of its focus areas is
increasing network coverage across rural areas, including
through the deployment of fibre optic cable or by installing
cheaper, more lightweight masts with more wide-reaching
antennae. Over the years, the company’s network
connectivity has become more energy efficient through
various technological improvements, meaning that GHG
emissions could be lowered whilst at the same time
coverage was increased.
Similarly, the German telecom provider Deutsche Telekom,
was clear about its commitment to enabling widespread
access to the many opportunities that are afforded by
digitalisation. In order to achieve this, the company
focusses on access, affordability, and skills. Deutsche
Telekom continues to build out its wireless and fixed-line
network, offers different rate plans (including one that is
subsidised for lower-income households) and funds
programmes that improve media literacy.
18 Engagement Report franklintempleton.com franklintempleton.com Engagement Report 19
Doing the right thing—FTFI engagement Because of the dam breach, 286 people had to be Sustainable finance for the sustainable
relocated and a surface of around 3.5 km2 was covered by
with Petra and response to Williamson transition on the sub-sovereign level
tailing residues, therefore environmental restoration had to
mining incident Sub-sovereigns, namely regions, municipalities, and lands,
be a priority. As a result, Petra Diamonds, with advice from
Franklin Templeton’s long-term engagement with the independent advisors, devised a remediation plan to, are becoming an increasingly important partner for
diamond mining group Petra Diamonds is a shining amongst other things, restore and revegetate affected investors. They create a growing demand for sustainable
example of how our proactive engagement approach to forests and wetlands. To mitigate impact on livelihoods of financing that meets both the financial and non-financial
encourage more sustainable outcomes is beneficial for our local farming communities, a new layer of topsoil will objectives of green and social lenders.
clients. Our position in Petra Diamonds includes equity regenerate damaged agricultural areas. We pledge to
Such issuers focus on developing inclusive and sustainable
awarded to FTFI as part of a distressed debt restructuring monitor the company’s recovery efforts into 2024 and have
communities, where adequate living standards assure the
in 2021. This stake has allowed us to combine our position already engagement meetings lined up for the first quarter.
wellbeing of inhabitants. Issuers finance capital projects
as both an equity and credit investor to drive sustainable
that help people meet their basic human needs, which are
change. A particular concern were controversies linked to
defined as the realisation of economic and social rights
the company’s Williamson mine operations in northern
such as the right to health, food, housing, and education.6
Tanzania relating to social and governance factors
Other projects are designed to emphasize the role of
(involving third-party security providers) and a more recent
inhabitants as members of communities and achieve this
event of environmental nature, which resulted in
by improving the accessibility and availability of
a comprehensive and fully tested ESG engagement.
infrastructure and services for certain vulnerable groups or
Given that our long-term objective was to drive both groups in need.7
a financial recovery as well as support the company’s pivot
One of our sub-sovereign investments is the Belgian region
towards more socially, environmentally and economically
of Wallonia, whose representatives met with us to discuss
responsible practices, we, as a considerable stakeholder,
region’s sustainable bonds. Wallonia’s sustainable funding
were in a position to appoint a sustainability and ESG-
plans are directly linked to the UN SDGs, both in the social
oriented director to Petra Diamonds’ board. We believed
field and the environmental field. For the region’s 2020
that an ESG expert in this role would help defuse tensions
social bond issue, eligible expenses included, among
and reinforce good governance practices that would
others, the integration of people of foreign origin, regional
reduce ESG risk in the future. Our approach was tested in
aid for associations or institutions that perform collective or
late 2022, when a dam at a tailing’s storage facility at the
community activities pertaining to social integration, and
Williamson mine was breached, releasing around 13 million
services that provide budget assistance to people in debt,
m2 of mining waste into the surrounding area.1
through the development of a comprehensive debt
In several meetings in 2023, with board members, including
elimination plan that is negotiated with creditors.8
the Chairman, and senior management, we supported the
company in their commitment to transparent reporting
supervised by an independent party. Our advice was to
appoint independent parties to conduct an investigation,
recommend corrective measures, provide technical
assistance to ensure no similar tailings dam disasters would
occur in the future, and finally monitor the recovery of the
affected communities and wildlife. We also requested from
Petra the assurance of full and public accountability and
disclosure to the highest standards.
It is our core belief that investors have the right to know if
a disaster was caused by external factors and whether the
appropriate measures are in place to ensure the safety and
well-being of the staff, local inhabitants, and surrounding
ecosystems.
20 Engagement Report franklintempleton.com franklintempleton.com Engagement Report 21
#4
THEME
Transparent
reporting
Transparency is fundamental to the
sustainable finance ecosystem—that is how
issuers gain trust and investors can be
certain of how their capital is used and the
impact that it has on the environment. Clear
and honest communication between all
market participants is crucial for the healthy
development of the sustainable finance
universe going forward. That is why, in 2023,
we continued to engage with issuers on the
best practices in reporting to encourage
strong results for everyone involved.
22 Engagement Report franklintempleton.com franklintempleton.com Engagement Report 23
THEME #4 Transparent reporting
Sharing best practices in Use of Proceeds Principal Adverse Impact (PAI) indicators
bond reporting reporting and beyond.
To safeguard our clients and the greater public from green- Similar to last year, we continue our efforts to engage
and social-washing, FTFI sustainability analysts initiated an companies in disclosing Principal Adverse Impact (PAI)
outreach to educate Use of Proceeds (UoP) bond issuers indicators to make their ESG reporting compliant. Data
about what we see as the best practices in impact and quality and availability can be inadequate, especially in
allocation reporting. Leveraging our market position and the small companies and emerging markets landscape.
in-house expertise in this area, we designed a series of Notably, SFDR-aligned reporting is oriented towards
practitioner-led workshops. We trust that by sharing actual EU-based companies, but there is no equivalent initiative in
fund-level reporting challenges, issuers would better emerging markets. Despite these companies increasingly
understand our data needs. It is important for issuers to recognising the importance of sustainability factors,
know that the information we gather relates to each specific reporting on a set of 14 PAI indicators proves challenging.
bond within a portfolio. Consequently, it is most desirable to Yet for us, as managers of investment funds domiciled in
present the specific impact per security. Additionally, an the EU, we believe that voluntary disclosure of PAI
allocation report that refers to each of the issuer’s bonds indicators by such issuers would greatly facilitate the future
separately helps us perform our internal impact deployment of green capital. In 2023, we engaged with
calculations. The impact we present is related to the over 50 companies from emerging markets, ranging from
amount that is invested in each security. banks, utilities, chemicals, to telecommunications.
In November 2023, we ran a pilot workshop as a part of the The PAI particularly important to us is PAI 7, requiring
CEE (Central and Eastern Europe) Green Circle meeting financial market participants and financial advisors to
series organised by Erste Bank. We had the privilege to disclose their investment share in companies whose
share our presentation with senior sustainability managers activities negatively affect biodiversity-sensitive areas.
from leading banks in the CEE region. The reaction to our But in order to do so, we need companies to disclose this
presentation and subsequent discussion solidified our information. However, our survey and meetings with issuers
opinion that such workshops for multiple issuers at once revealed that many businesses are not yet prepared to
is an effective way to disseminate the best reporting factor in biodiversity and are not aligned with the regulations
standards. We will continue to arrange such meetings with and expectations coming their way. This is a clear indication
issuers from different sectors and geographies in 2024. for us that further engagement is necessary.
Overall this year, we reached out to more than 130
companies to improve ESG reporting and disclosure,
and we will continue these engagement efforts. Next year,
this will definitely be the EU Corporate Sustainability
Reporting Directive (CSRD), that will eventually require
relevant companies to report, including reporting on a set
of 14 PAI indicators.
We do not want the push for ESG disclosure being driven
more by investor demand rather than from the company
itself. We see the need for future discussions to further
educate management on the need to embrace
sustainability and integrate it into business activities.
24 Engagement Report franklintempleton.com franklintempleton.com Engagement Report 25
Concluding remarks Franklin Templeton Fixed Income
Sustainability Team
We hope that this report has demonstrated to you, our clients and stakeholders,
how seriously we take sustainable finance at Franklin Templeton Fixed Income
and that Principle Adverse Impact Indicators and Sustainable Investments are David Zahn
Head of Sustainability
at the core of our ESG funds. Our engagements throughout 2023 were led by
our aim to better understand the interests, ambitions and risks of all market
participants, as well as the belief that transparent communication is key in the
face of the growing complexity of this sector. It is through these engagements
that we are committing to the development of a sustainable finance ecosystem Julia Białas Agnieszka Chmura Gail Counihan Magdalena Gruszecka
that delivers strong results for everyone involved.
Dr Kasper Hanus Mateusz Konieczny Dr Justyna Tasic
Contributors from Portfolio Management and Credit Research Teams:
Adrienne Young Changqing Gao Michael Chakardjian
SVP/Director of Credit Research/ Research Analyst VP/Research Analyst
Portfolio Manager
Emmanuel Teissier Rakesh Tripathi
Amit Jain SVP/Director Corp. Credit Research, Europe Senior Research Analyst
VP/Research Analyst/Portfolio Manager
Franck Nowak Robert Nelson
Angelo Formiggini VP/Director—Corporate Credit Research, SVP/Research Analyst/Portfolio Manager
International Fixed Income Research Analyst Emerging Markets
Rod MacPhee
Ashley Allen Izel Onel SVP/Portfolio Manager/Research Analyst
Research Analyst Research Analyst
Sevrika Galipeau
Brian French Jon Belk VP/Portfolio Manager/Research Analyst
Deputy Director, Corporate Credit Research VP/Research Analyst/Portfolio Manager
Tom Petersson
Bryant Dieffenbacher Katherine Wegert VP/Research Analyst
VP/Research Analyst/Portfolio Manager Research Analyst
Trevor Kaufman
Callum Postlethwaite Matt Fey VP/Research Analyst
Credit Research Analyst SVP/Director—Corporate Credit Research
26 Engagement Report franklintempleton.com franklintempleton.com Engagement Report 27
List of issuers engaged
Across the portfolios
List of SSA issuers engaged through Altice France Brookfield Infrastructure Partners Development Bank of the Republic of Belarus Henkel Matterhorn Telecom Proximus Group TELUS
idiosyncratic engagement América Móvil BT Group DP World Heritage Petroleum Company Limited Mauser Packaging Solutions PVH Corp. TenneT
Czech Republic AmerisourceBergen Burgan Bank DSV A/S Hilcorp Maxeda Qatar Insurance Company Tereos
Federal Republic of Germany Amprion CABB Chemicals Dubai Islamic Bank Holcim mBank Qatar International Islamic Bank Tesco
Federative Republic of Brazil Anglian Water Cadent Gas DXC Technology Holding d’Infrastructures MC Brazil Downstream (Acelen) Qatar National Bank Teva Pharmaceuticals
Japan Anheuser-Busch InBev Caesars Entertainment EasyJet Home Depot McDonald’s Quatrim S.A.S Thames Water
Kingdom of Belgium Apple Caixa Geral de Depósitos Eaton Vance HOWOGE MEG Energy Rabobank The Bank of Industry Limited
Kingdom of Denmark Arab National Bank CaixaBank Ecopetrol HSBC Mercedes-Benz Group Raiffeisen Bank International The Co-operative Group
Kingdom of Morocco Arabian Centres California Resources Corporation EDP Group Hungarian Development Bank Merck Rain Carbon Inc. The Council of Europe
Kingdom of the Netherlands Aramco Calumet Specialty Products Partners Électricité de France Hungarian Export-Import Bank MHP SE Renault Group The European Union
Mongolia Ardagh Group Canadian Utilities Elia Transmission Belgium Hydro One Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Riyad Bank The Kraft Heinz Company
Oriental Republic of Uruguay Ardshinbank Carlsberg Group Emaar Malls PJSC Hypo Tirol Bank AG Mondelez International Roche TI Automotive
Republic of Austria Arena Luxembourg Finance Carnival Corporation & plc Emaar Properties Ibercaja Banco MPLX Royal Caribbean Cruises TIM Group
Republic of Bulgaria Arion Bank Carrefour Group Emera Iberdrola MPT Operating Partnership LP RTE France Titan Cement
Republic of Chile Arkema Casino Guichard Perrachon Emirates Islamic Bank PJSC IBM Mubadala Development Company S.F. Holding Co., Ltd. Toyota Motor Credit Corporation
Republic of Côte d’Ivoire Aroundtown SA Catalent Emirates NBD Icade Sante Mumtalakat SABIC Trinseo
Republic of Croatia Asahi Group Holdings Cellnex Emirates Strategic Investment Company IHS Netherlands Holdco B.V. National Australia Bank Samhällsbyggnadsbolaget i Norden AB TriSummit Utilities
Republic of Cyprus ASR Nederland Cemex Encore Capital Group Iliad Group National Bank of Kuwait SANEF TUI Cruises
Republic of Estonia Assicurazioni Generali Cencosud Endeavor Energy Resources, LP IMA Group National Bank of Oman Sanofi Tullow Oil
Republic of Iceland ASTM Group Cerdia Endeavour Mining Indika Energy National Grid Santander Group Tupy
Republic of Italy AstraZeneca Česká spořitelna Enel INEOS Group Nationwide Building Society Santander UK TVO
Republic of Latvia ATF Netherlands B.V. CEZ Group Energean INEOS Quattro Naturgy Saputo UBS Group AG
Republic of Lithuania Atlantia CGN Power Co., Ltd. Energia Group ING Belgium NatWest Saudi Elec Glb Sukuk UGI International
Republic of North Macedonia AutoNation Chesapeake Energy Energizer Holdings ING Groep NV NE Property B.V. Saudi Electricity Company Unicaja Banco
Republic of Poland Autoridad del Canal de Panama China Development Bank Energo-Pro In’li Neinor Homes Saudi Telecom Co UniCredit
Republic of Senegal Autostrade per l’Italia China National Chemical Corporation Energy Transfer InPost Nestlé Schlumberger Limited Unilever
Republic of Serbia Avantor Chorus Ltd Enexis InRetail Consumer Netflix Schneider Electric Unilever Indonesia
Republic of Slovenia Aviva Cigna Healthcare ENGIE Interbank NewMarket Corporation Schoeller Packaging UNIQA Insurance Group AG
Republic of the Philippines AXA Citadel ENGIE Energía Chile InterEnergy Newmont Segro UPM
Romania Axalta Coating CITGO EnLink Midstream International Container Terminal Services Nexi Selp Vattenfall
Slovak Republic Azelis Citibank ENMAX International Design Group Nidda Healthcare GmbH Shiba Bidco S.p.A Venture Global LNG
The State of Hesse Azure Power CK Hutchison EnQuest International Distributions Services NLB Group Shimao Group Holdings Limited Verbund
The Walloon Region Bacardi Clear Channel Outdoor Enterprise Products Intesa Sanpaolo NN Group Siemens Verde Bidco Spa
Ukraine Bagan Capital CLP Power Hong Kong Limited Equinix Intesa Sanpaolo Vita Spa Nobel Bidco SierraCol Energy Verisure
Baker Hughes Clydesdale Bank ERG SpA Ipoteka bank Nokia SIGNA Development Selection AG Verizon
List of supranational, agency and Banca Comerciala Romana CNH Industrial ERP Operating Limited Partnership IQVIA NOVA Chemicals Simon Property Group Vermilion Energy
corporate issuers engaged Banca Transilvania Coca-Cola Europacific Erste Group Iren Group Novartis Sitios Latinoamérica Vestas
ABANCA Corporación Bancaria Banco BPM SpA Coca-Cola FEMSA Etisalat by e& Italmatch Chemicals Novelis Sheet Ingot GmbH Smiths Group Vesteda
ABB Ltd Banco de Bogotá Coca-Cola HBC Euro Stability Mechanism Itelyum Novo Nordisk SNCF Viatris
AbbVie Banco Estado Coca-Cola İçecek Eurogrid GmbH Jaguar Land Rover Automotive PLC NRG Energy SNF VICI Properties
Abengoa Banco Mercantil del Norte Colbun European Financial Stability Facility James Hardie NVR, Inc. Société Générale Victoria PLC
Abertis Banco Sabadell Comisión Federal de Electricidad (CFE) European Investment Bank JDE Peet’s OCI Global Solenis Vienna Insurance Group
ABN AMRO Bank Banco Santander-Chile Commercial Bank of Qatar Eversource John Deere OI European Group B.V. Southwestern Energy VINCI
ABQ Finance Bangkok Bank Commerzbank AG Exelon Corporation Johnson & Johnson Ooredoo Spectrum Brands Visa
Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank Banijay Entertainment Community Health Systems (CHS) Faurecia KazMunayGas Orange Spirit Realty Vital Energy
Abu Dhabi Ports Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego Compass Group FEMSA KEM ONE Orano Standard Chartered Viterra
Accenture Bank Mandiri Con Edison Firmenich KfW Oriflame Standard Industries Vivion
Access Bank Bank Millennium Consolidated Energy Finance S.A.. First Abu Dhabi Bank Kinetik Orsted A/S State Grid Overseas Investment Vodafone Group
Acciona Energía Bank of America Constellium Five Corners Funding Trust KION Group OTP Bank State Savings Bank of Ukraine Volkswagen
Accor Bank of Ireland Corporacion Andina de Fomento (CAF) Flex Kommunalkredit Austria AG Pakistan Water and Power Station Casinos Volvo Cars
Adani Electricity Mumbai Bank of New Zealand Corporación Financiera de Desarrollo (COFIDE) Fluvius Kosmos Energy Paprec Statkraft Volvo Group Treasury
Adani Green Energy Bank of Scotland Country Garden FMC Corporation Kronos International Inc Parkland Corporation Statnett Vonovia SE
Adani International Container Terminal Banque Saudi Fransi CPI Property Group Fortis Inc. Kuwait Finance House Parts Europe Stedin Group W & T Offshore, Inc.
Adani Ports Bapco Energies CPPIB Capital Inc. Frigorífico Concepción Kuwait International Bank Pegasus Hava Tasimaciligi AS Stellantis WestRock
Adani Transmission Step-One Barclays Credit Agricole Assurances GACI First Investment Company Kuwait Projects Company (KIPCO) PepsiCo Stena International S.A. Whitbread
Adevinta BAWAG Group AG Credit Mutuel Arkea Gems Menasa Cayman Limited La BOAD Permanent TSB Group Strathcona Resources Ltd. Wyeth
ADIB Capital Invest Baxalta Credit Suisse Genesis Energy, L.P. Landsbankinn Pernod Ricard SUEZ Západoslevenská energetika
Adif-Alta Velocidad Bayer CRH Globalworth L-Bank: Staatsbank für Baden-Württemberg Pertamina Superior Plus ZF Friedrichshafen
Aegea Bayerische Landesbank Crown European Holdings Golden Goose Liberty Mutual Perusahaan Listrik Negara Suzano Austria GmbH
Aeroporti di Roma BBVA CSOB Leasing Goldman Sachs LimakPort İskenderun Petra Diamonds Swedbank
African Export–Import Bank BDO Unibank CSX Corporation Goldstory S.A.S. Lincoln National Corporation Petróleos Mexicanos (Pemex) Swisscom
AHB Sukuk Company Belfius Bank CT Trust Goodyear Europe B.V. Lippo Karawaci PETRONAS Sydbank
AIB Group Berry Global CTP Grand City Properties LKQ Corp Pfleiderer Synthos
Air France–KLM Berry Petroleum Company CVS Health Greater Toronto Airports Authority Logicor Phoenix PIB Dutch Holding B.V. Tabreed
Al Ahli Bank of Kuwait Blackstone Property Partners Europe Holdings Danaher Corporation Greenko Group L’Oreal PKO Bank Hipoteczny Talen Energy
Aldar Properties BNP Paribas Danone Grifols Lowell PKO Bank Polski Talos Energy
Alfa-Bank Boardwalk Pipelines Danske Bank Grupo Antolin Lowe’s Polynt S.p.A. TAQA
Alliander Boston Properties Dar Al Arkan Grupo Globo Loxam PostNL Target Corporation
Almarai Boubyan Bank Darling Ingredients GSK plc Lufthansa Group Power Finance Corporation Tatra banka
Almirall BP p.l.c De Volksbank Harbour Energy Luminor Bank Primo Water Techem
Alpek Bpifrance Deutsche Bahn HDFC Bank Majid Al Futtaim Pro-Gest Telecommunications Services of Trinidad &
Alpha Bank Braskem Deutsche Bank Healthcare Realty MAS P.L.C. Progroup AG Tobago
Alphabet Inc. Braskem Idesa Deutsche Telekom Heimstaden Bostad Mashreq Vank Prologis Telefonica
Alstria office REIT-AG Bristol Myers Squibb Development Bank of Kazakhstan Heineken Mastercard Prosus Telia Company
Some company names may appear more than once, since we engaged with them on several occassions regarding different issues.
28 Engagement Report franklintempleton.com franklintempleton.com Engagement Report 29
Sources
1. Source: United Nations, Climate Action, “Biodiversity—our strongest natural defense against climate change,” August 2022.
2. Source: Finance for Biodiversity Foundation, “Finance for Biodiversity, Guide on engagement with companies,” April 2022.
3. Source: UNEP, “Everything you need to know about plastic pollution,” as of November 24, 2023.
4. Source: OECD, “Global Plastics Outlook: Policy Scenarios to 2060,” June 2022.
5. Source: Ellen MacArthur Foundation, “The Global Commitment Five Years in: Learnings to Accelerate Towards a Future Without Plastic Waste or Pollution,” October 2023.
6. Source: Platform on Sustainable Finance, “Final Report on Social Taxonomy,” February 2022.
7. Ibid.
8. Source: Region of Wallonia, “Sustainability and social bonds budget allocation and impact report,” September 2021.
Important legal information
This material is intended to be of general interest only and should not be construed as individual investment advice or
a recommendation or solicitation to buy, sell or hold any security or to adopt any investment strategy. It does not constitute
legal or tax advice. This material may not be reproduced, distributed or published without prior written permission from
Franklin Templeton.
The views expressed are those of the investment manager and the comments, opinions and analyses are rendered as at
publication date and may change without notice. The underlying assumptions and these views are subject to change
based on market and other conditions and may differ from other portfolio managers or of the firm as a whole. The
information provided in this material is not intended as a complete analysis of every material fact regarding any country,
region or market. There is no assurance that any prediction, projection or forecast on the economy, stock market, bond
market or the economic trends of the markets will be realized. The value of investments and the income from them can
go down as well as up and you may not get back the full amount that you invested. Past performance is not necessarily
indicative nor a guarantee of future performance. All investments involve risks, including possible loss of principal.
Any research and analysis contained in this material has been procured by Franklin Templeton for its own purposes and
may be acted upon in that connection and, as such, is provided to you incidentally. Data from third-party sources may have
been used in the preparation of this material and Franklin Templeton (“FT”) has not independently verified, validated or
audited such data. Although information has been obtained from sources that Franklin Templeton believes to be reliable,
no guarantee can be given as to its accuracy and such information may be incomplete or condensed and may be subject
to change at any time without notice. The mention of any individual securities should neither constitute nor be construed
as a recommendation to purchase, hold or sell any securities, and the information provided regarding such individual
securities (if any) is not a sufficient basis upon which to make an investment decision. FT accepts no liability whatsoever for
any loss arising from use of this information and reliance upon the comments, opinions and analyses in the material is at the
sole discretion of the user.
Products, services and information may not be available in all jurisdictions and are offered outside the U.S. by other FT
affiliates and/or their distributors as local laws and regulation permits. Please consult your own financial professional or
Franklin Templeton institutional contact for further information on availability of products and services in your jurisdiction.
30 Engagement Report franklintempleton.com franklintempleton.com Engagement Report 31
Issued in the U.S. by Franklin Distributors, LLC, One Franklin Parkway, San Mateo, California 94403-1906, (800) DIAL BEN/
342-5236, franklintempleton.com – Franklin Distributors, LLC, member FINRA/SIPC, is the principal distributor of
Franklin Templeton U.S. registered products, which are not FDIC insured; may lose value; and are not bank guaranteed and
are available only in jurisdictions where an offer or solicitation of such products is permitted under applicable laws
and regulation.
Canada: Issued by Franklin Templeton Investments Corp., 200 King Street West, Suite 1500 Toronto, ON, M5H3T4,
Fax: (416) 364-1163, (800) 387-0830, www.franklintempleton.ca .
Offshore Americas: In the U.S., this publication is made available only to financial intermediaries by Franklin Distributors,
LLC, member FINRA/SIPC, 100 Fountain Parkway, St. Petersburg, Florida 33716. Tel: (800) 239-3894 (USA Toll-Free),
(877) 389-0076 (Canada Toll-Free), and Fax: (727) 299-8736. Investments are not FDIC insured; may lose value; and are not
bank guaranteed. Distribution outside the U.S. may be made by Franklin Templeton International Services, S.à r.l. (FTIS) or
other sub-distributors, intermediaries, dealers or professional investors that have been engaged by FTIS to distribute shares
of Franklin Templeton funds in certain jurisdictions. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to purchase
securities in any jurisdiction where it would be illegal to do so.
Issued in Europe by: Franklin Templeton International Services S.à r.l. – Supervised by the Commission de Surveillance
du Secteur Financier – 8A, rue Albert Borschette, L-1246 Luxembourg. Tel: +352-46 66 67-1, Fax: +352-46 66 76. Poland:
Issued by Templeton Asset Management (Poland) TFI S.A.; Rondo ONZ 1; 00-124 Warsaw. South Africa: Issued by
Franklin Templeton Investments SA (PTY) Ltd, which is an authorised Financial Services Provider. Tel: +27 (21) 831 7400,
Fax: +27 (21) 831 7422. Switzerland: Issued by Franklin Templeton Switzerland Ltd, Stockerstrasse 38, CH-8002 Zurich.
United Arab Emirates: Issued by Franklin Templeton Investments (ME) Limited, authorized and regulated by the Dubai
Financial Services Authority. Dubai office: Franklin Templeton, The Gate, East Wing, Level 2, Dubai International Financial
Centre, P.O. Box 506613, Dubai, U.A.E. Tel: +9714-4284100, Fax: +9714-4284140. UK: Issued by Franklin Templeton
Investment Management Limited (FTIML), registered office: Cannon Place, 78 Cannon Street, London EC4N 6HL. Tel: +44
(0)20 7073 8500. Authorised and regulated in the United Kingdom by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Australia: Issued by Franklin Templeton Australia Limited (ABN 76 004 835 849) (Australian Financial Services License
Holder No. 240827), Level 47, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria 3000. Hong Kong: Issued by Franklin Templeton
Investments (Asia) Limited, 17/F, Chater House, 8 Connaught Road Central, Hong Kong. Japan: Issued by Franklin Templeton
Investments Japan Limited. Korea: Issued by Franklin Templeton Investment Trust Management Co., Ltd., 3rd fl., CCMM
Building, 12 Youido-Dong, Youngdungpo-Gu, Seoul, Korea 150-968. Malaysia: Issued by Franklin Templeton Asset
Management (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. & Franklin Templeton GSC Asset Management Sdn. Bhd. This document has not been
reviewed by Securities Commission Malaysia. Singapore: Issued by Templeton Asset Management Ltd. Registration No.
(UEN) 199205211E and Legg Mason Asset Management Singapore Pte. Limited, Registration Number (UEN) 200007942R.
Legg Mason Asset Management Singapore Pte. Limited is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Franklin Resources, Inc.
7 Temasek Boulevard, #38-03 Suntec Tower One, 038987, Singapore.
Please visit www.franklinresources.com to be directed to your local Franklin Templeton website.
Issued by Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited (FTIML)
Cannon Place, 78 Cannon Street
London EC4N 6HL
Tel: +44 (0)20 7073 8500
www.franklintempleon.co.uk
EMEA_FTFI_2321953_2221953
© 2024 Franklin Templeton. All rights reserved. ESG REPORT 12/23
