Note: The following is a redacted version of the original report published May 2, 2022 [73 pages].
Research
EQUITY RESEARCH |
May 2, 2022 | 2:04AM EDT
ESG of the FUTURE
A forward look at corporate greenhouse gas emissions, potential ESG Improvers
We expect increased focus on corporate emissions of greenhouse gases as ESG markets become more forward-looking and in
response to both rising regulations including proposals from the SEC and carbon pricing considerations. Following the introduction
of our analysts' estimates for Green Capex and Green Revenue in 2021, we introduce our analysts' estimates for Scope 1 and 2
greenhouse gas emissions for select companies in seven critical sectors. Our forecasts through 2025 imply that corporate
emissions will remain below 2019 levels, but the reduction in corporate emissions intensity does not appear consistent with
a path that limits global temperature rise to 1.5°C – as laid out in the Carbonomics analysis. We expect an ESG investor
shift From Aspiration to Action to lead to valuation premiums over time for leaders in corporate decarbonization with
favorable corporate returns.
Brian Singer, CFA Enrico Chinello, Ph.D. Michael Hao Wu, CFA Derek R. Bingham
+1 212 902-8259 +1 212 357 3398 +1(917)343-1137 | +1 415 249-7435
brian.singer@gs.com enrico.chinello@gs.com michael.h.wu@gs.com derek.bingham@gs.com
Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC
Evan Tylenda, CFA Sharmini Chetwode, Ph.D. Brendan Corbett Emma Jones Madeline Meyer
+44 20 7774-1153 +852-2978-1123 +1(415)249-7440 +61 2 9320-1041 +44(20)7774-4593
evan.tylenda@gs.com sharmini.p.chetwode@gs.com brendan.corbett@gs.com emma.jones@gs.com madeline.r.meyer@gs.com
Goldman Sachs International Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C. Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC Goldman Sachs Australia Pty Ltd Goldman Sachs International
Goldman Sachs does and seeks to do business with companies covered in its research reports. As a result, investors should be aware that
the firm may have a conflict of interest that could affect the objectivity of this report. Investors should consider this report as only a single
factor in making their investment decision. For Reg AC certification and other important disclosures, see the Disclosure Appendix, or go to
www.gs.com/research/hedge.html. Analysts employed by non-US affiliates are not registered/qualified as research analysts with FINRA in
the U.S.
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Table of Contents
PM Summary 3
Putting corporate emissions in context: Highly concentrated but minority of total emissions 9
Implications for overall corporate emissions: Flattish through 2025 vs. 2020 12
Corporate emissions vs. Consumer emissions: Where could initial impact be the greatest? 16
Green Capex mosaic provides opportunities to reduce corporate emissions and consumer emissions 23
Why emissions could begin to impact stock performance in select sectors 27
Emissions intensity projected paths through 2025 by sector vs. Carbonomics Net Zero carbon models 32
Methodologies to forecast GHG emissions 50
Disclosure Appendix 51
The following is a redacted version of a report originally published May 2, 2022. All company references in this note
are for illustrative purposes only and should not be interpreted as investment recommendations
2 May 2022 2
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
PM Summary
ESG of the Future represents the shift we see from predominantly backwards-looking ESG metrics towards
integrating a forward view — we now add forecasts for select corporate Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. We see ESG
investor focus on corporate decarbonization continuing to become more forward-looking due in part to new rules proposed
by regulators in the US, Europe and Asia as well as a broader thematic investor shift From Aspiration to Action, further
accelerated by the Russia/Ukraine war. We add greenhouse gas emissions to our forecasting tools to help investors consider
the medium term direction of Scope 1 and 2 emissions on a macro and micro basis for companies in critical sectors. This
should further help to identify ESG Improvers, complementing our forecasting tools for Green Revenue mix, Green Capex
mix and select volumetric mix shifts (electricity generation, autos, steel, etc) introduced in our November 2021 ESG of the
Future report.
Macro and micro bottom line. While our new greenhouse gas forecasts do not paint a full picture of overall emissions, our
forecasts imply Scope 1 emissions from companies in seven historically high-emitting sectors will remain below 2019
levels through 2025, implying a 1%-2% annualized decline vs. a 2019 base. Emissions intensity is declining for each of
the sectors we forecast, though there is no sector where the percentage reduction in emissions intensity through 2025
appears consistent with a path to a 1.5°C temperature rise (laid out by our colleagues’ Carbonomics analysis) for covered
companies. Emissions intensity is declining at the fastest pace for Electric Utilities and Oil & Gas Producers by 2025 vs.
2019 (intensities are referred to Scope 1 for Electric Utilities and Scope 1+2 for Oil & Gas Producers).
We continue to believe that equity investors focused on Sustainability and ESG issues will become more
forward-looking in the coming years, a function of regulation, new sustainability bond issuance, focus on whether we are
on track to meet key UN Sustainable Development Goals like decarbonization and understanding supply chain risks. Our
November 2021 ESG of the Future report laid out analysts’ forecasts for companies in 19 sectors for Green Revenue mix,
Green Capex mix and select key volumetric indicators in an effort to track mix shift towards sustainable use case alignment,
Green Capex and how transformational sectors like autos and power generation will become. As we highlighted, this was a
first step given in part limited disclosures and basis for forecasting.
In this report, we take a first step at integrating forecasts for greenhouse gas emissions. We believe this will also
become more in focus for both macro and micro reasons — to determine how companies are aiding the decarbonization
effort and whether companies are on track to meet targets. We have asked analysts to forecast their covered companies
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions annually in seven historically high-emitting sectors — Airlines, Chemicals, Construction
Materials, Mining & Metals, Oil & Gas, Steel and Utilities. Together Scope 1 emissions from these sectors in 2019 represent
89% of overall Scope 1 emissions from the near 7,000 companies in our GS SUSTAIN database. As we discuss further, we
2 May 2022 3
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
also view this as a start, because: (a) Not all corporates disclose emissions; (b) Scope 1 emissions from those that do
represent a minority of total global emissions; (c) our analysts do not cover all the companies in the sectors we are focused
on; and (d) there is need for further basis for analyst forecasts for some covered companies. Importantly, our analysts’
forecasts do not include corporate Scope 3 emissions — emissions from consumers and suppliers. At the country level, we
address where focus on consumer emissions vs. corporate emissions could have greater initial impact later in the report.
Key takeaways:
1. We do not see corporate emissions in the seven high-emitting sectors we forecast moving back up to 2019 levels
through 2025, and our forecasts imply a relatively flattish emissions profile post-2021 with 2025 down 9% vs. 2019.
2. We see a more material reduction in emissions intensity, with median sector down 15% (on a market cap-weighted
average basis — range -3% to -20%) in 2025 vs. 2019 levels (excludes Chemicals due to insufficient data).
3. Sectors where our analysts’ forecasts imply the greatest reduction in emissions intensity in 2025 vs. 2019 are Electric
Utilities, Oil & Gas Producers, Diversified Metals & Mining and Aluminum (intensities refer to Scope 1 emissions for
Electric Utilities and Scope 1+2 for other sectors). We have compared the percentage reduction in emissions intensity
through 2025 to the path needed longer term for a <2 degrees and 1.5°C temperature rise scenario laid out by our
colleagues’ Carbonomics reports. While there is no sector where the percentage emissions intensity reductions through
2025 appears consistent with a 1.5°C temperature rise scenario, based on our analysts’ estimates, we see the
percentage reduction in emissions intensity through 2025 most consistent with well below 2°C and 2°C scenarios for
Electric Utilities, Steel, Aluminum, Chemicals and Diversified Metals & Mining.
Importantly, ESG ownership among these seven sectors is limited... ESG funds are 33% underweight on average the
seven most emitting sectors on a market cap weighted basis when including all companies in our GS SUSTAIN database. We
attribute this largely to the higher emissions intensity and the predominant focus of overweight positions in sectors levered
to solar, water and wind.
... but we see rising interest over time among investors in ESG Improvers. As ESG investor focus shifts from Aspiration
to Action, we believe investors will begin to consider owning companies that have historically been high emitters where
there is confidence in a meaningful reduction in emissions or where their products contribute to meaningful avoidance of
emissions relative to their emissions profiles. However, this requires sufficient engagement to forecast emissions and future
product impact. Ultimately, company guidance of emissions targets is not enough; understanding pathways and drivers will
be important for funds to make credible cases for impact to their investors, particularly if portfolios are being measured by
their carbon footprint.
2 May 2022 4
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
We note there are multiple limitations to our analysis which is why we view the work as a starting point. Our focus
only goes through 2025 as most of our analyst teams’ earnings models do not extend later. Much of the emissions intensity
and potential absolute emissions reductions to meet Net Zero pathways are expected to accelerate beyond 2025, beyond
where our analysts make annual financial forecasts. We note for those looking beyond 2025, our colleagues’ Carbonomics
report in October 2021 focused on management teams’ long-term targets for emissions and implied emissions pathways for
select companies to meet targets in select sectors. Additionally, our analysis focuses on Scope 1+2 emissions and not
emissions by consumers/suppliers (Scope 3). As we highlight, overall corporate Scope 1 emissions from companies in all
sectors in our GS SUSTAIN universe represents a minority of total global emissions as emissions from individuals,
governments and privately-held companies are not included.
Exhibit 1: All key sectors included in our analysis are forecast to have emissions intensities on the decline by 2025E vs. 2019 — Electric Utilities are
forecast to see the largest decrease
Change in absolute emissions and emissions intensities for key sectors in our analysis by 2025E vs. 2019
Change in absolute emissions in 2025E vs. Change in Emissions Intensities in 2025E
GS SUSTAIN Sector
2019 vs. 2019
Airlines 9% -5%
Aluminum -8% -14%
Chemicals 10% -12%
Construction Materials 2% -12%
Diversified Mining & Metals -6% -14%
Oil & Gas Producers -8% -16%
Oil Refiners -10% -10%
Steel -3% -8%
Utilities - Electric -17% -20%
Total -9% -15%
Emissions intensities are calculated dividing Scope 1+2 emissions (Scope 1 only for Electric Utilities) by the corresponding activity metric as specified in our Energy team’s Carbonomics reports. Total emissions intensity
change is a weighted average calculated on a market cap-basis for companies included in our analysis.
Source: Company data, FactSet, Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 5
Exhibit 2: We see aggregate Scope 1 emissions from seven key sectors flattish with 2020
levels through 2025, down vs. pre-pandemic levels
Sector breakdown for Scope 1 emissions from corporates included in our analysis.
4.0
Airlines
3.5
Chemicals
3.0
Utilities
2.5
2.0 Oil & Gas
1.5
Metals &
Mining
1.0
Steel
0.5
Construction
Materials
0.0
2019 2020 2021E 2022E 2023E 2024E 2025E
Implications for stocks: Finding ESG Improvers
We believe that over time ESG investors will look more towards impact themes and there will be rising willingness to invest
in ESG Improvers — companies that may not traditionally have scored well on ESG metrics but where there could be
recognition for a significant improvement towards Sustainable Development Goals. It is for this reason we have worked with
our analysts to quantify improvement. While there are ultimately many different ways to measure improvement, in our ESG
of the Future reports, we have focused on:
n Green Revenue and Green Capex: Companies with rising or high and rising percentages of Green Capex or Green
Revenue as a percentage of the total. In our November 2021 ESG of the Future report, we introduced stock-specific
estimates for Green Revenue and Green Capex mix for 19 sectors key in the Green Capex mosaic. Our takeaway was
that we see the Green Capex and Green Revenue mix rising at a rate of about 1.0-1.5 percentage points per year.
n Greenhouse Gas emissions: Companies that are meaningfully lowering their emissions intensity. In this report, we
introduce analysts’ estimates for Scope 1 and Scope 1+2 annual greenhouse gas emissions for companies in 7
high-emitting sectors with a goal of assessing direction of overall corporate emissions but also in identifying companies
helping to advance decarbonization goals by lowering their own emissions footprint on an intensity basis.
dettime
qe-2OC
fo
notG
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
As not all analysts model through 2025, 2024E and 2025E reflect the weighted average yoy change for companies where the covering
analysts have submitted data. The same applies for 2019 and 2020 weighted average estimates. Sectors as defined in our GS SUSTAIN
sector classification.
Source: Company data, Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 6
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
When will investors reward ESG Improvers? Over time, we expect a rising focus on ESG Improvers as more investors
look to drive and measure impact. This is catalyzed both by: (1) a shift in stage of the ESG life cycle towards the
Measurement phase as addressed in our PM’s Guide to the ESG Revolution report; and (2) a shift From Aspiration to Action
among ESG investors on the back of multiple energy reliability events over the last 18 months. However, Fear of Misaligned
Exposure (FOME) among ESG investors could be a headwind to the timing and pace of focus on ESG Improvers. We focus
this report on seven high emitting sectors that are largely underweight in ESG funds. Because of the wide range of focus
among ESG funds, the timing of a shift towards improvers is somewhat opaque. Nevertheless, the increased focus on
achieving goals like Net Zero, Infrastructure and Clean Water will likely over time lead to a greater diversification of
investments across the supply chain that includes companies driving impact through improvement.
2 May 2022 7
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Source: Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 8
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Putting corporate emissions in context: Highly concentrated but minority of total emissions
The seven sectors comprised in our analysis account for almost 90% of corporate Scope 1 emissions within GS
SUSTAIN coverage. Corporate-level Scope 1 emissions are highly concentrated in a handful of sectors, which largely
represent our focus for forecasts. The seven sectors we consider are: Airlines, Chemicals, Construction Materials, Mining
& Metals, Oil & Gas (separated in Oil & Gas Producers and Oil Refiners), Steel and Utilities (broken down into Electric
Utilities, Gas Utilities, Multi-Utilities and Water Utilities). Among those sectors, publicly listed companies from the corporate
universe covered by GS SUSTAIN (about 7,000 publicly listed companies globally) account for 8.4 bn tons of CO -eq in 2019,
2
representing 89% of emissions from publicly listed companies in GS SUSTAIN coverage.
Importantly, however, reported corporate Scope 1 emissions only account for 18% of total global GHG emissions.
Global GHG emissions in 2019 — including land-use change and forestry — were about 51 bn tons of CO -equivalent —
2
calculated from 2018 global total GHG emissions from Emissions Database for Global Atmospheric Research (EDGAR), to
which we apply the 2010-2018 average p.p. contribution of CO to total GHG to derive total global GHG emissions in 2019.
2
We estimate that disclosed Scope 1 emissions from the corporate universe covered by GS SUSTAIN accounted for 18% of
those GHG emissions in 2019 — or about 9.4 bn tons of CO -eq, of which as mentioned above almost 90% come from the
2
seven sectors of our focus. We see companies focused on electricity/heat generation, transportation and buildings as the
areas accounting for the highest share of emissions not captured by GS SUSTAIN coverage, per sector breakdown as
reported by Climate Watch.
Our equity research teams cover 70% of total Scope 1 disclosed emissions from the seven key sectors. Companies
covered by our Global Investment Research teams account for about 6 bn tons of CO -eq in 2019, corresponding to 70% of
2
total emissions from publicly listed corporates in GS SUSTAIN coverage in the seven key sectors, or 11% of global total GHG
emissions. The remaining portion of emissions from corporates in the seven key sectors (5% of total global GHG emissions)
come from companies not covered by our equity research teams.
2 May 2022 9
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Exhibit 3: Among the ~7,000 companies in our GS SUSTAIN database, the 7 key sectors we Exhibit 4: Out of global GHG emissions, the seven sectors considered account for only 16%
consider in our analysis represent almost 90% of reported Scope 1 emissions of the total. Covered companies for which estimates have been provided cover 46% of those
Sector breakdown of global Scope 1 emissions from corporates in our GS SUSTAIN coverage (2019 — or c.7% of total GHG emissions
data) Breakdown of global GHG emissions in 2019 with respect to the scope of coverage in our analysis
Other sectors Co Sm Up Sa Tn Aie INs (c eo xv . . 7 b y From covered From covered
sectors) companies by GIR companies
Mining & Metals Utilities w/oforecasts covered by GIR
Chemicals
7%
Companies
Airlines cov. by
82% 16% SUSTAIN in 4%
Construction
Materials 5%
Global GHG
Emissions,ex. 7 From companies
Steel sectors and not covered by
Oil & Gas SUSTAIN GIR
Sectors as defined in our GS SUSTAIN sector classification. Oil & Gas comprises Oil & Gas Producers and Oil Refiners. Utilities Data refers to 2019 global GHG emissions
comprises Electric Utilities, Gas Utilities, Multi-Utilities and Water Utilities.
Source: EDGAR, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
Source: Company data, Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
Our new bottom-up forecasts reflect a subset of companies in these seven sectors where our analysts see sufficient
basis for forecasting. Companies for which we received GHG emissions forecasts represent 65% of emissions from
corporates covered by our equity research teams in the seven key sectors, or 3.8 bn tons of CO -eq — corresponding to 7%
2
of global total GHG emissions in 2019. While the overall percentage of both disclosed corporate Scope 1 emissions and
emissions from companies where we have forecasts is low, we nevertheless believe the directional takeaways are
important. We expect to grow the percentage of emissions forecasted over time.
Response rates from our analysts are the highest for Oil & Gas and the lowest for Chemicals. As highlighted in Exhibit
5, the number of estimates we received varied widely among sectors and regions. On a Scope 1-basis, response rates were
the highest for the Oil & Gas sector (66% on average). We also note response rates for Utilities were 46% on average —
48% for Electric Utilities, 29% for Gas Utilities, 59% for Multi-Utilities and 44% for Water Utilities. The Chemicals sector is
where response rates were the lowest — 10%, globally — due to a combination of (1) limited company disclosures
regarding decarbonization pathways and (2) difficulty in forecasting emissions trajectories by our analysts, in our view.
2 May 2022 <0
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Exhibit 5: Response rates for Scope 1 emissions estimates were the highest for Oil & Gas and
Utilities, and vary significantly among regions of coverage — the highest in Europe (53%) and
the lowest in Asia (24%), on a weighted average basis
Breakdown of response rates for Scope 1 emissions estimates by sector and region of coverage.
Airlines 28 Scope 1
Chemicals 94
Construction Materials 23
Mining & Metals 55
Oil & Gas Producers 68
Oil Refiners 30
Steel 36
Utilities - Electric 71
Utilities - Gas 17
Utilities - Multi 17
Utilities - Water 9
448
Total
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Americas Europe Asia Pacific
Inputs are counted in the response rate calculation when at least 2 years of estimates have been provided. Vertical dashed lines
correspond to the weighted average response rates by region using number of companies in the sector as weights.
Source: Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 <<
Implications for overall corporate emissions: Flattish through 2025 vs. 2020
Our work suggests stabilization in absolute emissions across the seven key sectors considered post-2020, still down
from pre-pandemic levels. The companies in our analysis accounted for 3.8 billion tons of CO -eq emitted in the
2
atmosphere in 2019, with the Oil & Gas and Utilities sectors representing the majority of the total (39% and 25% of the
total, respectively). As we detail in Exhibit 6, COVID-related disruptions resulted in a steep decline in 2020 — down 10% YoY.
Our analysts’ estimates imply a slight pickup in overall Scope 1 emissions from the companies in our analysis in 2021E and
2022E, followed by a modest decline / stabilization in subsequent years, with 2025E down 9% vs. 2019 and up 1% vs. 2020.
We note overall Scope 1 emissions for corporates in our survey are estimated to amount to 3.4 billion tons of CO -eq by
2
2025E, implying a 1.6% annualized reduction vs. 2019 levels. Notably, however, to stay on track with Net Zero goals, we
would need to see a more meaningful acceleration in the pace of decarbonization post-2025E. Commentary from
managements of companies with Net Zero or broader decarbonization goals suggests a more back-end loaded emissions
decline, so our results through 2025 does not suggest we are definitively off track.
Exhibit 6: We see aggregate Scope 1 emissions from key sectors flattish with 2020 levels
through 2025, down vs. pre-pandemic levels
Sector breakdown for Scope 1 emissions from corporates included in our analysis.
4.0
Airlines
3.5
Chemicals
3.0
Utilities
2.5
2.0 Oil & Gas
1.5
Metals &
Mining
1.0
Steel
0.5
Construction
Materials
0.0
2019 2020 2021E 2022E 2023E 2024E 2025E
Among the seven sectors, we see absolute emissions from Steel, Mining & Metals, Oil & Gas and Utilities declining
by 2025E vs. 2019. While overall Scope 1 emissions from corporates in our analysis are estimated to decline by 9% by
dettime
qe-2OC
fo
notG
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
As not all analysts model through 2025, 2024E and 2025E reflect the weighted average yoy change for companies where the covering
analysts have submitted data. The same applies for 2019 and 2020 weighted average estimates. Sectors as defined in our GS SUSTAIN
sector classification.
Source: Company data, Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 <2
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
2025E vs. 2019 base, the sector-by-sector outlook is mixed, with 4 of the 7 key sectors projected on the decline and 3 on the
rise. In particular, our estimates indicate a downward trajectory for absolute Scope 1 emissions from Steel, Mining & Metals,
Oil & Gas and Utilities — down 6%, 10%, 10% and 23% by 2025E vs. 2019 base. Scope 1 emissions for the remaining 3
sectors — Airlines, Chemicals and Construction Materials — are estimated to be on the rise by 2025E vs. 2019 base.
Our analysis — even if partial — indicates significant discrepancies in overall emissions among regions. We note
absolute Scope 1 emissions from companies in the seven key sectors in Americas and Europe are estimated to follow a
similar trajectory, declining by about 14%-15% by 2025E vs. 2019 (see Exhibit 8 and Exhibit 9) — despite different
sector-by-sector outlooks for Chemicals, Metals & Mining and Steel. Absolute emissions in Asia Pacific are estimated to
follow a different trajectory, increasing by 7% by 2025E vs. 2019 (Exhibit 10) — in particular, emissions from Chemicals,
Construction Materials, Oil & Gas and Utilities are forecast on the rise among Asia Pacific companies. In our view, this stems
in part from different positions on the cost abatement curve for Americas/Europe/Asia Pacific companies.
While our work provides views on only a part of corporate emissions, we believe this could be extrapolated to derive
trends and trajectories. We recognize that companies in our analysis accounted for only 7% of global GHG emissions and
46% of global GHG emissions from publicly traded corporates in our GS SUSTAIN database — based on 2019 data. However,
the importance of the seven key sectors we selected — which accounted for almost 90% of total direct GHG emissions
from corporates in 2019 — jointly with the footprint of corporates covered in our analysis where we have forward-looking
GHG emissions forecasts gives us confidence that our work could provide visibility into the trajectory of emissions among
the seven sectors we focus on.
2 May 2022 <3
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Exhibit 7: Absolute Scope 1 emissions are projected to decrease for 4 of the 7 key sectors Exhibit 8: Among Americas companies where our analysts are estimating future greenhouse
considered — Steel, Oil & Gas, Mining & Metals and Utilities — by 2025E vs. 2019, and to gas emissions, Scope 1 emissions from Oil & Gas, Construction Materials and Utilities are
increase for the remaining 3 — Airlines, Chemical and Construction Materials forecast to decline meaningfully
Overall Scope 1 emissions for the seven sectors considered, indexed to 2019 as base-year Trajectory of Scope 1 emissions for Americas companies in our analysis, broken down by sector.
Indexed vs. 2019 base.
130% 130% Steel
Chemicals Mining &
120% Construction 120% Metals
110% Materials Airlines 110%
Airlines
Steel
100% 100% Chemicals
Mining &
90% Metals 90% Total
Total
80% 80% Oil & Gas
Oil & Gas
70% 70%
60% 60% Utilities
Utilities Construction
50% 50% Materials
40% 40%
30% 30%
2019 2020 2021E 2022E 2023E 2024E 2025E 2026E 2019 2020 2021E 2022E 2023E 2024E 2025E 2026E
As not all analysts model through 2025, 2024E and 2025E reflect the weighted average yoy change for companies where the As not all analysts model through 2025, 2024E and 2025E reflect the weighted average yoy change for companies where the
covering analysts have submitted data. The same applies for 2019 and 2020 weighted average estimates. Sectors are defined based covering analysts have submitted data. The same applies for 2019 and 2020 weighted average estimates. Sectors are defined based
on GS SUSTAIN sector classification — Oil & Gas includes Oil & Gas Producers and Oil Refiners, Utilities includes Electric Utilities, on GS SUSTAIN sector classification — Oil & Gas includes Oil & Gas Producers and Oil Refiners, Utilities includes Electric Utilities,
Gas Utilities, Multi-Utilities and Water Utilities Gas Utilities, Multi-Utilities and Water Utilities
Source: Company data, Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research Source: Company data, Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 <4
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Exhibit 9: Among EMEA companies where our analysts are estimating future greenhouse Exhibit 10: Among Asia Pacific companies where our analysts are estimating future
gas emissions, the Construction Materials, Mining & Metals, Oil & Gas, Utilities and Steel greenhouse gas emissions, the Mining & Metals sector is forecast to have declining Scope
sectors are forecast to have declining Scope 1 emissions by 2025E 1 emissions by 2025E
Trajectory of Scope 1 emissions for Europe companies in our analysis, broken down by sector. Trajectory of Scope 1 emissions for Asia Pacific companies in our analysis, broken down by sector.
Indexed vs. 2019 base. Indexed vs. 2019 base.
130% Airlines 130% Gas Utilities
120% 120% Oil & Gas
110% Construction 110% Construction
Materials Materials
100% 100%
Chemicals
Mining &
90% Metals 90%
80% Total 80% Total
Oil & Gas
70% 70%
Mining & Metals
60% 60%
Steel Utilities
50% 50%
40% 40%
30% 30%
2019 2020 2021E 2022E 2023E 2024E 2025E 2026E 2019 2020 2021E 2022E 2023E 2024E 2025E 2026E
As not all analysts model through 2025, 2024E and 2025E reflect the weighted average yoy change for companies where the As not all analysts model through 2025, 2024E and 2025E reflect the weighted average yoy change for companies where the
covering analysts have submitted data. The same applies for 2019 and 2020 weighted average estimates. Sectors are defined based covering analysts have submitted data. The same applies for 2019 and 2020 weighted average estimates. Sectors are defined based
on GS SUSTAIN sector classification — Oil & Gas includes Oil & Gas Producers and Oil Refiners, Utilities includes Electric Utilities, on GS SUSTAIN sector classification — Oil & Gas includes Oil & Gas Producers and Oil Refiners, Utilities includes Electric Utilities,
Gas Utilities, Multi-Utilities and Water Utilities Gas Utilities, Multi-Utilities and Water Utilities. Airlines and Steel sectors not depicted due to no estimates/limited estimates.
Source: Company data, Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research Source: Company data, Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 <5
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Corporate emissions vs. Consumer emissions: Where could initial impact be the greatest?
We believe consideration of emissions intensity of corporates vs. emissions intensity of countries can be helpful to
determine where investors and policy-makers should prioritize resources to drive the greatest impact. As we have
written, we are seeing a greater focus of regulation in Europe, the US and Asia on disclosure of Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions.
There is an intense focus among policymakers, investors and other stakeholders in lowering corporate emissions. This has in
part led to, as we have written, a transition catalyzed by lower supply that leads to underinvestment and higher prices of
commodities. We believe greater focus on consumer demand can also play an important role in driving decarbonization. We
believe an all-in approach towards lowering consumer and corporate emissions will be needed to achieve Net Zero goals —
focused on finding ways to mitigate both corporate and consumer emissions. At the same time, our analysis suggests the
initial weighting of focus on corporate vs. consumer emissions may drive greater impact if varied by country, depending on
whether the outsized emissions intensity lies with corporates or consumers.
Electricity consumption per capita is highest in the US, followed by Japan and EMEA with China on the rise. Overall
electricity demand on a per capita basis is greatest in developed countries, but even among developed countries the US is
meaningfully above Japan which is meaningfully above EMEA. The global weighted average is meaningfully lower, a function
of many countries and populations with more limited access or affordability for electricity consumption. We believe
advancement towards No Poverty Sustainable Development Goals likely means that the global average for electricity
consumption per capita will be on the rise in future years. This is another reason for financial market and policymaker
consideration for corporate vs. consumer emissions. For some countries like Canada, the higher electricity consumption per
capita is in part driven by severe weather — i.e., a greater number of population-weighted heating and cooling degree days.
This is less the case based on IEA data for the US and Japan.
2 May 2022 <6
Exhibit 11: Higher-income countries consume much more energy than lower-income countries on a per-capita basis
Per-capita electricity consumption by country
20
18
16
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
)hWM(
atipac
rep
sruoh
ttawageM
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Canada
US
Australia
Japan
OECD Europe
China
World
India
Source: IEA, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 <7
Exhibit 12: While countries with more extreme weather have greater heating and/or cooling needs, this does not fully explain the greater electricity
intensity in the US, Japan and Australia as examples
Number of population-weighted heating degree days and cooling degree days, 2019; heating degree days based on 16°C, cooling degree days based on 18°C
4,500
4,000
3,500
3,000
2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500
0
Corporate emissions intensity on a revenue basis is greatest in emerging markets or those more dominated by
energy-intensive industries. Exhibit 13 shows corporate level Scope 1+2 emissions per dollar of revenue by country. To
derive this, we apply a company’s overall emissions intensity to a country based on what percent of revenue each company
sells in a given country. So if a company sells 50% of its product into country A and 50% of its product into country B, both
countries would be allocated half the company’s emissions and half the company’s revenue towards calculating country-level
corporate emissions intensity. Looking at corporate emissions intensity in this way, countries like Saudi Arabia, India and
Russia have the highest corporate emissions intensity. Corporate emissions intensity is lowest in Western European
syad
eerged
dethgiew
noitalupoP
aissuR adanaC EAU yawroN dnaliahT aibarA
iduaS
eropagniS nedewS aidnI dnalreztiwS airtsuA aisenodnI aeroK
htuoS
anihC dnaloP SU ynamreG napaJ yekruT lizarB KU muigleB dnalerI sdnalrehteN ecnarF ylatI eceerG niapS aibmoloC elihC anitnegrA ocixeM ailartsuA dnalaeZ
weN
acirfA
htuoS
lagutroP
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Heating degree days
Cooling degree days
Source: IEA, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 <8
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
countries (Switzerland, UK, Ireland, France among them), Japan and the US. We have also looked at the emissions intensities
by country of domestically domiciled companies, which in most cases are above the corporate average for the country
overall (with a few exceptions, largely where energy imports are meaningful in the overall economy). We note that not every
company discloses emissions, and our dataset looks only at emissions at disclosed publicly traded companies (with select
high-emitting private companies that disclose emissions also included).
2 May 2022 <9
Exhibit 13: Emissions intensities for publicly listed corporates based on our revenue-allocation method are higher in emerging markets
Publicly traded company Scope 1+2 emissions intensities, tons of CO2 per $ of revenue allocated to country of sales, 2019. Sorted from highest (left) to lowest
(right); domestic emissions intensity reflects in-country emissions intensity from companies headquartered in-country
1,600
1,400
1,200
1,000
800
600
400
200
0
Overall emissions intensity by country does not fully overlap with corporate emissions intensity by country. When
looking at country-level emissions per dollar of GDP, the ranking/positioning of countries is not consistent with those with
highest/lowest corporate emissions. As an example, the US and India both have similar levels of overall emissions per dollar
of GDP (about the global average) even as India’s corporate emissions intensity is among the highest and the US’s corporate
--
eunever
fo
nm
$
rep
2OCnot
,ytisnetnI
noissimE
2+1
epocS
egarevA
dethgieW
acirfA
htuoS
aibarA
iduaS
aidnI elihC aissuR aisenodnI dnaloP anihC eceerG aibmoloC EAU aeroK
htuoS
dnaliahT anitnegrA ailartsuA ocixeM yekruT adanaC yawroN nawiaT lizarB lagutroP muigleB niapS ylatI sdnalrehteN eropagniS ynamreG setatS
detinU
nedewS airtsuA dnalaeZ
weN
ecnarF napaJ KU dnalerI dnalreztiwS
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Developing Economies
Developed Economies
Domestic emission intensity
South Africa’s domestic emissions intensity is implied at about 1,980 tonCO2 / $ mn
Source: Thomson Reuters, FactSet, Bloomberg, Refinitiv, United Nations, Company data, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 20
emissions intensity is among the lowest. Japan’s overall emissions are slightly below the global average, while its corporate
emissions are among the lowest. Only Switzerland and Ireland have among the lowest both corporate emissions and overall
emissions intensities, while Russia, South Africa and Saudi Arabia are among the higher emissions intensities on a corporate
and overall basis.
Exhibit 14: Overall country emission intensity of GDP is greatest in lower-income resource-producing countries
CO2 emissions intensity per $ of GDP and GDP per capita by country, 2019; top 10 countries based on GDP are bold
0.9
Turkmenistan
0.8
South Africa
0.7
Ukraine
Kazakhstan
0.6
Iran
Bahrain
Russia
0.5
China
0.4 Saudi Arabia Qatar
Canada
Australia
India
Japan US
0.3
UAE Germany
0.2 Italy Netherlands
Norway
UK Denmark Ireland
0.1 Brazil
France
Sweden Singapore
DR Congo Switzerland
0.0
$0 $10,000 $20,000 $30,000 $40,000 $50,000 $60,000 $70,000 $80,000 $90,000
We believe this suggests the initial focus of investors and policy-makers towards decarbonization should be varied
depending on the country to have the greatest impact. Our analysis suggests that there may be greater impact focusing
in the United States and Japan on the consumer vs. the corporate, while there may be greater impact in India and Eastern
PDG
fo
$
rep
)2OCgK(
snoissime
2OC
latoT
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
GDP per capita (US$)
Source: World Bank, United Nations, Global Carbon Atlas, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 2<
European countries focusing more on the corporate than the consumer. In Exhibit 15 we have created an indicative index
where policy/investor focus may initially be better directed towards the corporate vs. the consumer or equally to both.
Exhibit 15: Our indicative index that divides country emissions intensity per $ of GDP by corporate emissions intensity per dollar of revenue suggests
potential greater initial impact from focusing decarbonization efforts on consumers in the US and Japan and on corporates in India and other emerging
markets
Country emissions intensity index / corporate emissions intensity index, 2019
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
ytisnetni
snoissime
etaroproC
/
yrtnuoC
)xedni
etaroproc
/
xedni
yrtnuoC(
SU napaJ dnalaeZ
weN
adanaC ailartsuA airtsuA ynamreG KU anihC aissuR dnalerI aeroK
htuoS
sdnalrehteN muigleB ecnarF ylatI yekruT ocixeM dnalreztiwS acirfA
htuoS
niapS lizarB lagutroP dnaliahT EAU eceerG dnaloP anitnegrA nedewS yawroN eropagniS aisenodnI aibarA
iduaS
elihC aidnI aibmoloC
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Consumer
emissions
Corporate
emissions
intensity
Index values calculated by dividing a country’s overall/corporate emissions intensity values by the median values of the comparison set. Dark blue bars represent developed countries, light blue bars represent developing
countries, and stripped bars represent countries with more than 3500 degree days in 2019.
Source: Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 22
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Green Capex mosaic provides opportunities to reduce corporate emissions and consumer emissions
We continue to believe Green Capex will be the multi-year secular theme driving the next wave of infrastructure as
focus rises to decarbonize the world — in addition to meet Clean Water and Infrastructure goals. As we detailed in our
Green Capex: Making Infrastructure Happen report, we see the need for $2.8 trillion incremental annual investment on
average this decade vs the 2016-20 average on path towards Net Zero, Infrastructure and Clean Water goals. As a result,
Green Capex would need to step up to a total of $6 tn annually in the 2020s. Green Capex for those three focus areas has
been about $3.2 trillion annually within 2016-2020, which represents about 15% of average global gross capital formation
during 2016-19. Incremental Green Capex will be needed from a combination of governments, private companies and public
companies, and will involve, in our view, an all-in approach across multiple sectors that will be critical or needed on path to
Net Zero, Infrastructure and Clean Water goals (see Exhibit 16).
Net Zero goals will require annual investments to step up to $3.0 trillion annually and will involve multiple
technology verticals, in our view. We expect achieving Net Zero goals will require a step-up in investments to $3.0 tn
annually in the 2020s, up $1.8 tn from the 2016-2020 annual average of $1.2 tn. In our view, Green Capex needed on path to
Decarbonization goals will embrace multiple technology verticals, from generation — e.g., Renewables, among others — to
utilization — e.g., Electrification, among others. In addition, as detailed in Exhibit 16, we also see mitigation — such as
Carbon Capture Utilization & Storage — as well as energy storage technologies — e.g., Hydrogen and Battery Storage — as
instrumental on path to Net Zero goals, to balance intermittency in energy supply from renewables assets.
We believe higher commodity prices could strengthen investor focus on energy reliability, particularly on Hydrogen
and Energy Storage. As we recently described in our Supply-driven oil price spike: Sustainability implications report, we
believe rising commodity prices could accelerate technology innovation and/or fuel transition — similarly to past spikes in oil
price. While we do not view an inflationary commodities environment hampering Green Capex growth, we anticipate
heightened focus on energy reliability and storage, potentially. Additional catalysts could be recent temporary power outages
in major economies worldwide — namely, Texas, California, Europe and China — and the ongoing Russia/Ukraine conflict.
The incorporation, in a limited way, of natural gas and nuclear into the EU Taxonomy at the beginning of 2022 is recognition of
the need for Energy reliability to complement transition to clean energy. As such, we see Battery Storage and Hydrogen
likely to receive greater focus given they are instrumental to address the intermittency of solar and wind. To this regard, we
note recent policy initiatives (i.e., REPowerEU in Europe and Energy Security Strategy in UK) could potentially fast-track those
technologies.
Technologies we are watching: disruptive innovations will be needed on path to Decarbonization goals. As stated
above, the path to Net Zero will require breakthroughs across multiple green technologies, as decarbonizing harder-to-abate
2 May 2022 23
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
emissions (e.g., emissions in industrial processes, long-haul transport) require solutions that are still relatively nascent and
expensive to implement. Our Energy team’s Carbonomics analysis, for example, suggests that the costs to decarbonize 50%
of the world’s emissions currently stand at nearly US$80 or less per tonne, but decarbonizing beyond 75% of the world’s
emissions through advanced technologies (e.g., CCUS) could require between US$150 to more than US$1,000 per tonne
based on current solutions. Cost deflation across various decarbonization technology verticals and innovating new solutions
are why we believe companies exposed to our Green Capex themes — both public and private — will play an increasing role
in a low carbon economy in the long-term. Below we highlight an ecosystem of seven critical technologies that could provide
transformational and disruptive solutions to drive decarbonization in the long-term (Exhibit 17).
What can help lower consumer emissions: Energy efficiency and vehicle electrification. While there has been an
understandable focus on the supply side of energy — shifting generation towards renewables and away from coal as an
example — we believe there will be rising consideration for technologies and solutions that can mitigate demand as well or
change the consumer emissions profile. As highlighted earlier, some countries — particularly developed economies like the
US, Japan and Australia — have very high electricity per capita that does not uniquely appear attributable to extreme
weather. We believe there is an opportunity for impact from technologies that can help mitigate emissions beyond corporate
Scope 1 and 2. One area of focus is electrifying vehicles, which based on our ESG of the Future analysis should see an
accelerated pace of adaptation. Another less discussed vertical that warrants focus and could see greater investor support is
energy efficiency — appliances, HVAC, low/zero carbon buildings or improvements in internal combustion engine efficiency.
2 May 2022 24
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Exhibit 16: The Net Zero, Infrastructure and Clean Water mosaic
Critical technologies/focus areas and annual investment in the 2020s to achieve Net Zero, Infrastructure and Clean Water needs
Source: IEA, McKinsey, OECD, Company data, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 25
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Exhibit 17: Innovations across multiple technologies could help lower the cost of decarbonization and introduce new climate solutions
Select focus areas for decarbonization technological innovation
Technologies Innovation areas Technologies Innovation areas
Next gen high cell efficiency technologies New capture technologies
Carbon Capture
Electrification Optimization of wafer size and thickness Optimization of input costs
Localization of clean hydrogen
Changes in module design
ecosystems
Ultra-High Voltage (UHV) lines Fuel cell vehicles
Grid Transmission Low Carbon Fuel
Equipment and software upgrades Gas-fired distributed generation
Low Carbon Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF)
Electrification of construction equipment
Production & Energy solutions
Conservation EAF and hydrogen steel production Digitalization Cost deflations in Silicon Carbide
Improvements in battery energy density
Battery Storage
Graphene based super-fast charging
Source: Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research, Gao Hua Securities Research
2 May 2022 26
Why emissions could begin to impact stock performance in select sectors
Because of their higher emissions profiles, companies in the seven sectors we are introducing emissions forecasts
are highly underweight in ESG funds. On a weighted average basis by market cap, ESG funds are 35% underweight the 7
sectors that comprise 90% of corporate Scope 1 emissions vs. respective benchmarks (Exhibit 18 — sectors as defined
under SUSTAIN classification). Within these sectors, there are some overweight positions such as Chemicals (27%
overweight) and Water Utilities (433% overweight). The most underweight of the seven sectors are Oil & Gas Producers,
Mining & Metals and Oil Refiners — 70%, 68% and 42% underweight, respectively. In our view, companies in these sectors
have potentially not been recognized in ESG funds partially due to their generally large emissions footprint, among other
factors. We believe within these sectors as investors move From Aspiration to Action there may be greater rewards for
companies that can successfully decarbonize their operations and demonstrate they are the low-cost/low-emissions supplier
of their product if corporate returns/forward outlook remain favorable. Additionally, we believe EU Taxonomy-driven
classification of Green Revenue and Green Capex mix could also help to drive a broader focus on ESG Improvers, with
emissions/emissions intensity reduction one way in addition to revenue/capex mix of measuring impact.
Exhibit 18: All sectors in our analysis are underweight in ESG funds vs. respective
benchmarks, except Chemicals and Water Utilities
Percentage underweight/overweight in ESG funds vs. respective benchmarks — data as of March
2022
100%
50%
0%
-50%
-100%
GSE
ni
thgiewrevO
/
thgiewrednU
%
skramhcneb
evitcepser
.sv
sdnuf
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Water Utilities:
433% overweight
Sectors as defined based on GS SUSTAIN classification
Source: Morningstar, Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 27
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
We continue to believe that equity investors focused on Sustainability and ESG issues will become more
forward-looking in the coming years, a function of five factors:
n Regulation — particularly in Europe, under the influence of the EU Green Taxonomy framework and SDFR — but also in
the US with proposed mandatory emissions disclosure.
n New sustainability bond issuance — with performance linked to sustainability targets.
n Increase in capital required to be on track for Net Zero, Clean Water and Infrastructure goals — see section
“Theme 2: Green Capex beneficiaries — Innovation, Inflation, Policy key catalysts” for more details.
n Increased focus on whether we are on track for other UN Sustainable Development Goals — due to pressure from
stakeholders to contextualize environmental and social impact of business activities and portfolios.
n Supply chain risks — due to potentially long lead-times for critical projects, timely investments are necessary.
2 May 2022 28
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Exhibit 19: Driven by pressure from multiple angles, we expect ESG investors to become increasingly forward-looking
Source: Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
A shift towards looking at ESG Improvers is likely to lead to some increased interest in companies that are
aggressively decarbonizing... Recent meetings with investors suggested largely broad support for our thesis
encompassing key themes from our From Aspiration to Action 2022 outlook report of Green Capex, Greenablers, ESG
Improvers, EU Taxonomy Beneficiaries and Inclusive Growth. While we remain positive on Clean Energy stocks and related
Green Capex, we have highlighted that we see opportunities to own stocks more broadly across the supply chain vs. today’s
highly concentrated overweight positions in solar/wind/water stocks. Investor feedback — including from ESG investors in
Europe — was largely supportive of this thesis, partly a function of concerns regarding returns/commoditization in solar/wind
and partly because of perceived more attractive valuations and returns in other sectors. Investors in our discussions
recognized the critical role that Greenablers such as Copper/Aluminum, Electricity transmission, Cybersecurity and
Semiconductors play, the need for high-emitting sectors to decarbonize and the need for technologies like Carbon Capture
and biofuels to be deployed.
2 May 2022 29
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
... but the timing of such a shift is less clear due in part to “Fear of Misaligned Exposure.” However, both fund
managers and ESG specialists in recent meetings expressed significant fears of having to defend to their investors stocks
perceived to be misaligned with ESG goals. In particular, investors highlighted high-emitting sectors such as oil/gas and
metals/mining though also other Greenablers like Semiconductors. This “Fear of Misaligned Exposure (FOME)” is particularly
intense among fund managers running or considering running Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation Article 9 funds
which require greater disclosure on sustainable investments. Taxonomy eligibility covers a number of high-emitting sectors,
and as the EU Taxonomy and SFDR are further rolled out, we see Taxonomy alignment becoming a driving factor behind ESG
strategy, especially as Taxonomy disclosures are required for ESG funds under SFDR. While the investable universe under
Taxonomy-alignment is not limited to solar/wind/water, the strict guidelines of the technical screening criteria may limit
ownership in stocks initially perceived to be misaligned with ESG goals, emphasizing the Divestment Dilemma highlighted in
our recent work.
Over time, we will likely see a pickup in ESG Improvers or Decarbonization funds, with goals/ownership
expectations set up front in an attempt to mitigate FOME. This could be driven more significantly in the US before
Europe, though the multiple energy reliability disruptions seen over the past year is driving a shift From Aspiration to Action
among ESG investors and regulators. We have seen equity markets reward companies with attractive corporate returns vs.
peers that have reinvested a high, rising or high+rising percentage of operating cash flow back into capex and R&D with
revenue exposure to Green Capex-related Sustainable Development Goals. We believe over time we can see improved
valuations for companies with strong fundamentals that are decarbonizing at a quicker pace vs. peers.
Over time, the market is likely to reward companies for impact vs. automatically rewarding divestment. We believe
lower corporate emissions intensity via divestment (or via acquisition) does not automatically advance broader
decarbonization Sustainable Development Goals. The impact from M&A-driven changes in intensity are a function of whether
the buyer of assets accelerates or decelerates the pace of decarbonization and whether the buyer runs the asset with
greater environmental efficiency than the prior owner. It is for this reason that we believe investors are more likely to reward
organic decarbonization — for electricity generators as an example, coal retirements and renewables growth vs. coal plant
divestitures and renewables acquisitions.
2 May 2022 30
Exhibit 20: While approaches and stages vary, we view the preponderance of the market as entering the ‘Measurement Phase’, with opportunities to prepare for the ‘Refinement Phase’
ahead
A view of the evolution of ESG investing
Definition Resourcing Measurement Refinement Maturity
Phase focused on defining and Defined by resource building and Focus on asset gathering; Broad adoption; widely available, Final form: holistic incorporation;
distinguishing ESG-linked strategies process development; emphasis on increasing competition; shift in standardized data; shift in focus ESG analysis subsumed into
corporate disclosure focus to corporate performance from process to outcomes investment analysis
Phases of ESG Investing / Evolution of Market Demands
noitarteneP
GSE
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
M A R K E T D E M A N D S
•Box ticking (Is ESG •Sustainable investment policy •Expansion of product offering •Differentiated, ‘in-house’ view of •De-siloing of ESG function, full
considered/incorporated? Y/N) ESG applications integration
•Hiring/installing ESG leadership and •Increasing focus on impact
•Exclusions support •Industry-specialized resourcing, •Widely accepted/standardized/
•More granular reporting, e.g.: adoption of alternative data proven approaches to ESG
•Hi-level / outsourced ratings •Stewardship and engagement
resourcing -Carbon footprinting •Increasing focus on links to value •Re-emphasis on stock performance
creation as principal point of differentiation
-Product alignment (e.g.,
SDGs, green •Quantification of impact and
revenues/capex) engagementoutcomes
-Proxy voting and
engagement record
I M P L I C A T I O N S F O R S T O C K S E L E C T I O N
•Avoidance of widely excluded •Re-rating of ‘obvious’ thematic •Building interest in greater •Focus on forward outlook, rate of •Relevant for all styles, all asset
categories winners discovery value: change classes
•Avoidance of controversial •Emphasis on disclosure leads to -Less-obvious thematic •Broadening of stock selection
businesses bias towards large cap, quality, winners beyond quality & growth (i.e.,
growth value, improvers)
-Moving up value chain
•Skews toward asset-light business •Further penetration of passive
models -ESG improvers
Source: Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 3<
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Emissions intensity projected paths through 2025 by sector vs. Carbonomics Net Zero carbon models
We believe investors will focus on both the absolute direction of emissions in a sector but also the emissions
intensity. We believe companies with the greatest emissions intensity reductions may receive greater favor, particularly if
their intensity reductions are consistent with a pathway to 1.5 degree or lower implied temperature rise. In 2021, our EMEA
energy research team in its Carbonomics reports introduced three global sectoral paths to Net Zero carbon with global
models of decarbonization by sector and technology leveraging its Carbonomics cost curve.
n The GS 1.5° scenario is consistent with a 1.5°C global temperature rise. This scenario implies reaching global net
zero carbon by 2050, thus with limited temperature overshoot. For this scenario, our Carbonomics team assumed a
carbon budget for remaining net cumulative CO emissions from all sources from 2020 to be c.500 GtCO , in line with
2 2
the IPCC AR6 WGI Summary for Policymakers1, and consistent with a 50% probability of limiting warming to 1.5°C by
2100.
n The GS <2.0° — or the “Paris Agreement” — scenario is consistent with a rise well below 2.0°C. This scenario
would be consistent with the aim outlined in Paris Agreement to keep global warming well below 2°C and achieve global
net zero around 2060. For the purpose of this analysis, our Carbonomics team defined the cumulative remaining carbon
budget for our GS <2.0° model to be 750 GtCO , consistent with around 1.65°C global warming with 50% probability.
2
n The GS 2.0° scenario is consistent with a 2.0°C temperature rises. This aims for global carbon neutrality by 2070 —
and leads to a 50% probability of 2.0°C global warming to 2100. It has a cumulative carbon budget from 2020 of 1,350
GtCO , in line with the carbon budgets outlined in the IPCC AR6 WGI Summary for Policymakers1.
2
Below, we detail percentage changes in emissions intensities by sector through 2025 based on our analysts’ Scope 1+2
forecasts, plotted against the percentage reductions by sector implied by our energy team’s Carbonomics research for the
three scenarios above.
1 IPCC, 2021: Summary for Policymakers. In: Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Sixth Assessment
Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change [MassonDelmotte, V., P. Zhai, A. Pirani, S.L. Connors, C. Péan, S. Berger, N. Caud, Y. Chen, L.
Goldfarb, M.I. Gomis, M. Huang, K. Leitzell, E. Lonnoy, J.B.R. Matthews, T.K. Maycock, T. Waterfield, O. Yelekçi, R. Yu, and B. Zhou (eds.)]. Cambridge
University Press. In Press
2 May 2022 32
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Electric Utilities
We take into account forecasts for 71 Electric Utilities in our analysis, the majority of which are based in Americas.
Our survey comprises 71 Electric Utilities — 41 in Americas, 17 in Europe and 13 in Asia Pacific. In addition to those, we
consider other eight publicly listed Electric Utilities based in China and India not covered by Goldman Sachs to provide a
more accurate representation of GHG emisisons intensities in 2019 and 2020. Consistent with our colleagues’ Carbonomics
work, we derive emissions intensity for Electric Utilities dividing amount of Scope 1 CO2-eq emitted (in grams) by the
electricity generated (in kWh).
Our estimates indicate a c.20% reduction in Scope 1 emissions intensity by 2025E vs. 2019 base. This is on a weighted
average basis — using electricity generated as weights — for Electric Utilities covered in our analysis. Please see Exhibit 21
for more details. We note a flat profile in emissions intensity in 2020 vs. 2019, followed by a c.6% YoY reduction in 2021 —
primarily attributable to US Electric Utilities’ declining intensities.
Why we believe this will matter for investors. Electricity generation is a key area of focus for decarbonization efforts. We
note a bullish outlook for zero-carbon generation assets (renewables), as described by our colleagues, as well as increased
focus on nuclear — which can provided zero-carbon generation — as indicated by the recent proposals to include nuclear in
the EU Taxonomy framework. Heightened by current geopolitical events and the inflationary environment for commodity
prices, our Utilities teams expect an acceleration in renewables development to address concerns related to security of
energy supply. This is of particular importance in Europe — the area most impacted by disruptions related to the
Russia/Ukraine conflict — where policy initiatives such as REPowerEU outline pathways towards increased energy
independence/flexibility in energy supply, electrification and acceleration in renewables developments.
Investment Implications. We note that Utilities are modestly underweight in ESG funds (1% vs. respective benchmarks).
We highlighted in our Investing in Green Capex and initial ESG of the Future reports that the range of ownership in ESG
funds for Utilities is significantly wide, and we note ESG Improvers in the sector are generally more underweight than
companies which already have high mix of Green Revenue/Capex. We continue to believe investors will reward Utilities
that can successfully transition and decarbonize their generation fleet, and we continue to see further opportunities
for greater appreciation among ESG investors.
2 May 2022 33
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Exhibit 21: Our analysts estimates indicate Scope 1 emissions intensities declining by 20% Exhibit 22: The decline in emissions intensities for Electric Utilities in our analysis stems
in 2025E vs. 2019, mainly driven by US Electric Utilities from Scope 1 emissions forecast to decline at a 3% CAGR through 2025E (vs. 2019 base),
Emissions intensities profile for Electric Utilities, calculated as Scope 1 GHG emissions divided by while electricity output if estimated to increase at a 1% annual pace through 2025E (vs. 2019
electricity generated. Indexed to 2019 base. base)
Change in Scope 1 emissions (left) and electricity generated (right) for Electric Utilities in our work
— vs. 2019 base
Carbonomics - 1.5C Scenario Carbonomics - <2C Scenario 140%
Carbonomics - 2C Scenario Analyst estimates
120%
100%
100%
80%
80%
60%
60%
40%
40% 20%
20% 0%
0%
2015 2025 2035 2045 2055 2065 2075 Mn Ton CO2-eq, Scope 1 GWh Electricity generated
As not all anal ysts model through 2025, 2024E and 2025E reflect the weighted average yoy change for companies where the
Source: Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Company data, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
covering analysts have submitted data. The same applies for 2019 and 2020 weighted average estimates. The Electric Utilities
sector is as defined based on GS SUSTAIN sector classification.
Source: Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Company data, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 34
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Steel
Our analysis comprises 36 Steel producers, globally. We include 12 Steel companies in Americas, 8 in Europe and 16 in
Asia Pacific. We received GHG emissions estimates from our analysts for 11 of the 36 companies. We derive emissions
intensity for the Steel sector dividing amount of Scope 1+2 CO2-eq emitted (in tons) by steel production (in tons), consistent
with our colleagues’ Carbonomics work.
Scope 1+2 emissions intensities in the Steel sector are estimated to decline by 8% in 2025E vs. 2019 levels. Our
analysis suggests Scope 1+2 GHG emissions are estimated on the rise YoY in 2020 and 2021E (+1%-4%) — potentially due
to COVID-related disruptions in operational efficiencies — but from 2021E throughout 2025E are projected on the decline
(2%-4% YoY). Please see Exhibit 23 for more details. We note the main driver behind the decline in overall Scope 1+2
emissions intensities is steel production growing at a 1% CAGR between 2019-2025E, while absolute Scope 1+2 emissions
are estimated to decrease at a slightly slower pace vs. 2019 levels (see Exhibit 24).
Why we believe this will matter for investors. We expect steel to be a key material on path to Net Zero, Clean Water and
Infrastructure goals, transversal across the vast majority of verticals in the Green Capex mosaic. Decarbonizing the Steel
sector likely involves higher penetration of Electric Arc Furnace (EAF) technologies, as the industry faces increasing scrutiny
over its environmental footprint, and EAFs are among the least carbon-intensive technologies to produce steel. As described
in our ESG of the Future report, our analysts’ estimates point towards a percentage of steel from EAF to grow to 32% of the
total in 2025E (vs. 28% in 2020) among covered companies — though, we note the change is driven by a handful of
companies for which estimates indicate rising EAF mix, while for the majority steel production from EAF either stays very
low or very high. We note that Electrification-related investments — among which EAF capex — would need to amount to
more than $300 bn annually in the 2020s, on path to Net Zero targets.
Investment Implications. The Steel sector is currently 41% underweight in ESG funds vs. respective benchmarks (based on
SUSTAIN classification, as reported in Exhibit 18). Given the criticality of steel on path to Net Zero, Clean Water and
Infrastructure goals, we believe there is room for further appreciation of companies that can successfully transition to a
higher share of EAF and decarbonize their operations among Steel manufacturers, as we detailed in our ESG of the Future
report.
2 May 2022 35
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Exhibit 23: Steel companies in our analysis are forecast to have Scope 1+2 emissions Exhibit 24: ...driven by a 1% CAGR in steel output, with Scope 1+2 emissions projected to be
intensities declining by 8% in 2025E vs. 2019 base... falling slightly by 2025E
Emissions intensities profile for Steel companies, calculated as Scope 1+2 GHG emissions divided Change in Scope 1+2 emissions (left) and steel throughput (right) for Steel companies in our work
by steel production. Indexed to 2019 base — vs. 2019 base
Carbonomics - 1.5C Scenario Carbonomics - <2C Scenario 140%
Carbonomics - 2C Scenario Analyst estimates
120%
100%
100%
80%
80%
60%
60%
40%
40% 20%
20% 0%
0%
2015 2025 2035 2045 2055 2065 2075 Mn Ton CO2-eq, Scope 1+2 Gt Steel produced
As not all anal ysts model through 2025, 2024E and 2025E reflect the weighted average yoy change for companies where the
Source: Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Company data, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
covering analysts have submitted data. The same applies for 2019 and 2020 weighted average estimates. The Steel sector is as
defined based on GS SUSTAIN sector classification.
Source: Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Company data, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 36
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Aluminum
Among Metals & Mining companies, we break out the Aluminum sector using estimates for 9 companies, globally.
Those comprise 4 companies in Americas, 2 in Europe and 3 in Asia Pacific. We received GHG emissions estimates from our
analysts for 5 of the 9 companies. We calculate GHG emissions intensities for the Aluminum sectors dividing Scope 1+2
CO -eq emissions (in tons) by the amount of aluminum produced in a given year (in tons). This is in-line with our colleagues’
2
Carbonomics work.
We estimate Scope 1+2 emissions intensities in the Aluminum sector will decline by about 14% by 2025E vs. 2019.
Our analysis indicates Scope 1+2 GHG intensities declining consistently within 2021-2025E (2%-4% YoY), and by 14% in
2025E vs. 2019 levels. Please see Exhibit 25 for more details. We note this is due to a combination of absolute emissions
reduction in the sector (declining at a 1% CAGR between 2019 and 2025E) and an increase in production throughput (rising
at 1% CAGR through 2025E) — see Exhibit 26. The reduction in Scope 1+2 emissions intensities is primarily driven by
European and Chinese Aluminum manufacturers (whose Scope 1+2 intensities are estimated to decline by 13%-21% by
2025E vs. 2019).
Why we believe this will matter for investors. We highlighted Aluminum as a key Greenabler — i.e., a sector for which
investments are needed more urgently and timely due to long lead-times in capacity expansions — in our Green Capex
report. In our view, aluminum will be needed/critical across the majority of verticals in the Green Capex mosaic. We note that
our Commodities analysts are bullish on the outlook for Aluminum, on the back of rising demand for “Green” end-uses,
among other drivers — now estimated to rise from below 3,000 kton in 2021 to almost 7,000 kton in 2025E.
Investment Implications. While metals and mining stocks broadly are underweight in ESG funds vs. respective benchmarks
(as seen in Exhibit 18), the Aluminum sector specifically (based on GICS 4 classification) is 55% overweight. We see
potential for further room for appreciation of its critical role on path to Net Zero, Clean Water and Infrastructure goals among
ESG investors — particularly for companies that can successfully decarbonize their operations in coming years.
2 May 2022 37
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Exhibit 25: Analysts estimates indicate emissions intensities decreasing by 14% in 2025E vs. Exhibit 26: ...as a result of emissions decreasing at a 1% CAGR through 2025E, with
2019... production acceleration at a 1% annual pace in the same period
Emissions intensities profile for Aluminum companies (based on GICS 4 classification), calculated Change in Scope 1+2 emissions (left) and Aluminum throughput (right) for Aluminum companies in
as Scope 1+2 GHG emissions divided by aluminum production. Indexed to 2019 base. our work — vs. 2019 base
Carbonomics - 1.5C Scenario Carbonomics - <2C Scenario 140%
Carbonomics - 2C Scenario Analyst estimates
120%
100%
100%
80%
80%
60%
60%
40%
40% 20%
20% 0%
0%
2015 2025 2035 2045 2055 2065 2075 Mn Ton CO2-eq, Scope 1+2 Gt Aluminum produced
As not all anal ysts model through 2025, 2024E and 2025E reflect the weighted average yoy change for companies where the
Source: Company data, Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
covering analysts have submitted data. The same applies for 2019 and 2020 weighted average estimates. The Aluminum sector is as
defined based on GICS 4 classification (sub-segment of Metal & Mining GICS 3).
Source: Company data, Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 38
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Airlines
Our analysis comprises 28 Airlines, globally, though highly skewed towards Americas. Our work encompasses 16
companies in Americas, 7 in Europe and 5 in Asia Pacific. We received GHG emissions estimates from our analysts for 15 of
the 28 companies. We calculate GHG emissions intensities for the Airlines sectors dividing Scope 1+2 CO -eq emissions (in
2
tons) by revenue-passenger-kilometers (RPKs, in millions). This is in-line with our colleagues’ Carbonomics work.
We see Scope 1+2 emissions intensities for the Airlines sector declining 5% by 2025E vs. 2019. Our estimates indicate
only a slight reduction in emission intensities by the end of our forecast period (2025E) vs. base-year (2019) — see Exhibit 27
for more details. We note a 45% YoY increase in Scope 1+2 intensities in 2020 due to COVID-related disruptions and
subsequent lower capacity factors for Airlines (our estimates indicate a 51% decline YoY in absolute Scope 1+2 emissions,
while RPKs declined by 66%). Following a re-adjustment in 2021E (intensities down 24% YoY), our analysis indicates a
slower pace in Scope 1+2 intensities decrease. At the end of the forecast period, we note absolute Scope 1+2 emissions
and RPKs higher than pre-COVID levels (Exhibit 28).
Why we believe this will matter for investors. We believe decarbonization efforts in the Airlines industry will be a key area
of focus in coming years. As we heard during our Global Sustainability Forum, one of the main pathways to abate emissions
in the sector is a mix shift towards higher utilization of Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF). As the panelists noted, wider adoption
of SAF is still constrained by limited supply and high costs. The ability to limit higher costs pass through to customers as SAF
adoption grows will be crucial to preserve cost-competitiveness and affordability, in our view. We also note opportunities in
decarbonization of ground fleets, though with an impact secondary to SAF, in our view.
Investment Implications. We see opportunities for greater recognition of Airlines companies that can successfully transition
towards a higher mix of SAF vs. conventional fuels limiting pass through of higher input costs — or for those that can find
credible sources of decarbonization alternatives (some airlines or related suppliers are partnering towards Direct Air Capture
plants as an example). We note the Airlines sector is currently 35% underweight in ESG funds vs. respective benchmarks
(sectors as defined under SUSTAIN classification, see Exhibit 18), highlighting room for further appreciation — particularly of
transition stories — among ESG investors.
2 May 2022 39
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Exhibit 27: Following a 45% yoy increase in 2020, emissions intensities for the Airlines Exhibit 28: The emissions intensities profile stems from a combination of Scope 1+2
sector are forecast to decline 1%-8% yoy post-2021E, resulting in a 5% decrease by 2025E vs. emissions accelerating at a 1% CAGR in the forecast period and
2019 base Revenue-Passenger-Kilometer increasing at a 2% annual pace
Emissions intensities profile for Airlines, calculated as Scope 1+2 GHG emissions divided by Change in Scope 1+2 emissions (left) and Revenue-Passenger-Kilometers (right) for Airlines
Revenue-Passenger-Kilometers. Indexed to 2019 base. companies in our work — vs. 2019 base
Carbonomics - 1.5C Scenario Carbonomics - <2C Scenario 140%
Carbonomics - 2C Scenario Analyst estimates
120%
140% 100%
120% 80%
100% 60%
80%
40%
60%
20%
40%
0%
20%
0%
2015 2025 2035 2045 2055 2065 2075 Mn Ton CO2-eq, Scope 1+2 Passenger-km
As not all anal ysts model through 2025, 2024E and 2025E reflect the weighted average yoy change for companies where the
Source: Company data, Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
covering analysts have submitted data. The same applies for 2019 and 2020 weighted average estimates. The Airlines sector is as
defined based on GS SUSTAIN sector classification.
Source: Company data, Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 40
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Oil & Gas
We consider 98 Oil & Gas companies in our analysis, almost half of which are based in Americas. Within the Oil & Gas
sector, our analyst survey comprises 45 companies in Americas, 25 in Europe and 28 in Asia Pacific. We received estimates
for 64%, 88% and 50% of those in Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, respectively. We calculate GHG emissions for the Oil
& Gas sector dividing Scope 1+2 CO -eq emissions by energy sold (as a result of upstream operations and/or refining). As
2
mentioned earlier, while our estimates are for Scope 1 and 2 emissions, our colleagues’ Carbonomics emissions intensity
path for Oil & Gas also includes Scope 3 emissions.
Our analysis indicates Scope 1+2 emission intensities for the Oil & Gas sector declining by 10%-16% by 2025E vs.
2019. Our analyst estimates point towards a 16% reduction in Scope 1+2 emissions intensities for Oil & Gas Producers and
a 10% reduction for Oil Refiners by 2025E vs. 2019. On Oil & Gas Producers, our analyst estimates imply a 2% YoY reduction
of intensity in 2020, followed by subsequent 2%-4% YoY decline from 2021E on. On Oil Refiners, emissions intensities
increased ~18% YoY in 2020 and are expected to pivot to a downward trajectory in subsequent years (3%-8% YoY decline
from 2021E on). Please see Exhibit 29 for more details on Oil & Gas Producers, Exhibit 30 for more details on Oil Refiners.
Why we believe this will matter for investors. As we detailed in our Green Capex report, the Oil & Gas sector holds the
greatest share of Green Capex “spare capacity” — via higher reinvestment rate of Capex and R&D and higher leverage on
the balance sheet — on path to Net Zero, Clean Water and Infrastructure goals. Additionally, on the back of ongoing
geopolitical events, we believe the shift in free cash flow towards commodity producers may increase the willingness of
some investors to own stocks in these sectors for the purpose of helping to influence where the FCF gets redirected —
either via reinvesting or returning to shareholders. While we do not believe every mandate is set up to make this shift — and
ESG funds will likely need to make a quantified case for impact to their investors — we see the case for engagement vs.
exclusion growing over time. In our view, engagement will be crucial to the deployment of the spare capacity for additional
Green Capex, and we believe investors will tend to gravitate towards companies able to successfully abate emissions, in
addition to favorable returns.
Investment Implications. While Oil & Gas companies have historically been avoided/excluded in ESG funds — the sector is
currently underweight in ESG funds (70% and 42% underweight for Producers and Refiners, respectively, as shown in
Exhibit 18) — we see opportunities for greater recognition of transition stories and companies able to successfully
decarbonize their operations. In addition, we note the Russia/Ukraine conflict is helping to bring some added balance to the
exclusion vs. engagement debate, which in our view is a key catalyst for potential further appreciation of Oil & Gas
companies among ESG investors. To that regard, we have already seen some isolated evidences of potential change in
attitudes — e.g., Sweden’s SEB bank recently reversed a defense industry exclusion policy for six of its funds, while in the
US, CalSTRS’ board voted to oppose a bill that would require divestment from fossil fuels.
2 May 2022 4<
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Exhibit 29: Emissions intensities for Oil & Gas Producers — referred to Scope 1+2 — are forecast to decline at a 3% CAGR through the forecast period
Oil & Gas Producers: profiles 2019-2025E for emissions intensities (calculated dividing Scope 1+2 emissions by energy sold), Scope 1+2 emissions and Energy sold
from production and refining. Indexed to 2019 base.
140%
120%
100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
Emissions Intensity Mn Ton CO2-eq, Scope 1+2 GJ Energy sold
As not all analysts model through 2025, 2024E and 2025E reflect the weighted average yoy change for companies where the covering analysts have submitted data. The same applies for 2019 and 2020 weighted
average estimates. The Oil & Gas Producers sector is as defined based on GS SUSTAIN sector classification.
Source: Company data, FactSet, Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 42
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Exhibit 30: Scope 1+2 emissions intensities for Oil Refiners are forecast to decline at a 2% annual rate through 2025 vs. a 2019 base
Oil Refiners 2019-2025E emissions intensities (calculated dividing Scope 1+2 emissions by energy sold), Scope 1+2 emissions and Energy sold from production and
refining. Indexed to 2019 base.
140%
0% CAGR 2019-2025E
120%
100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
Emissions Intensity Mn Ton CO2-eq, Scope 1+2 GJ Energy sold
As not all analysts model through 2025, 2024E and 2025E reflect the weighted average yoy change for companies where the covering analysts have submitted data. The same applies for 2019 and 2020 weighted
average estimates. The Oil Refiners sector is as defined based on GS SUSTAIN sector classification.
Source: Company data, FactSet, Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 43
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Diversified Metals & Mining
From a universe of 46 companies globally, our analysis relies on GHG emissions estimates for 18 companies in the
Diversified Metals & Mining sector. We asked for GHG estimates from our analysts for 6 companies based in Americas, 14
based in EMEA and the remaining 26 based in Asia Pacific. We received emissions estimates for 18 companies in the sector,
globally — or about 40% of the total. We calculate emissions intensities relying on Scope 1+2 emissions, divided by total
production of the company, measured in copper equivalent (CuEq). We derive a CuEq production from the production mix —
as forecast by our analysts — and prices for those metals/commodities. On the latter, we consider fixed prices referred to
2019, allowing CuEq productions to vary only based on changes in products mix.
Our analysts’ estimates point towards a 14% reduction in emissions intensities by 2025E vs. 2019. Scope 1+2
emissions intensities for Diversified Metals & Mining companies — calculated as defined above — indicate a 1%-5% YoY
decrease in the 2020-2025E period. On a net basis, our analysts expect Scope 1+2 emissions intensities to decline by about
14% in 2025E vs. 2019. See Exhibit 31 for more details. The emissions intensities profile stems from a reduction in overall
emissions (projected to decline at a 1% CAGR within 2019-2025E) combined with CuEq expected to accelerate at a 2%
CAGR in the same period (Exhibit 32).
Why we believe this will matter for investors. As we detail in our Green Capex report, Copper and Aluminum are key
Greenabler sectors, i.e., those sectors where investments are needed more urgently due to longer project lead-times in
order to avoid supply chain bottlenecks. Our Commodities team is particularly bullish on Copper and Aluminum and expects
supply crunches going forward, in their view, in part due to rising Green demand without requisite increase in supply. Given
the tightening of supply-demand dynamics, we believe investors will tend to reward those companies able to successfully
decarbonize their operations while improving their positioning to meet increased levels of demand.
Investment Implications. As stated above, ESG investors will tend to gravitate towards those companies that are able to
curb their carbon footprint, while at the same time meeting rising demand, in our view. We also expect investors to favor
companies able to ensure strong corporate returns — please note the Metals & Mining sector has above average corporate
returns.
2 May 2022 44
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Exhibit 31: Our analysts estimates point towards a 14% Exhibit 32: The reduction in emissions intensities forecast Exhibit 33: Among companies in our analysis, Coal
decrease in emissions intensities for Diversified Metals & originates from a decline in Scope 1+2 emissions at a 1% production is expected to decline by 20% in 2025E vs. 2019,
Mining by 2025E vs. 2019 base CAGR pace, combined with CuEq production growing at a while Copper and Nickel volumes are projected to
Emissions intensities profile for Diversified Metals & Mining, 2% CAGR in the forecast period increases by 20% and 26%, respectively
calculated as Scope 1+2 GHG emissions divided by copper Change in Scope 1+2 emissions (left) and volume production Breakdown of change in production volume by select
equivalent total production. Indexed to 2019 base. index (right) for Diversified Metals & Mining companies in our commodity produced in 2025E, indexed to 2019. Based on
work — vs. 2019 base. analyst estimates.
Carbonomics - 1.5C Scenario Carbonomics - <2C Scenario 140% 130%
Carbonomics - 2C Scenario Analyst estimates 120% 120%
100% 100% 110%
80% 100%
80%
60% 90%
60%
40% 80%
40% 20% 70%
20% 0% 60%
2019 2020 2021E 2022E 2023E 2024E 2025E
0%
2015 2025 2035 2045 2055 2065 2075 Mn Ton CO2-eq, Scope 1+2 Production Volume, ton CuEq Copper Aluminum Alumina Iron Ore Coal Nickel
As not all anal ysts model through 2025, 2024E and 2025E reflect the weighted
Source: Company data, Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs Global Source: Company data, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
average yoy change for companies where the covering analysts have submitted data.
The same applies for 2019 and 2020 weighted average estimates. The Diversified Investment Research
Metals & Mining sector is as defined based on GS SUSTAIN Metals & Mining sector
classification — ex. Aluminum companies based on GICS 4 categorization.
Source: Company data, Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs Global
Investment Research
2 May 2022 45
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Chemicals
Our analysis comprises 94 companies in the Chemicals sector, though the response rates was the lowest among the
seven sectors. We consider 29 companies based in Americas, 28 based in EMEA and 37 based in Asia Pacific. However, we
note that our analysis relies on GHG emissions estimates for only 9 of those companies. In our view, this is due to a
combination of (1) difficulty by our analysts to forecast emissions given limited visibility into products mix and (2) lack of
disclosures of emissions intensities on a product-by-product basis. Based on our colleagues’ Carbonomics work, given the
impossibility to adopt a single activity metric in such a heterogenous sector, we define an activity metric index — referred to
2019 base. Scope 1+2 emissions for Chemicals companies are then divided by such index to obtain comparable emissions
intensities among different operations. We note our analysis for Chemicals excludes US and EU commodity Chemicals due
to limited analyst visibility in forecasting emissions: our data reflects largely Fertilizers/Agricultural Chemicals trends.
We see emissions intensities for the Chemicals companies we forecast declining by about 12% in 2025E vs. 2019,
while absolute emissions are projected to increase by 10% in the same period. On a market cap weighted
average-basis, Scope 1+2 emissions intensities are forecast to see YoY declines between 1%-4% in 2020-2025E. See
Exhibit 34 for more details. On an absolute basis, we see Scope 1+2 emissions in the Chemicals sector to increase by about
10% in 2025E vs. 2019 — or a 2% CAGR in the same period — but were more than offset by rising production volumes,
resulting in a decrease of emissions intensities on a net basis (see Exhibit 35).
Why we believe this will matter for investors. In our view, the Chemicals sector could be a potential key area of focus for
investors due to hydrogen and ammonia, among other key products. We believe investors will increasingly be willing to
reward Chemicals companies that are exposed to those verticals and are able to successfully decarbonize their operations.
On hydrogen, as recently detailed, our Carbonomics team anticipates global demand for hydrogen to increase 2x-7x by 2050
vs. 2020 base — depending on the scenario considered. In addition, further acceleration — particularly on Green Hydrogen
— could be seen on the back on policy initiatives such as REPowerEU and general heightened focus on renewables
stemming from the Russia/Ukraine conflict.
Investment Implications. As reflected in Exhibit 18, the Chemicals sector is modestly overweight (27%) in ESG funds vs.
respective benchmarks. We believe investors could potentially reward those companies that are able to successfully
decarbonize their operations, leading to higher recognition among ESG funds. Given the heterogeneity of the sector, we see
exposure to the hydrogen or biofuels supply chain as potential catalysts for greater appreciation by ESG investors.
2 May 2022 46
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Exhibit 34: Scope 1+2 emissions intensities in the Chemicals sector are forecast to decline Exhibit 35: ...on the back of rising production volumes, which more than offset increasing
by 12% in 2025E vs. 2019... absolute emissions.
Emissions intensities profile for Chemicals, calculated as Scope 1+2 GHG emissions divided by the Change in Scope 1+2 emissions (left) and volume production index (right) for Chemicals companies
production index (referred to 2019 base). Indexed to 2019 base. Weighted average using market in our work — vs. 2019 base. Production indexes reported here are weighted average on market
caps as weights. caps.
140%
Carbonomics - 1.5C Scenario Carbonomics - <2C Scenario
Carbonomics - 2C Scenario Analyst estimates 120%
120% 100%
100% 80%
80% 60%
40%
60%
20%
40%
0%
20%
0%
2015 2025 2035 2045 2055 2065 2075 Mn Ton CO2-eq, Scope 1+2 Volume index
As not all anal ysts model through 2025, 2024E and 2025E reflect the weighted average yoy change for companies where the
Source: Company data, Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
covering analysts have submitted data. The same applies for 2019 and 2020 weighted average estimates. The Chemicals sector is as
defined based on GS SUSTAIN sector classification.
Source: Company data, Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 47
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Construction Materials
Our analysis considers 23 companies — skewed towards Asia Pacific — and we received emissions estimates for
about 50% of them. Our work comprises 7 companies in Americas, 3 in Europe and the remaining 13 in Asia Pacific.
Covering analysts provided GHG emissions estimates for 12 of them — or 52% of the total. Emissions intensities are
calculated dividing Scope 1+2 emissions by a volume production index — built from total volume produced or YoY p.p.
change in production, depending on the company. This differs from our colleagues’ Carbonomics work, where Construction
Materials companies — primarily active in cement — are benchmarked based on cement production. To represent the sector,
emissions intensities are weighted average of market cap.
Analysts estimates indicate a 2% CAGR reduction in emissions intensities among Construction Materials companies.
GHG estimates we received suggest a reduction in Scope 1+2 emissions intensities by 2025E vs. 2019 base — about 2%
CAGR — on a market cap-weighted average basis. The flattish outlook for emissions intensities originates from Scope 1+2
emissions projected on a modest rise (below 1% CAGR in 2025E vs. 2019), offset by increasing volumes — captured
through the production volume index. Please see Exhibit 36 for more details.
Why we believe this will matter for investors. The Construction Materials — which, while not exclusively, primarily
consists of cement companies — is the fourth highest emitting sector among the seven key sectors in our analysis. As
highlighted in our Green Capex: Making Infrastructure Happen, annual global investments on path to Infrastructure goals
would need to rise to $2.5 tn — of the $6.0 tn annual investments required on path to Net Zero, Clean Water and
Infrastructure objectives — vs. the 2016-2020 average of $1.7 tn (see Exhibit 16). In our view, Construction Materials
companies will be instrumental in achieving those goals, and we expect investors focus to increase on the ability of
companies in the sector to meet demand while successfully curb their carbon footprint. In 2021, our research colleagues
highlighted the potential for existing technologies to help reduce carbon intensity of cement by 40% (cement accounts for
c.8% of total global emissions). To achieve this, we would need to see an acceleration in emissions intensity reductions in
the second half of the decade.
Investment Implications. As stated above, we believe investors will gravitate towards those Construction Materials
companies that are successfully able to decarbonize their operations while maintaining the ability to meet demand. In
addition, we also note the Construction Materials sectors is characterized by below-average corporate returns, and we thus
expect investors to privilege those companies that are capable of ensuring a favorable profile in corporate returns while
reducing their GHG footprint.
2 May 2022 48
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Exhibit 36: Our analysts’ GHG emissions estimates indicate emissions intensities among Construction Materials companies declining at a c.2% annual
pace between 20219 and 2025E
Construction Materials 2019-2025E emissions intensities (market cap-weighted, calculated dividing Scope 1+2 emissions by the volume production index), Scope
1+2 emissions and Volume Production Index (Market cap-weighted). Indexed to 2019 base.
140%
0% CAGR 2019-2025E
120%
100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
Emissions Intensity Mn Ton CO2-eq, Scope 1+2 Volume Index
As not all analysts model through 2025, 2024E and 2025E reflect the weighted average yoy change for companies where the covering analysts have submitted data. The same applies for 2019 and 2020 weighted
average estimates. The Construction Materials sector is as defined based on GS SUSTAIN sector classification.
Source: Company data, Thomson Reuters, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
2 May 2022 49
Goldman Sachs GS SUSTAIN: ESG of the Future
Methodologies to forecast GHG emissions
Our analysts forecast GHG emissions mainly relying on two alternative methodologies: (1) via emissions intensities;
or (2) using percentage changes vs. historicals. While the difficulty to forecast emissions varies widely across sectors —
with heterogeneous sectors such as Chemicals and Construction Materials likely the most difficult to forecast emissions due
to multiple distinct output streams — our analysts primarily followed these two methodologies to derive Scope 1 and Scope
1+2 emissions in 2021E-2025E. In all cases, our analysts started from historical emissions or emissions intensities per
companies disclosures — e.g., sustainability reports or CDP reports — and projected emissions in the forecast period,
overlaying companies’ own emissions targets with various degrees of confidence, depending on the level of granularity
provided by corporates in terms of strategic initiatives to achieve those decarbonization targets. Generally, we note analysts
often looked for more details regarding medium-term pathways/catalysts before giving companies credit for GHG emissions
targets.
n Emissions forecast using emissions intensities. Relying on historical emissions intensities per company disclosures
and from analysts estimates for the corresponding sector-specific activity metric, our colleagues derive emissions
intensities in the forecast years 2021E-2025E. As stated above, these also factor in companies’ emissions targets to
various degrees, depending on the confidence level regarding pathways and strategies to meet those decarbonization
objectives. Emissions intensities in the forecast period are then multiplied by the corresponding activity metric to obtain
absolute emissions. We note analysts tend to apply this methodology to Scope 1 and Scope 1+2 emissions, most
commonly not calculating Scope 2 emissions as a separate component.
n Emissions forecast via percentage changes vs. historical emissions. Particularly for heterogeneous sectors, some
analysts calculated Scope 1 or Scope 1+2 emissions based on the YoY percentage change vs. 2019/2020 historical
emissions per company disclosures, relying on total volumes/productions — or, alternatively, rates of change in those
metrics — as proxies to derive emissions.
2 May 2022 50
Goldman Sachs
Disclosure Appendix
Reg AC
We, Brian Singer, CFA, Enrico Chinello, Ph.D., Michael Hao Wu, CFA, Derek R. Bingham, Evan Tylenda, CFA, Sharmini Chetwode, Ph.D., Brendan Corbett, Emma Jones, Madeline Meyer, Keebum Kim,
Grace Chen, Michele Della Vigna, CFA, Neil Mehta, Umang Choudhary, Michael Lapides, Joy Zhang, Nina Dergunova, Alberto Gandolfi and Pedro Manfredini, hereby certify that all of the views expressed in
this report accurately reflect our personal views about the subject company or companies and its or their securities. We also certify that no part of our compensation was, is or will be, directly or indirectly,
related to the specific recommendations or views expressed in this report.
Unless otherwise stated, the individuals listed on the cover page of this report are analysts in Goldman Sachs’ Global Investment Research division.
GS Factor Profile
The Goldman Sachs Factor Profile provides investment context for a stock by comparing key attributes to the market (i.e. our coverage universe) and its sector peers. The four key attributes depicted are:
Growth, Financial Returns, Multiple (e.g. valuation) and Integrated (a composite of Growth, Financial Returns and Multiple). Growth, Financial Returns and Multiple are calculated by using normalized ranks
for specific metrics for each stock. The normalized ranks for the metrics are then averaged and converted into percentiles for the relevant attribute. The precise calculation of each metric may vary
depending on the fiscal year, industry and region, but the standard approach is as follows:
Growth is based on a stock’s forward-looking sales growth, EBITDA growth and EPS growth (for financial stocks, only EPS and sales growth), with a higher percentile indicating a higher growth company.
Financial Returns is based on a stock’s forward-looking ROE, ROCE and CROCI (for financial stocks, only ROE), with a higher percentile indicating a company with higher financial returns. Multiple is
based on a stock’s forward-looking P/E, P/B, price/dividend (P/D), EV/EBITDA, EV/FCF and EV/Debt Adjusted Cash Flow (DACF) (for financial stocks, only P/E, P/B and P/D), with a higher percentile indicating
a stock trading at a higher multiple. The Integrated percentile is calculated as the average of the Growth percentile, Financial Returns percentile and (100% - Multiple percentile).
Financial Returns and Multiple use the Goldman Sachs analyst forecasts at the fiscal year-end at least three quarters in the future. Growth uses inputs for the fiscal year at least seven quarters in the future
compared with the year at least three quarters in the future (on a per-share basis for all metrics).
For a more detailed description of how we calculate the GS Factor Profile, please contact your GS representative.
M&A Rank
Across our global coverage, we examine stocks using an M&A framework, considering both qualitative factors and quantitative factors (which may vary across sectors and regions) to incorporate the
potential that certain companies could be acquired. We then assign a M&A rank as a means of scoring companies under our rated coverage from 1 to 3, with 1 representing high (30%-50%) probability of
the company becoming an acquisition target, 2 representing medium (15%-30%) probability and 3 representing low (0%-15%) probability. For companies ranked 1 or 2, in line with our standard
departmental guidelines we incorporate an M&A component into our target price. M&A rank of 3 is considered immaterial and therefore does not factor into our price target, and may or may not be
discussed in research.
Quantum
Quantum is Goldman Sachs’ proprietary database providing access to detailed financial statement histories, forecasts and ratios. It can be used for in-depth analysis of a single company, or to make
comparisons between companies in different sectors and markets.
Disclosures
Company-specific regulatory disclosures
Compendium report: please see disclosures at https://www.gs.com/research/hedge.html. Disclosures applicable to the companies included in this compendium can be found in the latest relevant
published research
Distribution of ratings/investment banking relationships
Goldman Sachs Investment Research global Equity coverage universe
Rating Distribution Investment Banking Relationships
Buy Hold Sell Buy Hold Sell
Global 50% 35% 15% 65% 57% 45%
As of April 1, 2022, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research had investment ratings on 3,143 equity securities. Goldman Sachs assigns stocks as Buys and Sells on various regional Investment Lists;
stocks not so assigned are deemed Neutral. Such assignments equate to Buy, Hold and Sell for the purposes of the above disclosure required by the FINRA Rules. See ‘Ratings, Coverage universe and
related definitions’ below. The Investment Banking Relationships chart reflects the percentage of subject companies within each rating category for whom Goldman Sachs has provided investment banking
services within the previous twelve months.
Price target and rating history chart(s)
Compendium report: please see disclosures at https://www.gs.com/research/hedge.html. Disclosures applicable to the companies included in this compendium can be found in the latest relevant
published research
2 May 2022 51
Goldman Sachs
Regulatory disclosures
Disclosures required by United States laws and regulations
See company-specific regulatory disclosures above for any of the following disclosures required as to companies referred to in this report: manager or co-manager in a pending transaction; 1% or other
ownership; compensation for certain services; types of client relationships; managed/co-managed public offerings in prior periods; directorships; for equity securities, market making and/or specialist role.
Goldman Sachs trades or may trade as a principal in debt securities (or in related derivatives) of issuers discussed in this report.
The following are additional required disclosures: Ownership and material conflicts of interest: Goldman Sachs policy prohibits its analysts, professionals reporting to analysts and members of their
households from owning securities of any company in the analyst’s area of coverage. Analyst compensation: Analysts are paid in part based on the profitability of Goldman Sachs, which includes
investment banking revenues. Analyst as officer or director: Goldman Sachs policy generally prohibits its analysts, persons reporting to analysts or members of their households from serving as an
officer, director or advisor of any company in the analyst’s area of coverage. Non-U.S. Analysts: Non-U.S. analysts may not be associated persons of Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC and therefore may not be
subject to FINRA Rule 2241 or FINRA Rule 2242 restrictions on communications with subject company, public appearances and trading securities held by the analysts.
Distribution of ratings: See the distribution of ratings disclosure above. Price chart: See the price chart, with changes of ratings and price targets in prior periods, above, or, if electronic format or if with
respect to multiple companies which are the subject of this report, on the Goldman Sachs website at https://www.gs.com/research/hedge.html.
Additional disclosures required under the laws and regulations of jurisdictions other than the United States
The following disclosures are those required by the jurisdiction indicated, except to the extent already made above pursuant to United States laws and regulations. Australia: Goldman Sachs Australia Pty
Ltd and its affiliates are not authorised deposit-taking institutions (as that term is defined in the Banking Act 1959 (Cth)) in Australia and do not provide banking services, nor carry on a banking business, in
Australia. This research, and any access to it, is intended only for “wholesale clients” within the meaning of the Australian Corporations Act, unless otherwise agreed by Goldman Sachs. In producing
research reports, members of the Global Investment Research Division of Goldman Sachs Australia may attend site visits and other meetings hosted by the companies and other entities which are the
subject of its research reports. In some instances the costs of such site visits or meetings may be met in part or in whole by the issuers concerned if Goldman Sachs Australia considers it is appropriate
and reasonable in the specific circumstances relating to the site visit or meeting. To the extent that the contents of this document contains any financial product advice, it is general advice only and has
been prepared by Goldman Sachs without taking into account a client’s objectives, financial situation or needs. A client should, before acting on any such advice, consider the appropriateness of the advice
having regard to the client’s own objectives, financial situation and needs. A copy of certain Goldman Sachs Australia and New Zealand disclosure of interests and a copy of Goldman Sachs’ Australian
Sell-Side Research Independence Policy Statement are available at: https://www.goldmansachs.com/disclosures/australia-new-zealand/index.html. Brazil: Disclosure information in relation to CVM
Resolution n. 20 is available at https://www.gs.com/worldwide/brazil/area/gir/index.html. Where applicable, the Brazil-registered analyst primarily responsible for the content of this research report, as
defined in Article 20 of CVM Resolution n. 20, is the first author named at the beginning of this report, unless indicated otherwise at the end of the text. Canada: This information is being provided to you
for information purposes only and is not, and under no circumstances should be construed as, an advertisement, offering or solicitation by Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC for purchasers of securities in Canada
to trade in any Canadian security. Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC is not registered as a dealer in any jurisdiction in Canada under applicable Canadian securities laws and generally is not permitted to trade in
Canadian securities and may be prohibited from selling certain securities and products in certain jurisdictions in Canada. If you wish to trade in any Canadian securities or other products in Canada please
contact Goldman Sachs Canada Inc., an affiliate of The Goldman Sachs Group Inc., or another registered Canadian dealer. Hong Kong: Further information on the securities of covered companies referred
to in this research may be obtained on request from Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C. India: Further information on the subject company or companies referred to in this research may be obtained from
Goldman Sachs (India) Securities Private Limited, Research Analyst - SEBI Registration Number INH000001493, 951-A, Rational House, Appasaheb Marathe Marg, Prabhadevi, Mumbai 400 025, India,
Corporate Identity Number U74140MH2006FTC160634, Phone +91 22 6616 9000, Fax +91 22 6616 9001. Goldman Sachs may beneficially own 1% or more of the securities (as such term is defined in
clause 2 (h) the Indian Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956) of the subject company or companies referred to in this research report. Japan: See below. Korea: This research, and any access to it, is
intended only for “professional investors” within the meaning of the Financial Services and Capital Markets Act, unless otherwise agreed by Goldman Sachs. Further information on the subject company or
companies referred to in this research may be obtained from Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C., Seoul Branch. New Zealand: Goldman Sachs New Zealand Limited and its affiliates are neither “registered
banks” nor “deposit takers” (as defined in the Reserve Bank of New Zealand Act 1989) in New Zealand. This research, and any access to it, is intended for “wholesale clients” (as defined in the Financial
Advisers Act 2008) unless otherwise agreed by Goldman Sachs. A copy of certain Goldman Sachs Australia and New Zealand disclosure of interests is available at:
https://www.goldmansachs.com/disclosures/australia-new-zealand/index.html. Russia: Research reports distributed in the Russian Federation are not advertising as defined in the Russian legislation, but
are information and analysis not having product promotion as their main purpose and do not provide appraisal within the meaning of the Russian legislation on appraisal activity. Research reports do not
constitute a personalized investment recommendation as defined in Russian laws and regulations, are not addressed to a specific client, and are prepared without analyzing the financial circumstances,
investment profiles or risk profiles of clients. Goldman Sachs assumes no responsibility for any investment decisions that may be taken by a client or any other person based on this research report.
Singapore: Goldman Sachs (Singapore) Pte. (Company Number: 198602165W), which is regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore, accepts legal responsibility for this research, and should be
contacted with respect to any matters arising from, or in connection with, this research. Taiwan: This material is for reference only and must not be reprinted without permission. Investors should carefully
consider their own investment risk. Investment results are the responsibility of the individual investor. United Kingdom: Persons who would be categorized as retail clients in the United Kingdom, as such
term is defined in the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, should read this research in conjunction with prior Goldman Sachs research on the covered companies referred to herein and should refer to
the risk warnings that have been sent to them by Goldman Sachs International. A copy of these risks warnings, and a glossary of certain financial terms used in this report, are available from Goldman
Sachs International on request.
European Union and United Kingdom: Disclosure information in relation to Article 6 (2) of the European Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) (2016/958) supplementing Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 of
the European Parliament and of the Council (including as that Delegated Regulation is implemented into United Kingdom domestic law and regulation following the United Kingdom’s departure from the
European Union and the European Economic Area) with regard to regulatory technical standards for the technical arrangements for objective presentation of investment recommendations or other
information recommending or suggesting an investment strategy and for disclosure of particular interests or indications of conflicts of interest is available at
https://www.gs.com/disclosures/europeanpolicy.html which states the European Policy for Managing Conflicts of Interest in Connection with Investment Research.
Japan: Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. is a Financial Instrument Dealer registered with the Kanto Financial Bureau under registration number Kinsho 69, and a member of Japan Securities Dealers
Association, Financial Futures Association of Japan and Type II Financial Instruments Firms Association. Sales and purchase of equities are subject to commission pre-determined with clients plus
2 May 2022 52
Goldman Sachs
consumption tax. See company-specific disclosures as to any applicable disclosures required by Japanese stock exchanges, the Japanese Securities Dealers Association or the Japanese Securities Finance
Company.
Ratings, coverage universe and related definitions
Buy (B), Neutral (N), Sell (S) Analysts recommend stocks as Buys or Sells for inclusion on various regional Investment Lists. Being assigned a Buy or Sell on an Investment List is determined by a stock’s
total return potential relative to its coverage universe. Any stock not assigned as a Buy or a Sell on an Investment List with an active rating (i.e., a stock that is not Rating Suspended, Not Rated, Coverage
Suspended or Not Covered), is deemed Neutral. Each region’s Investment Review Committee manages Regional Conviction lists, which represent investment recommendations focused on the size of the
total return potential and/or the likelihood of the realization of the return across their respective areas of coverage. The addition or removal of stocks from such Conviction lists do not represent a change in
the analysts’ investment rating for such stocks.
Total return potential represents the upside or downside differential between the current share price and the price target, including all paid or anticipated dividends, expected during the time horizon
associated with the price target. Price targets are required for all covered stocks. The total return potential, price target and associated time horizon are stated in each report adding or reiterating an
Investment List membership.
Coverage Universe: A list of all stocks in each coverage universe is available by primary analyst, stock and coverage universe at https://www.gs.com/research/hedge.html.
Not Rated (NR). The investment rating, target price and earnings estimates (where relevant) have been suspended pursuant to Goldman Sachs policy when Goldman Sachs is acting in an advisory
capacity in a merger or in a strategic transaction involving this company, when there are legal, regulatory or policy constraints due to Goldman Sachs’ involvement in a transaction, and in certain other
circumstances. Rating Suspended (RS). Goldman Sachs Research has suspended the investment rating and price target for this stock, because there is not a sufficient fundamental basis for determining
an investment rating or target price. The previous investment rating and target price, if any, are no longer in effect for this stock and should not be relied upon. Coverage Suspended (CS). Goldman Sachs
has suspended coverage of this company. Not Covered (NC). Goldman Sachs does not cover this company. Not Available or Not Applicable (NA). The information is not available for display or is not
applicable. Not Meaningful (NM). The information is not meaningful and is therefore excluded.
Global product; distributing entities
The Global Investment Research Division of Goldman Sachs produces and distributes research products for clients of Goldman Sachs on a global basis. Analysts based in Goldman Sachs offices around the
world produce research on industries and companies, and research on macroeconomics, currencies, commodities and portfolio strategy. This research is disseminated in Australia by Goldman Sachs
Australia Pty Ltd (ABN 21 006 797 897); in Brazil by Goldman Sachs do Brasil Corretora de Títulos e Valores Mobiliários S.A.; Public Communication Channel Goldman Sachs Brazil: 0800 727 5764 and / or
contatogoldmanbrasil@gs.com. Available Weekdays (except holidays), from 9am to 6pm. Canal de Comunicação com o Público Goldman Sachs Brasil: 0800 727 5764 e/ou contatogoldmanbrasil@gs.com.
Horário de funcionamento: segunda-feira à sexta-feira (exceto feriados), das 9h às 18h; in Canada by Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC; in Hong Kong by Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C.; in India by Goldman Sachs
(India) Securities Private Ltd.; in Japan by Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.; in the Republic of Korea by Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C., Seoul Branch; in New Zealand by Goldman Sachs New Zealand Limited;
in Russia by OOO Goldman Sachs; in Singapore by Goldman Sachs (Singapore) Pte. (Company Number: 198602165W); and in the United States of America by Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC. Goldman Sachs
International has approved this research in connection with its distribution in the United Kingdom.
Effective from the date of the United Kingdom’s departure from the European Union and the European Economic Area (“Brexit Day”) the following information with respect to distributing entities will apply:
Goldman Sachs International (“GSI”), authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”) and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) and the PRA, has approved this research in
connection with its distribution in the United Kingdom.
European Economic Area: GSI, authorised by the PRA and regulated by the FCA and the PRA, disseminates research in the following jurisdictions within the European Economic Area: the Grand Duchy of
Luxembourg, Italy, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Kingdom of Norway, the Republic of Finland, the Republic of Cyprus and the Republic of Ireland; GS -Succursale de Paris (Paris
branch) which, from Brexit Day, will be authorised by the French Autorité de contrôle prudentiel et de resolution (“ACPR”) and regulated by the Autorité de contrôle prudentiel et de resolution and the
Autorité des marches financiers (“AMF”) disseminates research in France; GSI - Sucursal en España (Madrid branch) authorized in Spain by the Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores disseminates
research in the Kingdom of Spain; GSI - Sweden Bankfilial (Stockholm branch) is authorized by the SFSA as a “third country branch” in accordance with Chapter 4, Section 4 of the Swedish Securities and
Market Act (Sw. lag (2007:528) om värdepappersmarknaden) disseminates research in the Kingdom of Sweden; Goldman Sachs Bank Europe SE (“GSBE”) is a credit institution incorporated in Germany
and, within the Single Supervisory Mechanism, subject to direct prudential supervision by the European Central Bank and in other respects supervised by German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority
(Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, BaFin) and Deutsche Bundesbank and disseminates research in the Federal Republic of Germany and those jurisdictions within the European Economic
Area where GSI is not authorised to disseminate research and additionally, GSBE, Copenhagen Branch filial af GSBE, Tyskland, supervised by the Danish Financial Authority disseminates research in the
Kingdom of Denmark; GSBE - Sucursal en España (Madrid branch) subject (to a limited extent) to local supervision by the Bank of Spain disseminates research in the Kingdom of Spain; GSBE - Succursale
Italia (Milan branch) to the relevant applicable extent, subject to local supervision by the Bank of Italy (Banca d’Italia) and the Italian Companies and Exchange Commission (Commissione Nazionale per le
Società e la Borsa “Consob”) disseminates research in Italy; GSBE - Succursale de Paris (Paris branch), supervised by the AMF and by the ACPR disseminates research in France; and GSBE - Sweden
Bankfilial (Stockholm branch), to a limited extent, subject to local supervision by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (Finansinpektionen) disseminates research in the Kingdom of Sweden.
General disclosures
This research is for our clients only. Other than disclosures relating to Goldman Sachs, this research is based on current public information that we consider reliable, but we do not represent it is accurate or
complete, and it should not be relied on as such. The information, opinions, estimates and forecasts contained herein are as of the date hereof and are subject to change without prior notification. We seek
to update our research as appropriate, but various regulations may prevent us from doing so. Other than certain industry reports published on a periodic basis, the large majority of reports are published at
irregular intervals as appropriate in the analyst’s judgment.
Goldman Sachs conducts a global full-service, integrated investment banking, investment management, and brokerage business. We have investment banking and other business relationships with a
substantial percentage of the companies covered by our Global Investment Research Division. Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, the United States broker dealer, is a member of SIPC (https://www.sipc.org).
2 May 2022 53
Goldman Sachs
Our salespeople, traders, and other professionals may provide oral or written market commentary or trading strategies to our clients and principal trading desks that reflect opinions that are contrary to the
opinions expressed in this research. Our asset management area, principal trading desks and investing businesses may make investment decisions that are inconsistent with the recommendations or
views expressed in this research.
The analysts named in this report may have from time to time discussed with our clients, including Goldman Sachs salespersons and traders, or may discuss in this report, trading strategies that reference
catalysts or events that may have a near-term impact on the market price of the equity securities discussed in this report, which impact may be directionally counter to the analyst’s published price target
expectations for such stocks. Any such trading strategies are distinct from and do not affect the analyst’s fundamental equity rating for such stocks, which rating reflects a stock’s return potential relative to
its coverage universe as described herein.
We and our affiliates, officers, directors, and employees, excluding equity and credit analysts, will from time to time have long or short positions in, act as principal in, and buy or sell, the securities or
derivatives, if any, referred to in this research.
The views attributed to third party presenters at Goldman Sachs arranged conferences, including individuals from other parts of Goldman Sachs, do not necessarily reflect those of Global Investment
Research and are not an official view of Goldman Sachs.
Any third party referenced herein, including any salespeople, traders and other professionals or members of their household, may have positions in the products mentioned that are inconsistent with the
views expressed by analysts named in this report.
This research is not an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any security in any jurisdiction where such an offer or solicitation would be illegal. It does not constitute a personal recommendation
or take into account the particular investment objectives, financial situations, or needs of individual clients. Clients should consider whether any advice or recommendation in this research is suitable for
their particular circumstances and, if appropriate, seek professional advice, including tax advice. The price and value of investments referred to in this research and the income from them may fluctuate.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance, future returns are not guaranteed, and a loss of original capital may occur. Fluctuations in exchange rates could have adverse effects on the value or
price of, or income derived from, certain investments.
Certain transactions, including those involving futures, options, and other derivatives, give rise to substantial risk and are not suitable for all investors. Investors should review current options and futures
disclosure documents which are available from Goldman Sachs sales representatives or at https://www.theocc.com/about/publications/character-risks.jsp and
https://www.fiadocumentation.org/fia/regulatory-disclosures_1/fia-uniform-futures-and-options-on-futures-risk-disclosures-booklet-pdf-version-2018. Transaction costs may be significant in option strategies
calling for multiple purchase and sales of options such as spreads. Supporting documentation will be supplied upon request.
Differing Levels of Service provided by Global Investment Research: The level and types of services provided to you by the Global Investment Research division of GS may vary as compared to that
provided to internal and other external clients of GS, depending on various factors including your individual preferences as to the frequency and manner of receiving communication, your risk profile and
investment focus and perspective (e.g., marketwide, sector specific, long term, short term), the size and scope of your overall client relationship with GS, and legal and regulatory constraints. As an
example, certain clients may request to receive notifications when research on specific securities is published, and certain clients may request that specific data underlying analysts’ fundamental analysis
available on our internal client websites be delivered to them electronically through data feeds or otherwise. No change to an analyst’s fundamental research views (e.g., ratings, price targets, or material
changes to earnings estimates for equity securities), will be communicated to any client prior to inclusion of such information in a research report broadly disseminated through electronic publication to our
internal client websites or through other means, as necessary, to all clients who are entitled to receive such reports.
All research reports are disseminated and available to all clients simultaneously through electronic publication to our internal client websites. Not all research content is redistributed to our clients or
available to third-party aggregators, nor is Goldman Sachs responsible for the redistribution of our research by third party aggregators. For research, models or other data related to one or more securities,
markets or asset classes (including related services) that may be available to you, please contact your GS representative or go to https://research.gs.com.
Disclosure information is also available at https://www.gs.com/research/hedge.html or from Research Compliance, 200 West Street, New York, NY 10282.
© 2022 Goldman Sachs.
No part of this material may be (i) copied, photocopied or duplicated in any form by any means or (ii) redistributed without the prior written consent of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
2 May 2022 54
