2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
CONTENTS
03 Introduction 07 Patients and Innovation 17 Community 19 Team
About This Report Our Drug Discovery Development Approach Incyte Charitable Giving Foundation Culture of Innovation
Message from the CEO Our Portfolio Community Service Program Professional Development
About Incyte Access to Medicine Matching Gifts Program Compensation and Benefits
2023 Highlights Patient Education and Awareness Diversity and Inclusion
Patient Advocacy Diverse Leadership
Clinical Trials Safety and Wellness
30 Environment 40 Governance and Risk 46 Appendix
Forward-Looking Statements
Management
Environmental Targets UN SDGs This Global Responsibility Report contains forward-looking statements, and
and Progress Corporate Governance TCFD actual results could differ materially from the expectations expressed herein.
Risk factors that could cause actual results to differ are set forth in the “Risk
Environmental Oversight Responsible Research and Development SASB
Factors” section and throughout our 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K. These
Emissions Reduction Ethics and Compliance Program
risk factors are subject to update by our future filings and submissions with
Water Ethical Marketing the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Incyte disclaims any obligation
Waste Supply Chain to update or amend the forward-looking statements contained in this Report,
except as required by law.
Cybersecurity and Data Privacy
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 3
ABOUT THIS REPORT
Our annual Global Responsibility Report details progress of our environmental,
social and governance (ESG) efforts and reflects our use of rigorous science to
discover, develop and commercialize novel medicines to improve the lives of
patients in a responsible manner. In this report, we disclose information in line with
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards, the Task Force
on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations and the United
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Unless otherwise noted, the information contained in this report covers the period
from January 1, 2023, through December 31, 2023. To contact the Incyte Global
Responsibility team, please email us at globalresponsibility@incyte.com.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 4
MESSAGE FROM THE CEO
At Incyte, we’re united, inspired and driven by our mission to Solve On. It’s why we relentlessly pursue innovative Additionally, our charitable giving initiatives amplify our collective impact, supporting the communities in which we live
solutions for individuals with unmet medical needs. Our goal is to change the practice of medicine through scientific and work. In 2023, more than 860 members of our team used their paid volunteer day to contribute to local causes, and
innovation and focus on where we can make the biggest impact for patients, regardless of the size of the disease or our Matching Gifts Program supported more than 450 employee-chosen charitable organizations. In addition, the Incyte
patient population. Charitable Giving Foundation made donations totaling over $1 million to local causes, providing critical services, financial
aid and other forms of assistance to patients and their caregivers.
Over more than 20 years, this perspective has informed not only our approach to growing our robust portfolio across
Oncology and Inflammation & Autoimmunity (IAI), but also inspired our commitment to conducting business responsibly, Dedication to ethics and integrity remains fundamental to our work, guiding every aspect of our operations from
safeguarding both people and the environment. Today, across our team of more than 2,500 dedicated employees, pioneering new therapies to fostering a culture of openness and empowerment. Our commitment to responsible
our shared passion for innovation is stronger than ever. In 2023, we continued to drive progress in our priority areas— business begins at the highest level, with our diverse and experienced Board providing oversight, upholding our promises
Myeloproliferative Neoplasms (MPNs) and Graft-versus-Host Disease (GVHD), Hematology/Oncology and Dermatology and to stakeholders and driving our collective success.
other IAI.
I am confident the coming year will mark another remarkable chapter in our journey as we continue to advance our ESG
While we advance biopharmaceutical innovation, we also recognize the profound impact of environmental degradation commitments to create a better, healthier future. I invite you to explore our latest progress in this report and learn more
on human lives and the pressing need to mitigate our operational footprint. We are currently on track to achieve our key about the transformative impact of our efforts.
environmental target of operational carbon neutrality by 2025, having achieved neutrality for our Scope 1 and Scope 2
emissions from 2019 through 2022.
Our success hinges on the strength of our teams. We deeply value our employees and are committed to fostering a
positive and engaging work environment and providing expansive health and wellness programs. We offer competitive,
equitable compensation and best-in-class benefits to empower every Incyte employee to thrive at work and at home.
We also firmly believe in the power of inclusion – our Inclusion Committee strives to foster equity across our workforce
and supply chain. As a result of these and other employee-centric efforts, Incyte was once again recognized as a Top
Employer by Science Magazine and a Most Loved Workplace, both globally and in the U.S., by Newsweek in 2023.
Hervé Hoppenot
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 5
ABOUT INCYTE
Incyte is a Global Biopharmaceutical Company on a Mission to Solve On.
Solve On. is the spirit and energy that fuels our pursuit of answers for patients. We Solve On. to decipher new pathways, break new ground and develop new ways to manage rare
and often hard-to-treat diseases, regardless of the disease or size of the patient population. We Solve On. because patients are waiting—and because we believe that by following the
science, we’ll find meaningful solutions.
How We Solve On.
At Incyte, we believe every challenge is a chance for a breakthrough. Since our start in 2002, our Global Headquarters in Wilmington, Delaware has been a hub for innovation. The
scientists, chemists and biologists who began this journey with us shared the passion and perseverance that would—over the span of more than 20 years—provide first-in-class
treatments to patients around the world and grow Incyte into a global organization with more than 2,500 employees. Today, we have a robust portfolio of treatments across Oncology
and Inflammation & Autoimmunity (IAI), and our passion for innovation is stronger than ever.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 6
Our teams garnered 8 awards and honors in recognition of the innovation and
2023 HIGHLIGHTS collaboration behind our medicines and best-in-class workplaces around the world.
Our diverse and highly skilled Board of Directors brings strong leadership and
unique perspective, overseeing our continued growth and success.
#21
We tied 3% of our annual cash incentive bonus program to three specific,
OVER 210,000
measurable, short-term ESG targets:
ON NEWSWEEK’S INAUGURAL
• Further increased diversity in the candidate pool for jobs based in the U.S.
TOP 100 GLOBAL MOST LOVED
• Increased global utilization of our volunteer time program
PATIENTS TREATED WITH MEDICINES WORKPLACES 2023
• Developed a global greenhouse gas mitigation and reduction plan to continue
COMMERCIALIZED BY INCYTE
to reduce our environmental impact
8 6 CONSECUTIVE YEARS Made progress against our key environmental target, achieving carbon neutrality
APPROVED PRODUCTS AND
LISTED AMONG INDUSTRY for our Scope 1 and Scope 2 operational emissions from 2019 through 2022.
ONGOING CLINICAL TRIALS IN
TOP EMPLOYERS BY
DOZENS OF DISEASE AREAS*
SCIENCE MAGAZINE We gave back to our communities and patients. Through our Incyte Involved
program, 34% of our global employees volunteered in their local communities, we
matched gifts to more than 450 organizations through our Matching Gifts Program
and donated more than $1,000,000 through our Incyte Charitable Giving Foundation.
2,500+
3 NEW
We continued to provide a best-in-class employee experience, providing
opportunities to learn, grow and help our employees take care of themselves and
their families.
EMPLOYEES IN NORTH AMERICA,
PRODUCT APPROVALS
EUROPE AND ASIA
We advanced diversity, equity and inclusion for our employees and across our
supply chain through our Inclusion Committee.
~180,000
1,100+ With 33% of Board seats held by women, our Board of Directors was recognized
as a 2023 Champion of Board Diversity by the Forum of Executive Women.
PATIENTS ASSISTED THROUGH U.S.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PATIENT SUPPORT AND COPAY As always, we demonstrated our commitment to the strongest standards of
ethics and compliance, providing training for employees on ethics, cybersecurity
EMPLOYEES ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
and more.
*This number includes partnered programs.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 7
PATIENTS AND INNOVATION
Since our inception, Incyte has relentlessly followed the science to uncover solutions for patients with critical,
unmet medical needs. Every day our scientists collaborate around this shared purpose in our labs to break new
ground in drug discovery and development.
Our dedication to patients drives us to advocate for their well-being at every stage of the research and
development process. From discovery and inclusive clinical trials to approved treatments and improved access, our
patient-centered mindset continues to inform our policies, our processes and our medicines.
Growing Through R&D and Commercial Expertise
Drug Discovery Capabilities Clinical Development Commercialization
Highly selective small molecules
MPNs/GVHD
7 approved products
Ruxolitinib Baricitinib U.S.
5 commercialized by Incyte
Ruxolitinib cream Pemigatinib
Povorcitinib Capmatinib
Oncology/
BET Oral PD-L1
8 approved products1
CDK2 JAK2V617F Hematology Europe
5 commercialized by Incyte
Monoclonal antibodies
mCALR
Dermatology 4 approved products
Bispecifics Japan
1 commercialized by Incyte
LAG-3 x PD1 TGF R2 x PD1
1This number includes partnered programs.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 8
IN 2023, WE RECEIVED THREE NEW REGULATORY APPROVALS:
UNITED STATES
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Zynyz® (retifanlimab-dlwr)—a humanized monoclonal antibody
targeting programmed death receptor-1 (PD-1)—for the treatment of adults with metastatic or recurrent locally-
advanced Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC). The Biologics License Application (BLA) for Zynyz for this indication was
approved under accelerated approval by the U.S. FDA based on tumor response rate and duration of response (DOR).2
EUROPE
The European Commission granted a marketing authorization for Opzelura® (ruxolitinib) cream 15 mg/g for the
How We Solve On.
treatment of non-segmental vitiligo with facial involvement in adult and adolescent patients 12 years of age and
At Incyte, we believe in the power of research to advance older. This is the first and only approved treatment in the European Union to offer support for repigmentation in
scientific innovation and change the practice of medicine. eligible patients with non-segmental vitiligo, a chronic autoimmune disease characterized by depigmentation of skin
We’re advancing research across oncology and IAI, and reduced quality of life.3
continuously seeking to expand our portfolio in areas
where we can make the biggest impact. This includes JAPAN
Myeloproliferative Neoplasms (MPNs) and Graft-Versus- The Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW) approved Pemazyre® (pemigatinib), a selective fibroblast
Host Disease (GVHD), hematology and oncology as well growth factor receptor (FGFR) inhibitor, for the treatment of myeloid/lymphoid neoplasms (MLNs) with FGFR1 fusion
as Dermatology and other IAI. (also known as 8p11 myeloproliferative syndrome).4
19 24 8
OUR PORTFOLIO5
Molecular Clinical Approved
2FDA Approval of Zynyz (Retifanlimab-Dlwr) for MCC. Continued approval of Zynyz for this indication
Targets Compounds Products
may be contingent on verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials.
3European Commission Approval of Opzelura (Ruxolitinib) Cream for Vitiligo.
4Japanese Approval of Pemazyre (pemigatinib) for MLNs.
5As of April 30, 2024.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 9
Our Drug Discovery Capabilities Clinical Development Dermatology and Other IAI
We focus on areas where we can make an impact—no matter the disease As a research-based company, we’re advancing a pipeline of best-in-class and Incyte’s science-first approach and extensive experience in immunology form
or size of the patient population. To uncover clinically meaningful insights first-in-class differentiated medicines in areas with large, unmet needs. We the foundation of our company. Today, we’re building on this legacy as we
and targets, Incyte uses patient-relevant data, disease models and our deep focus on three priority areas—Myeloproliferative Neoplasms (MPNs) and Graft- discover and develop innovative dermatology treatments to bring solutions
understanding of cellular oncogenic pathways and immune function. versus-Host Disease (GVHD), Hematology/Oncology and Dermatology—and in to patients in need. Our IAI development group seeks to identify and develop
2023, drove progress in all three of these areas. Our clinical pipeline delivers therapies to modulate immune pathways driving uncontrolled inflammation, help
Our discovery approach integrates pathway and target selection with compound transformative therapies to patients across multiple programs, and we have the restore normal immune function and bring the body closer to homeostasis.
development, which allows us to advance molecules with maximum potential, opportunity to deliver over 10 new high-impact product launches by 2030.
resulting in a strategic portfolio of compounds that are related or can be used Our research and development efforts in dermatology explore the efficacy of
together. This approach has enabled a strong heritage of Incyte-discovered first- MPNs and GVHD JAK inhibition for various immune-mediated dermatologic conditions with high
in-class and/or best-in-class medicines for patients who previously had limited As a leader in the discovery and development of therapies for patients with unmet needs, including atopic dermatitis, vitiligo, hidradenitis suppurativa, lichen
treatment options. MPNs, Incyte has delivered breakthrough advances to patients with MPNs planus, lichen sclerosus and prurigo nodularis.
such as myelofibrosis (MF) and polycythemia vera (PV). We’re committed to
Collaborations
the continued study of treatments, including for patients who have had an
We continuously push the boundaries of scientific discovery in treatment
inadequate response to or are unable to tolerate current therapies, as well as for
In 2023, we reinvested 44% of our revenue
development, recognizing that collaboration is a key element of unlocking the full
people impacted by diseases like GVHD.
into research and development. potential of our science. By cultivating strategic partnerships and collaborations
Our clinical trial programs are designed to evaluate multiple monotherapy and with other companies, universities and research institutions, we expand our
combination strategies to improve and expand treatments for patients with collective impact and accelerate progress toward critical treatment solutions.
In 2023, we created the role of President and Head of Research and Development
MPNs and GVHD. These strategies include ruxolitinib-based combinations with
to maximize the impact of our portfolio and accelerate our innovation pipeline.
Incyte is committed to supporting independent research that deepens our
INCB57643 (BET) and zilurgisertib (ALK2), new therapeutic options including
This restructuring underscores our commitment to developing a robust and
understanding of disease and advances the study of our products. We provide
axatilimab and novel targets with transformative potential such as anti-mutant
diverse pipeline of breakthrough solutions across our programs in Oncology and
our investigational products and/or financial support for independent research
calreticulin (mCALR) and our JAK2V617F inhibitor.
Hematology and Inflammation & Autoimmunity (IAI), including Dermatology.
by third parties in therapeutic areas of interest. We ensure that requests for
Hematology and Oncology investigator-initiated research trials are submitted, reviewed and funded in a
We take a comprehensive approach to identifying new treatments for patients consistent, standardized manner according to applicable laws and regulations.
with cancer, exploring both single agents and combinations of immunotherapies We seek to ensure that our interactions with study investigators comply with
from within and beyond our portfolio. This approach includes engaging and all applicable legal and ethical standards and obligations.
collaborating with major universities and other companies to bring additional
We also participate in multiple commercial partnerships on certain Incyte-
discovery platforms and therapeutics forward.
discovered products that are licensed to third parties, in which we are eligible
for milestone payments and royalties. These include Jakavi® (ruxolitinib) and
Tabrecta® (capmatinib), licensed to Novartis, and Olumiant® (baricitinib), licensed
to Eli Lilly and Company. Please see our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K
for a complete list of our partnered programs.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 10
Access to Medicine
At Incyte, we strive to ensure our medicines are accessible to eligible patients who need them. For clinical trials, we support patient
access by providing patients with resources during their treatment journey and by helping them access investigational products
through our compassionate use programs. For approved medicines, we support patient access by pricing our medicines responsibly,
in a way that reflects their value to both patients and society and by offering IncyteCARES, My Mission Support and other forms of
assistance to eligible patients before and during applicable treatments.
Expanded Access and Compassionate Use
We recognize that some patients with serious or life-threatening diseases may not be eligible for participation in a clinical trial or lack
other options. In such cases—subject to review and approval based on our Policy on Compassionate Use—we may elect to provide
individual patients access to investigational products outside of a clinical trial setting. We can accomplish this through expanded
access pathways, such as single-patient investigational drug applications or on a named patient basis, providing patients with potential
treatment options.
Expanding Access for European Patients
Just as in the U.S., our Managed Access programs in Europe are critical for patients
facing life-threatening or debilitating illnesses where clinical trials aren’t feasible
and treatment options are limited. Through the Managed Access Program, more
than 1,400 patients in 13 countries have accessed treatment since 2020.
For Minjuvi (tafasitamab) specifically, our Expanded Access Program (EAP)
supported patients across Europe, including nearly 400 patients in France in 2023.
In France, we also donated an additional 4,700 vials of Minjuvi, further exemplifying
our commitment to patient welfare.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 11
Access to Approved Medicines Increasing Global Patient Access
We believe it is our responsibility to ensure eligible patients can access and afford our approved medicines and we support United States
legislation that would reduce out-of-pocket costs and remove barriers to accessing innovative medicines. In the U.S., we Through the dedicated services of nurses and/or clinicians and patient access coordinators, our IncyteCARES program
have supported—and will continue to support—policies that expand access by lowering patient out-of-pocket costs in the provides support to eligible patients in the U.S., both before and during applicable treatment with Jakafi® (ruxolitinib),
Medicare Part D program, as well as policies that would provide patient protections and guardrails regarding the utilization Pemazyre (pemigatinib), Opzelura (ruxolitinib) cream 1.5% and Zynyz (retifanlimab-dlwr).
management practices that can impede timely access to medicine.
IncyteCARES connects eligible commercially-insured patients with copay/coinsurance savings programs, whether offered
directly through IncyteCARES or Opzelura’s copay assistance program. IncyteCARES also provides free product assistance
More than 210,000 patients were treated with medicines for eligible patients who are uninsured, underinsured or who may be experiencing temporary coverage delays. IncyteCARES
additionally offers reimbursement support through benefit verifications and provides clinical education to inform patients
commercialized by Incyte in 2023.
about their condition and how to properly use medicine. To learn more, visit our dedicated IncyteCARES website.
In 2023, we assisted approximately 180,000 patients through our
U.S. patient support and copay assistance programs.
In addition to IncyteCARES, we offer programs such as My Mission Support6 to help eligible Monjuvi® (tafasitamab-
cxix) patients in the U.S. through their treatment journeys. Assistance offered through this program may include
reimbursement support, opportunities for financial assistance, delivery coordination of medicines, temporary coverage for
access delays and connections to other support services and resources.
International Support
In addition to our patient assistance programs in the U.S., Incyte also supports patients in countries outside of our direct
footprint. We partner with local pharmaceutical companies to create access via marketing authorization registration and
established governmental reimbursement.
Max Foundation Partnership
Our European team partners with the Max Foundation to provide donated Iclusig® (ponatinib) to patients in Eastern Europe
and Central Asia. Since 2018, this collaboration has benefited 320 patients by providing them with access to Iclusig for as
long as needed.
6On February 5, 2024, we announced that we have entered into an asset purchase agreement with MorphoSys AG which gives Incyte exclusive global rights for tafasitamab, marketed in the U.S. as Monjuvi and outside of the U.S. as Minjuvi® (tafasitamab). For more information, please see the press release.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 12
Patient Education and Awareness
For patients living with rare or neglected diseases, it can be difficult to access information and connect with others also
living with the disease. We’re committed to providing these patients with support and resources throughout their treatment
journey and have programs in place for the diseases for which our therapies are approved.
Myeloproliferative Neoplasms (MPNs)
For people living with MPNs in the U.S., Incyte created Voices of MPN, an online platform that connects patients to disease
information, educational programs, helpful resources, lifestyle tips and community activities. The platform also delivers
live educational sessions led by Oncology Clinical Nurse Educators for patients and their loved ones to offer a better
understanding of MPNs. The platform encourages patients and caregivers to share their personal stories and spread
awareness about these rare, chronic blood cancers to create a sense of belonging.
Leveraging Technology to Help Patients
In 2023, we launched the Polycythemia Vera (PV) Symptom
Assessment Form, along with helpful companion videos to help
patients identify and keep track of their PV symptoms, severity
and their impacts on quality of life. As an indication of the form’s
success, more than 1,000 users downloaded the form in its first
6 months alone.
HIDING IN PLAIN SIGHT
In 2023, we celebrated our 11th Annual MPN Heroes Recognition Program. The event featured keynote speaker Jane Fonda
On Rare Disease Day, we launched Hiding in Plain Sight, an initiative to educate MPN patients about
and recognized patients, healthcare professionals, caregivers, advocates and organizations working to bring understanding,
the importance of closely monitoring and tracking their symptoms and having proactive conversations
compassion and strength to the MPN community.
with their care partner and healthcare providers. Throughout 2023, we partnered with PV patient and
influencer, Nurse Mo, to create an awareness-focused social media campaign around Blood Cancer
Awareness Month, driving over 29,000 patients and care partners to resources on Voices of MPN.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 13
Graft-Versus-Host Disease (GVHD)
To support the GVHD community in the U.S., the Incyte Ingenuity Awards Program funds novel initiatives to help those
impacted by GVHD. The program funds $35,000 and $100,000 initiatives to support those living with GVHD. During the
annual award review process, an independent panel of advocacy group leaders, physicians, nurses and/or social workers
considers each candidate’s ability to provide much-needed change and support to patients with GVHD, caregivers and
healthcare providers. In 2023, Vanderbilt University and Massachusetts General Hospital Institute of Health Professions
were chosen as the recipients of the Incyte Ingenuity Awards in GVHD.
We also support GVHD patients and caregivers through GVHDnow, a website that provides information and resources to
support patients on the road to health following a stem cell transplant.
Your Fans Are With You:
GVHD Awareness Campaign with Mia Hamm
After losing her brother due to complications following a bone marrow
transplant, soccer legend Mia Hamm dedicated herself to supporting
individuals undergoing this treatment. In 2023, Incyte partnered with her
to create and launch the “Your Fans Are With You” campaign, aiming to
raise awareness about the life-threatening complications that can follow a
transplant, including GVHD. We pursue partnerships like this one to remind
those with GVHD that their fans—including all of us at Incyte—are here to
support them. Learn more here.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA)
In the U.S., our TestMyCholangio website provides patient access to information and resources about molecular profiling
and the role it may play in informing CCA management decisions.
In Europe, we collaborate with patient groups in various countries to raise awareness about CCA and support patients in
their treatment journeys.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 14
Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL) Vitiligo
Through a multi-year partnership with a working group that included patients, caregivers, healthcare professionals and In 2022, we launched This is Vitiligo, a campaign to educate and advocate for people living with vitiligo in the U.S.
patient advocacy groups, Incyte supported the creation of a shared decision-making toolkit for those living with or caring
for someone with DLBCL. Launched in 2023, the toolkit includes information, worksheets, journaling pages and other This is Vitiligo Website
resources, and is available through patient advocacy groups and at DLBCLSupportSource.com. Our This is Vitiligo website provides education about vitiligo, highlights the medical nature of the disease and addresses
common misconceptions. The site also looks to elevate the life experiences of people living with vitiligo, allowing them
In Europe, Incyte partnered with seven patient advocacy groups to develop a comprehensive educational toolkit for DLBCL and their caregivers to share their stories and perspectives on this chronic condition and providing a space for candid
patients and caregivers. This five-chapter toolkit, developed in 2023 and launched in 2024, covers issues such as testing, conversations about shared experiences.
treatment, self-care and survivorship and will be translated into six languages.
Incyte Ingenuity Awards in Vitiligo
Atopic Dermatitis (AD)
Our Incyte Ingenuity Awards in Vitiligo, which debuted in 2022, aims to support the vitiligo community by funding two novel
Through our work with AD advocacy groups, we identified an opportunity to improve patient education by helping patients initiatives, one up to $35,000 and another up to $100,000, that address specific needs of people with vitiligo. In June 2023, at
have more informed and collaborative conversations with their dermatologists. the World Vitiligo Day Conference, we announced our first-ever award recipients: the American Academy of Dermatology
(AAD) and VStrong Vitiligo Support Community. There, we also launched our second inaugural Incyte Ingenuity Awards in
To address this need, we created Start From Scratch, a resource for those living with AD. In 2023, during National Eczema Vitiligo. Throughout the month leading up to the awards, we disseminated educational materials, including a satellite media
Awareness Month, Incyte supported several initiatives to empower patients living with mild to moderate AD. Leading up to and tour (SMT) discussing the science behind vitiligo and personal experiences from individuals living with this condition.
around National Eczema Awareness Month and National Family Caregivers Month (November), we partnered with CafeMom, a
supportive online community where moms can get parenting tips and updates and connect with one another. This partnership
In 2023, Incyte supported the first European Patient Leader Summit on World
produced informative long-form content, social media posts, podcasts and a newsletter, all designed to educate moms about
adolescent AD, encourage proactive conversations with their dermatologists and drive traffic to Start From Scratch. Vitiligo Day. The Summit, organized by the Vitiligo International Patient
Organizations Committee (VIPOC), brought together 13 advocates from nine
countries, and consisted of a mix of advocacy capacity-building, scientific
exchange and engagement with EU policy-makers.
Patient Advocacy
As committed advocates for our patients, Incyte partners with advocacy organizations to address unmet needs for patients,
close gaps in education and create programming that will support patients in getting the best individualized care possible.
In 2023, our teams were active in the communities we serve in North America and Europe. We engaged with more than
50 different patient support organizations across hematology/oncology and dermatology and other inflammation and
autoimmune diseases (IAI), as well as listened to patient concerns and needs through patient advocacy advisory boards.
We also spotlighted our patient advocacy efforts in our 2023 Global Town Halls by inviting patients to speak to our
employees. These segments help Incyte colleagues around the world connect our daily work with the real lives impacted
by the treatments we develop.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 15
Clinical Trials
Clinical trials are a critical part of the process of developing medicines that can make a meaningful difference in treating disease. We conduct these clinical trials to understand the
impacts of treatments, relying on volunteer study participants to help us develop medicines. We actively work to expand the pool of potential trial participants, as well as work with
those who may not be able to participate.
In some instances, when patients who are eligible for an Incyte-sponsored clinical trial may not have the resources to participate, we provide patients with the information and
resources they need for treatment, consistent with applicable laws, regulations and ethical guidelines.
Clinical Trial Ethics and Safety
The safety of our patients always comes first, whether the patient is using an approved medicine or participating in a clinical
2023 CLINICAL TRIAL
trial. Before we begin a clinical trial, we carefully consider potential benefits and risks and enact strict protocols to obtain
HIGHLIGHTS
informed consent from participating patients.
124
clinical trials Our studies adhere to all applicable laws and regulations in all territories in which we operate while always upholding the
highest ethical standards. We follow the International Conference on Harmonization (ICH) Good Clinical Practice (GCP) Guidelines,
28
new studies as well as all applicable legal and regulatory requirements where clinical trials are conducted. All ongoing trials are supervised
through an institutional review board, an ethics committee and/or a research ethics board to protect the safety of trial
22 completed studies participants. We also regularly conduct internal and external clinical framework audits to make sure our framework meets or
exceeds best practices and applicable regulatory requirements.
4,361
sites
We have policies in place for post-trial access for patient studies. In some programs, we maintain rollover protocols for patients
51 to continue treatment in another study or switch to a comparable therapy when possible. In the event a study is discontinued,
countries
we remain committed to supporting patients. Further, we have special protocols to protect vulnerable patient populations,
including pediatric plans and pregnancy registries. Visit our Incyte Clinical Trials website to learn more.
Tracking Clinical Trial Participant Progress with AI
Patients participating in our clinical trials for vitiligo now have a smart, AI-driven tool for tracking their
progress. Launched in 2022, our i2 award-winning smartphone app gives patients and healthcare providers a
first-of-its-kind tool to capture, share, compare and review results. Patients use the app to capture images
of their skin, and our Vitiligo Assessment Tool employs machine learning to analyze the images for changes
in skin characteristics. Read more about our i2 awards on page 21.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 16
Clinical Trial Transparency Clinical Trial Diversity
Our research processes and practices are responsible and fully compliant with applicable laws, regulations and guidelines. Our Incyte is a global organization committed to creating medicines for people of all races and ethnicities. Representation
practices are also transparent—we announce clinical trial results, positive or negative, on clinicaltrials.gov in the U.S., in other of diverse communities in our clinical trials is essential for understanding and treating disease—the more diverse the
applicable registries, at appropriate medical meetings and in peer-reviewed medical journals in a timely manner. participants, the more our researchers can learn if and how people of different racial and ethnic backgrounds respond
differently to treatments. Because studies have shown that people from historically marginalized and minoritized groups in
We aim to publish data within 18 months of the last patient leaving a clinical trial, as we believe it is the responsible thing the U.S. are less likely to be included in clinical research, we’ve made it a priority to increase racial and ethnic diversity in our
to do and could benefit patients and the scientific community as we seek to transform the treatment of cancer and clinical trials.
other diseases. Our Clinical Trial Transparency, Data Sharing and Disclosure Practices policy provides more detail on our
commitments for maintaining transparent, responsible and fully compliant research practices. In 2020, a sub-committee of our Inclusion Team, iDIRECT (Incyte Diversity, Inclusion, Representation and Equity in Clinical
Trials), was established with the mission to advance diversity and inclusion in clinical trials by preparing the organization for
Patient Engagement
change and driving implementation. Their approach involved conducting an initial assessment to establish a baseline of the
At Incyte, we support and provide educational materials to patients, caregivers and healthcare professionals who are organization’s readiness, implementing a thorough clinical trial diversity training program, and developing a roadmap to define
interested or actively participating in our clinical studies. We’ve created several initiatives to engage clinical participants and priorities and guide consistent and rapid implementation across the organization.
their caregivers—including content and tools that help them make informed decisions about clinical trial participation.
In 2023, the iDIRECT team drove progress toward its goal by standardizing diversity planning procedures to ensure consistency
Our Incyte Clinical Trials website allows patients and caregivers to explore different aspects of clinical trials and learn about and incorporating a deep understanding of disease epidemiology into planning efforts. Engaging external experts, they
how Incyte designs trials to address patient needs safely and effectively. The site provides a user-friendly, easy-to-navigate identified and addressed barriers to participation while internally developing capabilities to pinpoint trial sites conducive to
experience and matching capabilities to pair patients with relevant clinical trials. minority recruitment. Additionally, they incorporated community outreach and provided increased support services to build
trust, reduce participation barriers, and ensure equitable access.
We also work closely with our Patient Council—a group of patients and caregivers representing multiple disease areas—to
gather insights to help optimize our clinical trials. After clinical studies, we continue to engage with patients and their
caregivers to get feedback about the trial experience and highlight opportunities to adjust or improve our process.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 17
COMMUNITY
We’re a company on a mission to make a difference. For Incyte, caring for the people around us Cancer Care Assistance Fund for Delaware
starts with our core business and extends to patients, their caregivers, the communities near us To help make care more sustainable for cancer patients in our community, our Incyte Cancer Care Assistance Fund for
Delaware (ICCAFD) provides financial support to local patients—as well as their caregivers and family members—who face
and the causes important to our employees.
financial hardships due to cancer. ICCAFD partners with Cancer Support Community Delaware, a statewide nonprofit, to
deliver on its mission. In 2023, our funding assisted more than 170 individuals with housing, groceries, transportation and
Our Incyte Involved program guides the way we give back in three areas: the Incyte Charitable
other basic living expenses—a 50% year over year increase in individuals assisted. We also doubled our Fund contribution,
Giving Foundation, our Community Service Program and our Matching Gifts Program. now providing $200,000 in support each year.
Seth’s Wish
Incyte Charitable Giving Foundation
Seth, a 5-year-old boy from Delaware who is fighting Rhabdomyosarcoma—a rare type of cancer that forms in soft tissue—
The Incyte Charitable Giving Foundation is dedicated to making a difference where we live and work—specifically
dreamed of a trip to meet “his girlfriend” Minnie Mouse at Disney World. Incyte colleagues raised nearly $18,000 to help
Wilmington, Delaware, home to our Global Headquarters. The Foundation forges partnerships with publicly funded, 501(c)(3)
Make-A-Wish Philadelphia, Delaware & Susquehanna Valley grant Seth’s wish. As part of his send-off to Disney World, Incyte
tax-exempt nonprofit organizations that serve Delaware communities in two focus areas—Oncology Patient Support and
hosted a Mickey and Minnie-themed party with our employees at our Global Headquarters. Seeing Seth’s wish come true
Resources and Community Partnerships. In 2023, the Foundation donated over $1,000,000 to more than 35 local causes,
reminds us why we remain longtime Make-A-Wish partners: to help make magic and dreams a reality for children like Seth.
supporting community efforts with valuable services, financial aid and other forms of assistance.
We extended our philanthropic efforts in 2023 by donating to the Wishes Transforming Lives initiative in Delaware. This
contribution will directly support children in the state diagnosed with cancer through the Make-A-Wish program. When
we fund wishes for these courageous kids, Incyte’s support provides them with a powerful experience that can help build
the physical and emotional strength they need to confront their illnesses with resilience and hope.
Outside of the U.S., we donate funds and
B+ Foundation
volunteer time to help meet the needs
Every family should have the freedom to dedicate their time and attention to their loved one fighting cancer. The B+
Foundation provides financial assistance to affected local families who will lose critical income as they stay by their
of communities near our European
child’s bedside during a life-or-death battle. This assistance helps families cover housing costs to avoid eviction, car
repairs to ensure uninterrupted transport, medication expenses and other critical living and medical bills. Incyte was
Headquarters and other locations in
recognized in 2023 as the Top Corporate Giver for the 17th Annual B+ 5K Fighting Childhood Cancer. Beyond our donation,
Europe, Canada and Asia. Incyte employees raised funds as part of their participation in the 5K walk/run.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 18
Community Service Program One of our key targets for the year was to have at least 15% of
our global employees use their paid volunteer day for qualifying
Incyte supports employee efforts to make a difference in their communities. Through our
activities. We proudly surpassed this goal in 2023, with 34% of
Community Service Program, we encourage all employees to take an annual day of paid time
global employees embracing the opportunity to volunteer in
off to volunteer with the charitable causes they’re passionate about. In 2023, our employees’
their local communities.
commitment to community service had a significant impact worldwide, with over 860 individuals
contributing nearly 4,700 hours of volunteer work.
Matching Gifts Program
Matching employee contributions to the causes they care about helps foster a sense of
% employees who
community and amplifies our collective impact. We match employee charitable giving to eligible
nonprofits, dollar for dollar, up to a predetermined cap. Based on employee feedback, we doubled
took volunteer time
the pre-determined cap in July 2022. Coupled with increased employee participation, our matching
gift program helps us make an even bigger difference in our communities. Moving forward, we
remain dedicated to building on the ways we empower our employees to take care of the world
34%
around them.
Incyte matched more than
11%
$325,000 in employee giving 10%
to over 450 charities in 2023. 3%
2%
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 19
TEAM
OUR EMPLOYEES
2,524
1,152 783 374
215
employees
At Incyte, we share a responsibility to advance research and sales and operations support and
medical affairs
development marketing administrative positions
solutions that benefit our patients. Our collective sense
of purpose inspires collaboration across departments,
allows leaders to emerge at all levels and ensures all
colleagues feel valued.
Our strength lies in the diverse expertise, experience,
passion and perseverance across our team. By creating
GENDER DIVERSITY
a culture that integrates and elevates our unique
insights and abilities, we’re advancing scientific
1,301 1,216 7
innovation, improving patient health and enabling our
female male non-binary/prefer not to say
colleagues to reach their full potential.
GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION
72% 25% 3%
United States and Canada Europe Asia
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20
Awards and Recognition
Recognized by the American
In 2023, our global team received numerous awards in recognition of the innovation behind our first-in-class medicines and
best-in-class workplaces. Chemical Society as one of the 2023
Heroes of Chemistry for developing
Ranked #2 among 2023 Top Employers by Science Magazine, marking our sixth the first treatment for certain
consecutive year ranking in the top five
myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs),
a group of rare blood cancers, and
Ranked #21 on Newsweek’s inaugural Top 100 Global Most Loved Workplaces list in 2023 chronic and acute graft-versus-host
disease (GVHD).
Ranked #23 on Newsweek’s America’s Most Loved Workplace list in 2023—up nearly
40 spots from 2022 and marking our third consecutive year on this list
Named one of America’s Greenest Companies by Newsweek
Named a 2023 Humankind 100 Company for the second consecutive year, with a
Humankind Value of $18.1B
Recognized in the 100 Sustainability Champions List by Forbes Italy
Recognized as the 2023 Emerging Company of the Year by the Canadian Healthcare
Industry Awards (CHIA) for exceptional leadership and contributions to improving
patient care in Canada
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 21
Culture of Innovation
At Incyte, innovation is everyone’s job—from our newest hire to our CEO. Because innovative ideas can come from anywhere,
we need to listen everywhere. Our Executive Team has an open-door policy and makes every effort to be accessible to all
employees, wherever they may be in their career journey. To demonstrate this commitment, members of executive leadership
aim to meet with each new employee within their first year at Incyte.
We create ongoing opportunities for employees to engage with company leadership and with each other. Our regular Global
Town Hall meetings and interactive events encourage two-way dialogue and facilitate continuous feedback across teams. The
Executive Team also hosts periodic focus groups to hear directly from employees and reviews results from our pulse surveys
throughout the year.
Catalyzing Employee Innovation: i2
At Incyte, we believe every challenge is a chance for a breakthrough. Our
annual i2 innovation challenge spurs our employees’ drive to discover the next
innovation by funding the development of their most innovative ideas. Each
year, the call for i2 proposals goes out to all Incyte employees around the world,
inviting them to pitch their best early-stage ideas. Submissions from both
individuals and teams are welcome, provided their concepts are novel, innovative
and hold the potential to impact patients’ lives or our business. From a narrowed
field of finalists, the winning concepts are selected, funded and fully supported
to move forward.
To illustrate the depth of creativity within our team, in 2023 we received over
60 submissions from employees, nearly doubling the number of submissions in
2022. Seven employee-driven projects won i2 support.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 22
Professional Development All global employees have access to tuition reimbursement for pursuing
advanced degrees and additional coursework. We expanded our tuition
Incyte offers challenging and fulfilling job opportunities alongside a robust Empowering Development Through
reimbursement program in 2022, raising total reimbursement by 60% for
professional development framework to help employees build new skills and
LinkedIn Learning
master’s degrees and by 100% for doctoral degrees. In 2023, we expanded our
advance in their careers. We’re working to create an innovative and inclusive
pocket MBA program through the University of Delaware to include two cohorts—
culture that empowers every team member to grow and contribute to their We launched LinkedIn Learning globally in January
virtual and hybrid—for a total of 50 participants. We also created a pathway for
full potential. 2023 for all employees. LinkedIn Learning is an
participants to transition to the full University of Delaware MBA program.
organization-wide online learning platform that
Employee Development
Performance Management
empowers employees to develop skills relevant
To help our employees pursue learning and growth throughout their career
Our performance management strategy is an ongoing collaboration between
journey at Incyte, we offer extensive opportunities for training, professional to their role and career aspirations. In addition
managers and employees that enables employees to grow in their careers
development and continuing education. Our training and development programs
to self-identified development opportunities,
and set goals that support our strategic objectives. To promote strong
are tailored to distinct regions and departments.
performance, employee compensation is tied to the achievement of pre- we’re using the platform to tailor training to our
established annual goals.
In the U.S., we provide leadership development training to all new Incyte business. In 2023, our employees watched 1,100+
managers and newly promoted managers, as well as individuals identified as hours of learning content across the company.
At the beginning of each year, employees and their managers work together to
potential leaders. We also offer skills-building sessions such as our Emotional
set individual performance and career development goals, as well as identify
Intelligence and Insights Discovery workshops that enhance soft skills for
core competencies and customized functional competencies. Throughout LinkedIn Learning complements other employee
effective internal and external communication.
the year, employees and managers monitor and discuss progress and, when development tools, such as Incyte Academy, an
appropriate, adjust individual performance and career goals to reflect changes
In North America, our E.D.G.E. (Empowerment, Development, Growth, internal, web-based learning system that delivers
in projects or business priorities. At each year’s end, employees and their
Engagement) mentorship program connects employees with internal and
training on our therapy areas, compounds,
managers meet for a comprehensive evaluation of progress toward the
external leaders, providing opportunities to network and engage in other career
established goals. science basics and drug development.
development experiences.
Succession Planning and Promotion
In Europe, our leadership training program for select managers includes modules
We actively cultivate our internal talent pipeline by providing opportunities for
to build people management and stakeholder management skills. Incyte’s
employees to grow within their roles and advance in their careers. By keeping
European teams also build skills through the Team Effectiveness and Insights
global employees informed of all open roles and newly posted positions, we
Discovery workshops to help improve communication, accountability, decision-
increase awareness of growth opportunities and facilitate internal promotions.
making and overall performance. Also available to our European teams is the
Challenge Academy—a five-phase program that encourages future leaders to
We also conduct periodic succession planning to retain and develop employees
take on challenging projects with a dedicated support structure around them.
for future leadership positions. Our Executive Team meets annually to discuss
the succession plan for the company, and each Executive Team member
updates the plan for their employees.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 23
Compensation and Benefits
We’re deeply committed to providing competitive compensation and comprehensive benefits to empower every Incyte employee to thrive at
work and at home. Our expansive total rewards package aims to help our colleagues and their families maintain a healthy lifestyle, achieve
work/life balance, plan for retirement and live a less stressful life.
From their first day at work, all global employees are eligible to participate in our Annual Cash and Equity Incentive programs. Employees who
work full-time or at least 20 hours per week are also eligible to participate in our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. We review our compensation
and benefits offerings on an annual basis and look for opportunities to enhance them in ways that have a meaningful impact on our employees
and their families.
Equitable Compensation
We work diligently to ensure equitable compensation for all employees, regularly benchmarking against our compensation peer group and the
broader life sciences market to ensure fairness and equity. We review and adjust our base salaries and pay ranges on an annual basis to ensure
consistency with market movements.
To maintain pay equity, annual evaluations of pay equity based on gender, ethnicity and race are a part of our routine compensation
assessment.7 For the equity analysis, our HR team assesses the pay for each role against external competitiveness and internal equity to
ensure there is no disparity driven by gender, racial or ethnicity bias. If discrepancies are found without an explanation—such as performance or
a recent promotion—we take immediate corrective actions.
Competitive Health Benefits
To ensure our employees and their families have access to healthcare, we offer low
deductible healthcare plans and cover 100% of the cost of full-time employee premiums
for individual healthcare coverage in the U.S. Incyte employees pay nothing for individual
healthcare coverage and only 5% of the premium cost for family medical coverage.
Our generous investment in the health and wellness of our employees and their families
stands out among biotech companies, 95% of which require an employee contribution
for individual healthcare coverage and employees to contribute an average of 19% toward
family healthcare premiums.8
7We conduct racial equity analysis in the U.S. only, as ethnicity data is not collected outside of the U.S.
8Statistics provided by Incyte benefits provider.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 24
Additional highlights of our U.S. benefits program include: Other benefits include:
• MAVEN provides critical family-building support to our employees, including: • Hinge Health’s digital physical therapy for Musculoskeletal conditions
• Fertility and family building benefits such as preconception care, assisted • Omada for support in preventing and managing chronic conditions
reproduction, pregnancy, postpartum, adoption or surrogacy support and
partner resources. • Aetna’s Total Brain for brain health and resilience
Benefits
We offer a comprehensive benefits package to all • New in 2023, adoption and surrogacy reimbursement of up to $5,000 • Aetna’s Oncology Solutions for Incyte employees and dependents
employees and we benchmark Incyte benefits against through the Maven Wallet.
industry standards to ensure a competitive offering. In • Brightline’s expanded behavioral and mental health access for children
the U.S., our benefits program ranks among the best • GENDER AFFIRMATION care and procedure assistance for LGBTQ+ employees
in the biotech industry, including a healthcare plan were expanded in 2023 to align more closely with WPATH Standards of Care. • Teladoc Telemedicine offers virtual office visits for behavioral health,
with a low deductible, no restrictions and a $10 copay dermatology and urgent care.
for medical office visits, counseling services and • WELLTHY CAREGIVER CONCIERGE SERVICE, providing best-in-class expertise
prescription drugs. Incyte covers 100% of the plan cost and support to help families manage and navigate financial, medical, legal, We also offer access to a range of other employee wellness resources,
for the employee and 95% for part-time employees in-home, housing, and social/emotional support in any capacity, big or small including webinars on financial security, behavioral health and nutrition and
working at least 20 hours per week. for aging, childcare, health conditions, special needs, mental health, veteran meditation techniques; onsite and virtual fitness and yoga classes; discounted
support, and financial hardship. memberships to nationwide gyms; and a Wellness Video Library that includes
We actively listen to employee feedback to new monthly fitness, mindfulness and cooking demos. Details of our full U.S.
accommodate our diverse team and enhance their • EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (EAP) supports the emotional well-being benefits program are available on our website.
experience at work and beyond. Based on employee of our employees at no cost. Available 24/7, our EAP assists employees with
feedback, we recently added to our generous paid personal and work-related challenges.
time off policy and expanded parental leave policy
with a new program to assist with elder care. • HEALTH ADVOCACY SERVICES assist employees and their dependents with
healthcare and insurance, enabling them to make informed healthcare
decisions, schedule tests, find the right doctors and hospitals and resolve
medical billing issues.
• LEVERAGE CONCIERGE provides employees and their families with unlimited,
complimentary virtual personal assistance, information and referrals to
address tasks like home and car repairs, travel and event planning, pet care,
local errands and much more.
• INCYTE ENGAGED BENEFITS APP provides personalized, one-stop shopping to
make benefits information easily accessible to employees.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 25
Diversity and Inclusion 2023 GENDER, RACIAL AND
Developing best-in-class solutions for our patients requires a
ETHNIC DIVERSITY DATA10
collaborative, innovative and inclusive culture. Incyte is committed
to fostering an environment that creates space for colleagues
to contribute their unique abilities, experiences, perspectives and
backgrounds to developing treatments for patients with critical, unmet
medical needs. Our commitment to inclusion is emphasized in our
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and overseen by our Inclusion GLOBAL EMPLOYEE EMPLOYEE RACIAL AND
Committee in the U.S., which spearheads our efforts to hire, retain and
GENDER DIVERSITY ETHNIC DIVERSITY IN THE U.S.
develop diverse talent and promote diversity in our selection of suppliers
and in clinical trials.
(unless otherwise noted)
As of December 31, 2023, 36% of our U.S. workforce self-reported as 52%
nonwhite—a number comparable to the 2020 U.S. Census data from the White 64%
State of Delaware (41% non-white9), where our Global Headquarters are 11%
located. Given various privacy restrictions, we do not request racial and women employees
ethnically/racially diverse
Asian 24%
ethnic diversity data outside of the U.S. Once available, we publish our
directors on the 2023 board
full Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO-1) reports on our website.
(global)
41%
Black/African American 6%
women in leadership 11%
Hispanic/Latin 4%
(director and above)
LGBTQ+ directors on the
2023 board (global)
Two or more races 1%
33%
18%11
Pacific Islander 0%
women directors on the board
ethnically/racially diverse
Native American 0%
members of the 2023
Did not identify 0% executive team
31%
9 Statistic calculated using the Census Bureau’s interactive data visualization tool,
subtracting Delaware’s 2020 “White alone, not Hispanic or Latino” population from the
women on executive team
total population of Delaware.
10Due to rounding some of these figures may not add to 100%.
11Two of our 13 Executive Team members are located outside of the U.S., and therefore are
not included in ethnic/racial diversity statistics.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 26
Diverse Leadership
Our lived experiences create powerful filters through which we see and engage with the world. Diversity in leadership means greater depth and breadth of experience and perspective and, in turn, a greater ability to relate to our
employees and the needs of the patients and families we serve. In 2023, women filled 31% of positions on our Executive Team and 18%12 of our Executive Team was ethnically or racially diverse.
U.S. ETHNICITY REPORT
September 2020 to December 2023
Hispanic/ 2+ Races 1%
Hispanic/ 2+ Races 1% Latin 4%
Latin 3% White Asian
Black/African NET CHANGE
Black/African American 6%
American 5%
SEPT 2020
TO DEC 2023
1% 2%
Asian
September December
26%
2020 2023
Black/African
Hispanic/Latin 2+ Races
American
White Asian White
65% 24% 64% 1% 0%
1%
12Two of our 13 Executive Team members are located outside of the U.S., and therefore are not included in ethnic/racial diversity statistics.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 27
U.S. Inclusion Committee We ensure all U.S.-based job openings are posted to Historically Black Colleges Mentorship opportunities are among our strategies to build a pipeline for
and Universities (HBCUs) as well as on Jopwell job sites, aiming to reach Black, leadership development and retention. In 2023, we piloted our Buddy program,
We work to remove barriers and provide increased opportunities to marginalized
Latinx and Native American students and professionals. We also actively which pairs diverse new hires with diverse employees, integrating diversity
groups. Our U.S. Inclusion Committee creates actionable plans to ensure our
participate in job fairs sponsored by the National Black MBA Association, the into the new hire process. We also designed and planned the launch of our
diversity and inclusion goals are embedded across our operations. Co-chaired by
National Sales Network and the National Organization for the Professional Reverse Diverse mentorship program with five mentor/mentee pairs. Like
our CEO and our Head of Human Resources, the Committee has established five
Advancement of Black Chemists and Chemical Engineers (NOBCChE) as well as most mentorship programs, Reverse Diverse mentoring encourages personal
key sub-committees, each with a different area of focus:
other professional associations advocating for underrepresented communities. and professional growth, but with a twist—this program puts leaders in the
1. Hire
role of mentee to their less senior mentor. Spanning nine months, the program
2. Develop and Retain We partner with universities near our Headquarters to develop the next generation is designed to help Incyte’s leaders (mentees) from majority communities
3. Awareness of talent through co-op programs that provide area college students with learn about diversity issues through the lived experiences of their junior
valuable training and create early recruitment opportunities. In 2023, we expanded colleagues (mentors) from traditionally marginalized communities. The rollout
4. Clinical Trial Diversity
our co-op program to include students attending Drexel University and Johns of the program is part of our broader effort to enhance diversity and inclusion
5. Supplier Diversity Hopkins University, who joined participants from the University of Delaware, considerations in our everyday business decision making.
Rutgers University, Delaware State University and Jefferson University. More
Hire than 30% of the co-op program’s 2023 participants were diverse. Building on our
As part of our merit-based hiring process, Incyte recruits from a wide pool local engagement and outreach, in 2023 we hosted an Incyte Days event at the
of diverse candidates for all open positions within our general workforce, University of Delaware where our employees participated in a career panel with
leadership and on the Executive Team. approximately 30 PhD and master’s candidates and post-docs in attendance.
Our partnership with the Scientific Mentoring & Diversity Program (SMDP)
is another critical component of our diverse hiring success. The SMDP for
Our 2023 goal was for at least Biotechnology is a prestigious program that pairs diverse students (post-
baccalaureate, master’s or doctorate) and early career researchers with mentors
75% of all open U.S. positions to
who work at companies in the medical technology, biotechnology and consumer
have at least one Black or Hispanic healthcare industries.
candidate represented in the
Develop and Retain
candidate pool. We exceeded this We encourage employees to participate in a wide range of development
opportunities to support professional and personal development and career
goal, with 80% representation in the
advancement. As part of this effort, the CEO and Head of Human Resources
initially met with focus groups to identify barriers that might prevent Black
candidate pool for these positions.
colleagues from progressing into leadership roles across the organization. The
resulting feedback led to the creation of our Inclusion Committee.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 28
Awareness
To foster an authentic culture of inclusion and diversity, we must help every Incyte colleague feel welcome and heard. In 2023, we created more opportunities for
open discussions about diversity and inclusion through our companywide Global Town Hall events and on our new intranet page for internal communications. We Celebrating Diversity
also continue to train our U.S. managers annually on Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) hiring practices.
We celebrate many cultural observances
throughout the year to raise awareness,
Clinical Trial Diversity
We take proactive steps to ensure that our clinical trials encompass a diverse range of ethnicities, allowing us to understand and treat disease across all foster dialogue and honor cultural traditions.
communities. To read more about our efforts in this space, see page 16.
In addition to commemorating Kwanzaa,
Hanukkah and Christmas at all locations in
Supplier Diversity
We work with diverse suppliers to promote inclusion and diversity in our supply chain, recognizing that supplier diversity not only enhances our business but also 2023, we added Juneteenth and Hispanic
drives economic growth in the communities we serve. Through our strategic sourcing practices, we enable diverse businesses to share and grow in global and Heritage Month celebrations in the U.S.,
local markets.13 To reinforce our commitment to more inclusive sourcing, in 2023 we updated our Global Strategic Sourcing Policy to include a Supplier Diversity
organized by the U.S. Inclusion Committee. We
Inclusion and Engagement process for U.S. employees.
also hosted two large, in-person events on our
In our ongoing effort to increase supply chain diversity, we engage external suppliers, consultants and other agency partners to identify diverse providers and Wilmington campus:
explore effective sourcing strategies. One way we engage with vendors is through the external supplier section on our website, which makes our strategic
sourcing team more accessible to vendors and enables us to more efficiently direct opportunities from diverse vendors to Incyte business owners.
• In February, over 500 Incyte employees
celebrated Lunar New Year. The event featured
We continue to be an active corporate sponsor of the Delaware Black Chamber of Commerce, Diversity Alliance for Science and the Woman’s Business Enterprise
Council – East, and in 2023 we became corporate members of the National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC). performances by Incyte’s employee choir,
employee dance group and invited performers.
• In November, Incyte brought the warm
lights and rich hues of Diwali to Delaware
with a Festival of Lights celebration for
Diwali, or Dipawali, India’s biggest and most
important holiday of the year. More than 500
employees enjoyed an afternoon of cultural
performances, arts and cuisine, presented by
Incyte colleagues.
13Diverse or disadvantaged small businesses fall into one or more of the following categories: minority-owned, women-owned, veteran-owned, LGBT-owned, service-disabled veteran-owned, disabled-owned and/or historically underutilized business.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 29
Safety and Wellness EHS Training Well at Work
At Incyte, our dedication to improving the world’s health requires us to operate To protect our colleagues and mitigate our environmental impact, we provide Ergonomic workstations go a long way to supporting the health and comfort
every aspect of our business in a way that protects people and the environment. extensive safety training during the onboarding process. All laboratory and of our employees. By providing personalized, adaptive equipment like standing
Compliance with applicable Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) regulatory manufacturing employees receive training specific to the potential hazards of desks, customized lighting solutions and adjustable monitor arms, our
requirements is both our responsibility and our policy, and we continually work their job function, including waste handling. We also provide regulatory-related ergonomics program makes it easy for our employees to stay physically
to improve our EHS management systems and performance. training to laboratory employees upon hiring, upon a change in individual job comfortable while they work. We use a combination of tools to promote
responsibilities and on an annual basis. ergonomics at work, including ergonomic assessments, flyers, checklists and
It’s our philosophy that everyone at Incyte—from full- and part-time employees digital health solutions.
to contractors—shares a responsibility to reduce risk, prevent injuries and To further emphasize workplace safety, we conduct periodic safety walkthroughs
maintain a safe and healthy workplace for all. This strong safety culture is a and promptly address any identified potential hazards. In the U.S. and Switzerland,
fundamental part of how we work, and our Executive Team is committed to we collect information on incidents and near misses to help prevent future EHS
providing the resources necessary to achieve our shared goal. incidents. We also conduct hazardous reaction reviews for large-scale reactions in
chemistry and provide appropriate guidance to mitigate risk.
We maintain a safety management system for our U.S. and Swiss facilities,
Emergency Preparedness
including our manufacturing site in Yverdon-les-Bains. Our safety management
system closely aligns with international standards and best practices, To ensure continued safe and effective operations in the event of an emergency
underscoring the strict processes and procedures we follow to maintain safe at our U.S. facilities, we have established crisis protocols and preparedness
operations. Our incident prevention strategy includes inspection programs, near measures. We provide training for all new office-based employees in the U.S. and
miss reporting, safety training and standard operating procedures. Switzerland, and have staff certified in first aid and CPR to respond to medical
emergencies. Should our Global Headquarters lose power, we have the ability to
At our Yverdon facility, we maintain rigorous site-wide and group-specific maintain equipment, refrigerators and freezers with critical samples to allow
safety Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to protect employees and contractors. work to continue.
Contractors are also required to maintain their own safe operating procedures,
as well as risk assessments for planned work. The site aims to achieve zero Our Global Technical Operations team’s standard operating procedure for
injuries by following standard operating procedures. business continuity requires the Quality Assurance and Supply Chain teams to
routinely review all business continuity and crisis management preparedness
plans with key commercial suppliers. Our manufacturing site also has a disaster
2021 2022 2023 recovery plan in place for its IT systems, as well as emergency generators and
redundancy by design to prevent potential outages.
Lost Time Incident
.1 .17 .45
Rate (LTIR)14
Total Recordable
.24 .43 .65
Incident Rate (TRIR)14
Fatalities 0 0 0
14Incident rates calculated according to OSHA guidance, using 200,000 as the multiplier.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 30
ENVIRONMENT TARGET PROGRESS
We are focused on a combination of absolute emissions reductions and offsets
to achieve this goal. We will continue to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions
We recognize the profound interconnection between environmental Achieve operational carbon
through green building certifications, building improvements and renewable
well-being and public health, a connection made clearer each day neutrality by 2025
energy initiatives. From 2019 through 2022, we offset our calculated Scope 1 and 2
by the effects of climate change. This relationship creates a unique emissions and achieved neutrality.
responsibility for Incyte and our industry to do our part in combating
the adverse consequences of a warming world.
As leaders in biopharmaceutical innovation, we are committed to
Attain Green Globes Certification Upon completion of our Global Headquarters Building 1815, we worked with the
setting goals and pursuing solutions that minimize our environmental for the recently constructed Green Building Initiative (GBI)15 and were the first building to receive Green Globes
Building 1815 at our Global Certification as part of the 2021 GBI Existing Buildings pilot program. Building 1815
impact, increase transparency and drive positive change as we work to
Headquarters received three out of four Green Globes.
improve the lives of the patients we serve.
Environmental Targets and Progress
As Incyte continues to grow globally, we remain committed to minimizing our
environmental impact and advancing progress against our sustainability goals set in 2021, Report under the Task Force
including our key target: to achieve operational carbon neutrality by 2025. on Climate-Related Financial
The Appendix of this report contains our second TCFD disclosure.
Disclosures (TCFD) Framework16
by 2023
Complete transition of Sales
Despite experiencing delays due to the COVID-19 pandemic and vehicle availability,
Fleet to hybrid and electric
we’re making progress toward this goal.
15 An international nonprofit organization, GBI evaluates building efficiency related to electricity, waste, water vehicles (EVs) by 2025
and other features.
16 The TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures) has developed recommendations for voluntary,
consistent climate-related financial risk disclosures for use by companies in providing information to
investors, lenders, insurers, and other stakeholders. Despite the disbanding of TCFD, we continue to reference
TCFD for consistency with our published goals.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 31
Environmental Oversight Environmental Management System
Our full Board of Directors oversees Incyte’s ESG strategy, including the targets We maintain an Environmental Management System (EMS) that determines our processes and procedures for monitoring and reducing our environmental impact. Our
and initiatives that reduce our environmental impact. Distinct Board Committees EMS is aligned with international standards, including all required and recommended management system documents and their associated implementation. The EMS
are responsible for oversight of specific components of our ESG program. facilitates compliance with environmental regulations, corrective actions to stimulate continual improvement and internal training and awareness programs to ensure
For example, the Audit Committee oversees risk management, while the employees understand their responsibilities.
Compensation Committee oversees compensation-related goals and targets,
Our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) team conducts routine reviews and inspections of our processes and systems, especially those related to waste and
as well as our progress against these targets. At the management level,
wastewater. We also periodically undergo inspections from local regulatory authorities to verify our compliance.
each Incyte location takes responsibility for monitoring and driving down its
emissions, water use and waste generation.
Incentivizing Environmental Action
To emphasize the importance of our ESG priorities, the Compensation Committee
incorporated ESG performance into our compensation targets for the first time
in 2022, incentivizing meaningful action. Following a successful response, in
2023, we tied 3% of our bonus incentive program to three specific, measurable
ESG objectives, including one focused on the environment:
Develop a global emissions reduction and
mitigation plan to achieve our corporate
operational carbon neutrality goal by 2025.
Accordingly, in 2023, we developed our Greenhouse Gas Reduction and Mitigation
Plan to not only meet our 2025 goal but also to chart our course beyond
2025. Our plan, detailed below, centers on five key initiatives to reduce our
environmental impact and nurture a healthier planet.
In 2024, we set four additional targets tied to 3% of our bonus incentive program,
two of which focus on reducing our environmental impact:
1. Reduce U.S. Buildings’ water consumption by 10% versus 2023
2. Decrease paper usage globally by 15% over 2023
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 32
Emissions Reduction
We understand that achieving carbon neutrality by 2025 in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions
requires each of our sites to prioritize emissions reductions in a coordinated approach across our
business. Our Greenhouse Gas Reduction and Mitigation Plan outlines a series of concrete actions
and strategies to reach carbon neutrality, centering on five key initiatives:
1. Strengthening oversight of climate-related initiatives and performance
2. Increasing the frequency and awareness around environmental data collection
and monitoring
3. Continuing implementation of emissions reduction and mitigation activities across
all owned and leased sites
4. Continuing to set smart corporate goals and targets
5. Increasing engagement with all global employees on climate performance
We’re already taking purposeful action to reduce absolute emissions, primarily by sourcing
renewable energy and responsibly operating our owned facilities to improve energy efficiency.
Despite Incyte’s significant growth in square footage, employee headcount and revenues since
we established our 2019 baseline, we are achieving progress in minimizing our environmental
footprint. Through our investment in renewable electricity and building efficiencies, we’re reducing
our market-based emissions, even while growing. Additionally, as we convert our sales fleet to
hybrid and fully electric vehicles, we’re also providing free charging for our employees’ EVs at our
facilities—helping our colleagues transition to a cleaner commute.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 33
Since 2019, Incyte has grown by approximately 60% in workplace size, and 70% in workforce and revenue while reducing our market-based
emissions intensity, showcasing our significant emissions reduction efforts.
TOTAL REVENUES EMPLOYEES SQUARE FOOTAGE
% change from 2019 baseline 2020 2021 2022 2023 % change from 2019 baseline 2020 2021 2022 2023 % change from 2019 baseline
(Leased & Owned Facilities) 2020 2021 2022 2023
$ Revenue 24% 38% 57% 71% Employees 22% 44% 60% 73%
Square Footage 37% 37% 71% 59%
Emissions/$1M revenue -25% -57% -52% -51% Emissions/employee -24% -58% -52% -52%
Emissions/1K square foot -33% -57% -56% -47%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
-10%
-20%
-30%
-40%
-50%
-60%
-70%
-80%
2020 2021 2022 2023 2020 2021 2022 2023 2020 2021 2022 2023
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 34
Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emissions Metrics17
METRIC 2019 2021 2022 2023
Scope 1 emissions (MTCO e) Total 4,775 6,371 8,062 9,351
2
Scope 2 emissions (Location-based) (MTCO e) Total 7,450 5,595 6,360 6,079
2
Scope 1 emissions
increases are largely due to
Total Scope 1 & Scope 2 emissions (Location-based) (MTCO e) 12,226 11,966 14,422 15,429
2
the expansion of our fleet
and more accurate data
Scope 2 emissions (Market-based) (MTCO e) Total 7,451 935 1,247 865 related to fleet emissions.
2
As our fleet expands,
we continue to make
Total Scope 1 & Scope 2 emissions (Market-based) (MTCO e) 12,226 7,306 9,309 10,216
2 progress towards our goal
of converting vehicles to
hybrids and EVs.
Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based emissions intensity (Emissions/$1M revenue) 5.7 2.4 2.7 2.8
Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based emissions intensity (Emissions/1K square foot) 20.4 8.9 9.1 10.8
Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based emissions intensity (Emissions/employee) 8.4 3.5 4.0 4.0
17Some total figures may not add up due to rounding. Our GHG Inventory was developed in alignment with the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 35
Environmental Impact Reduction at our Facilities
Our owned facilities—representing a little more than 70% of our total square footage—are both a large
source of operational emissions and a big opportunity to reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. We own
one manufacturing facility in Yverdon-les-Bains, Switzerland and three office and research buildings at our
Global Headquarters in Wilmington, Delaware (1709, 1801 and 1815). All other facilities are leased.18
In the U.S., we use the Green Building Initiative’s (GBI)19 Green Globes assessment and certification standard to
inform our impact reduction efforts. As of December 31, 2023, we’ve certified two of our three owned buildings.
Green Globes Certification for Building 1815
With more than 150,000 square feet of office space and a number
of recent advanced building efficiency features, Building 1815
achieved Green Globes certification in 2021, making it the first
building ever certified through the GBI’s Green Globes for Existing
Buildings 2021 pilot program. The building achieved 3 out of 4
possible Green Globes for demonstrating outstanding resource
efficiency, reducing environmental impacts and fostering
occupant health and wellness.
18 On May 21, 2024, we announced the expansion of our presence in Delaware with the acquisition of two additional buildings. For more
information, view the press release.
19 An international nonprofit organization, GBI evaluates building efficiency related to electricity, waste, water and other features.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 36
Energy ELECTRICITY FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES
Our efforts to reduce emissions center on enhancing energy efficiency, increasing renewable energy use and
transitioning our fleet to hybrid and electric vehicles. Since a significant amount of our Scope 1 and Scope
2 emissions originate from our buildings, we prioritize reducing energy consumption and improving energy 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
efficiency at each of our sites.
% from grid-purchased electricity (non-renewable) 99% 95% 14% 15% 10%
At our Yverdon Bioplant, the energy management team—composed of individuals from Engineering and
EHS, among other stakeholders—monitors energy consumption to identify and correct anomalies while
% from grid-purchased electricity matched with RECs 0% 0% 69% 66% 71%
also highlighting efficiency improvement opportunities. In the U.S., starting in 2024, our Facilities team will
conduct quarterly reviews for electricity, natural gas and water usage to identify areas for improvement.
% from on-site solar electricity 0% 0% 0% 2% 2%
Renewable Energy
% from utility-provided 100% renewable electricity 1% 5% 17% 17% 17%
We strive to use renewable energy wherever possible. Our European Headquarters and Yverdon BioPlant,
both located in Switzerland, are fully powered by hydroelectric power and onsite solar installations. Due to
space constraints, we’re unable to install a significant renewable energy source at our Global Headquarters
in Wilmington, Delaware. Instead, since 2021, we’ve purchased Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) to match
100% of our Headquarters’ electricity use with off-site renewable resources. We also work with energy
providers to source renewable energy for our operations where possible.
ENERGY CONSUMPTION – BUILDINGS ONLY20
As part of our renewable energy programs, we either
2019 2021 2022 2023
purchase RECs or directly source renewable energy for
more than 80% of our leased and owned square footage. Total Energy Consumed (Fuels and Electricity) (GJ) 144,333 159,939 189,048 168,396
% Energy Renewable Biomass 0% 0% 0% 0%
% Energy Natural Gas 41% 50% 51% 47%
% Energy Propane 0% 0% 0% 0%
% Energy Petroleum Products (Diesel, Heavy Oil, Gasoline) 0.1% 0.3% 0.2% 0.2%
% Electricity 59% 49% 48% 53%
20Some total figures may not add up due to rounding. Total energy consumed includes onsite solar installations at our Switzerland Building Energy Intensity (Energy use/1k sq. Foot) 228.8 184.5 175.9 168.2
facilities. It excludes energy consumed by Global Fleet and energy consumed for EV charging.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 37
Scope 3 Emissions21 Employee-Driven Green Initiatives
Complementing our corporate environmental programs, our employees contribute critical insights and propose solutions to
further reduce our environmental impact. Greencyte, our global employee Green Team, fosters a culture of stewardship by
METRIC TONS 2019 2021 2022 2023 raising awareness of important environmental issues through engaging internal programming throughout the year. Formed
in 2019, Greencyte works to set goals, solicit employee ideas, make recommendations and highlight opportunities to reduce
Category 3: Fuel- and Energy-Related Activities 2,906 2,959 3,569 3,830
our environmental impact.
Category 5: Waste Generated in Operations 253 207 405 360
We encourage our employees to experiment with process improvements for impact reduction. In 2023, our employees
Category 6: Business Travel22 4,006 1,058 3,243 4,54923
augmented our laboratory recycling program with a closed-loop recycling process for pipette tip boxes and nitrile gloves. This
Category 7: Employee Commuting24 NA NA 3,700 4,185
initiative—which recycles plastics, allowing them to be remanufactured into laboratory products—led to over 250 pounds of
Scope 3: Total Categories 3, 5, 6, 7 7,165 4,224 10,917 12,924 avoided waste in its first six months. Employees also suggested improvements for recycling large lab plastics, leading to the
implementation of a new process with the addition of shared recycling receptacles.
Outside of our workplace, our employees partnered with the Delaware Center for Horticulture and City Forest Credits to
complete an Impact Project, addressing community health by planting 100 trees in local parks in underserved neighborhoods.
The two projects not only help filter out traffic noise and industrial pollutants, but will replace trees lost to disease and pests,
While we recognize we have more work to do to limit Scope 3 emissions, we’ve already made it easier for our
creating green spaces for communities with limited access to public services and gathering spaces.
employees to reduce their commuting-related emissions. In 2023, at our Global Headquarters, 90 EV charging ports
provided over 330 MWh of electricity to charge employee vehicles—a more than 90% increase in electricity used for
Emissions Offsets
charging over 2022. The energy used for charging is free to employees and covered by our REC purchases—further
Each year, after calculating our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory for the previous year, we purchase carbon credits
exemplifying our efforts to reduce our emissions and those of our employees. Outside of the U.S., we also offer EV
to meet our carbon neutrality target. Through these investments, we’ve offset 100% of our calculated Scope 1 and Scope 2
charging for employees—for example, in Switzerland, we have a total of 16 renewable-powered EV charging ports
emissions from 2019–2022. While we continue to drive progress toward reducing our direct emissions, in 2024 we plan to
between our Yverdon BioPlant and European Headquarters. A separate initiative at our European Headquarters to
purchase carbon credits once again to offset 2023 emissions.
promote the use of locally accessible public transportation has led to a 20% reduction in the number of employees
commuting by car since its launch.
One of our strategies is to offset our hard to avoid emissions and contribute to ecosystem resilience is through reforestation.
In 2023, we partnered with Arbor Day Carbon to offset our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from 2022 by purchasing carbon
credits from the GreenTrees® Reforestation Program. This reforestation and afforestation program in the Mississippi Alluvial
Valley and Virginia is the largest verified reforestation carbon credit program in the U.S.
21 Some total figures may not add up due to rounding. Our GHG Inventory was developed in alignment with the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard.
22 2019-2022 represents global air travel only. 2023 values include global air, rail, and rental car travel.
23 Incyte’s business air travel emissions are estimated using emission factors published by the EPA’s Corporate Climate Leaders. The EPA cites Air Travel factors from 2022 Guidelines to Defra / DECC’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting (Version 2.0 June 2022). EPA cites the 2022 Release (based on 2018
activity data) rather than DEFRA’s 2023 release, because the 2023 update includes significantly reduced load factors caused by COVID-19. The EPA believes that DEFRA’s 2022 emissions factors more accurately reflect the current state of business travel.
24 We began to track this data starting in 2022, so no data is available for previous years.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 38
Water Conservation
Incyte is committed to monitoring and reducing water use. At our Global Headquarters, we’ve installed water presence
sensors in high-traffic areas to reduce use and detect leaks. All new and renovated spaces at our Global Headquarters are
also outfitted with motion- and presence-sensor faucets to facilitate more efficient water use. To manage stormwater, the
site uses bio-retention features such as underground detention tanks and porous pavers and asphalt. Green roofs, another
aspect of our storm water management strategy, are used in both our Global Headquarters and our Yverdon Bioplant.
At our Global Headquarters, we hold a “no exposure certification”—
indicating that, as verified by local authorities, our storm water
management systems cause no harm to the environment.
We comply with all local regulations regarding wastewater permitting and handling, and in 2023, there were no instances
of non-compliance associated with our water permits. To ensure proper management of chemicals and hazardous waste,
all employees and contractors involved in chemical or biological waste handling receive annual training to prevent residue
from entering the environment. Additionally, our U.S. research buildings undergo quarterly wastewater sampling and
annual inspections by local officials to verify our compliance.
Although we do not have Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API) production plants, we rely on third-party manufacturers
for API production. The third parties we engage are expected to adhere to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics,
holding them accountable to act in ways that respect and protect the environment.
We use the World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct Water
WATER METRICS25 2019 2021 2022 2023 Risk Atlas Tool26 to evaluate our operations and identify sites
located in regions of high or extremely high baseline water
Water Usage (megaliter) 97 134 164 146
stress. As of February 2024, approximately 1% of our total
square footage is situated in such areas. While we don’t own
these sites, we aim to reduce water use where feasible.
25This table only includes reported data, which represents approximately 81%, 77%, 91%, and 93% of Incyte’s global building square footage in 2019, 2021,
2022, and 2023 respectively. Metrics include leased and owned facilities.
26WRI Aqueduct, accessed on February 12, 2024.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 39
Waste Management Waste Metrics (Metric Tons)27
We are dedicated to reducing our waste and managing it responsibly, in accordance with all applicable regulations.
We minimize raw material use and find innovative ways to repurpose waste to avoid final disposal.
METRIC 2019 2021 2022 2023
Total waste generated 663 633 1,136 1,107
In 2023, all Incyte-owned facilities, along with approximately
75% of our leased facilities by square footage, have achieved
Total waste recycled 326 287 378 427
landfill-free status, including our manufacturing facility.
Hazardous waste28
Incyte collaborates closely with our waste vendors and our employees to identify opportunities for waste reduction Total hazardous waste 99 122 465 386
and pollution prevention at our facilities. One example of waste reduction is the Chemical Inventory Program at our U.S.
Headquarters, a strategy where researchers, laboratories and departments can effectively share chemicals and thus Total hazardous waste incinerated with
75% 75% 92% 83%
energy recovery
reduce costs, wait times for chemical orders and waste generation. We also encourage recycling where possible. For
instance, our European Headquarters features a robust waste management process, encompassing the collection, sorting
Total hazardous waste incinerated 25% 25% 8% 17%
and recycling of 17 different types of materials.
Non-hazardous waste
Our waste reduction efforts prioritize landfill-free practices for both non-hazardous and hazardous waste. Non-hazardous
waste is directed to a landfill-free waste and recycling facility, where it is converted into energy. All hazardous waste
is recycled, reused, fuel-blended or otherwise disposed of at a disposal facility overseen by regulatory authorities. At our Total non-hazardous waste 563 510 671 721
Global Headquarters in Delaware, our hazardous waste management process adheres to Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) regulations. Total non-hazardous waste landfilled 23% 0% 0% 0%
Although we lack production facilities in the U.S., our Global Headquarters houses laboratories where hazardous waste
Total non-hazardous waste recycled 58% 56% 56% 59%
training is provided—upon hiring and annually thereafter—to all individuals handling chemicals and hazardous waste.
Our lab employees and Facilities and EHS teams also discuss waste management as necessary during regular group
Total non-hazardous waste incinerated with
19% 44% 43% 41%
safety meetings. energy recovery
These initiatives enable us to safely divert materials for reuse, recovery or recycling. We continually encourage employees Total non-hazardous waste incinerated 0.2% 0.1% 0.3% 0.1%
to work with the EHS team to identify opportunities to improve our environmental stewardship.
27 This table only includes reported data, which represents approximately 81%, 77%, 91%, and 93% of Incyte’s global building square footage in 2019, 2021, 2022, and 2023 respectively. Metrics include leased and owned facilities.
28 Special waste and infectious waste are classified as Hazardous Waste.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 40
GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Strong ethics and good governance are fundamental to building long-term value for our shareholders and creating positive impacts for our patients, colleagues, community and
environment. Our Board of Directors sets high standards, guides our business strategy and, as our highest level of oversight, ensures we practice good governance.
Corporate Governance
We believe engaged directors with diverse backgrounds are critical for effective oversight. Our Board members bring a wealth of scientific knowledge, extensive industry expertise and a profound sense of integrity to our business. They’re
successful, experienced individuals who understand our business and have the skills to foster long-term success. To ensure Incyte has the right Board composition at the right time, we regularly assess our Board of Directors to maintain a
diverse mix of perspectives, backgrounds and experience and a complementary balance of new, mid-term and tenured members.
Board Expertise
EXPERTISE Hoppenot Baker Bienaime Brawley Clancy Fouse Harrigan High Schaffert
Biopharma Industry
Operational Leadership
International
Drug Discovery, Development & Regulatory
Commercial
Financial
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 41
Board Diversity DIVERSITY
Diversity is an important consideration in the nomination and selection process for our directors. Incyte’s
Board is committed to identifying and evaluating highly qualified candidates who bring different perspectives
and ideas, including those with diverse backgrounds and ethnicities. As of year-end 2023, our Board included
three directors who were born in Europe, one director who self-identifies as Black/African American, one
director who self-identifies as LGBTQ+ and three directors who self-identify as women.
56% 11%
As a recognized 2023 Champion of Board Diversity by the Forum of Executive Women for the 3rd
consecutive year, we’re proud to highlight that 33% of our Board seats are held by individuals who self-
identify as women. Holds PH.D or M.D. LGBTQ+ (1)
89% 11%
Independence Ethnic or Racially Diverse (1)
44% 33%
Board Refreshment Birthplace in Europe (3)
4 of 9 33%
nominees elected Women (3)
in last 5 years
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 42
ESG Oversight Incyte’s Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) oversees our Animal
Care and Use Program. Our designated Institutional Official is our Group Vice
Incyte’s CEO and Executive Team drive our global responsibility initiatives at
Incentivizing ESG Performance the management level, providing updates on set objectives to the entire Board President of Translational Sciences, who is appointed by our Executive Team’s
President and Head of Research and Development. Our program has been accredited
of Directors twice per year. The Executive Team also provides updates to the
In 2022, the Compensation Committee tied our annual
by AAALAC International since 2015. We train applicable staff and contractors
various Board committees responsible for specific aspects of our ESG program.
incentive cash bonus program directly to the achievement
annually on Incyte’s animal welfare program requirements and standards.
of three ESG targets related to recruitment of diverse
Risk Management
talent, reduction of single-use plastics and a green building Emerging Technologies
While the responsibility for monitoring and mitigating risk rests with
certification at our Headquarters. Based on the success of
Incyte carries out all research in compliance with established regulatory and
management, the Board receives regular updates on risk reports and insights.
this initiative, in 2023, we tied 3% of our bonus program to
industry guidelines on the safe and ethical use of emerging technologies (e.g.,
The Board and its committees oversee the process of properly identifying,
three new targets:
cell therapies, nanotechnology, genetic engineering or artificial intelligence) and
assessing and mitigating risks in conjunction with executive management.
1. Develop a global emissions reduction and mitigation we expect our external partners to do the same.
plan to achieve our corporate operational carbon Our risk management oversight process includes reviews of long-term
neutrality goal by 2025 — Completed While our current in-house R&D efforts do not include the development of
strategic and operational planning, executive evaluation, development and
agents that directly apply such technologies as human therapeutics, we do use
2. Encourage at least 15% of global employees to use succession planning, regulatory and legal compliance and financial reporting
some of these technologies as tools in our research. Through our partnership
their paid volunteer day to participate in community and internal controls.
volunteer activities — Exceeded target, with 34% of with Cellenkos—announced in late 2020—we’re using cord blood-derived cells to
employees using their volunteer days investigate the combination of ruxolitinib and CK0804 (Cellenkos’ cryopreserved
Responsible Research and Development
CXCR4 enriched, allogeneic, umbilical cord blood-derived T-regulatory cells) in
3. Achieve a minimum rate of at least one diverse (Black or
At Incyte, we recognize the great responsibility we have to our patients, patients with myelofibrosis (MF).
Hispanic) applicant in 75% of open positions in the U.S. —
colleagues and shareholders, as well as the biomedical research community.
Exceeded target, with 80% of open positions in the U.S.
having at least one Black or Hispanic applicant Our commitment to high ethical standards and strict compliance ensures the The 3R Principles
integrity of our research contributing to improved scientific outcomes. The 3R principles—Replacement, Reduction and Refinement—provide an ethical
We achieved our 2023 ESG goals, and added four new goals framework for improving the welfare of animals used in research. For over 60
Animal Welfare
for 2024: years, these principles have driven innovations in biomedical research practices
The responsible and humane treatment of research animals is more than a legal around the world, from the development of more humane methodologies
1. Reduce U.S. Buildings’ water consumption by 10%
and moral obligation—it’s critical to ensuring the quality and integrity of our and better animal housing and husbandry to the exploration and adoption
from 2023
research. In all studies using animals, both internally and at third party institutions, of alternatives to animal research. At Incyte, we encourage employees to
2. Decrease paper usage globally by 15% over 2023 we’re committed to acting ethically and responsibly—in strict compliance with continually advance the 3Rs. In 2023, we collected submissions for our 5th
all federal, state and local regulations and in conformance with the performance Annual 3Rs Awards—where employees share innovations in research that
3. Increase LinkedIn Learning global engagement from
standards set forth in the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals. directly address these principles. The award recipients were honored with cash
28% to 55% total viewers
prizes and plaques during an award presentation event in early 2024. At this
4. Increase the proportion of Black and Hispanic job
event, award recipients gave oral presentations about their work, educating
applicants who advance to the initial interview stage
colleagues about their innovations.
to 10% in 2024
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 43
Ethics and Compliance Program
Incyte has a comprehensive Compliance Program that enables us to maintain easily accessible written standards, provide ongoing education and training,
conduct risk assessments, monitor activities and maintain and enforce corrective action procedures. The program, which follows the Seven Elements of
an Effective Compliance Program, is routinely reviewed by our global and regional compliance committees. We regularly enhance our program to meet
evolving compliance standards and needs.
Code of Conduct
To ensure we conduct business with honesty and integrity, we outline our expectations for employee interactions and daily conduct in our Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics. We also adopted a Senior Financial Officers’ Code of Ethics to define conduct expectations for our Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer, Corporate Controller and others tasked with financial reporting.
Board Oversight
Our commitment to ethics and compliance starts at the top. The Audit and Finance Board Committee oversees our Compliance Program to facilitate
compliance with the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, its underlying policies and any relevant laws and regulations.
The Committee oversees adherence to applicable laws and regulations, as well as compliance with the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that guides
Compliance and Ethics Week
Incyte’s actions whenever and wherever we conduct business. Incyte’s Chief Compliance Officer updates the Audit and Finance Board Committee at least
This year marked our 11th annual
twice per year.
celebration of Compliance and Ethics
Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery
Week, an event designed to educate and
Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics makes clear that we prohibit all forms of bribery and corruption. Our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC)
empower employees in championing
policy defines bribery as directly or indirectly providing, offering or promising to provide anything of value to an individual, knowing it is for the purpose of
improperly influencing, inducing or otherwise affecting an official act or decision. This includes commercial bribery as well as bribery of government officials. ethical and responsible business practices
within their roles. Through regional events
To prevent potential misconduct across our business, our ABAC program establishes clear rules and processes for all Incyte employees. We use six
and our e-learning system, employees
principles to prevent corruption and bribery:
received refresher training, while the
1. We only engage in legitimate transactions 4. We take ownership and responsibility
launch of a Compliance & Ethics video
2. We always know our business partners 5. We keep complete and accurate records
series featured business stakeholders
3. We only make appropriate expenditures 6. We follow laws and established guidelines sharing how they partner with
Compliance to manage risk across their
The third parties with which we do business are held to the same high standards to which we hold ourselves. This includes the expectation to comply
respective activities.
with ABAC laws and all other applicable laws and regulations. We conduct due diligence on certain third parties to assess and mitigate the potential risk
of bribery and corruption.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 44
Ethics and Compliance Training and Resources During training, employees receive reinforcement about our compliance reporting Auditing, Monitoring and Taking Action
procedures and our non-retaliation policy, which are also accessible via
To support ethical behavior across the organization, we actively communicate Our reporting and investigation process ensures we receive and review
mobile apps. All of our employees—no matter their level—are encouraged and
our expectations to our employees. We regularly train employees on ethics and submitted Compliance Helpline concerns appropriately and promptly. We
empowered to raise questions or concerns to their manager, the Compliance
compliance policies and procedures, as well as legal obligations under applicable regularly monitor, audit and evaluate compliance with our policies and
Department, Legal Department, Human Resources, the Audit Committee of
government healthcare program requirements. Employees receive Code of procedures. In the event of a violation of the law or of company policy, we
the Board or through our Compliance Helpline, which allows for anonymous
Business Conduct and Ethics training and ABAC training when they join the maintain a Reporting and Investigating Allegations of Non-Compliance Policy to
reporting where permitted by law.
company and complete an annual training thereafter. We’re proud that in 2023, address inappropriate conduct and deter potential future violations.
100% of Incyte employees who were assigned training completed it successfully.
Compliance Helpline
The policy also requires us to respond promptly to potential violations of law or
As part of our commitment to fostering a speak-up culture and open
Through ongoing Compliance newsletters and annual Corporate Compliance and company policy, take appropriate disciplinary action and identify opportunities to
communication, our Compliance Helpline is a confidential, convenient tool to
Ethics Week events, we maintain employee awareness about ABAC and the Code enhance policies, training and internal controls to prevent future violations.
encourage individuals to speak up any time.
of Business Conduct and Ethics and highlight opportunities for additional training.
Political Involvement
We also auto-install our Global Compliance application on all company-issued cell
Incyte employees and external parties may report compliance concerns or
phones to give employees easy access to important resources and contacts. While we encourage our employees to participate in the democratic process,
instances of misconduct through our Ethicspoint website or country-specific
we outline our expectations for involvement in our U.S. Political Activity Policy,
Ethics and Compliance Reporting Compliance Helpline phone numbers listed on our website and our company
as well as in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. These policies set forth
intranet site. Operated by a third party vendor, the helpline is accessible 24 hours
We think it’s critical for employees to freely speak up with any questions and strict guidance, including:
a day, 7 days a week and 365 days a year and—where permitted by local law—
concerns they may have. We maintain an open-door policy, as well as policies
• The company will not reimburse individuals for political contributions
provides the option to report anonymously.
that protect confidentiality and non-retaliation for reports made in good faith.
• Colleagues in managerial positions are expressly prohibited from soliciting
donations from those in subordinate roles
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 45
Human Rights Supply Chain Cybersecurity and Data Privacy
At the core of Incyte’s purpose to find solutions for patients with unmet It’s critical that our business partners share our values and operate in a We honor the relationships we’ve built with patients, healthcare professionals,
needs lies a deep respect for the fundamental rights and freedoms of human responsible and ethical manner. We expect our partners and third parties such caregivers, consumers, employees and business partners by mitigating
beings everywhere. Our Human Rights Statement defines our commitment to as service providers, suppliers and subcontractors to comply with all applicable information security risks, safeguarding data and being transparent about how
upholding human rights across our operations in line with the United Nation’s laws and regulations of the countries, states and localities where they operate we collect, use, share, transfer and retain personal information. To learn more
(U.N.) International Bill of Human Rights, the U.N.’s Universal Declaration of and to uphold the standards and expectations reflected in our Code of Business about our data privacy practices, read our Privacy Policy.
Human Rights, the U.N.’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Conduct and Ethics.
Cybersecurity Program
and the International Labor Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental
Supplier Audits
Principles and Rights at Work. It outlines our prohibition of child and forced Incyte maintains a robust cybersecurity program overseen by our Audit
labor, our commitment to workplace security and anti-harassment, freedom We verify our partners and third parties (service providers, suppliers and and Finance Board Committee. We implement comprehensive threat and
of association and our dedication to maintaining safe, healthy workplaces to subcontractors) through a formal vetting process. The process consists of: vulnerability analysis and management practices using the National Institute of
protect our employees and the environment. This commitment guides the way Standards and Technology (NIST) Cyber Security Framework.
1. Initial due diligence
we work and the way we engage with our suppliers.
Our Cybersecurity program uses technical and administrative safeguards,
2. Qualification based on applicable regulatory requirements and our Quality including cybersecurity monitoring and penetration testing, vulnerability
Ethical Marketing Management System (QMS) assessments and remediation and audits with rotating third parties every six
To ensure practitioners and patients can make fact-based treatment decisions, months. Incyte also uses end-to-end security tools, cloud security and protection
3. Routine evaluation of compliance on an ongoing basis
Incyte is committed to making accurate claims about our products, services mechanisms for patient data and intellectual property and conducts privacy
and capabilities, and to marketing and selling our products and services with and cybersecurity assessments for our business partners. There have been no
Our QMS is a collection of the business processes, resources, procedures and
honesty, integrity and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. We reportable cybersecurity breaches in the past three years.
practices needed to create high-quality solutions. We use an electronic system
apply the following requirements to promotional interactions with healthcare
to manage suppliers, deviations, change controls, product complaints and spot Cybersecurity Awareness
professionals:
opportunities for continuous improvement. All Incyte suppliers that manufacture,
To build cybersecurity readiness and awareness among our colleagues, we
1. Must be consistent with the approved labeling/product Prescribing test, store, package and distribute our products are required to train on GMP provide mandatory cybersecurity training during orientation and additional
Information and discuss only approved products and indications procedures. Product suppliers are required to perform general GMP training at training and refresher modules on an ongoing basis and during our annual
least once per year.
Cybersecurity Awareness Month. We also conduct periodic phishing simulation
2. Must be truthful, non-misleading and fairly balanced in presenting an Incyte
exercises to test and hone our response to adverse events. In the event of a
product’s benefits and risks In accordance with our QMS, we conduct routine supplier audits, the frequency
failed phish test, employees must undertake additional training.
of which is based on the risk rating of each supplier. Suppliers rated as “high
3. Promotional materials used must be accurate, substantiated, scientifically risk” are audited every year, suppliers rated as “medium risk” are audited every
In 2023, 100% of our employees and contractors completed cybersecurity
rigorous and consistent with applicable legal and regulatory standards two years and suppliers rated as “low risk” are audited every three years.
best practices training and refresher modules and were tested using phishing
simulation campaigns.
Transparency These risk ratings take into account the outcome of our previous audits and the
supplier’s track record of inspections by health authorities (i.e., FDA, EMA, etc.),
We have policies, procedures and controls in place to comply with the Physician
as well as the type of services provided, our ability to find an alternate supplier
Payment Sunshine Act in the U.S., the Loi Bertrand in France and all applicable
and any significant events that may pose a risk to Incyte.
laws regarding disclosure of transfers of value to healthcare professionals.
We’re a member of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America
(PhRMA) and several equivalent national industry trade associations in Europe.
We remain committed to maintaining policies and procedures that foster
compliance with the PhRMA Code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals
and their Direct-to-Consumer Advertising Principles.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 46
APPENDIX
UN SDGs The Board, with support from its Audit and Finance Committee, oversees the as reducing its own environmental footprint, including emissions, water use
company’s enterprise risk assessment and management practices, including with and waste. Site management is responsible for mitigation efforts including
The 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set
respect to financial, operating, and cybersecurity and other information technology emergency response plans, which address potential natural disasters and
out a framework for achieving global peace and prosperity. As
risks. Within these risks, climate-related risks are implicitly considered. weather-related events that could increase due to climate change.
a company that works continuously to deliver novel solutions
for patients with unmet medical needs, our business most
In addition, the Compensation Committee of the Board considers climate change As we develop our climate risk assessment process in line with TCFD guidance,
meaningfully contributes to SDG 3: Good Health and Well-Being. Our pursuit of
when overseeing executive compensation. A percentage of variable compensation we aim to integrate it into our enterprise risk management framework across
new scientific discoveries, diverse expertise and unique discovery approach foster
is tied to the company’s climate initiatives through the Annual Incentive the business.
innovation and help us meaningfully impact the lives of our patients.
Compensation Plan, including developing a global greenhouse gas mitigation and
Strategy
TCFD reduction plan to continue to reduce our environmental impact. By tying annual
ESG targets to compensation, we hope to incentivize our Executive Team and At Incyte we have a well-established strategy to continue finding solutions for
Climate change is a global threat that has the potential to impact our business
employees to contribute to meaningful progress and reinforce the importance of serious unmet medical needs.
over time. We aim to better understand these potential impacts, and in doing so,
these targets.
report our progress against the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-
To ensure we position ourselves to achieve our business strategy over the long
related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We have focused efforts on identifying our
Management Oversight term, we identify and assess the climate-related risks and opportunities which may
climate-related risks and opportunities over the short, medium, and long-term,
Given our global structure, responsibility for managing Incyte’s climate-related impact our business over time. Following TCFD-aligned guidance, we have considered
and have begun assessing and managing the associated impacts these risks and
risks and opportunities is delegated to a range of different teams and individuals both transition risks (those associated with the transition to a decarbonized
opportunities may have on the longevity of our business strategy and financial
throughout the business. economy), and physical risks (those associated with the physical impact of climate
planning. We aim to continuously improve our TCFD reporting each year as we
change). Over time we plan to enhance the climate risk assessment process by
further integrate best practices and evolving guidance into our existing processes.
Incyte’s CEO and Executive Team drive our global responsibility initiatives at the considering climate scenario analysis to review the resiliency of our business
management level, including metrics and targets which aim to manage climate- strategy and operations across different scenarios and time horizons.
Governance
related risks and reduce our environmental footprint.
Board-level Oversight
Our risk assessment process primarily focuses on short- and medium-term
Our Board of Directors oversees Incyte’s climate strategy. The Board is responsible
The Senior Manager of ESG Reporting and Sustainability coordinates work risks. We currently define our risk horizons as:
for reviewing the Company’s strategic plans, future capital expenditures, and
across the business to facilitate the identification of climate-related risks and • Short-term: 0-1 year
operating budgets, as well as for ensuring these plans consider the risks and
opportunities. Information is collected through an engagement process with • Medium-term: 1-3 years
uncertainties that could impact our strategy or financial results. The Board also
internal stakeholders representing core functions of the business to inform • Long-term: 3+ years
oversees our ESG strategy, which includes targets and initiatives that aim to
climate-related risks and opportunities.
mitigate climate-related risks and capitalize on opportunities. The Board is updated
As we improve our understanding, we aim to integrate climate considerations
on Incyte’s global responsibility initiatives by the Executive Team twice a year and
Each location is largely responsible for managing the potential risks and into our strategic decision making and financial planning to reduce the impact of
may receive updates on climate-related issues on an ad hoc basis.
opportunities associated with its operations and geographic location, as well climate-related risks and capitalize on climate-related opportunities.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 47
Climate-related Transition Risks and Impacts
Risk Type Climate-related Risk Risk Impact Mitigation
Policy and Legal Enhanced reporting Expenditures - Increased operating expenditures and increased compliance costs We have invested in establishing internal ESG expertise, and work with
obligations due to climate external consultants to facilitate compliance with current and emerging
Enhanced regulation associated with climate change in the U.S., EU and other markets will increase
change regulations. We voluntarily publish our Global Responsibility Report and
reporting requirements for Incyte over time. Operating costs are likely to increase as we dedicate
work to incorporate internationally aligned frameworks such as TCFD
resources to developing robust data collection, risk management and governance processes to ensure
into our disclosures to establish processes required for future mandated
compliance with evolving regulatory standards.
reporting.
If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may face non-compliance or late filing
In anticipation of future regulations, we conducted an internal analysis
fees or be subject to other governmental enforcement activity.
to identify areas where there are opportunities to improve our data
We recognize that with enhanced reporting comes increased scrutiny. Overcommunication and/or collection processes.
miscommunication of information could potentially lead to competitive threats or lawsuits.
Increasing cost of carbon Expenditures - Increased direct and indirect costs Our offsets are a part of our larger corporate environmental targets.
We have also implemented initiatives to reduce our absolute emissions,
As the world transitions to a decarbonized economy and companies set carbon neutrality goals, the
which will minimize the impact of risks related to carbon pricing over
price of carbon is likely to increase. This will result in increased direct costs as we aim to achieve our
time. We maintain an approved energy efficiency plan with the Swiss
key environmental target to be operationally carbon neutral by 2025 by purchasing carbon offsets for
Federal Office on the Environment (FOEN) to reduce our footprint, which
our scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions. We have invested over $1M in carbon credits to date to offset 100%
exempts us from current carbon taxes.
of our calculated Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in 2019-2022. Costs have already more than doubled in
three years, with prices expected to continue to rise over time.
In addition, as governments aim to meet reduction targets, carbon taxes are expected to be rolled out
to additional sectors and markets over time. Incyte is currently captured by the Swiss carbon tax for
Scope 1 emissions which would increase direct costs for the business.
Mandates on and regulation of Expenditures - Increased direct costs We monitor emerging environmental regulations which may impact
existing products and services our operations and markets. We remain committed to minimizing our
Environmental regulation regarding products and packaging is likely to increase over time, which may
environmental footprint as we focus our efforts on reducing the impact of
require Incyte to explore alternative sustainable packaging or material options. Such materials are likely
our operations and products.
to be higher cost than their non-sustainable alternatives as demand increases, resulting in further
costs to the business. Not complying with emerging regulations may result in taxes or fines for the
business, as well as restraints on selling our products into key markets.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 48
Climate-related Transition Risks and Impacts
Risk Type Climate-related Risk Risk Impact Mitigation
Reputation Increased stakeholder Capital - Decreased access to capital; Expenditures - Increased operating costs to upskill and develop We engage with our stakeholders regularly, ensuring concerns and
concern or negative resources/work with consultants or contractors needs are considered in the development of our products, as well as
stakeholder feedback our operations. Our annual ESG goals hold us accountable for continued
Our stakeholders may have increased interest in our sustainability credentials as the importance
performance. We also publish an annual Global Responsibility Report
of ESG grows. An actual or perceived lack of action to reduce our overall carbon footprint could
to transparently communicate our sustainability credentials to our
negatively impact investor sentiment. This could potentially limit our access to capital, as the focus on
stakeholders.
environmental impacts, climate change and net zero targets increases.
In addition, we depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and the loss
of key employees or our inability to attract and retain additional personnel would affect our ability
to expand our drug discovery and development programs and achieve our objectives. Negative
environmental impacts or an absence of a robust ESG program could impact our ability to attract and
retain future key talent.
Market Increased cost and disruption Expenditures - Increased operating expenditures We mitigate risks to our procurement processes by establishing safety
to raw materials stock and business continuity plans for products to help manage risk
Climate change could cause or potentially exacerbate supply disruptions, resulting in increased costs
from single source suppliers.
for raw materials or unexpected shortages in availability. Our third-party manufacturers require access
to certain supplies and products to manufacture our products and drug candidates. If supply delivery
is interrupted or if manufacturers are unable to purchase sufficient quantities of raw materials, this
poses a risk to our business.
Market shifts due to climate change could also cause increased operational costs leading to
uncertainty around pricing for our current and future products.
Changing customer Revenue - Decreased revenue due to a reduced demand for products and services We engage with partners and customers regularly, monitoring concerns
preferences and trends. Our Global Responsibility Report transparently communicates
As sustainability grows in importance, customer preferences may begin to favor more sustainable
our sustainability credentials to our stakeholders, including customers.
alternative products and services. If Incyte does not remain on top of changing customer trends, our
position in the market, revenue and profitability may be at risk. If Incyte’s sustainability strategy and
targets are not aligned with those of key partners, competitors and/or large governmental organizations,
our ability to remain competitive in the market may be impacted.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 49
Climate-related Transition Risks and Impacts
Risk Type Climate-related Risk Risk Impact Mitigation
Market Increased cost of energy Expenditures - Increased operating / energy costs This risk will be managed as we continue to roll out energy efficiency
and onsite power generation across our operations. At our sites in
Climate change is likely to result in increased energy costs over time as the world shifts to
Switzerland, we have onsite solar installations to generate some of
renewables. This will likely exacerbate the impact of rising energy costs, especially those associated
our own electricity. In 2023, solar panels generated ~9% of electricity
with geopolitical events, resulting in increased operating costs for businesses.
consumed by our Yverdon BioPlant and ~7% of electricity consumed by
As we aim to meet our emissions goals, our efforts are focused on sourcing renewable energy across our Morges office.
our operations. Since the start of 2020, shifting to renewable energy has increased our energy costs by
approximately 5%.
Technology Cost to transition to low Expenditures - Increased capital expenditures The upfront costs associated with upgrading technology and buildings to
carbon technology be more efficient will partly be mitigated by the payback associated with
Decarbonizing our operations and achieving our targets requires investment in innovative and
decreased operating costs as energy usage decreases and efficiencies
potentially costly technology solutions across all our operations.
increase.
We have already dedicated capital to lower carbon technology across our operations, including by
installing HVAC system upgrades and LED lighting conversion for improved building efficiency. Our
new R&D facility in Delaware incorporates state-of-the-art technology and functionality to limit our
environmental impact, including smart lighting systems and 50 EV charging ports to promote lower-
emissions commuting. Water for site irrigation is also partially sourced from an onsite rainwater
collection system.
Our sites include several features to optimize energy efficiency, including solar panels at our BioPlant
and European headquarters. To meet ambitious carbon reduction targets, we may be required to
continue to invest in lower carbon technology across our operations over time.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 50
Climate-related Physical Risks and Impacts
Type Climate-related Risk Risk Impact Mitigation
Acute Increased severity and Expenditures – Increased direct and indirect costs
frequency of flooding
It is likely that flooding may increase in severity and frequency due to climate change. This may potentially
disrupt our business as we could face direct damage to assets, impacts on critical transportation routes
and pressure on sourcing materials which could increase costs associated with maintenance, supply chain
and customer delays. We aim to conduct detailed climate scenario analysis to determine
if acute physical climate-related risks could significantly impact our
operations. We have dedicated safety stock and business continuity plans
Increased frequency of Expenditures – Increased direct and indirect costs for products as well as global property insurance. Over time we may be
wildfires required to introduce additional site mitigation measures to reduce the
As climate change worsens, wildfires are likely to increase in frequency and severity over time due
risk of direct damage.
to increased droughts, heatwaves and other extreme weather conditions. This may potentially disrupt
our business as we could face direct damage to assets, impacts on critical transportation routes and
pressure on sourcing materials which could increase costs associated with maintenance, supply chain
and customer delays.
Chronic Rising mean temperatures Expenditures – Increased direct and indirect costs The upfront cost of increased energy usage will partly be mitigated by the
payback associated with decreased operating costs as we utilize onsite
As a result of climate change, rising global temperatures are expected to increase the frequency and
renewable energy and energy efficient technology across our operations.
severity of periods of extreme heat or heatwaves. Heatwaves may impact company operations as
productivity decreases and the risk of heat-related health issues amongst employees increases. An
increased demand for cooling is expected, as we aim to maintain optimal temperatures for employees,
technology and operations. This may result in increased energy usage, and therefore associated Scopes
1 and 2 carbon emissions, increasing operating costs for the business and reducing our ability to
reduce energy use in line with business goals and industry expectations. In addition, this may lead to
an increased risk of power outages due to pressure on the grid. Power outages at material sites could
result in major business disruptions which could harm our operations, future revenues and financial
condition and increase our costs and expenses.
Water stress Expenditures – Increased direct and indirect costs This is not deemed to be a material risk, given that our sites located in
projected high water stress regions are (1) few in number and (2) only utilize
As climate change worsens, it may result in a reduction in freshwater resources and an increase in water
water for employee use. Despite this, we are committed to monitoring
stressed areas. Where water is a material resource in both our direct operations and supply chain, this
and, where possible, reducing water use across our operations. We employ
may result in increased costs to the business or a disruption to operations as water costs and regulation
water presence sensors in high-use areas to reduce water use and detect
of restricted usage and reporting requirements increase.
leaks at facilities owned by us. We aim to conduct further detailed climate
scenario analysis to monitor changing trends.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 51
Climate-related Opportunities
Type Climate-related Opportunity Opportunity Impact Management
Energy resource Use of lower-emission sources of Expenditures – Reduced operating costs We have already capitalized on the use of lower-emissions
energy sources of energy across the business and continue to explore
By investing in emissions-lowering initiatives, including energy efficiency and onsite renewable
future opportunities for energy optimization.
energy generation technology, we can reduce our energy usage and reduce operating costs.
Resource Site rationalization Expenditures – Reduced operating costs In January 2022, we opened Building 1709 on our Wilmington,
efficiency Delaware campus. Doing so allowed us to consolidate our
By reviewing our site portfolio, we can reduce our physical footprint to reflect the needs of our
footprint and relocate U.S. employees who had previously
business while opening or relocating to more efficient buildings, resulting in a reduction in carbon
worked in two leased facilities.
emissions and operating costs.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 52
Risk Management
Our risk assessment processes allow us to evaluate and mitigate the potential risks to Incyte across various functions. Climate-related risks are
implicitly considered as a part of this process.
By following the recommendations of the TCFD, using industry research and engaging with internal stakeholders representing core business
functions, we identified eight transition risks and four physical risks. We first conducted an applicability review, mapping potential climate-
related risks to existing enterprise risks to identify which risks were appropriate for our business. Next, existing enterprise risks and input from
internal stakeholders helped inform the assessment of climate-related risks to understand their impact on business strategy and financial
planning. A data collection process was carried out and coordinated by the Senior Manager of ESG Reporting and Sustainability.
Currently, specific Incyte departments maintain business continuity or disaster recovery plans that assess and mitigate their own unique
risks. While this allows us to see the high-level and granular view of potential risks to the business, we are refining our enterprise-wide risk
assessment process.
We aim to continuously improve our climate risk assessment process by conducting detailed climate scenario analysis in the future and
working to integrate climate risks into our existing risk assessment processes.
Metrics and Targets
As leaders in biopharmaceutical innovation, we are committed to setting goals and pursuing solutions that minimize our environmental impact,
increase transparency and drive positive change as we work to improve the lives of the patients we serve. We use a range of environmental
metrics to measure our climate-related risks and our impact on the environment, including greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption,
water and waste.
We have set several targets to manage our climate-related risks, including our key environmental target to achieve and maintain operational
carbon neutrality by 2025 through reducing emissions and purchasing offsets. This holds us accountable for our day-to-day actions and requires
us to think critically about future investments and initiatives, as these have emissions implications and could impact our ability to achieve our
target. We also have a secondary target to fully transition our sales fleet to hybrid and electric vehicles by 2025.
To incentivize progress, ESG targets are tied to the annual incentive cash bonus program of our Executive Team and our employees. In 2023,
3% of the program was tied to three ESG targets, one of which aimed to reduce our environmental impact. We already achieved our carbon
neutrality target in 2019-2022 as well as the additional annual targets tied to compensation since 2022.
We recognize the need to continue to challenge ourselves to do more to reduce our emissions and mitigate potential risk. For more details about
our targets and compensation, see pages 30 & 42 and our Proxy Statement. For emissions and energy use metrics, see pages 34-37.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 53
SASB
Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accounting Metrics
Topic Accounting Metric Code Response
Discussion, by world region, of management process for ensuring quality and
Safety of Clinical Trial Participants HC-BP-210a.1 See Clinical Trials, page 15.
patient safety during clinical trials
Number of inspections related to clinical trial management and pharmacovigilance For FDA inspections:
that resulted in: (1) entity voluntary remediation or (2) regulatory or administrative HC-BP-210a.2 (1) 0
actions taken against the entity (2) 0
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with Incyte discloses information about material legal proceedings in our Annual Report on
HC-BP-210a.3
clinical trials in developing countries Form 10-K.
Description of actions and initiatives to promote access to health care products for
Access to Medicines HC-BP-240a.1 We do not currently disclose this information.
priority diseases and in priority countries as defined by the Access to Medicine Index
List of products on the WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal Products as part of its
HC-BP-240a.2 We do not currently disclose this information.
Prequalification of Medicines Programme (PQP)
Percentage change in: (1) weighted average list price and (2) weighted average net
Affordability & Pricing HC-BP-240b.2 We do not currently disclose this information.
price across product portfolio compared to previous reporting period
Percentage change in: (1) list price and (2) net price of product with largest increase
HC-BP-240b.3 We do not currently disclose this information.
compared to previous reporting period
Drug Safety Products listed in public medical product safety or adverse event alert databases HC-BP-250a.1 0 listed in FDA MedWatch.
Number of fatalities associated with products HC-BP-250a.2 We do not currently disclose this information.
(1) Number of recalls issued, (2) total units recalled HC-BP-250a.3 0; 0
Total amount of product accepted for take-back, reuse, or disposal HC-BP-250a.4 We do not currently disclose this information.
Number of enforcement actions taken in response to violations of good
HC-BP-250a.5 0 FDA enforcement actions
manufacturing practices (GMP) or equivalent standards, by type
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 54
SASB
Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accounting Metrics
Topic Accounting Metric Code Response
Counterfeit Drugs Description of methods and technologies used to maintain traceability of products HC-BP-260a.1 Anti-counterfeiting measures and product serialization are in place to increase patient
throughout the supply chain and prevent counterfeiting safety as well as to address regulatory requirements, thus ensuring Incyte’s compliance,
patients’ safety and security. Two kinds of anti-counterfeiting features, overt and covert,
are currently in place for Incyte medicines. Overt features are for patients, healthcare
providers and regulatory authorities to authenticate the product and, as such, make
medicines difficult to reproduce. To further avoid fake or counterfeit product, overt
features are combined with tamper evident packaging. Covert features are intended for
a restricted number of Incyte’s personnel to quickly authenticate products in the event of
suspected counterfeiting.
Related to serialization, a single identifier is typically printed on each product pack along
with a 2D barcode with encoded information and an anti-tempering device. At delivery to
the patient and at any dispensing point with scanning equipment, the pack can then be
scanned to confirm its authenticity.
Discussion of process for alerting customers and business partners to potential or HC-BP-260a.2 Suspected counterfeit issues or claims related to our products are handled internally via
known risks associated with counterfeit products Incyte’s Material Review Boards (MRB) and the Falsified Drug Product Committee (FDPC).
The MRB is a Quality Assurance (QA) forum. In the event of a suspected counterfeit issue,
the QA chair communicates with his/her QA business partner counterpart to determine
the potential impact on product safety and the need for any related regulatory or other
action. The FDPC is a cross-functional team, chaired by the Head of Supply Chain. The
FDPC team includes representation from Supply Chain, QA, Communications, Commercial,
Legal and Regulatory Affairs. The FDPC convenes meetings internally and externally to
share information and align on necessary actions, including communication to external
stakeholders. External communications have historically been disseminated by alerts
from the WHO via its website and communications portal with health authorities, with
Company Statements, including relevant information and contact details, being made
available via the Incyte corporate website.
Number of actions that led to raids, seizure, arrests, and/or filing of criminal Incyte discloses information about material legal proceedings in our Annual Report on
HC-BP-260a.3
charges related to counterfeit products Form 10-K.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 55
SASB
Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accounting Metrics
Topic Accounting Metric Code Response
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with Incyte discloses information about material legal proceedings in our Annual Report on
Ethical Marketing HC-BP-270a.1
false marketing claims Form 10-K.
Description of code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use of products HC-BP-270a.2 See Ethical Marketing, page 45.
Employee Recruitment, Development Discussion of talent recruitment and retention efforts for scientists and research
HC-BP-330a.1 See Team, page 19.
& Retention and development personnel
(1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover rate for: (a) executives/senior managers, We do not currently disclose this information at the group level, however, total voluntary
HC-BP-330a.2
(b) mid-level managers, (c) professionals, and (d) all others turnover rate was 6% in 2023, down from 9.5% in 2022.
Supply Chain Management Percentage of (1) entity's facilities and (2) Tier I suppliers' facilities participating in HC-BP-430a.1 Incyte adheres to the Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) standards set by the FDA. It is
the Rx-360 International Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Consortium audit program or our goal to always operate in compliance with all applicable rules and regulations. As
equivalent third-party audit programs for integrity of supply chain and ingredients such, we expect that all third parties with whom we do business operate in compliance
with all applicable laws and regulations of the countries, states and localities in which
they operate. The standards and expectations we have for our third parties mirror those
which we set for ourselves as reflected in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with Incyte discloses information about material legal proceedings in our Annual Report on
Business Ethics HC-BP-510a.1
corruption and bribery Form 10-K.
Description of code of ethics governing interactions with health care professionals HC-BP-510a.2 See Ethical Marketing, page 45.
INTRODUCTION PATIENTS AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TEAM ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INCYTE 2023 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 56
SASB
Activity Metrics
Activity Metric Code Disclosure
Number of patients treated HC-BP-000.A Over 210,000.
(1) 8 approved products.
Number of drugs (1) in portfolio and (2) in research and development (Phases 1-3) HC-BP-000.B
(2)
© 2012-2024 Incyte.
