D O M O R E
G O O D
R E P O R T
IFF’S 2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Introduction
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
2
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Message from Our CEO Our Company IFF at a Glance
The science & creativity
of sustainable seaweed
When harvested responsibly and utilized for food,
fuel, medicine and other nature-based purposes,
seaweed has the potential to address some of the
world’s biggest sustainable development challenges.
Seaweed is much more than the greenery that washes up on our shores. It is a habitat and a food
source for marine life, and a key ingredient driving sustainable advancements in pharmaceuticals,
dietary supplements and plant-based meat alternatives.
It is also a source of inspiration for the presentation of our 2023 Do More Good Report.
Drawing on over 60 years of sustainable seaweed harvesting experience — and working alongside
businesses, NGOs, research communities, governments and the members of our seaweed value
chain — we contribute our expertise and support to projects that aim to bring a wave of sustainable
change to the surface.
In this spirit, we invite you to read more about the latest progress of our Do More Good Plan — with
ebbs and flows amidst changing tides, but always anchored to our purpose.
Join us on our voyage.
#DoMoreGoodxIFF
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
3
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Message from Our CEO Our Company IFF at a Glance
Contents 2023 PERFORMANCE 17
SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS 18
Responsible sourcing 19
INTRODUCTION 2
Sustainable innovation 29
Life cycle assessment 31
Message from our CEO 4
Portfolio spotlights 33
Our company 6
IFF at a glance 7
CLIMATE & PLANETARY HEALTH 40 APPENDIX 81
OUR STRATEGY 8
Climate change & energy management 42 About this report 81
Water stewardship 46 Membership associations 84
Do More Good Plan 8
Waste management 47 Stakeholder engagement 87
Double materiality 9
Performance data 88
EQUITY & WELLBEING 49
2023 HIGHLIGHTS 13
INDICES 98
Talent acquisition, engagement & retention 50
Performance snapshot 14
Diversity, equity & inclusion 57 UN Sustainable Development Goals 98
2030 Goal progress 15
Environment, health & safety 62 GRI content index 101
SASB disclosures 132
TRANSPARENCY & ACCOUNTABILITY 67
TCFD report 135
Corporate governance 68
Business ethics & compliance 72 Independent assurance report 138
Product safety & quality 75 Special note regarding forward-looking statements 141
Information security 78 Contact us 142
Message from our CEO
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
4
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Message from Our CEO Our Company IFF at a Glance
Message from our CEO
Before joining IFF as the CEO this past February 2024, I long admired CUSTOMERS ARE OUR FOCUS
the Company for its rich history, unmatched reputation as an innovative
Led by our robust innovation platform and research & development
powerhouse and its commitment to applying science and creativity for
(R&D) pipeline, we partner with our customers to help them achieve their
a better world. As a trained chemical engineer, there’s nothing I value
ESG goals and sustainability targets. This includes a goal for all new IFF
more than leveraging the natural sciences to create sustainable solutions,
innovations to have a sustainability value proposition supportive of people
especially those that have a far-reaching impact on the world around us.
and planet by 2030. In 2023, 91% of our new projects met that criterion,
Now, just a few months on the job, I have connected with employees and as affirmed by our internal Innovation for Sustainability model. Today, R&D
customers in every region, and my admiration for this company and the work is embedded within our business units, further bolstering the intimate
we do here has only grown. connection between our pipeline and the needs of our customers.
Our Do More Good Plan is a fundamental component of our success as a We also have a 2030 goal to enable customers to save 50 times more CO e
2
company. It drives our strategic efforts to embed environmental, social and than generated at our own IFF manufacturing sites. We do this through
governance — plus sustainable solutions (ESG+) — into everything we do. our products, which often lower environmental impacts through their
It is a pledge to our customers, stakeholders and to each other that we’re performance during their use phase. In 2023, our innovations enabled
always striving to exceed expectations and fulfill our purpose to do more customers and consumers to save approximately 16 times (or 24.6 million
good for people and planet. tons) more CO e emissions than generated through IFF’s own Scope 1 and
2
2 GHG emissions.
How we do this is just as important as why. Our focus on customers,
innovation and operational excellence powers our work every day, and
INNOVATION IS IN OUR DNA
through the lens of our Do More Good Plan, our teams are
Being an innovation powerhouse means constantly reassessing and
empowered to reach incredible heights.
continually evolving our approach. By leveraging our unique combination
of partnerships, technologies and capabilities, we are able to impact
sustainability across the entire value chain.
Through responsible sourcing, we strive to promote regenerative ecosystems
— on land and at sea — while equitably supporting our workers and
grower communities, notably by conducting rigorous human rights impact
assessments in our strategic supply chains. We also partner with a variety
ERIK FYRWALD of stakeholders and local communities to responsibly source our products,
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER including the harvesting of seaweed in support of marine conservation.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
5
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Message from Our CEO Our Company IFF at a Glance
As you may have seen on our report cover, sustainable seaweed is important OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE FOR Last year, we also continued to advance
to IFF. For more than 60 years, we’ve worked with on-the-ground partners to PEOPLE & PLANET toward our goal of reaching Zero Waste
harvest these underwater forests responsibly. Just recently, we entered into to Landfill (ZWL) status at all our major
Throughout our business, in support of our people, we are deeply
two new partnerships that aim to restore kelp beds in northern Norway, and manufacturing plants around the world.
embedding our commitment to diversity and gender parity wherever we
to provide capacity-building and maritime jobs off the coast of Chile. When I started earlier this year, I had the
operate. One of our recent DEI recognitions was being named by Equileap
pleasure to visit some of these sites that have
At the product level, we also strive to protect the environment and as the top U.S. company for gender equality and the tenth globally. We’ve
achieved internal ZWL verification. In all, 10 new
safeguard human health by actively listening to our customers and working closed our overall mean, unadjusted gender pay gap and we continue to
sites in 2023 joined our growing list of ZWL-verified
to win right along with them. work toward gender balance across our workforce, reaching 27% women
locations in just 12 months.
in executive management and 38% in management roles. This extends to a
For example:
focus on gender representation in our succession planning, as well as the
MOVING FORWARD, TOGETHER
incorporation of diversity considerations in recruiting. To ensure employees
• Through programs such as our RE-IMAGINE WASTE™ Innovation program,
around the world earn a living wage as defined by their home country, we’re As you can see, our Do More Good Plan is a roadmap that helps us
we create new upcycled concepts, launch certified upcycled products
also pleased to share our new commitment to the Living Wage Pledge. navigate a dynamic, multilayered landscape. As leaders in our industry with
and strive to prevent waste through new food protection innovations,
sustainability embedded in the core of our work, it is incumbent upon us
such as the 2023 launch of NOVAGARD® NN 1-10. This naturally occurring
Another way we ensure the wellbeing of our employees is to continuously
— now more than ever — to respond urgently and ethically to the global
antimicrobial and antifungal blend offers a cost-effective alternative to
improve our safety program, creating safe working environments for every
sustainable development challenges we face as a society. We strive to align
synthetic preservatives while offering the potential to significantly extend
employee. Through our Life Saving Principles campaign and other initiatives,
our strategies and operations with universal environmentally and socially
product shelf-life and enable less frequent product distribution, resulting
we strive to achieve an incident-free workplace. Demonstrating good
responsible principles, including those outlined by the United Nations Global
in a lower carbon footprint related to transportation.
progress this year, our total recordable incident rate decreased 38% below
Compact. As a member of the UNGC, we uphold its 10 principles on human
2021 baseline levels.
• Our proprietary Designed Enzymatic Biomaterials™ (DEB) technology is a rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, unequivocally.
revelation that uses advanced biotechnology to create a new-to-the-world
As we look to further our commitment to climate & planetary health, we
I am excited to stand with our employees as we continue to push our
class of biobased polysaccharides that enable more sustainable products
are focused on lightening our own footprint across our manufacturing
boundaries every day. We can only achieve our ambitious goals together.
without compromising performance. We celebrated the launch of the
operations, especially with the ingenuity and creativity of our Green Teams.
With true collaboration alongside our suppliers, partners, customers and other
first personal care ingredient enabled by DEB in 2023: AURIST™ AGC, a
They help us lead on urgent climate action as we aspire towards our
valued stakeholders, we will be able to transform the world for the better.
water-soluble, readily biodegradable conditioning biopolymer comprised
science-based target of reducing our absolute direct and indirect GHG
of natural and nature-inspired ingredients to deliver a wide variety of emissions by 50% below 2021 levels by 2030. I look forward to our continuing progress, here’s to all that we will achieve
applications for the hair and skin. together in 2024 and well into the future!
In 2023, we continued to make steady progress toward that goal with a
• We are striving to achieve a 100% biodegradable scent ingredients catalog,
20.6% reduction below 2021 levels. While we know that part of the decrease
allowing for 100% circular formulations with a lower carbon footprint by
was due to reduced production levels in our operations and portfolio
2030. In 2023, we invested in the expansion of a new biodegradation
optimization, we remain committed to making the proportional gains
testing facility to accelerate the development of biodegradable Scent
necessary to stay on track to reach our ambitious 2030 aspirations. Taking
solutions while continuing to deliver best-in-class fragrances.
future production increases into consideration, we will remain true to our
integrated strategy of energy efficiency, capital expenditure, renewable J. Erik Fyrwald
More of these exciting examples are available throughout this report.
energy and manufacturing technology. Chief Executive Officer
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
6
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Message from Our CEO Our Company IFF at a Glance
Our company
Established 135 years ago, IFF is a leading creator and
manufacturer of food, beverage, health & biosciences, scent
and pharma solutions, and complementary adjacent products,
including cosmetic active and natural health ingredients,
which are used in a wide variety of consumer products. One shared goal:
Our products are sold principally to manufacturers of dairy, Our world, for the better
meat, beverages, snacks, savory, sweet, baked goods and
other foods, personal care products, soaps and detergents, OUR PURPOSE OUR VALUES
cleaning products, perfumes and cosmetics, dietary
APPLYING SCIENCE AND CREATIVITY FOR EMPOWERMENT
supplements, food protection, infant and elderly nutrition,
A BETTER WORLD
functional food, pharmaceutical and oral care products. We make informed decisions, take action and have the courage to hold
As a result, we hold global leadership positions in the Food • We push past traditional boundaries ourselves accountable for the outcomes
& Beverage, Home & Personal Care and Health & Wellness
• We are a force for a better and more sustainable future
markets, and across key Tastes, Textures, Scents, Nutrition, EXPERTISE
Enzymes, Cultures, Soy Proteins, Pharmaceutical Excipients • We imagine new possibilities to expand our customers’ opportunities
We collaborate, applying our collective skills and diverse backgrounds
and Probiotics categories.
to solve problems and achieve higher levels of performance
OUR VISION
BE THE PARTNER FOR ESSENTIAL SOLUTIONS INTEGRITY
• We play a vital role in the global food, beverage, beauty, household We are inclusive, treat each other with respect and work in a fair, honest
and personal care, and pharmaceutical supply chains and ethical way
• We co-create sensorial experiences that delight and go beyond the
expectations of consumers everywhere INNOVATION
We harness our creativity to deliver essential solutions for our partners
• We combine unmatched innovation, agility and leading-edge insight
and the communities we serve
to meet customer needs
RESPONSIBILITY
IFF is headquartered at 521 West 57th Street, New York, New York, U.S.A. Detailed We protect the health and safety of our people and preserve the
information about the scale of our organization, operational structure, markets served
communities where we work
and geographical footprint is available in our 2023 Annual Report and U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission Form 10-K (collectively, “2023 Annual Report”).
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
7
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Message from Our CEO Our Company IFF at a Glance
IFF at a glance EAME
34% of sales
We are a leader in high-quality businesses that
are well-aligned to key consumer needs, with an
industry-leading R&D pipeline that co-creates
sustainable solutions alongside our highly
NORTH
diversified customer base.
ASIA-PACIFIC
AMERICA
23% of sales
30% of sales
PERCENTAGE OF 2023 SALES BY
BUSINESS SEGMENT
Pharma Solutions
Property Type
8% Lab LATIN
AMERICA
Plant
13% of sales
21% Innovation Site
Scent
53%
Nourish
18%
$11.5B $936M >175 ~190
$11.5B $936M >175 ~190
SALES FREE COUNTRIES MANUFACTURING
Health & Biosciences SALES FCRAESEH FLOW†‡ SHICPOPUEDN TTROIES FACILITIESM, ANUFACTURING
CASH FLOW*† SHIPPED TO CREATIVE FACILITIES,
$2.0B CENTERS &CREATIVE * All data as of December 31, 2023
$2.0B * Non-GAAP metric; please see Non-GAAP
27,000 ~21,500 APPLICATIOCENN TERS & † N do in s- cG loA sA uP re m s ae tt r ii rc .i; f fp .cle oa mse see Non-GAAP
ADJUSTED ~27,000 ~21,500 LABORATOARPIEPSLICATION disclosures at ir.iff.com
A OD PJ EU RS AO ET TBEP INIDE
TG
R
D
A AT *ING CC UU SS TT OO MM EE RR SS CO CLL OE LA LG EU AE GS
UES
LABORATORIES ‡† F CrF
C
aer saee
hs
e hC
F
C a
F
losa
l
wh os wh F
m
lF mo inl wo
i
unw si us
s C
is d
C a
ed pafie epnfi xeen xde d a sa Os O pep re ar ta iot nin g
EBITDA*
Our Strategy
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
8
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Do More Good Plan Double Materiality
Do More Good Plan™
a i n able S
s
t ol
u u
S
ti
The Do More Good™ Plan is our environmental, social and governance, plus • Equity & Wellbeing: We are committed to creating a safe, inspiring and
o
+
n Sustainable Solutions (or ESG+) roadmap that activates our purpose of inclusive workplace that supports all employees to grow and achieve
s
applying science and creativity for a better world. By harnessing our creative their full potential. We do this by focusing on talent acquisition, employee
passion and deep scientific expertise, we are strengthening our business, engagement and retention programs; integrating diversity, equity and
making a positive impact and inspiring our colleagues and customers to inclusion into how we operate; and always striving for zero workplace
DO MORE
change the world for the better. injuries or safety incidents.
GOOD PLAN
y y
P
l a n
e
t
a r
yC li
m
a t
e
E G Transpar
cen cc ountabilit T
o
s
Duuh osre
t
M
c
aP
u
i
onla
s
ra
etn
bo
Gs
lm
et
o
r
e
da ort
es
de
v
ag
e
Pni lc
lod
aa
p
n
l hl
m
y
ce
oelp
p
mno tas
p.m
it rSi ipo
su
el
pn
i
sfs
py
foI oF
i rn
utF
d
e
r
u
dt io
ns
b
t
ts
r
eyt
y
r
r
-
a
ce
w
osn
i
nedg ntet eh
oa
ce
fn
t
n
a
ed
m
do
s
u
bo
pr
ic
it
lb
i
li
o
aeu
rt
us
sa
si ln
t
2c
he
0h
as t3as ,
n
0
c
b
g
a
ge
e
pon
tt
a
ue
o
l
rfi
sw
e,t
a
o
tr hud
er
• T
w
D
cr ooia
t
r
hn
pM
s
ot
op
h
rr
aa
e
e
tr ee
h
G
n
i gg
oc
oh
oy
ve
d&
es t
rv
nA
ii sn
ac
it
noc
e
cno
g
e.u
r
On
i ft
rt
y
u
aa
r
mib
s
ri eol ei wt bsy
s
ou:
e
rsC
kn
t
to
a
ii
san
n
l
dd
d
t
eu
o
t
sc
r
iaft gui nn
nl
sfig
epl
dlo
ain
ru
g
er
n
ob
tu
u rs iness
H
e al
t&
S &
A areas where we believe we can have the greatest positive impact: t wo
e
e
ll
n as su wre
it
c ho lm awp sl ia an nc de
r
ew git uh
la
o tiu or
n
p s.o Olic uie
r
s, as
h
• Sustainable Solutions: We deliver innovations and solutions that transform employees are expected to act ethically,
Equity &
Wellbeing industries and empower our customers to achieve their sustainability speak up and seek advice when in
objectives, beginning with our commitment to responsible sourcing and doubt, and our leaders are accountable
then leveraging our world-class R&D program to drive environmentally- for upholding our values and
and socially-conscious innovation. By 2030, all new IFF innovations will advancing toward our goals.
have a sustainability value proposition.
• Climate & Planetary Health: Our science-based approach to
environmental sustainability across our own operations includes investing
in energy-efficient systems and expanding our use of renewable energy
as we work to achieve net zero Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2040.
We partner across our value chain to reduce our footprint by advancing
our climate action strategies, reducing our water use and striving for
zero waste to landfill.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
9
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Do More Good Plan Double Materiality
Double materiality
Periodically, IFF conducts a materiality1 assessment to define and prioritize IMPACT OF IFF ON SOCIETY & ENVIRONMENT
the sustainability topics, impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs) most (IMPACT MATERIALITY):
relevant to our business. In 2023 and early 2024, IFF conducted a double
A topic is material from an impact perspective if it causes actual or potential
materiality2 assessment to understand the most important ESG topics
positive or negative impacts on the environment, economy and people that
impacting our company, as well as to identify those factors where IFF may
are directly linked to a company’s operations and value chain, including
also have an impact.
business relationships.
Our approach was informed by industry best practices and guidance from
SOCIETAL & ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ON IFF
the European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) in alignment with
the European Union’s Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD). (FINANCIAL MATERIALITY):
The CSRD seeks to enhance disclosure transparency and ensure companies
A topic is material from a financial perspective if it triggers, or could
are reporting more reliable and comparable information for an accurate
reasonably be expected to trigger, a material financial effect on the
evaluation of a company’s sustainability performance. We further considered
company, including generating risks or opportunities that could affect a
the developing landscape of the International Sustainability Standards Board
company’s financial performance and position over the short, medium and
(ISSB) and other frameworks, creating a foundation for more
long term.
in-depth analysis.
We conducted our double materiality assessment according to two Double materiality is a prioritization acknowledging that
dimensions: impact materiality and financial materiality. a company both impacts the environment, economy and
people (i.e., “inside out,” or “impact materiality”) and is also
impacted by the environment, economy and people (i.e.,
“outside in,” or “financial materiality”).
1 Our ESG reporting describes the topics we consider to be the most important to stakeholders when evaluating environmental, social and governance issues at IFF. Materiality for these purposes is assessed using
multiple reporting standards and frameworks as well as our internal determinations. Unless so specified, materiality does not directly correspond to the concept of materiality used under U.S. securities law or other
applicable laws and does not represent any determination by the Company that any of the content contained in this presentation is “material” for purposes of U.S. securities law or in the context of financial reporting
and should not be construed as a characterization regarding the materiality of such information to IFF’s financial results or operations.
2 IFF’s definition of double materiality aligns with the definition outlined in the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive’s European Sustainability Reporting Standards 1: General Requirements.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
10
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Do More Good Plan Double Materiality
Objectives Methodology
1. To increase transparency, strengthen the quality of our current creating new relationships, building trust and increasing the awareness To avoid potential conflicts of interest
sustainability reporting and prepare for future compliance with the CSRD and engagement of IFF’s Enterprise Risk Management process, and strengthen the integrity of our results,
by identifying the set of material sustainability IROs for IFF that align Executive Leadership Team (ELT) and Board of Directors. we worked with an independent third-party
with the ESRS. to conduct all five phases of this double
3. To gain a clear understanding of the strategic priority topics unique to
materiality assessment. Specific methodology
2. To understand stakeholder views by re-engaging internal and external IFF’s business model, refreshed and revised based on the most recent
choices were determined by IFF in consultation
stakeholders, and thereby strengthening established connections, trends, context and stakeholder expectations.
with our collaboration partner.
DOUBLE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT WORKFLOW
1. Current state assessment 2. Stakeholder engagement 3. Impact, risk & opportunity analysis 4. Topic prioritization 5. Validation
What: BUILT a comprehensive set of potential ENGAGED internal and external ASSESSED potential and actual IROs EVALUATED, synthesized, consolidated VALIDATED results internally to gain buy-in,
material topics and an initial register of stakeholders and captured cross-functional associated with the topics identified in and visualized the findings from Phases 1–4 approval and plans for implementation.
IROs, informed by the current internal views of the key ESG-related IROs related phases 1 and 2. to determine material topics for IFF.
and external context of our company. to each potentially material topic.
How: Combined insights from an internal view Interviewed internal and external Developed a methodology aligned with our Applied specialized scoring methodologies Conducted an internal Validation Workshop
of IFF’s business (e.g., strategies, risks, stakeholders (led by our independent existing enterprise risk management process, to the information identified through prior with all SMEs and IRO scoring owners to
products, etc.) with the external landscape partner), including the IFF ELT; the Chairman including objective criteria and thresholds, phases to determine weightings for each discuss and affirm the ESG factors identified
(e.g., macro-trends, ESG-related regulations, of the Board and members of the Corporate for assessing the materiality of IROs (i.e., input and arrive at a relative prioritization as most material to IFF. Findings were shared
peer reviews, industry reports and ESRS Governance & Corporate Responsibility rating severity and likelihood of impacts for of ESG topics. with the ELT for review and approval and
sustainability matters) to 1) create a Committee; and a representative set of impact materiality, and rating magnitude with the Board for acknowledgment and
high-level value chain map summarizing IFF’s customers, industry associations, NGO and likelihood of risks or opportunities for sign-off on integrating into our business, risk
activities, resources used and depended on partners, investors and suppliers. In addition, financial materiality). Then, a representative management approach, ESG+ strategy and
and business relationships; and 2) identify an we engaged a select set of more than 200 set of IFF subject matter experts (SMEs) future sustainability disclosures.
initial “long list” of potentially material ESG employees through a survey to evaluate IFF’s used the methodology to assign scores
topics, subtopics and definitions. impact on the environment, economy and to all IROs and participate in four live,
people according to the list of potentially independently-moderated Integration
material ESG topics identified in Phase 1. Workshops to discuss and “sense-check” all
scores across ESG topics.
Results
• Human Rights was the highest scored topic across impact
and financial materiality perspectives.
• Greenhouse Gas & Energy Footprint and Customer
Experience & Transparency were the second and third
highest scored.
• Topics with the highest number of unique IROs were
Business Conduct, Ethics & Compliance and Innovation
& Sustainable Product Solutions.
Our results are visualized in the matrix to the right, which
maps median impact materiality scores versus median
financial materiality scores for IROs associated with each
identified topic.3 Although some topics may appear to rank
"lower” (i.e., bottom left area) they do contain material IROs.
As such, we address all 19 topics in this report in accordance
with the GRI and SASB reporting frameworks. While each
topic is identified as material, the assessment characterizes
the top right area as our highest priority topics. Additionally,
the topic-level matrix shown here does not directly reflect
CSRD-aligned results, which are based on the highest scored
IROs for each ESRS sub-topic. IFF did identify material
TOPICS
IROs in alignment with ESRS sustainability matters as part
of this assessment (and all ESRS sustainability matters are
Environmental Product
considered under the 19 material topics), but those results
are not included in this year’s report, as we will align to
Governance Social
CSRD / ESRS in our 2024 report. We intend to review the
IRO Register for ESRS and its related methodology on
an annual basis and to complete a full double materiality
assessment approximately every two or more years.
FFI
NO
TCAPMI
LATNEMNORIVNE
&
LATEICOS
)ytilairetam
laicnaniF(
High Highest
IMPACT OF IFF ON SOCIETY & ENVIRONMENT
(Impact materiality)
tsehgiH
hgiH
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
11
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Do More Good Plan Double Materiality
IFF’S DOUBLE MATERIALITY MATRIX
(Median impact and financial materiality scores per topic)
Highest priority to IFF &
stakeholders and our top
disclosure focus areas
Climate Change Risk* Human Rights
Innovation
& Sustainable
Product Solutions Product Safety
& Quality
Biodiversity & Greenhouse Gas
Ecosystems & Energy Footprint
Talent Acquisition, Occupational
Engagement & Retention Health & Safety
Customer Experience
Information & Transparency
Pollution Security
Working
Waste Conditions Diversity, Equity
Hazardous Substances & Inclusion
Community
Responsible
Wellbeing,
Sourcing
Water Use Philanthropy &
Socioeconomics
Business Conduct,
Ethics & Compliance
Critical to manage
and/or efforts are
already in progress
3 Impact materiality values were calculated by taking the median of the total score assigned to impacts within each topic, with the total score representing severity multiplied by likelihood. Financial materiality values
were calculated by taking the median of the total score assigned to risks and opportunities within each topic, with the total score representing magnitude multiplied by likelihood.
* The topic of Climate Change Risk inherently concerns “outside in” financial materiality and was therefore not associated with any impacts.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
12
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Do More Good Plan Double Materiality
Strategic insights & observations
PILLAR ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE PRODUCT
Highest Greenhouse Gas & Energy Footprint Human Rights Customer Experience & Transparency Innovation & Sustainable Product Solutions;
priority Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Product Safety & Quality
topics (top
Talent Acquisition, Engagement & Retention
right area of
the matrix)
Changes 2021’s “Climate Change” topic split into “Climate Change 2021’s “Community Engagement & Philanthropy” was 2021’s “Stakeholder Engagement & Transparency” No changes.
compared Risk” and “GHG & Energy Footprint” to further distinguish expanded to “Community Wellbeing, Philanthropy & was adjusted to “Customer Experience & Transparency”
to 2021 between managing the physical and transition risks of Socioeconomics” to include matters related to impacts to more closely align with the ESRS G1 subtopic of
materiality climate change versus IFF’s own contributions to climate on communities versus the more IFF-centric lenses of Consumers and End-users. Additionally, stakeholder
assessment change through GHG emissions. philanthropy and engagement. engagement is critical to managing all of IFF’s ESG+
topics and stakeholder groups beyond customers who
Biodiversity & Ecosystems, Hazardous Substances and “Working Conditions” was added as a new topic to
are considered under other topics.
Pollution were added as new material topics based on the encompass the rights and wellbeing of workers in IFF’s
assessment of industry trends, IFF’s external operating operations and value chain, as identified through the
landscape and sustainability frameworks, including assessment of industry trends, IFF’s external operating
the ESRS. landscape and sustainability frameworks, including
the ESRS.
2021’s “Employee Health, Safety & Wellbeing” was
adjusted to “Occupational Health & Safety” to more closely
align with ESRS after moving wellbeing-related matters
under Working Conditions.
Key GHGs from the energy consumption of IFF’s Reputational risks for human rights were highlighted in The highest scored governance impact related to how IFF’s ability to enable positive impacts through innovation
observations manufacturing processes arose as the top potential terms of customer/consumer perception and concerning IFF’s provision of product traceability information can was highly celebrated by stakeholders who noted the
negative impact, but stakeholders also noted positive IFF’s license to operate among local communities. DEI was impact customers’ ability to reach their goals and comply potential to substitute microplastics, improve health or
actions being taken to advance renewable energy use also noted as both an opportunity (to engage employees) with impending legislation, such as the EU regulation on reduce consumption of animal products through food
and adopt energy efficient production processes. and a risk (if diverse representation is lacking). deforestation-free products. modulations, and combat food waste through shelf-life
extending additives.
Stakeholder “Climate change risk will continue to manifest itself “Talent is key to customer relationships, which are often “Flowing data down the chain in terms of footprint is a “There’s opportunity for IFF if they can help their
insight seriously; the impact will not only be because IFF is trying expert-to-expert communications. If you don’t have the challenge, as methodologies and exchange approaches are customers meet their goals and maintain a reliable and
to mitigate emissions, but because its own manufacturing best knowledge, that could affect reputation or quality.” not always aligned. Companies that show leadership here responsible supply chain — not just Tier 1 suppliers, but
will be impacted by climate change.” — Industry association — IFF business unit leader will come out winning with us.” — Customer further down as well.” — Investor
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
13
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Performance Snapshot 2030 Goal Progress
2023 highlights
Qualified as a constituent of the Dow Jones Included in the S&P Global Sustainability Yearbook Named to CDP’s Supplier Engagement Included for the second
Sustainability Indices (DJSI), North America, 2024 (based on the 2023 Corporate Sustainability Leaderboard for the fourth consecutive consecutive time in the 2023
for the fourth consecutive year, a family of Assessment), following a CSA Score within 30% of our year for taking action to measure and Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index
best-in-class benchmarks for investors who recognize industry’s top-performing companies and placing us reduce climate risk across our value chain, (based on 2022 performance data),
that sustainable business practices are critical to within the top 15% of our industry based on 2023 CDP disclosures for our commitment to transparency
generating long-term shareholder value and setting a new standard in
gender-related data reporting
Ranked 286 out of 600 companies — and 27 out of 51
companies in the Materials & Chemicals industry — on Named the top American company
America’s Most Responsible Companies 2024 list by for gender equality and tenth
Newsweek (based on 2022 information) globally by Equileap, a leading
organization providing data and
Awarded the 2023 EcoVadis Platinum sustainability insights on gender equality in the
rating for the third time (based on 2022 information), Ranked 59 out of 100 companies — and 10 of 15 in corporate sector
placing IFF among the top 1% of companies assessed the Materials industry — on 3BL’s 100 Best Corporate
Citizens 2023
Named among the 2023 Best
Places to Work for Disability
Maintained certification as Inclusion by Disability:IN for the
EDGE Move level in 27 countries in fourth consecutive year after
recognition of our commitment to scoring 100% on the Disability
gender equality Equality Index
IFF: Could you please share/resend this image?
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
14
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Performance Snapshot 2030 Goal Progress
Performance Sustainable Solutions Equity & Wellbeing
• 9 in-person human rights impact assessments completed for strategic • 88% response rate in annual employee sentiment survey, including an
supply chains in six countries 80% favorable employee score on the Diversity Index within the survey
snapshot
• 134% increase in diverse supplier spend versus 2021 • 38% of women in management roles
• 91% of all new innovation projects deemed as having sustainability value • No statistically relevant gender pay gap in favor of men in 27 countries
propositions using our internal Innovation for Sustainability model assessed through our EDGE Move level global certification
Our 2030 Do More Good Plan is built on
ambitious targets aligned with our core purpose • 24.6 million tons of CO e emissions avoided by customers and consumers • 38% decrease in total recordable incident rate since 2021
2
through our solutions, or approximately 16 times more CO e than
of applying science and creativity for a better 2
generated through IFF’s own Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Learn more about Equity & Wellbeing
world. As part of our efforts to meet our targets,
we proudly share our achievements while always Learn more about Sustainable Solutions
Transparency & Accountability
seeking opportunities to remain accountable
and transparent, inspire our internal and external Climate & Planetary Health • ESG metrics for GHG emissions and DEI tied to variable compensation
for all eligible employees
stakeholders and Do More Good for people and
• 21% reduction of Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions below 2021 baseline levels
• 100% completion rate on annual business ethics training
planet. Here are a few of our accomplishments
• ~25K metric tons of CO e reduced as a result of our sustainability and
from 2023: 2 • 160+ Ethics Champions in approximately 200 IFF locations globally
energy CAPEX program and site-led projects
• Zero material information security incidents or breaches of personal data
• Completed our first Climate Risk Assessment
• 10 new facilities achieved internal ZWL verification Learn more about Transparency & Accountability
Learn more about Climate & Planetary Health
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
15
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Performance Snapshot 2030 Goal Progress
2030 Goal progress
Strategic Pillar GOAL 2023 PROGRESS
SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Promote regenerative ecosystems and achieve zero deforestation • Palm: 60% RSPO certified volume4
for strategic raw material supply chains, beginning with palm,
• Soy: Confirmed 100% traceability of soy to the municipality level in Brazil, based on 2022 data
soy and wood
• Wood: Forest Stewardship Council Chain-of-Custody certification for our Jacksonville, Florida site and exploring certification
for additional sites to incorporate management systems and procedures for future zero deforestation efforts
Read more about our strategic raw materials on page 25.
Support animal welfare and launch a human rights program for our • Continued to commit to animal welfare, where applicable, and ensure that no wild animals are involved in the cultivation, harvest
business-critical suppliers or transformation of the raw materials provided to IFF
• Worked closely with our trusted third-party advisor on human rights for support with a number of programs aligned with our
2030 human rights goal.
Read more about our approach to human rights in the supply chain on page 22.
Ensure prosperous and equitable value chains and implement • Seven community and biodiversity field initiatives implemented, supporting more than 11,500 beneficiaries in seven countries
10 field initiatives linked to supporting farmers’ livelihoods
Read more about our community and biodiversity programs on page 28.
All new innovations have a sustainability value proposition • 91% of new innovations launched in 2023 were determined to have a sustainability value proposition, supported for the first time
that supports people and planet by external assurance of this metric
Read more about our approach to sustainable innovation on page 29.
Enable customers to save 50 times more COe than generated • Through the use of IFF solutions, we estimate that IFF enabled customers and consumers to avoid approximately 16 times
2
at IFF’s own manufacturing sites (or 24.6 million tons) more COe emissions than generated through IFF’s own Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions
2
Read more about our avoided emissions calculations and methodology on page 32.
CLIMATE & Reduce absolute direct and indirect (Scope 1 and 2 under our • 21% reduction of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions below 2021 levels
PLANETARY HEALTH operational control) GHG emissions by 50% below 2021 levels by 2030 • 405,144 megawatt hours (MWh) of renewable electricity procured or produced
Achieve net zero (Scope 1 and 2) GHG emissions by 2040; and be net positive Read more about our approach to climate change and energy management on page 42.
across our entire value chain (cradle-to-gate) by 2050
Verify zero waste to landfill (ZWL) for all major manufacturing • 51 major manufacturing facilities achieved internal ZWL verification, resulting in 51% of IFF’s major manufacturing facilities with internal
facilities while minimizing single-use plastics and championing ZWL verification
water stewardship by 2030
• ~1 million units of single-use plastics including bags, utensils, tasting cups and bottles eliminated as part of our plastic reduction
program (compared with 2022 usage)
• Completed third annual water risk assessment
Read more about our approach to waste and water management beginning on page 46.
4 Third-party assured metric.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
16
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Performance Snapshot 2030 Goal Progress
Strategic Pillar GOAL 2023 PROGRESS
EQUITY & WELLBEING 50% women in management roles, companywide • 38% women in management roles, companywide (comprised of women in executive, upper and middle management employee
categories). Additionally, 5% of our senior leadership team’s 2023 bonus was tied to the success of meeting this target
Read more about our DEI strategy on page 57.
40% people of color (POC) in management roles in the United States • 26.6% POC in executive, upper and middle management roles
(with equitable representation in other markets globally)
Read more about our DEI strategy on page 57.
All global and local policies and practices are fully inclusive of LGBTIQ+ • For the third consecutive year, we completed the Workplace Pride LGBTIQ+ Global Benchmark to assess our progress in this
Colleagues, with a focus on Transgender inclusive healthcare area increasing our score by 10%) as compared to our 2022 submission
Read more about our DEI strategy on page 57.
5% of our workforce will be People with Disabilities and 100% of physical • We continue to benchmark our progress through the Disability:IN’s Disability Equality Index, maintaining our 100% score for the
locations, internal and external technology, policies and processes will be fully U.S. while expanding assessments to other countries
accessible for People with Disabilities
Read more about our DEI strategy on page 57.
Incident-free workplace and world-class safety performance • Total Recordable Incident Rate of 0.39 (a 38% decrease from our 2021 baseline)
• Lost Time Incident Rate of 0.08 (a 67% decrease from our 2021 baseline)
Read more about our EHS program on page 62.
TRANSPARENCY & Increase transparency of annual ESG disclosures and KPIs in line with • IFF conducted a double materiality assessment to understand the most important ESG topics impacting our company, the results
ACCOUNTABILITY stakeholder expectations of which have allowed us to strengthen our standards for adherence to annual disclosures
Read more about our approach to reporting on page 9.
Launch ESG metrics tied to executive compensation • 5% of executive compensation as well as (for the first time) variable compensation for all senior leaders was linked to
progress against our 2030 Do More Good Plan goals for greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction and DEI/gender representation
in management roles
Read more about our commitment to ESG governance on page 69.
Expand oversight for ESG governance at the Board of Directors level • Sustainability and ESG topics are governed by the Board, with specific responsibility for overseeing the Company’s ESG program
held by the Governance & Corporate Responsibility Committee
Read more about our commitment to ESG governance on page 69.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
17
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
2023
SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS 18
Responsible sourcing 19
Performance
Sustainable innovation 29
Life cycle assessment 31
Portfolio spotlights 33
The following chapters outline our efforts throughout the year
CLIMATE & PLANETARY HEALTH 40
to make progress on our Do More Good Plan, empowering us
Climate change & energy management 42
to apply science and creativity for a better world.
Water stewardship 46
Waste management 47
EQUITY & WELLBEING 49
Talent acquisition, engagement & retention 50
Diversity, equity & inclusion 57
Environment, health & safety 62
TRANSPARENCY & ACCOUNTABILITY 67
Corporate governance 68
Business ethics & compliance 72
Product safety & quality 75
Information security 78
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
18
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Sustainable
Solutions
BRINGING LEADING INNOVATIONS TO
MARKET THAT OUR CUSTOMERS VALUE
Our sustainable solutions story begins with our commitment to responsible
2023 HIGHLIGHTS
sourcing. We source more than 19,000 different raw materials from more than
5,700 suppliers in approximately 85 countries around the world. Through our
• 9 in-person human rights impact assessments completed
risk-based and value-driven Responsible Sourcing program, we seek to ensure
for strategic supply chains in six countries
ethical practices throughout our supply chain, while reducing impact to the
environment and supporting workers and grower communities. • 134% increase in spend with diverse suppliers versus 2021
• Confirmed 100% traceability of soy to the municipality
Next, we take those vital inputs and use them to spark new ideas at the
level in Brazil, based on 2022 data
intersection of science and creativity. Through our world-class R&D program,
• 91% of all new innovation projects deemed as having
we are always rethinking and evolving our approach to cutting-edge innovation
sustainability value propositions using our internal
by developing new solutions that are solving real-world challenges, from
Innovation for Sustainability model
improving home and personal care and empowering health and well-being,
• 24.6 million tons of CO e emissions avoided by customers
to transforming food systems and accelerating climate action.
2
and consumers through our solutions, or approximately 16
times more CO e than generated through IFF’s own Scope
2
1 and 2 GHG emissions
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
19
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Sustainable Solutions strategy Responsible sourcing
Innovation across our value chain — from the source to the
sale — is one of the pillars of our success at IFF, guiding us to
challenge the status quo and aim for maximum positive impact
in all we do. Our commitment to leading sustainable solutions Approach
for our customers spans three focus areas:
ADVANCING SUPPLY CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY
• Advancing supply chain sustainability through
responsible sourcing Environmentally, ethically and socially responsible sourcing anchors our
commitment to creating sustainable solutions for IFF customers. Starting
• Accelerating environmentally and socially conscious innovation
at the source, we continuously work to strengthen the transparency,
• Driving climate action through life cycle assessment (LCA) traceability and diversity of our supply chain while also reducing its impact
and other circular design and sustainability principles on the planet. In addition, we seek opportunities to advance the livelihoods • Strategic raw materials: We strengthen our sustainable procurement
of workers, grower communities and other individuals throughout our supply decisions through continuous learning and awareness of emerging trends
chain. Our responsible sourcing management approach focuses on four relevant to our portfolio. We have an internal standards and certification
Read more about our progress against
key areas: alignment tool that helps our Procurement and Commercial teams
our Do More Good Plan 2030 Goals on
build knowledge on IFF’s minimum requirements for strategic natural
page 15. • Risk assessment: We are committed to conducting business in a
ingredients. If risks are identified, the tool guides the most preferable
sustainable and lawful manner that respects the human rights of workers
procurement decisions.
throughout our supply chain. IFF’s Responsible Sourcing Risk Assessment
Tool helps us identify potential ESG risks — including human rights risks — • Community & biodiversity programs: We strive to improve the ecosystem
and guides our responsible sourcing programs with the support and quality of life in the farming communities where we source, helping
of the policies and strategies of our procurement, regulatory and to make them more biodiverse, stable, resilient and prosperous. For select
legal departments. strategic natural raw materials sourced from high-risk countries, we join
with third-party experts and IFF suppliers to develop and implement
• Supplier engagement: We prioritize opportunities to support
programs that address environmental and social challenges specific to
business-critical5 suppliers in meeting IFF’s expectations through
the local community.
performance reviews and follow-up actions. Our vendor questionnaire
covers our suppliers’ own sustainability management programs, including Our responsible sourcing program is led by our Chief Sustainability Officer,
responsible sourcing and traceability. We also leverage the platform of who reports to IFF’s General Counsel. The IFF Responsible Sourcing
external partners to expand supplier engagement activities, including Committee — co-led by Global Sustainability and Procurement — meets
through sustainability assessments, environmental disclosures, audits quarterly with representatives from across the organization to monitor
and trainings. progress toward our objectives.
5 Business-critical suppliers contribute to the top 90% of IFF’s direct global spend.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
20
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
POLICIES & COMMITMENTS CERTIFICATIONS FOR NATURAL
FRAGRANCE INGREDIENTS
Our approach to human rights, responsible sourcing and sustainable natural
resources management — including our expectations of all stakeholders — We strive to source materials that have been certified by credible,
are outlined in the following policies and commitments, many of which can internationally-recognized, third-party environmental and social
also be found in our IFF Policy Center: responsibility certification programs. We also partner with our suppliers to
achieve ingredient certifications for strategic supply chains, which support
• Vendor Code of Conduct: The basic vendor requirements to maintain a
the conservation of natural resources and improvement in the livelihoods
business relationship with IFF (available in seven languages); all vendors
of farmers and workers involved in our supply chain. As of 2023, we offer:
must acknowledge that they comply with the Code and ensure that their
suppliers also comply. • 71 natural ingredients certified For Life by ECOCERT
• Responsible Sourcing Policy: Our expectations for IFF employees along • 3 natural ingredients certified Fair For Life by ECOCERT
with all direct and indirect suppliers.
• 3 products certified FairWild by ECOCERT
• Sustainable Palm Oil Policy: Our intention to source all palm oil
• 91 products certified organic by ECOCERT
responsibly, from members of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm
Oil (RSPO). • 157 natural extracts certified vegan by EVE VEGAN®
• Sustainable Soy Policy: Our intention to sustainably procure soy white • 116 essential oils, absolutes and other natural extracts approved
flakes and soybeans from deforestation- and conversion-free sources. COSMOS by ECOCERT
• Global Human Rights Policy: Our actions to respect the fundamental • 5 products certified Rainforest Alliance
human rights of all people.
• Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement: Our commitment to ensuring
that forced labor has no part in IFF operations.
• Animal Testing Policy and Animal Testing Statement: Non-Laboratory
Animals: Our commitment to the welfare and ethical treatment of animals.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
21
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Progress IDENTIFYING POTENTIAL
ESG RISKS
RISK ASSESSMENT
We use our Responsible Sourcing Risk Assessment Tool, a
methodology developed with and validated by the Rainforest IFF’S RESPONSIBLE SOURCING RISK
Alliance, to identify inherent supplier and ingredient sourcing risks ASSESSMENT TOOL6 COVERS:
based on country of operation and global ESG risk insights. For
material-specific risks, we categorize natural raw materials and
renewables based on the country of harvest. We also conduct
hot-spot screenings on raw materials that have been flagged by Environmental risks related to water, climate change,
credible sources and other risk tools, including the U.S. Department biodiversity, agriculture and deforestation, using input sources
of Labor’s List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor such as the World Resources Institute and the Environmental
20%
and the NEPCon Sourcing Hub. Performance Index.
In 2023, we refreshed our Responsible Sourcing Risk Assessment
Tool in collaboration with our third-party advisor on human rights.
It was updated to include additional human rights indices, including Social risks related to human rights and labor rights, using
an expanded dataset that incorporates IFF’s full natural ingredients sources such as the International Labor Organization,
portfolio, as well as new dashboards for improved data visualization 50% International Trade Union Confederation Global Rights Index
and analysis. With these upgrades, in 2024, we will be able to better and UNICEF.
identify high-risk sourcing countries, focus our human-rights risk
mitigation efforts and provide support for suppliers according to
Governance risks related to government effectiveness, using
risk level.
sources such as the Freedom in the World Index, World Bank
Worldwide Governance Indicators and U.S. Department of State
30%
Trafficking in Persons Report.
Identifies areas of potential risk and guides our responsible sourcing
policies, programs and strategies.
6 Weightings based on IFF’s Vendor Code of Conduct.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
22
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN and community leaders. HRIA results highlighted social and community SUPPLIER ENGAGEMENT
challenges related to multiple human rights topics, such as access to basic
IFF has operations and suppliers in countries that may have higher human Through our memberships and partnerships in a range of third-party
facilities, clean and safe water, education, grievance mechanisms and
rights-related risks, according to The Bureau of International Labor Affairs, ESG frameworks, we monitor and evaluate supplier performance against
healthcare, awareness of good agricultural practices, child and migrant labor,
which maintains a list of goods and their source countries which it has our corporate policies, including social and environmental compliance and
impact of climate change, health and safety, and living wage and income.
reason to believe are produced by child labor or forced labor in violation of management system practices. Additionally, to ensure that we continue
international standards, as required under the Trafficking Victims Protection After the visits, we continued to engage with each supplier through findings to work with those vendors that share our high standards for sourcing
Reauthorization Act of 2005 and subsequent reauthorizations. The List of workshops to ensure full understanding of the issues or potential risks and sustainability, we partner with like-minded organizations that help us
Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor comprises 78 countries and to prioritize areas of actions together. As the experts in their own monitor, assess, support and improve our suppliers’ commitments and
and areas as of September 28, 2022. To manage any potential risks, we work supply chains, equipped with the right relationships and cultural contexts practices. We provide trainings and capacity building opportunities to
closely with key partners and platforms on strengthening our human rights of the rights-holders involved, our suppliers are empowered to develop our internal buyers, in order to harmonize the collective understanding
due diligence (HRDD) processes through training, community programs and and implement their action plans to mitigate and manage any identified or of responsible sourcing and corporate supplier engagement programs in
other mitigation actions. potential gaps. We continue to support them in ongoing ways to strengthen ongoing ways. Finally, as part of our commitment to supplier diversity, we
our collaboration, including through capacity building and trainings at both engage with diverse suppliers and strive to provide them with the equal
In 2023, we worked with a trusted third-party advisor — using their
the management and field levels. At IFF, we are also using the HRIA results opportunity to compete to supply IFF’s goods and services or to become
methodology based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human
internally to bolster our supplier engagement activities, assessment and IFF’s preferred suppliers or subcontractors.
Rights and the OECD Guidelines on Multinational Enterprises — to further
audit requirements and procurement strategies.
advance our HRDD approach for our strategic natural ingredients supply
75% of our business-critical suppliers were engaged in at
chains. This included identifying and monitoring human rights due diligence
We also took steps to provide training and awareness opportunities for our
in the supply chain; focusing on the perspective of rights-holders to least one capacity building or training opportunity through
own employees. We created a new Human Rights Due Diligence training
understand the impact of IFF and its suppliers on human rights; prioritizing course — initially completed by 40 people based on their direct areas of our partners in 2023.
our actions to eliminate the most serious impacts; and executing a practical
responsibility — that was made available to all employees on IFF University.
action plan to prevent or mitigate identified issues. Led by a trusted
The three-part series outlines why human rights are relevant to IFF’s
third-party partner, we conducted in-person human rights impact
business, how to embed HRDD in our operations and how to sustain HRDD
assessments (HRIAs) for nine strategic natural ingredients supply chains in
best practices.
six countries where we have direct spend suppliers, including orange flower
in Tunisia, patchouli in Indonesia, vanilla in Madagascar and jasmine in Egypt, Looking ahead, we will continue supporting our direct suppliers by
among others. (To learn more about our HRIA for vanilla in Madagascar, see implementing remediation plans with them where we conducted HRIAs in
page 28.) 2023. We have also identified additional supply chains where we plan to
strengthen human rights due diligence in 2024, including palm and soy.
The purpose of the HRIAs was to identify actual and potential issues
For more information on our corporate governance approach to upholding
through a detailed rights-holders engagement process, including interviews,
human rights, see page 74.
discussion groups, awareness building, data collection, document review,
management interviews and workshops. In all, we heard from more than 550
We conducted in-person human rights impact assessments
rights-holders, including farmers, pickers, factory workers, labor contractors
for nine strategic natural ingredients supply chains in six
countries where we have direct spend suppliers.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
23
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
ECOVADIS & SEDEX TOGETHER FOR SUSTAINABILITY
Suppliers that are critical to our business are reviewed annually and IFF is one of 50 members of Together for Sustainability (TfS), a global
required to be assessed through EcoVadis or Sedex, which are supply platform and shared infrastructure for assessing and auditing the
chain information platforms that specialize in sustainability performance sustainability performance of the supply chains for chemical companies and
assessments. The results help us drive continuous improvement in labor their suppliers. This member-driven initiative serves as a hub for continuous
standards, health and safety, environmental management and ethical improvement of sustainability performance through buyer-supplier
business conduct. Additionally, our HRDD approach includes an initial collaboration. TfS assessments are carried out by EcoVadis, and TfS audits
review and screening of our global direct spend suppliers and, based are done in cooperation with a TfS-approved audit company. Performance is
on the results, we may require select suppliers to participate in EcoVadis assessed in the areas of management, environment, health and safety, labor
and Sedex assessments. and human rights, and issues of ethical corporate governance. The measures
introduced are reviewed via re-assessments or audits and subsequent
The Sedex Risk Assessment Tool allows us to prioritize our suppliers for
supplier management is the responsibility of individual member companies.
completion of the Sedex Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) and Sedex
At IFF, we combine the outcomes of these assessments along with other
Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) 4-pillar audits, which include human
internal risk insights to conduct follow-up monitoring and determine supplier
rights considerations. In addition to our assessment of our suppliers, 85% of
audit schedules.
our major manufacturing facilities7 have undergone SMETA audits. We also
use Sedex to run reports on our suppliers’ ethical data, manage information During 2023, we continued to work with suppliers on their corrective action
on our own facilities and share information with our customers. plans identified through TfS audits to drive continuous improvement in
sustainability performance. IFF contributed to TfS targets by achieving:
In 2023, more than 500 suppliers engaged in EcoVadis capacity building
campaigns (including introductory webinars and corrective action plan • 700 valid supplier assessments
training), and more than 100 suppliers engaged in a webinar covering new
• 480 new or follow-up assessments
SAQ updates.
• 57% improved scorecards of suppliers through EcoVadis
65% of our business-critical suppliers — defined as those that contribute
to the top 90% of IFF’s direct global spend — met IFF’s requirements to
We participate in the TfS Academy, a capability-building hub for TfS
be considered responsible vendors, based on their EcoVadis or Sedex
members, their procurement teams and suppliers, to learn the most
results, marking a 5% increase from 2022. This means their EcoVadis
pertinent and trending sustainability procurement topics through more
or Sedex assessment results were in good standing with no significant
than 390 courses in eleven languages. We also engaged in other TfS-hosted
nonconformances or corrective action plans in place.
events during the year, including interactive webinars on the EcoVadis
assessment and post-assessment process.
To increase scores on assessments and audits, we engage suppliers to
participate in webinars hosted by EcoVadis and Sedex. In 2023, topics
included general introductions to platforms, implementing corrective
action plans and human rights.
7 For ISO 14001 certification, a “major manufacturing facility” is defined by the site’s production volume, which is calculated annually. For waste management, a “major manufacturing facility” is defined as a site that
generates more than 100 metric tons of total waste annually.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
24
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
CDP SUPPLY CHAIN Within our Tier 2 tracking program, established in mid-2022, we invite key
As a longstanding member of the CDP Supply Chain program, we engage suppliers to self-report their diverse spend to us. We continued to expand
with suppliers to complete the CDP climate change and water security this program and further enhanced our reporting capabilities in 2023.
questionnaires and share their environmental data with us. Our goal by Within six months of launch, we doubled the number of Tier 2 suppliers
2030 is to engage 400 suppliers on climate and water reporting. In 2023, that report diverse spend, to eight compared with four in 2022.
we requested 249 of our strategic suppliers to disclose through the CDP
We also strive to cultivate partnerships that can help expand the global
Climate Change questionnaire, of which 188 responded and disclosed
scope of our Supplier Diversity Program, such as our partnership with
(or an approximately 76% response rate). Of our 188 disclosing suppliers,
WEConnect International. In 2023, for example, we were pleased to
76% reported their Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions; 50% reported their
participate in a “matchmaking” session for prospective diverse suppliers
supply chain emissions; 71% reported having at least one active climate
and IFF procurement teams in Latin America. Looking ahead, we are
change target; and 74% reported implementing initiatives to reduce
training additional IFF teams on our tools for identifying diverse suppliers
their GHGs. This information helps us improve our Scope 3 (value chain)
and including them in various types of sourcing events where applicable.
emissions estimates and better prioritize future mitigation measures. To
In addition, we continue to extend our Tier 2 program and supplier
help continually increase these numbers over time, in 2023 we again worked
self-reporting capabilities.
with industry partners and the CDP Supply Chain platform to offer support,
training, guidance and encouragement to suppliers, such as through
134% increase in diverse supplier spend in 2023
webinars and discussions, about how to disclose through CDP’s climate
compared to 2021.
change questionnaire.
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
As outlined in our Vendor Code of Conduct, we promote diversity, equity DIVERSE SUPPLIER SPEND
and inclusion across our supply chain and expect our vendors to do the same. ($USD)
We encourage our vendors to engage diverse businesses in competing for
Goal Achieved
supply contracts and in the vendor’s process for selecting preferred suppliers
2023 $72 million $89 million
or subcontractors. Through our Supplier Diversity Program, we are constantly
extending our activities to achieve internal objectives that help identify,
2022 $42 million $65 million
develop and utilize certified diverse businesses. For example, in 2023,
we set an internal goal to increase spend with diverse suppliers by at least 2021 $15 million $38 million
10% compared with 2022 and surpassed this target by 25%. This included
increasing spending with women-owned suppliers by 13%.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
25
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
STRATEGIC RAW MATERIALS Our Sustainable Soy Policy outlines our commitment to procure soy white PALM
flakes and soybeans from deforestation- and conversion-free sources by
We are working to achieve traceability for the responsible sourcing Palm oil production is often linked to deforestation, biodiversity destruction
2025, with an initial focus on North America and Brazil. Internally, our
of all IFF’s strategic natural raw materials by 2030. In 2023, and human rights abuses. In line with our Sustainable Palm Oil Policy, we
cross-functional Soy Responsible Sourcing Working Group within our
we targeted the top 50% of direct spend on strategic natural are committed to sourcing from deforestation- and conversion-free palm
Responsible Sourcing Committee monitors the Company’s progress in
ingredients, a scope that included 24 top raw material categories. oil supply chains. We take diligent steps to ensure that the palm and palm
this area.
Through collecting data at the country of harvest level, we achieved kernel oil in our supply chain — currently approximately 0.12% of the total
more than 90% traceability and 65% responsibly sourced raw produced worldwide in 2023 — comes from sustainable sources. Our
All non-GMO soybeans sourced from our Esteio, Brazil site are certified by
materials based on the results of our Responsible Sourcing Risk internal Palm Responsible Sourcing Working Group oversees these efforts.
ProTerra, which affirms that products have been produced in a sustainable
Assessment Tool, third-party assessments and audits. We plan to
and traceable manner. In 2023, approximately 20% of our GMO soybean
As a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) — a global,
expand our portfolio of natural raw materials in scope for responsible
volume from Brazil was also RTRS-certified, confirming that soy from this
multi-stakeholder initiative to develop and implement global standards for
sourcing in 2024. Three of our most important strategic materials
site is produced through an environmentally correct, deforestation- and
sustainable palm oil — we seek to ensure that our palm oil supply chain does
include soy, palm and seaweed.
conversion-free (DCF) process. To address the remaining 80%, we utilized
not contribute to deforestation, peat clearance or human rights abuses.
RTRS credits, thereby contributing to the development of the supply chain.
See IFF’s most recent Annual Communication of Progress for the RSPO
SOY Going forward, we are committed to enhancing our mass balance portion
here. We are also a member of RSPO’s North American Sustainable Palm
The production of soy continues to expand rapidly in tropical within the supply chain and will continue to cover the remaining volume Oil Network (NASPON), an independent group of associations, civil society
regions due to rising global market demand. This growth has also with credits. Our ability to fulfill this commitment relies significantly on organizations and others committed to increasing the use of certified
been associated with increased environmental and social risks, the evolving practices within the soy industry and the future availability of sustainable palm oil in North America.
including threats to biodiversity-rich biomes. Although IFF does certified soy in the market.
not produce soybeans, our purchasing includes soy-based raw
Traceability also plays a crucial role in the soy supply chain in Brazil, In alignment with our goal to source 100% physical certified
materials. Our first-tier suppliers are manufacturers, traders, refiners,
particularly given the environmental and social sensitivities associated with RSPO palm oil by 2025, we strive to continuously increase
cooperatives and producers that use soybeans grown predominantly
soy production. As soy can be sourced from Brazil’s biodiverse-rich Cerrado RSPO Supply Chain certification for our manufacturing
in the United States.
or Amazon biomes, ensuring transparent monitoring of land use becomes
facilities, enabling us to supply RSPO-certified ingredients
We believe soy should be produced in a sustainable manner by imperative to ensure the procurement of DCF commodities. In 2023, we
to our customers. As of 2023:
conserving native vegetation and biodiversity while also respecting confirmed 100% traceability of soy to the municipality level in Brazil, based
human rights. We are also committed to transparency in the sourcing on 2022 data.
• 29 of our plants currently meet the standards of RSPO
soybeans. As a member of the Round Table on Responsible Soy
Supply Chain Certification
(RTRS) — a multi-stakeholder initiative that aims to facilitate a global
dialogue on soy production that is economically viable, socially
• 60% of our total palm volume is currently
equitable and environmentally sound — we seek to support
sector-wide transformational change while working to improve RSPO certified8
our own supply chain.
8 Third-party assured metric.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
26
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
PROTECTING FORESTS
& LIVELIHOODS IN
INDONESIA
In 2023, IFF continued our financial support to the Sungai
Linau Landscape Conservation and Livelihoods Programme
(SLP) in Indonesia, which is located in the core area of
Giam Siak Kecil-Bukit Batu Biosphere Reserve, made up of
both peat swamp forest and agricultural land that is mostly
used for palm and fiber production. Coordinated by the
non-profit organization, Proforest, the SLP aims to support
community-based land use development, strengthen village
members’ livelihoods, protect high-conservation-value
and high-carbon-stock forest and reduce greenhouse gas
emissions through forest and peat protection and restoration.
Since the start of the program in February 2021, 457
smallholders from four villages have received Best
Management Practices training and financial literacy training,
with the aim to prevent further peat forest conversion to
palm by increasing productivity through intensification.
The investment of IFF and other companies has helped the
program protect more than 5,000 hectares of peat forest,
which are under social forestry scheme and community-based
monitoring. In its next phase, SLP will focus on protecting an
additional 5,000 hectares, restoring 20,000 hectares of peat
via rewetting, and facilitating dialogues with the provincial
government to broaden the impact of the landscape program.
Photo credit: Proforest
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
27
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
RESTORING NORWEGIAN
SEAWEED FORESTS
Seaweed forests are among the most important natural
environments on the planet but face significant challenges.
In northern Norway, they have become the main food source
and home to more than 300 invasive species of sea urchins,
which gained a foothold following ecological disruptions
from human activity beginning in the 1970s that removed
many of the urchin larvae’s natural predators, allowing them
to multiply in high numbers. This has caused ecological ripple
effects on the biomass of native animals and plants, including
limiting opportunities for seaweed harvesting.
In partnership with environmental non-governmental
SEAWEED
organization, Bellona, we began a new long-term project
When utilized for food, fuel, medicine and other nature-based purposes, In 2023, the ACCOL monitored the adoption of the Good Practices at the
in 2023 to restore seaweed forests in northern Norway.
seaweed has the potential to address some of the world’s biggest harvest areas currently in the SRSP program. Two harvest areas, Norway
The Norwegian Marine Restoration (NoMaRe) project aims
sustainable development challenges. IFF is one of the largest global buyers and Iceland, both had demonstrably increased their adoption of the Good
to restore 5,000 square kilometers of urchin barrens and
and harvesters of red and brown seaweed for hydrocolloids (such as Practices and reached the Advanced level, the highest level of the program,
transform them into vibrant kelp forests by managing invasive
alginates and carrageenan), which are essential ingredients in many foods, with over 75% of the Good Practices adopted. Both harvest areas also
sea urchin predation. The project also aims to raise awareness
pharmaceuticals, fertilizers and cosmetics. To produce best-in-class alginate showed significant improvements in data gathering and the ongoing use
among political decision-makers and other key stakeholders
and carrageenan products for our customers, we source and process both of the tools developed as part of the SRSP, such as tracking the minimal
about the importance of the local marine ecosystem as part
wet and dry seaweed from thousands of seaweed farmers in the Indo-Pacific bycatch that occurs during seaweed harvesting.
of Norway’s green transition and climate change objectives.
and from harvesters in Chile, Peru, Mexico, Canada, Morocco and Australia.
IFF is proud to provide financial support and expertise in
We also harvest seaweed directly in Australia, Norway and Iceland. IFF is a signatory of the Seaweed Manifesto, a visionary seaweed management and restoration to this project over
industry statement that describes how seaweed can the next three years. The project will help fund the creation
Our Seaweed Responsible Sourcing Program (SRSP) seeks to support the
members of our seaweed value chain and continuously improve the social contribute to achieving the UN SDGs through food security, of a dedicated platform to promote effective, scientifically
proven urchin removal schemes and supplementary
and environmental performance of our seaweed cultivation and harvesting climate change mitigation, poverty alleviation and support
restoration efforts. The regrowth of the kelp forests could
processes. The SRSP is based on a comprehensive set of “Environmental & for marine ecosystems.
increase biological carbon sequestration by 12 million tons —
Social Good Practices for Seaweed Harvesting,” which were developed in
the equivalent of Norway’s total oil and gas industry emissions
partnership with the Anderson Cabot Center for Ocean Life (ACCOL) at the
in 2021. Learn more.
New England Aquarium and approved by an independent advisory group of
subject matter experts.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
28
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
COMMUNITY & BIODIVERSITY PROGRAMS
Through our community and biodiversity programs, we seek to raise
awareness of critical sustainable development issues. We also help suppliers
adopt the best practices and risk mitigation measures that will help them
sustainably increase their yields and incomes while strengthening their
overall ESG performance. Our work in Madagascar and India offers
two examples:
We sponsor seven community and biodiversity
field initiatives supporting more than 11,500 beneficiaries
in seven countries.
Living income strategy: We continued to work closely with the Union for the challenge of erratic rainfall in the region, as well as the volatility of the
VANILLA CULTIVATION IN MADAGASCAR
Ethical BioTrade (UEBT) to ensure that the vanilla farmer families we source guar market that may hinder remunerative profitability.
Vanilla is primarily cultivated in Madagascar, where social, environmental, from earn a living income. We completed a living income gap assessment,
Among other accomplishments, since 2021:
economic and traceability challenges make the supply chain fragile. which included identifying an applicable living income benchmark for the
For these reasons, the objective of our vanilla program in Madagascar vanilla sector in the northeastern region of Madagascar and gathering
• 800+ farmers from six villages were trained in agroecology, including
is to not only create a long-term and stable supply of sustainable and information on the cost of production for vanilla at the farmer-level. With
natural fertilizers and pest management, livestock management, wild plant
high-quality vanilla, but to ensure that vanilla is sourced with respect for this information, UEBT and IFF co-hosted an in-person workshop with
processing, crop rotation, agroforestry and tree planting for soil health.
people and planet. The program addresses governance, traceability and approximately 50 participants from the supply chain, including suppliers,
• Strengthened predictability and financial planning opportunities for
labor rights issues, as well as provides technical assistance to growers, cooperatives and farmers. The group discussed and prioritized a living
farmers, supporting their capacity for savings and investment.
including opportunities to develop alternative incomes. Toward this end, income strategy to close the gap. As a next step, we will be finalizing and
in 2023, we continued to advance on two priority areas. implementing the plan. • 230+ farmers and community members participated in trainings to
empower women from guar-harvesting communities to highlight the
Human Rights: In partnership with our trusted third-party advisor on human
GUAR SOURCING IN INDIA importance of their role in the field.
rights (learn more on page 22), we completed an in-person Human Rights
Impact Assessment to ensure that the human rights of the farmers and Guar gum is a cost-effective, all-natural and label-friendly hydrocolloid and
To build on the success of this project, looking ahead we will continue to
communities we source from are respected and promoted. Through this thickening agent used in a variety of dairy and plant-based consumer foods
work with our strategic supplier on a next phase of this initiative to further
opportunity, we engaged with rights-holders, including farmers, collectors, and beverages to control viscosity and build texture. In 2023, IFF completed
scale positive impact.
workers, community members and other partner organizations to identify the final year of a three-year sustainable guar sourcing project in partnership
and validate risks and required mitigation actions. Following the meetings, with our strategic guar supplier in India, and extended it for one additional
we worked to agree on risk prioritization and develop action plans, and we year. The project has enhanced the resiliency of smallholder farmers,
will be monitoring implementation in 2024. particularly women, through education and awareness-building to overcome
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
29
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Sustainable innovation
Approach Progress
EMBEDDING SUSTAINABILITY INTO OUR INNOVATION FOR SUSTAINABILITY
INNOVATION PIPELINE
As we strive for all new IFF innovations to have a sustainability value
With our broad capabilities, exceptional scientific expertise and robust proposition by 2030, we recognized the need for a way to quantify, track
portfolio, we are able to meet our customers’ changing needs and goals and measure against this goal. In 2022, we developed our Innovation for
through our commitment to sustainable innovation. Leveraging our unique Sustainability (I4S) assessment tool that uses an internal methodology to
strengths, we are embedding sustainability into our product development evaluate the sustainability performance of our innovation projects. This tool
processes in ways that are mindful of environmental and social factors. enables us to:
Our 2030 goal is for all new IFF innovations to have a sustainability value
• Enhance the robustness of our future portfolio in terms of sustainability
proposition that is supportive of people and planet.
and positive impact for our customers and consumers
• Identify sustainability benefits and risks associated with our innovations
from a life cycle perspective
• Embrace better-informed decisions through transparency
In practice, relevant sustainability risks and benefits of the innovation are
assessed along their entire life cycle in relative and absolute terms, as well
as their magnitude and likelihood to materialize. Based on that assessment,
an evaluation on both benefits and risks is applied, which results in a
conclusion on the sustainability value proposition. An innovation assessed as
having a sustainability value proposition must show a relevant and realistic
sustainability benefit without substantial, unmanageable risk (see figure).
value proposition.9 Looking ahead, we will continue to refine the
In 2023, this tool was embedded into IFF’s product development process. methodology and expand the application of this tool to a wider selection
We screened relevant innovation projects against the model’s criteria, and of our innovation pipeline, including by incorporating the tool into even
we're proud to share that 91% of all projects assessed had a sustainability earlier stages of the innovation process.
9 The percentage of new innovations that have a sustainable value proposition that supports people and planet was externally assured in 2023. Learn more.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
30
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
INNOVATION FOR SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENT MODEL
We assess the sustainability value propositions of the products in our innovation pipeline using our
internal methodology that informs decision making, feeding any learnings back into the innovation process.
EVALUATE progress towards our 2030 goal
IDENTIFY relevant sustainability criteria ASSESS sustainability benefits and risks against DETERMINE the product innovation’s
for all new innovations to have a sustainability
along the product innovation’s life cycle a relevant benchmark, resulting in a score for each sustainability value proposition
value proposition that supports people and planet
Raw materials
Suppliers
Embed Sustainability
into product positioning
SUPPLY Manufacturing Relevant 2023 RESULTS
CHAIN Benefits
91%
Distribution New innovations
with a sustainability
IDENTIFY YES Sustainability value proposition
CRITERIA FINAL Value
Consumers SCORE NO Proposition
Relevant
Risks
Innovations
without a sustainability
Social Impact
value proposition
IMPACT
Establish an
CATEGORIES*
improvement strategy
Circularity
Learnings fed into
Climate Biodiversity innovation process
Water
* Impact categories include some but not all categories.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
31
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Life cycle assessment LIFE CYCLE BENEFITS OF IFF’S PRODUCTS & SERVICES
Our products often provide environmental benefits through their performance during the use phase.
IFF’s own footprint (see figure, left) has a proportionally small impact compared to the scale of positive
benefits and avoided environmental burdens we enable for our customers and final consumers through
our sustainable solutions (or IFF’s “handprint,” see figure, right). In this way, IFF’s sustainable solutions
Approach
help our customers reach their own ESG goals.
QUANTIFYING IMPACTS & BENEFITS
LCA is a quantitative assessment of environmental impacts across all stages
of the product life cycle — from raw material acquisition to manufacturing IFF SUPPLY CHAIN CUSTOMER VALUE CHAIN
(cradle-to-gate), and ideally distribution, product use and disposal (Our Footprint) (Our Handprint Opportunities)
(cradle-to-grave) or re-use/re-purposing (cradle-to-cradle). At IFF, we
have an in-house team of experts leveraging LCA as a tool for knowledge
building, decision making and improvement tracking. Quantified results
are calculated across multiple metrics, including global warming potential, IFF
PRODUCTION TRANSPORT
energy use, land use and water use.
Equipped with these types of insights, LCAs play a pivotal role in steering PRODUCTION DISTRIBUTION
RAW
innovation and delivering more sustainable product solutions, as they can Higher efficiency Reduced distribution
MATERIALS CUSTOMER
and fewer emissions impacts through more
provide a deeper understanding of the potential trade-offs and potential USE
concentrated or ambient
risks throughout the life cycle of the product. The process also enables our stable products
WASTE
businesses to leverage circular design thinking and make more informed MANAGEMENT
decisions from the R&D, commercial and operations perspectives.
RAW CONSUMER USE
IFF’s LCA capability serves three key purposes:
MATERIALS Healthier and/or more
Alternative and sustainable products,
• Internal support: Supporting science-based, data-driven more sustainable e.g., requiring less
decision-making on new product development and process improvements raw materials energy and water or
and ingredients generating less waste
• Customer collaboration: Sharing insights with customers and partners END-OF-LIFE
about our products’ environmental impacts, their benefits in use and their (OR REBIRTH)
Learn more about IFF Circularity through
future reduction opportunities
renewable and
handprint solutions.
biodegradable offerings
• Sustainable portfolio transformation: Screening ingredients and
and less waste
processes to target lower-impact options in collaboration with both
internal and external stakeholders
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
32
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Progress
ENABLING CUSTOMERS TO REDUCE EMISSIONS
In 2023, LCA expanded our understanding of our environmental footprint, • Plant-based proteins with advanced texturants and flavorings support the
revealed new insights about the impacts to our customer value chain replacement of animal-based proteins and accelerate the wider adoption
(including our handprint), and supported sustainable innovation. We of plant-based alternatives with a lower environmental footprint.
continued to advance and verify our internal avoided emissions calculation
• Xivia, or IFF-produced xylitol, was shown through a peer-reviewed LCA to
methodology that allows us to quantify positive benefits through the
contribute lower GHG emissions that conventional xylitol produced from
functionality of IFF’s sustainable solutions for our customers and final
corn cobs.
consumers. Our portfolio of sustainable solutions is designed to catalyze
upstream and downstream change across our entire value chain, including
enabling reductions in Scope 1, 2 and 3 impacts for our customers. Through the use of IFF solutions, we estimate that IFF
enabled customers and consumers to avoid approximately
IFF has developed a methodology to evaluate the yearly avoided GHG
16 times (or 24.6 million tons) more CO e than generated at
emissions of our products through LCA of key product applications coupled 2
IFF’s manufacturing sites.10
with regional sales data for 2023. These emissions are then divided by IFF
Scope 1 and 2 emissions for the same year. In 2023, we considered five key
product groupings and applications: For more detailed information on this approach, please see our methodology
description. It includes details on the setting of benchmarks and any
• Fuel alcohol yeast and enzymes enable the efficient production of ethanol,
deviations from the recent guidance from the World Business Council for
a renewable transportation fuel which replaces a percentage of gasoline,
Sustainable Development Guidance on Avoided Emissions, 2019.
significantly reducing the GHG emissions of the transportation industry.
Looking ahead, we plan to use the insights gained from our LCA data to
• Animal feed enzymes reduce or eliminate the need for inorganic
launch more sustainable innovation projects and drive further emissions
phosphate in swine and poultry diets, improving animal welfare and
reductions. We are also working toward providing PACT (Partnership for
reducing phosphorous and GHG emissions.
Carbon Transparency) compliant data as well as collaborating with our
• Cold-water laundry enzymes enable consumers to wash clothes at lower customers and suppliers to show future emissions reduction pathways.
temperatures without sacrificing performance, resulting in lower energy
use and reduced GHG emissions.
10 Limited assurance for this estimation provided by ERM CVS. As most IFF products and all IFF solutions evaluated are consumed in use, a year-over-year approach is used for this calculation. While this evaluation
does not include all IFF solutions, it does capture our current solutions with substantial use-phase benefits. No rebound effects (changes in demand or behavior due to the implementation of a sustainable solution,
leading to further impacts) are anticipated for the products and scenarios evaluated. Learn more.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
33
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Portfolio spotlights
As sustainability priorities continue to gain momentum on
strategic agendas, we are bringing leading solutions to market
that our customers value. Equipped with an industry-leading
set of capabilities at the intersection of science and creativity,
we strive to be the premier, end-to-end sustainability partner
to our customers, helping them grow their businesses and
reach their own goals through our diverse product portfolio.
Today, IFF’s operating model is centered on our business units (BUs), who
have full, end-to-end accountability for delivering the highest standards
of innovation, service and quality. Our world-class R&D teams are also
embedded in the BUs they serve, working cross-functionally and across BUs
where applicable to leverage our award-winning science and technology and
win in the marketplace.
Together with our customers, we are creating ripple effects with the
potential to benefit millions of global consumers who are looking to make
environmentally and socially responsible purchasing decisions.
We invite you to explore the following Portfolio Spotlights that describe
some of the ways we advanced in our efforts to deliver breakthrough
innovations for positive impact in 2023.
Re-Imagining new solutions to food waste 34
Catalyzing the future through innovation in bioscience 36
Leading science-driven transformation for positive impact 38
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
34
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
PORTFOLIO SPOTLIGHT UNLOCKING THE VALUE OF WASTE UPCYCLED CACAO
THROUGH UPCYCLING
Re-Imagining new solutions FRUIT INCLUSIONS
Upcycled foods use ingredients that otherwise
to food waste
would not have gone to human consumption, In 2023, TAURA by IFF introduced Upcycled Cacao Fruit
are procured and produced using verifiable Inclusions by leveraging modern advances in technology to
According to the Upcycled Food Association and the Cap Gemini Research
supply chains, and have a positive impact on the upcycle the nutrient-dense pulp of the cacao fruit, whose
Institute, up to 30% of all food is wasted globally each year — equivalent to
environment. IFF is an Associate Member of the seeds have been used for centuries for chocolate production.
1.3 billion tons, costing USD $1 trillion and accounting for 8-10% of global
Upcycled Food Association, which developed the Up to 70% of the cacao fruit is traditionally discarded once
GHGs — enough to otherwise feed 2 billion people. The majority of food
world’s first third-party certification for upcycled the seeds have been harvested, amounting to an alarming
waste gets sent to landfills, where it decomposes and emits methane,
food ingredients and products. As of 2023, we have waste of approximately 10 million tons of cacao fruit annually.
one of the biggest contributors to climate change.
achieved verification from the Upcycled Certified™
Utilizing the 100% natural valorized and pressed juice from
To address the issue of food waste, we offer three solutions through our Program for multiple IFF ingredients. In addition
the pulp of the cacao fruit, TAURA offers a product that is
RE-IMAGINE WASTE™ Innovation Program: to our new Upcycled Cacao Fruit Inclusions (see more, right) our upcycled
free from additives and preservatives and naturally sweet.
ingredient portfolio also includes our LMR Upcycling Collection of various
1. UPCYCLING: Valorizing waste by upcycling side streams and applying We blend it with responsibly sourced fruit purees and juices
flavoring extracts; upcycled essential orange oil extracted from discarded
upcycled ingredients to create value-added premium cacao fruit snacks and
peels by IFF partner, PeelPioneers; and POWDERPURE’s Uncommon
inclusions for bars and confectionery. Learn more.
2. SHELF LIFE: Preventing food waste at distribution, storage and Harvest™, a collection of upcycled powders derived from food loss streams
consumption via food protection at farms and in processing that are not otherwise utilized. With our
zero-waste philosophy, we strive to valorize waste streams and re-embed
3. RESOURCE OPTIMIZATION: Minimizing waste by optimizing
them into a circular food system. We do this through in-house processing
resources during production
methodologies, such as natural extraction, biotechnologies, low energy
drying technology and more.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
35
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
PREVENTING & MINIMIZING EXTENDING SHELF LIFE THROUGH NATURALLY
FOOD WASTE OCCURRING ANTIMICROBIALS
In 2023, we launched a new food protection innovation, NOVAGARD® NN
In addition to our wide range of solutions to unlock the value
1-10, a naturally occurring antimicrobial and antifungal blend that provides a
of waste through upcycling, IFF’s RE-IMAGINE WASTE™
cost-effective alternative to synthetic preservatives for processed cheese.
Innovation program also focuses on preventing food waste
Designed to meet the needs of dairy manufacturers looking to reduce
in the first place.
food loss from product returns, it controls the growth of common spoilage
Our comprehensive Food Protection portfolio protects yeasts, molds and bacteria. By protecting the product for longer and
product quality and freshness, improves and maintains significantly extending its shelf life, NOVAGARD® NN 1-10 not only reduces
sensory properties and reduces oxidative and microbial food waste but also enables less frequent product distribution, resulting in
spoilage. By reducing the impact of higher temperature the avoidance of transportation-related emissions that would occur during
environments and enabling longer storage, we can optimize deliveries. Learn more in this time-lapse video.
the distribution chain and enable wider geographical reach.
RESOURCE OPTIMIZATION BY REDUCING
We also know that in response to consumers who are seeking
PRODUCTION WASTE
more sustainable packaging, many manufacturers are striving
to minimize plastic by using containers made from paper We offer a range of enzymatic and fermentation methodologies,
or alternative materials. However, some new sustainable hydrocolloids and food protectant technologies to help food and beverage
packaging materials can make food more prone to oxidation manufacturers reduce food losses during the production stage, while
and microbial spoilage. By adding food protection solutions also better optimizing their resources, such as raw materials, water and
to the product, we can help bridge the gap when switching energy. For example, within our GUARDIAN® range of market-differentiating
from plastic packaging to alternative materials. Learn more rosemary extract-based solutions, we offer the frying industry highly
about our approach to Food Protection. efficient synergistic blends that enhance the quality and prolong the lifespan
of frying oils. Longer durability of frying oils for multiple cycles not only
reduces raw material costs but can result in approximately 40% less frying
oil wasted, and consequently, a significant reduction in CO emissions.
2
We have also created an innovative Frying Calculator to help our
customers quantify these benefits that are achievable with our solutions
for specific purposes.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
36
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
PORTFOLIO SPOTLIGHT
Catalyzing the future through
innovation in bioscience
At IFF, we believe that bioscience — and its potential
to leverage solutions found in nature — is integral to
creating a more sustainable future. Our innovations
equip our customers with solutions that help them
achieve their own sustainability goals and improve their
environmental footprint, including new ways to reduce
waste, use less water and energy, and reduce CO
2
emissions. We leverage our skills and capabilities to develop groundbreaking remove chemical stabilizers. In 2023, we launched our PREFERENZ® stable
product solutions that cater to sectors in health, food & beverage, home & liquid enzyme portfolio, which provides excellent cleaning performance
personal care and industrial applications. As ‘Catalysts for Good,’ we take at washing temperatures of 20°C. By opting to streamline ingredients and
great pride in highlighting key initiatives that reflect our deep commitment shift toward more biobased materials, we are helping consumers make more
to bioscience. sustainable choices. Learn more about our laundry solutions.
ENABLING LOW TEMPERATURE CLEANING BREWING SUSTAINABLY
THROUGH STABLE LIQUID ENZYMES
Breweries are increasingly prioritizing sustainability to reduce impacts and
Consumers are looking for cleaning products that are biobased and costs. IFF’s brewing enzymes allow for unique solutions such as alternative /
biodegradable, but do not compromise stain removal performance. LCA also reduced raw materials, increases in production efficiency, simplification of
shows that the largest impact of detergents on carbon emissions occurs the production process and the upcycling of spent yeasts and grains.
during the use phase — and mainly energy consumption from water heating. They also help enable energy and water savings, as well as reductions in
To deliver the highest cleaning performance level, enzymes must stay stable GHG emissions.
in laundry detergent throughout their lifecycle. But as proteins, enzymes are
In 2023, for example, we introduced IFF BCLEAR™, a new enzymatic
sensitive to other detergent ingredients (such as surfactants) and may also
solution that stabilizes beer, maintaining clarity in smarter and more
degrade in unfavorable conditions such as high storage temperatures. The
efficient ways than current solutions, offering energy and water savings.
conventional solution is to add stabilizing ingredients, which can add cost
By using BCLEAR™, breweries are achieving a more cost-efficient and
and be subject to regulatory limitations.
robust stabilization process compared to other enzymatic solutions, while
Through recent advances in biotechnology, specifically protein engineering, improving beer foam stability and reducing gluten content. Learn more
we have been able to improve the stability and low-temperature about how we are helping breweries deliver solutions for increasingly
performance of laundry enzymes, as well as enable detergent formulators to eco-conscious consumers.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
37
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
DESIGNED ENZYMATIC DEB’S INNOVATION
BIOMATERIALS™ (DEB)
POTENTIAL
In 2023, IFF launched our new-to-the-world
Designed Enzymatic BiomaterialsTM (DEB) We believe this technology holds the promise to revolutionize
technology for the development of biobased the performance and sustainability of the materials used in
materials at scale. Unlike fossil-based synthetic many sectors. In 2023, we launched the first commercial
polymers, IFF’s cutting-edge DEB technology product enabled by DEB technology. AURIST™ AGC is a
utilizes advanced biotechnology to create unique, water-soluble, readily biodegradable biopolymer for hair
structurally diverse polysaccharides, like those and skin conditioning that replaces synthetic polymers used
found in nature, but at scale, with a purity, quality in traditional formulations while delivering unique benefits.
and consistency typically only found in traditional petrochemical polymers. During the year, IFF was pleased to be recognized with the
Using sugar, water and enzymes, we can design functional materials that can Gold Win for AURIST™ AGC in the Functional Ingredients
be biobased and biodegradable without compromising performance. category at the 2023 Awards for in-cosmetics Global, a
leading personal care ingredients trade show.
The results of an extensive, peer reviewed LCA validated two key
sustainability benefits of the DEB polysaccharide11 that sit at the core Looking ahead, the DEB technology is set to expand its
of the DEB technology: influence with the anticipated introduction of two new
product applications. Lyrature™, a family of high-performance
• The manufacturing process of the DEB polysaccharide can be
polymers, targets the creation of biodegradable detergents
carbon-negative, depending on co-product utilization: Its climate
and cleansers that do not compromise on efficacy. Nuvolve®,
change impact is lower than its carbon sequestration potential,
a class of biomaterials, targets a wide range of industrial
meaning more CO is removed from the atmosphere than is emitted
2 applications. These products are designed to meet the
through production.
established polymer grade industry specifications that are
• The DEB polysaccharide is derived from sugar — with net land expected from fossil-derived products but are typically not
use reduction: Co-products from DEB polysaccharide and the sugar mill met by the traditional biomaterials available today.
displace animal feed stuff and carbohydrates derived from less efficient
Learn more about DEB-enabled industry
agricultural crops.
solutions on our dedicated landing page.
11 The DEB polysaccharide can be further modified and formulated, like traditional polymers, for
use in different applications. Depending on the modifications and formulations added to the DEB
polysaccharide, the LCA results will differ and must be assessed for each product and application.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
38
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
PORTFOLIO SPOTLIGHT
Leading science-driven transformation
for positive impact
Awaken Bioevolution is IFF’s Scent sustainability innovation pillar, capturing
our ambition to drive a science-based scent transformation for positive
impact. We are committed to deliver mindful fragrance design, integrating
sustainability with consumer needs, ensuring a harmonious balance between
environmental responsibility and meeting market demands. Our Scent
sustainability efforts, captured in four innovation focus areas, include: Lead
the regenerative agenda; Foster a positive footprint; Promote self-care; and
AWAKEN
Create social impact.
BIOEVOLUTION
DRIVERS INNOVATION FOCUS
Our 2030 ambition is for our Scent ingredients catalog to be 100%
biodegradable, allowing for 100% circular formulations that are designed
to deliver solutions with a lower carbon footprint. We are also dedicated to PLANET Lead regenerative agenda
achieving our goal of responsibly sourcing 100% of the Scent business unit’s CONSCIOUSNESS
strategic supply chains, including conducting due diligence on human rights.
Foster positive footprint
Additionally, we are committed to enhancing community livelihood through
participation in shared value programs.
SOCIETAL Promote self-care
INVESTMENTS IN SCENT R&D WELLBEING
BIODEGRADABILITY CAPABILITY Create social impact
In 2023, as part of our efforts to lead the regenerative agenda, we
invested in the expansion of our biodegradation testing facility to accelerate
the development of biodegradable Scent solutions, delivering best-in-class
fragrances while meeting Scent business unit ambition and our customers’
ESG goals. With this new capability, our Ingredients Synthesis Team is
targeting intrinsically biodegradable molecules in parallel with the desired Learn more about how our
hedonics and performance. The output of our internal testing will, over Scent business is driving
time, improve the existing predictive models, allowing Scent molecules positive change through
to be confidently assessed for their biodegradation even before being catalog transformation,
synthesized. Ultimately, this will result in a Scent Creative Catalog that LCA and green chemistry.
includes the next generation of biodegradable linear high-volume and
specialty ingredients that enable creative differentiation.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
39
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
PROGRESS ON POSITIVE DESIGN TOOLS olfactory interpretation of orange blossom designed for perfumery.
Neroli Essential was the winner of the 2023 CosmetiqueMag Gold Award
To meet both our customers’ as well as our own corporate goals, IFF
in the supplier ingredients category, demonstrating our commitment to
is striving to reduce the environmental impact of our ingredients, our
sustainability and innovation.
fragrances and our portfolio. The complexity of fragrance design requires
dynamic IT systems to both manage and track improvements regarding • LMR Renewable Extracts Collection
the environmental impact of our ingredients. IFF has incorporated tools to This Collection is composed of five renewable absolutes obtained with
transform bills of materials to life cycle data and connect this to business 100% bio-sourced and biodegradable solvents, with many more currently
data to enable in-depth analysis of fragrances and customer meta formulas. in development. Offering a reinterpretation of classic absolutes known for
decades, they reveal the hidden olfactory facets of the extracted flowers
IFF has also incorporated this LCA data into our perfumers’ design tools.
that can now be leveraged in fragrance creation. While the main objective
With this life cycle data at their fingertips, IFF perfumers can add mindful
of this Collection is to reduce environmental impact, we are finding new
design to their capabilities as they continue to develop fragrances with
applications, such as for cosmetics, where these new absolutes provide
superiority while meeting customer sustainability needs and targets.
advantageous benefits over conventional absolutes, offering a bright
future for these new sustainable ingredients.
In 2023, IFF was honored to receive the highest recognition
among all fragrance houses at Boticário Group’s 26th Another important focus of the Scent business is our sustainable
Partner Evaluation & Development Program Edition Event, innovation strategy to create social impact where we are, expanding
community programs that generate benefits for the farmers while
winning both the Gold and the ESG Awards, the latter only
protecting biodiversity. Our work in Serbia provides one example.
given to the partner who demonstrates a clear and effective
ESG strategy and supports Boticário Group on achieving
NATURAL INNOVATION PLATFORM IN SERBIA
their ESG goals.
Our LMR team has partnered with a women-led producer of natural
ingredients in Serbia, Live Natural, to relaunch local agriculture and
LMR NATURALS: SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS conservation farming. 200 hectares of land are fully dedicated to organic
FROM THE BEST OF NATURE agriculture and offer a large range of aromatic plants such as immortelle,
rose and lavender.
As part of our natural ingredients collections focused on fostering a positive
footprint, our LMR Naturals by IFF team expanded its catalog in 2023 with Regenerative agricultural practices are implemented to promote biodiversity
new offerings. For example: and recreate an entire ecosystem: using organic fertilizers, adding beehives
to pollinate crops and wildflowers and protecting the harvest to prevent
• Award-winning upcycled Neroli Essential by LMR
soil erosion. This natural innovation platform is For Life certified, enhancing
We have applied our unique understanding of naturals to create a new
livelihoods and empowering local communities.
innovative upcycled extract, Neroli Essential. LMR combines neroli oil
with scented molecules recovered from discarded orange flower water.
This unique process, combining science and upcycling, brings a new
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
40
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Climate &
Planetary Health
TAKING BOLD ACTION TO PROTECT
OUR PLANET FOR FUTURE
GENERATIONS
Our multifaceted efforts to advance breakthroughs on climate action and
preserve the health of our planet begin with minimizing our own environmental
footprint. Each step we take to optimize our energy, water and waste
2023 HIGHLIGHTS
management opens greater opportunities to strengthen our business as we
Do More Good for our customers and our planet.
• 21% reduction of Scope 1 and 2 GHG
emissions below 2021 baseline levels
We are progressing on our ambitious goals by taking science-based actions that
drive greater efficiencies, innovation and collaboration. In 2023, we sharpened
• A− on CDP Climate Change
our focus on monitoring environmental performance, identifying and addressing
• ~25K metric tons CO e reduced as a result of
potential gaps and strengthening our sustainability leadership by prioritizing 2
our sustainability and energy CAPEX program,
actions that will drive the greatest change.
and site-led projects
• Completed our first Climate Risk Assessment
• 10 new major manufacturing facilities
achieved internal zero waste to landfill
(ZWL) verification
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
41
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
IFF GREEN TEAMS SET PLANETARY Climate & Planetary
HEALTH IN MOTION Health strategy
In line with our Global Environmental Sustainability Policy,
IFF is committed to being a force for a better and more
Our employees supply the passion and innovation to activate our Green Teams in each region meet quarterly to discuss
sustainable future. We are partnering across our value chain
environmental sustainability ambitions at the facility level. We have best practices, review environmental performance data,
to significantly reduce our environmental footprint and
established Green Teams at each of our manufacturing facilities, learn from guest speakers and ask questions. Coupled with
enable our customers to advance their own climate action
as well as at many of our offices, creative centers and application these regional calls, the Global Sustainability team also offers
strategies. During 2023, our efforts centered on energy
laboratories around the world. Collaborating closely with the Global Green Team members and environmental data managers — or any
efficiency, expanding our use of renewables, and modeling
Sustainability team for guidance and sharing of best practices, each interested employee — monthly opportunities to virtually connect
long-term carbon emissions and energy use to advance
Green Team is responsible for minimizing the environmental footprint and ask questions and discuss environmental topics. This has not
progress on our corporate environmental goals.
of their own facility. only allowed for an open forum to ask questions pertaining to IFF’s
overarching sustainability program or site-specific questions but has
Our commitment to advancing climate and planetary health
Team members evaluate and implement projects at their
also flourished into training opportunities for topics such as waste,
spans three focus areas:
respective locations, reporting on their progress through an online
water, air, refrigerants and more.
environmental management system. This structure allows each site to
• Striving to lead on urgent climate action as we work
focus on actions that yield the greatest environmental improvements,
toward achieving our goal of net zero (Scope 1 and 2)
Learn more about our Green Teams in 2023.
while also allowing all Green Teams to pool resources and knowledge.
GHG emissions by 2040
• Leveraging water stewardship principles and identifying
water risks in our operational footprint
• Verifying zero waste to landfill or maximum diversion
Below: In collaboration with Forest Fwd, IFF employees inaugurated the IFF Corporate Forest in Belgium in 2023 by planting 1,000 trees and kicking off our commitment to their ongoing
(ZWL) at all major manufacturing facilities12
care and management for the next 20 years. Learn more.
Read more about our progress against our
Do More Good Plan 2030 Goals on page 15.
12 For ISO 14001 certification, a “major manufacturing facility” is defined by the
site’s production volume, which is calculated annually. For waste management,
a “major manufacturing facility” is defined as a site that generates more than
100 metric tons of total waste annually.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
42
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Climate change & energy management
Approach Progress
MOVING OUR OPERATIONS TOWARD ASSESSING OUR CLIMATE RISK ASSESSING OUR CLIMATE RISK
NET ZERO EMISSIONS
In 2023, we completed our inaugural climate risk scenario analysis in
IFF ACTION: THIRD-PARTY ACTION
We strive to lead by example in mobilizing broader industry action alignment with the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
on combating climate change through our strategy and performance. (see figure at right). The assessment considered IFF’s levels of physical
Facility Mapping Climate
Our science-based approach to reducing the climate impacts of our and transition risk associated with multiple climate scenarios. The physical & Surveys Modeling
operations and value chain also helps ensure that we meet the expectations assessment included risks to operations from acute and chronic impacts
of our customers, investors, employees and other stakeholders. from event-driven hazards over three decades for each scenario evaluated. Facility Subject
Research
From this analysis, we identified minimal impacts related to both acute and Matter Expert
& Analysis
In 2023, we reduced our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by Interviews
chronic risks throughout the 30-year period.
approximately 15% from the prior year. Of this, approximately 8.7% was
related to decreases in production levels in our operations and portfolio The transition risk assessment, capturing impacts related to the move
optimization measures; and 6.5% was related to our strategic programs, to a low-carbon economy, was a qualitative assessment focusing on two
including the outcomes from our sustainability and energy capital scenarios from the International Energy Agency’s Global Energy and Climate
expenditure (CAPEX) program. This program funds a variety of projects Model, the Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS) and Net Zero Emissions by Physical Risks Transition Risks
that contribute to reducing our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions while also 2050, both of which also incorporated aspects of a delayed transition Resulting from changes in event Potential impacts related
delivering financial returns for IFF and our shareholders. With CAPEX scenario. We determined that costs to comply with climate-related mandates driven hazards that can cause to evolving to a low
funding and site-led projects, we implemented more than 170 projects in 25 and regulations pose moderate to high risks for IFF across all scenarios and immediate harm carbon economy
countries, including energy efficiency measures, such as variable frequency timeframes and will require further analysis. • Changes in energy demand / pricing • Regulatory updates
drives, LED lighting, heat exchangers and boiler upgrades, among others. • Effects from water-induced changes • Consumer demand shifts
Looking ahead, we will be working to incorporate these results into
We also achieved our ESG metric for GHG reduction linked to variable • Increased regional temperatures • Reputational impact
IFF’s long-term Enterprise Risk Management process.
compensation. Learn more on page 70.
Opportunities
• Organizational resilience
In 2023, we reduced approximately 25,000 metric tons
• Resource efficiency
of CO e from Scope 1 and 2 emissions as a result of our
2 • Future availability of new market opportunities
dedicated sustainability and energy capital expenditure
• Energy diversification
fund and site-led operational projects, keeping us on track • Sustainable innovation and solutions
to meet our Do More Good Plan targets.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
43
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Scope 1 & 2 emissions Scope 3 emissions
ABSOLUTE GHG EMISSIONS PERFORMANCE
Thousands of metric tons CO e
reduction roadmap 2 In addition to our 2030 and 2040 Scope 1 and 2 goals,
we have a Scope 3 absolute emissions reduction target of
In order to reduce our absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 50%
889.1 30% below 2021 levels by 2030. Our Energy, Procurement
below 2021 levels by 2030, as well achieve as our longer-term ambitions
2021 and Responsible Sourcing teams collaborate on strategies
1,023.0
for achieving net zero Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 2040, we follow (Baseline)
to engage with IFF suppliers to continue reducing our
a facility-level roadmap built around three levers that guide our emissions 1,912.1
Scope 3 emissions.
reduction approach:
Through this collective effort and our CDP Supply Chain
694.1
partnership, we continued to make progress in 2023 toward
Energy efficiency and capital expenditure
Scope 1 2023 824.2
our Scope 3 emissions reduction target. We have categorized
Expanding resource efficiencies, reducing costs, and
Scope 2* 1,518.3 our suppliers by level of maturity, based on their participation
driving financial returns through targeted projects backed
Total in the Science Based Target Initiative, to help determine the
by our sustainability and energy CAPEX fund. 0 500 1000 1500 2000
proper level of engagement with them.
In 2023, our Scope 3 GHG emissions were 5,667,289 metric
Renewable energy
tons of CO e, of which more than 75% were attributed to
2
Prioritizing and accelerating the adoption of clean energy purchased goods and services. This was calculated the same
2023 TOTAL SCOPE 1 & SCOPE 2* EMISSIONS BY SOURCE
strategies, including onsite PPAs, vPPAs, green energy way as previous years, through a spend based model. We
supply contracts and credit purchases (if needed). also used a volumetric intensity-based model in preparation
for potentially replacing our category spend-based approach
2.6% 2.0%
Process-derived Fuel oil, LPG (Propane), in the future, as we believe that will more accurately and
Manufacturing technology and R&D mobile vehicles, biomass consistently depict volumes of CO e per kilogram of goods
and refrigerants 2
Adopting innovative technologies, models and processes that we purchase. It will also better normalize raw material
that reduce carbon emissions from our operations, Purchased steam 16.5% price increases while enabling us to analyze and manage
including expanding renewable energy sources to include 1,518.3 41.1% Scope 3 emissions with greater precision. We will continue
Natural gas and liquid
hydrogen and biomass. Thousand natural gas (LGN) to evolve this modeling in alignment with external validation,
metric tons
for use in future reporting. We will also refine data based on
of COe
With a horizon out to the target year of 2040 (including accounting for 2
primary sources though our partnership with CDP Supply
expected business growth which may impact emissions), our roadmap model
Chain and directly from our suppliers.
37.8%
can flex as IFF’s performance changes over time and as we identify areas for
continuous improvement. For more information on how we engage our suppliers to
reduce Scope 3 emissions, please see page 24.
Electricity
We continuously analyze our portfolio for new opportunities to reduce
Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, such as through implementing more
efficient technologies in our manufacturing processes. * Market-based Scope 2 emissions (those generated though purchased electricity and steam)
IFF'S NET ZERO PATHWAY
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
)e
OC
snot
cirtem
fo
snoilliM(
SNOISSIME
2
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
44
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Near-term commitment Mid-term commitment Long-term commitment
By 2030, reduce absolute direct By 2040, achieve net zero GHG By 2050, be net positive across
and indirect GHG emissions by emissions for Scope 1 and 2, and a our entire value chain, covering
50% for Scope 1 and 2, and by 70% reduction in Scope 3. Scopes 1, 2 and 3 (upstream).
30% for Scope 3.
Achieved by: Achieved by: Achieved by:
Implementing cutting
100% Renewable energy Leveraging new technologies
edge technologies
Furthering carbon
Executing on CAPEX Shifting IFF’s portfolio to
reductions / removals
projects for GHG reductions low carbon products
across the value chain
Supply chain decarbonization Utilizing renewable Additional push for
through supplier engagement fuel alternatives sustainable solutions
Achieve net zero
Be net positive
2021* 2022 2023 2030 2040 2050
YEAR
* Baseline Scope 1 and 2† Scope 3 Carbon Removals
† Market-based Scope 2 emissions (those generated though purchased electricity and steam)
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
45
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Energy management 2023 TOTAL ENERGY
Consumption of energy derived from fossil fuels is IFF’s main source Our renewable electricity strategy includes onsite and offsite PPAs, vPPAs CONSUMPTION
of direct carbon emissions as well as a significant business expense. and green supply contracts. In markets where these renewable electricity
To achieve greater energy efficiency and reduce costs, our cross-functional options are not available, we seek to use renewable energy credits as an 6,766.1 thousands of MWh (direct: 4,121.1 and indirect: 2,645.0)
Sustainability and Energy Team executes a strategy grounded in data and interim step until renewable energy reaches critical volumes globally.
supported by technology.
In 2023, we made progress on executing a new vPPA in North America
1.0%
The Team meets monthly with operational and functional leaders to drive after completing our first-ever vPPA in Europe the previous year. Once
2.1% 53.1%
progress on our energy and climate strategy and to review the status of operational, this agreement is expected to cover approximately 20 to 25%
key environmental performance indicators. In addition, the Sustainability of our electricity requirements in North America. Meanwhile, the new solar
7.5%
and Energy Team provides quarterly updates to our EVP of Operations. field being developed under our Europe vPPA is expected to begin delivery Total Energy
Consumption
of green electricity in mid-2025.
Our energy management program employs an auditing process and
14.6%
produces insights from our in-house experts to identify multiple energy We are pursuing additional vPPAs in both regions to support our
efficiency opportunities within our major facilities. Since the program’s carbon reduction goals as well as reduce operational costs, in line with
inception in 2021, IFF has continued to analyze, identify and execute energy our triple-bottom-line approach to doing business. 21.7%
reduction projects. In 2023 alone, 12 sites were analyzed and 150 projects
were identified.
Looking ahead Non-renewable Renewable
71.2% 28.8%
PRIORITIZING RENEWABLE ENERGY We are building on the groundwork we laid in 2023 to continue to
We pursue renewable energy as a critical step toward achieving our increase our renewable energy capacity and move closer to our RE100
Electricity
long-term sustainability targets, which include procuring 100% of our goal by executing more projects and forging new agreements. With
Consumption
electricity from renewable sources by 2030. We also work to advance this an understanding of the important connection between climate and by Source
objective more broadly as a member of RE100, a consortium of businesses biodiversity, in 2023 we initiated a biodiversity assessment to better
committed to 100% renewable electricity. In 2023, we expanded our understand the impact our facilities could have within their local areas.
mapping of renewable energy sources and opportunities to expand In 2024, we will analyze and define the natural resources IFF depends
IFF’s usage by region. on and the potential impact our operations could have in the areas in Total Energy Consumption % Electricity
which we operate. This will serve as a baseline evaluation for future Natural gas 53.1 Consumption by Source
reporting in line with the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures. (Combined Company) %
405,144 MWh of renewable electricity was procured Electricity 21.7
Non-renewable 71.2
or produced for IFF operations in 2023, covering Steam / district heat 14.6
Renewable 28.8
approximately 29% of our total electricity use. Biomas and biogas 7.5
Process-derived 2.1
Fuel oil, LPG (propane), 1.0 * Diesel and gasoline include stationary and
diesel and gasoline* mobile sources.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
46
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Water stewardship
Approach Progress
REDUCING, ASSESSING & OPTIMIZING UNDERSTANDING OUR FOOTPRINT
IFF relies on water for cooling, steam generation, feedstock processing, We continued to sharpen our focus on responsible water stewardship in results, we can support facilities by funding water reduction and reuse
cleaning and many other facets of our business. Our approach to water 2023 through initiatives to optimize our water usage, better understand our projects through our sustainability and energy CAPEX program. We will
management and stewardship is based on increasing water efficiency water-related risks and reduce our consumption where possible. continue to leverage our CAPEX fund to focus on facilities identified as
while focusing reductions on facilities with high baseline water stress and being in high-risk areas and set facility-specific water usage targets.
To continue to reduce our water footprint, we must better understand our
continuously assessing our water risks.
reliance on water resources. During the year, we gathered more information We also engaged with key supply chain partners in 2023 to identify new
regarding water withdrawal as it relates to production volume and water water stewardship opportunities. These engagements leveraged our
Since 2021, we have completed multiple projects focused
intensities, to ensure we have reliable year-over-year performance data that partnership with CDP Supply Chain to gather supplier information. In
on reducing water withdrawal, with an expected savings of
can inform opportunities for future goal setting. 2023, more than 100 suppliers responded through our CDP partnership,
more than 19 megaliters per year. representing an 85% response rate. Among respondents, more than 75%
ASSESSING WATER RISK have plans for mitigating water-related issues into their long-term business
objectives. We will continue to work with CDP Supply Chain to engage our
We use Aqueduct, the World Resources Institute’s Water Risk Atlas tool,
suppliers on water stewardship efforts.
to identify risks to our manufacturing facilities, such as water stress, flood
occurrence and drought severity. The results from our third annual water
risk assessment (based on 2023 data, utilizing the updated Aqueduct 4.0)
indicated that 10% of our total water withdrawal from the sites assessed
2023 WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE
came from regions with high or extremely high baseline water stress.
Aqueduct 4.0 includes updated data sets, featuring updated methodologies
and source data leading to a more in-depth review of water risk at
62.4%
our facilities. Method %
Following our prior water risk assessment in 2022, we engaged with six Overall Surface water 62.4
Water
risk-targeted facilities that were classified as high or extremely high. Municipal system 19.6
Withdrawal:
0.6%
These six facilities represented 84% of the total water withdrawal that 79,033 Groundwater 17.4
was classified as high or extremely high from the sites assessed. The Megaliters
Other (e.g., process 0.6
17.4%
engagement helped define their water conservation challenges and develop water, rainwater)
action plans to overcome the obstacles. Based on our water-risk assessment
19.6%
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
47
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
REDUCING OUR WATER USE Waste management
In 2023, our water withdrawal totaled 79,033 megaliters with
a production intensity of 0.0532 megaliters per metric ton of
product. Although IFF saw a reduction from the prior year in
Approach
overall water withdrawal from executed projects and water 2023 NONHAZARDOUS WASTE
stewardship efforts, our intensity increased due to decreased BY DISPOSAL METHOD
TAKING LANDFILL OUT OF THE PICTURE
production last year.
We strive to lead our industry in eliminating waste through a 0.8%
We are confident that our evolving water stewardship 1.9%
comprehensive approach built on recovery, reuse and recycling.
practices will continue to drive improvements. For example,
This includes continually monitoring trends that affect our waste
when our Scent facility in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil was identified
generation and measuring our performance. We seek out the 11.0% 452.7
as having a high level of water risk in 2023, the local Green Thousand 74.8%
most environmentally responsible methods available to dispose
metric tons
Team implemented a water reuse system at the facility’s
of each waste stream. Our Do More Good Plan ambitions include Method
11.5%
wastewater treatment plant. This project allows the facility
verifying zero waste to landfill (ZWL) at all our major manufacturing Recovery/reuse/recycle
to save over 2,800 cubic meters of water annually while also
facilities by 2030. Powered by the efforts of our Green Teams and Landfill
reducing costs significantly.
employees, we are on track to achieve that goal — and positioned to
Composted
go even further in areas such as plastic reduction.
Incineration
Looking ahead
Other
Our waste streams
As we continue to prioritize water stewardship, we are
2023 HAZARDOUS WASTE
working to identify and reduce sources of water pollution
We track overall waste and hazardous waste. For purposes of waste BY DISPOSAL METHOD
through global and region-specific action plans. In 2024,
accounting, IFF relies on the definition of hazardous waste that is 6.7%
IFF’s Global Sustainability team, as well as our Product
applicable in local jurisdictions where IFF operates.
Stewardship and Regulatory Affairs teams will be coming
together to launch a new joint project focused on water In 2023, IFF generated approximately 452.7K metric tons of
stewardship at the site level across the globe, in an effort nonhazardous waste, a 9.9% decrease from our 2021 baseline of 18.2%
28.4
to better understand our water use and help facilities find 502.4K metric tons. IFF generated 28.4 metric tons of hazardous
Thousand
new opportunities for reduction. In addition, we continue waste, an 84% decrease from the prior year, primarily due to the metric tons 49.9%
engaging our supply chain partners on opportunities to significant decrease in waste generated from on-site construction
25.2%
advance their water stewardship efforts. processes that took place in 2022 as compared to 2023. Our Green
Team-led initiatives, ZWL program and sustainability and energy
CAPEX fund also contributed to the decrease from the prior year.
In addition, we continued to eliminate sources of hazardous waste
in our operations by upgrading equipment, improving our cleaning
processes, and refining our use of volatile organic compounds.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
48
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Zero waste to landfill Alternatives to plastic
Our Zero waste to landfill (ZWL) program features a waste vendor Now entering its fourth year, our Plastic Reduction
documentation and approval system to reduce the chances of recyclable program challenges IFF teams worldwide to find more
materials ending up in landfill. eco-friendly alternatives to single-use plastic products.
In 2023, the program:
To become ZWL-verified, a facility must either:
• Involved 40 labs across 30 countries, an increase from 18 labs
• Divert more than 98% of all trash, recyclables, and other waste streams
in 11 countries during the prior year.
from the manufacturing process away from landfill through reuse,
recycling or incineration; or • Eliminated approximately 1 million units of single-use plastic — including
bags, utensils, tasting cups and bottles — compared with 2022 usage.
• If the location is unable to reach the 98% diversion target due to lack
of local waste management options, the facility must achieve “maximum • Reduced single-use plastic orders by an average of 24,800 units
diversion” status by diverting more than 75% of all trash, recyclables per location.
and other waste streams away from landfill, after exhausting all other
In 2023, we actively sought alternatives for single use plastic pipettes that
reasonable options for disposal, based on an internal cost-benefit
are widely used in our labs. While glass was the most accessible substitute,
analysis. Maximum diversion sites must re-evaluate their optimal waste
it raised significant safety concerns, leading us to prioritize reducing annual
management alternatives at least every two years to continue progressing
volume of plastic used for pipettes instead. As a result, many of our labs
toward full ZWL.
have transitioned from 3ml pipettes to 1ml pipettes, effectively reducing
our pipette plastic volume by two-thirds. Preliminary estimates indicate that
Since 2017, we have verified 51 out of 100 major
the pipette transition could lead to a potential reduction of up to 500 kg of
manufacturing facilities (or 51%) as ZWL. In 2023, single use plastic annually.
10 new facilities achieved ZWL verification.13
Looking ahead
Our biggest challenges in waste management relate to market constraints.
Finding appropriate waste disposal mechanisms that qualify for ZWL is a As we continue to pursue our ambitious Do More Good goals, we
challenge, and we often must wait for contract renewals before working with understand that continuous improvement, collaboration and partnership
a new vendor. Additionally, our ZWL verification approach was first piloted are critical components of our success. In 2024, we will continue to work
prior to 2021, when we had very different waste streams compared to today. to achieve ZWL at additional facilities. The Sustainability team will also
Moving forward, we must ensure that our ZWL ambitions are applicable be collaborating with the Product Quality team to define our baseline for
to all sites, including those that have different waste streams and food waste and food loss at select sites, as applicable, in order to begin
disposal mechanisms. establishing targets to reduce food waste and loss across our facilities.
13 Includes six ZWL major manufacturing facilities and four major manufacturing facilities that achieved maximum diversion.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
49
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Equity &
Wellbeing
ENHANCING THE EMPLOYEE
EXPERIENCE & CONTRIBUTING TO A 2023 HIGHLIGHTS
DIVERSE, INCLUSIVE AND SAFE WORLD
• 88% response rate in annual employee
At IFF, applying science and creativity for a better world would not be possible sentiment survey, including an 80% favorable employee
without our colleagues and team members, who play a key role in delivering on score on the Diversity Index within the survey
our ability to Do More Good for people and planet. • 98.6% of the workforce are “active learners,”
achieving 283,500+ total learning hours
The core of our business success stems from the creativity, passion,
• 38% of women in management roles
expertise and talent embodied by our people. As of the end of 2023, we had
approximately 21,500 employees worldwide. Tailored workforce strategies • No statistically relevant gender pay gap in favor
and talent initiatives drive professional growth and engagement, aligned with of men in 27 countries assessed through our
EDGE Move level global certification
our business objectives. IFF culture is based on our five corporate values
of empowerment, expertise, integrity, innovation and responsibility. These • 38% decrease in total recordable
principles resonate across the organization, shaping our culture, and our incident rate since 2021
employees take pride in the crucial role they play in contributing to products
that touch and enhance the lives of millions of consumers worldwide.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
50
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Equity & Wellbeing strategy Talent acquisition, engagement
We are working to build a brighter future where everyone —
from our employees to those working across our supply chain
& retention
— is safe, healthy and treated with dignity. Consistent with
our Global Human Rights Policy and Global Equity Policy,
IFF is committed to creating a fully inclusive culture where
our employees can succeed.
Approach Progress
Our commitment to advancing equity & wellbeing spans
three focus areas:
PARTNERING FOR CAREER GROWTH, CULTURE & VALUES
• Supporting an employee’s professional growth through LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT
IFF’s success is built on the foundation of our shared values and culture.
our talent acquisition, engagement & retention programs,
Our Human Resources (HR) operating model, overseen by our Chief HR, We celebrate colleagues for living our values and bringing our purpose and
including a focus on learning and career development
Communications and DEI Officer, and deployed by an agile global team, vision to life.
• Unleashing the uniqueness and potential of our people focuses on defining talent requirements in partnership with the business;
In 2023, we launched the IFF ChangeMaker Award, a peer-to-peer
through our diversity, equity & inclusion program designing talent programs that execute on business strategy; and delivering
recognition program to celebrate fellow colleagues who are living the IFF
the right people services and talent solutions to all our global sites.
• Ensuring the environmental health & safety for all our sites culture and values. The program encouraged employees to share testimonials
and people where we strive for zero injuries or incidents IFF’s HR Centers of Expertise are critical drivers of our business. They are recognizing the ways in which their colleagues were demonstrating the
comprised of the following key areas: Workforce Planning; Talent Analytics; behaviors representative of each attribute. More than 60,000 testimonials
Talent Acquisition; Talent Management; Development; Learning Solutions; were shared from around the world and employees celebrated awards during
Read more about our progress against our
and Diversity, Equity & Inclusion. local and global town halls.
Do More Good Plan 2030 Goals on page 16.
In 2023, our approach focused on leveraging technological innovations to Another way we stay engaged with employees is through our Culture
streamline and enhance our Human Resources tools, including increasing Ambassadors, who serve as volunteer liaisons between their site and the
the transparency of the hiring process. We also significantly optimized the corporate culture team. They work with local HR teams to facilitate events
experience of hiring managers by enabling them to take more ownership of and gather feedback on how to improve IFF culture, creating a direct
the process, gain deeper insights into their organization and communicate channel for employees to articulate thoughts, ideas and concerns. Culture
their needs more effectively. Ambassadors are equipped with training and resources to empower them
to champion unique initiatives, while ensuring that any corporate initiatives
align with local preferences. With their leadership, we are localizing our
culture by making it tangible and impactful.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
51
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Across four regions — spanning 60+ countries —
our more than 150 IFF Culture Ambassadors build
meaningful connections every day among local
colleagues while bringing our values and culture
principles to life. Their tireless efforts to promote
culture initiatives made a significant impact
in 2023 to continue driving positive change at
our sites and to strengthen strong employee
bonding opportunities.
EMPLOYEE SENTIMENT
In November 2023, we launched our annual Engagement Survey to From the results of the 2023 survey, several key themes emerged.
understand what matters most to our employees. Participation was Globally, our highest scores were in safety, ethics and diversity. Specific
voluntary, but with the survey being made available in multiple languages, strengths noted included manager effectiveness and a stronger “equip
we were pleased to achieve an impressive 88% response rate, up from 64% factor,” that is, better accessibility of relevant training programs to ensure
in 2022. Employee responses to the survey were confidential and all reports employees can do their best work. Areas of opportunity identified were
provided by our third-party survey administrator to IFF were aggregated to improve the quality and speed of corporate decision-making; provide
and anonymized. The survey covered a variety of topics, including job enhanced visibility into career options at IFF; and increase communications
satisfaction with IFF as a place to work, as well as many other dimensions to to employees regarding the Company’s future. In addition to global
comprehensively understand the key drivers of our employees’ experience. feedback, people managers are given the personalized, anonymized
results for their teams so they can conduct follow-up feedback sessions and
We use insights from our annual survey results to help drive positive changes.
develop specific action plans that are meaningful and targeted for
For example, feedback shared during the 2022 survey led to numerous
their teams.
changes in 2023, such as an improvement in communication through more
town halls and roundtable discussions, as well as the implementation of new
learning platforms, recognition programs and engagement campaigns.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
52
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
ENTERPRISE CRITICAL TALENT MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE REVIEWS
An important part of our talent management and employee experience IFF’s Performance Management Process (PMP) provides feedback,
ROLES & SUCCESSION
approach is to inspire colleagues with new opportunities to develop skills, accountability and documentation for performance outcomes while
PLANNING build organizational knowledge and unlock professional growth. In August helping our employees channel their talents and efforts toward achieving
2023, we launched a Global Mentoring Program, through which 345 organizational goals. The PMP includes setting objectives during the
In 2023, we identified 72 “enterprise critical” roles, considered mentees were matched with 235 mentors. With a goal of engaging mentees first quarter of the year, followed by mid-year and year-end performance
to be the most important positions for achieving IFF’s business for at least 1 hour or more each month, the inaugural group completed discussions — all supported by continuous feedback, coaching and
strategy. To establish a baseline for future planning, succession nearly 4,000 mentoring hours in five months, or approximately 7.2 hours per one-on-one meetings on a regular basis. All permanent employees that
health assessments for each role were also completed, mentee. Tools were made available to mentoring pairs to set goals, complete were eligible for performance reviews in 2023 (i.e., all employees joining
considering the role’s pipeline in terms of quantity and milestones and keep track of their relationships and development. The next IFF prior to September 30) had access to the performance management
gender diversity of successors. This two-part exercise further cohort will launch in 2024 and run for six months. system and all received performance reviews.
underscores IFF’s commitment to expanding the gender
In terms of talent acquisition, IFF’s strategy for acquiring the highest The objective setting phase of PMP includes a requirement for managers
diversity of our succession planning, including increasing
quality talent is built around delivering the best possible candidate and and employees to identify specific objectives that align with organizational
the percentage of women in our senior leader pipeline who
hiring experience, while effectively managing the time and costs to recruit. strategic pillars. That alignment helps to not only ensure that employees
will be ready to assume the roles for which they have been
Our Talent Acquisition team incorporates a personalized feedback process are focused on accomplishing relevant and key objectives, but also that
identified within the next five years. The effort also emphasized
supported by industry-leading assessment tools, allowing us to do more they are supported in understanding how their efforts align with the
cross-business succession planning and identified the top
proactive sourcing. Feedback is gathered from hiring managers assessing broader organization.
talent across the organization who can be best suited to hold
the quality of the recruitment process and the quality of hire. We also survey
critical positions and lead key teams. We believe a stronger Over the course of the year, managers are encouraged to leverage various
new hires on the candidate experience for continuous improvement.
understanding of enterprise-wide talent capabilities and feedback or behavioral assessment tools to provide valuable insights that
needs will have positive effects on our ongoing objective of In 2023, we launched a Talent Acquisition Sourcing Hub to add more can support them in development planning with their employees. While
cross-fertilizing diverse skills and experiences, ensuring stability expertise into the talent acquisition process, resulting in new efficiencies focused on development, those instruments also support managers in
across our talent management approach for the future. and cost savings. The Hub now supports more detailed or confidential articulating not only whether employees achieved work objectives, but “how”
searches, such as mapping to target populations and helping to facilitate they achieved those objectives. Taken together with a review of adherence
scoping conversations about potentially available talent, or helping to to corporate values, managers provide year-end performance ratings for
build a recurring pipeline for high-volume roles in repetitive demand. all eligible employees. In 2023, 99.8% of eligible employees received
performance feedback and ratings (0.2% were ineligible or on leave).
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
53
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
and their spouses or domestic partners reach their health targets and save
BENEFITS & EMPLOYEE SUPPORT PROGRAMS
on their health plan premiums. Participants can earn points for completing
As an industry leader, we are proud to offer competitive salaries, benefits
challenges and missions that contribute towards individual health goals and
and a total rewards program for our employees. Benefits offered to eligible
establish positive habits, such as completing preventative exams.
employees (e.g., those working more than 20 hours per week in the U.S.)
include, for example, vacation time and paid time off, life insurance, medical, Similarly, in 2023, we launched IFF Moves You!, a global, voluntary initiative
dental and prescription care, long- and short-term disability coverage, to embrace activities that support health and wellness. Logging time
global parental leave (learn more on page 59), retirement provisions and through a digital tool, employees in 58 countries collectively reached more
stock ownership. than 773,000 minutes of healthy activity over the two-month period of the
campaign, through both individual as well as locally organized events — from
We also recognize the importance of supporting flexibility and work-life
walking and group hikes to meditating, football tournaments and taking time
balance. In addition to offering part-time working options, our flexible
for healthy cooking.
working options seek to improve personal employee productivity, as well
as retain and attract key talent.14 The program offers eligible employees the 2022 average of 9.6 hours per employee. The percentage of the
LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT
with three options: total workforce across all locations who achieved the target of one day
We believe that our employees are the driving force behind our business
(or eight hours) of learning for 2023 was 38.2%, up from 23% in 2022.
• Anchor: for employees whose work is 100% tied to a specific location and/ growth and success, and we seek to empower them with the support and
To continuously improve this metric, we are focused on building curated
or function and cannot be done remotely (five days per week at worksite). resources they need to learn new skills and grow their careers. Through
learning recommendations, learning paths, learning campaigns and making
leadership programs, IFF University Academies, learning campaigns,
• Flex: for employees who use an office to access equipment or collaborate it easier to find, choose and access relevant learnings.
mentoring and special events, our employees can develop their skills
with colleagues (two to five days per week at worksite).
and grow their knowledge while also collaborating and sharing insights
• Remote: for employees with the ability to work anywhere because their with others. Through these initiatives, we aim to embed a learning and 2023 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE
work has no ties to the physical space and most collaboration can be done development culture throughout the organization. BY GENDER AND EMPLOYEE CATEGORY
virtually (zero to one days per week at worksite).
(Permanent employees, Global)
Our 2023 learning metrics indicate strong progress towards our goal to
Total employees Total hours Average hours
We also offer additional benefits. For example, IFF’s comprehensive have all employees engaged in learning. Of our total workforce, 98.6%
Male 13,416 156,535 11.7
Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is available to all employees and are considered to be “active learners,” meaning they actively engaged in
Female 8,042 127,057 15.8
their household family members who may be in need of free, confidential learning activities through our platforms during the year. Our employees
Total 21,458 283,592 13.2
emotional / wellbeing support, counseling, or crisis intervention services achieved approximately 283,592 total learning hours (not including learning
to help them address issues such as stress management, depression, time completed through other secondary platforms), representing a nearly Executive management 11 84 7.6
relationships, drug and alcohol abuse or legal and financial hardship. 24% increase from 2022 total learning hours, despite a decrease in total Upper management 80 657 8.2
The EAP is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. permanent employees by approximately 13%. Middle management 1,496 26,885 18.0
Junior management 7,648 130,708 17.1
To support our employees in living a healthy lifestyle, we offer various We strive for our employees to achieve at least one day (eight hours) of
initiatives. For example, in the U.S., we have a wellness incentive program career- or skills-related training per year. In 2023, we achieved an average Operational 12,223 125,258 10.2
in partnership with our health care insurance provider to help employees of 13.2 hours per permanent employee, which is a 37.5% increase from Total 21,458 283,592 13.2
14 Employee hybrid work profiles are determined between each employee and their manager, based on role and job function, preferences, team dynamics and other leadership and morale considerations.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
54
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
IFF UNIVERSITY & LEARNING GLOBAL LEARNING WEEK
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
In May 2023, we hosted our third annual Global Learning Week — an in-person learning events were delivered to 8,136 learners (including
IFF University is our comprehensive platform of professional
opportunity for employees to develop new skills, improve productivity, permanent and temporary employees and contractors), who collectively
learning tools, online classes and development aids that
foster personal growth, build business acumen, enhance expertise in achieved a record-breaking 37,387 learning hours (a 34% increase from 2022).
support leadership development for all permanent/full-time
delivering innovations, expand their networks and better understand The event included senior leader panels, external speakers and facilitated
employees accessible via our intranet. Offerings include
the range of opportunities available to them for designing and articulating training across our four regions globally. Materials and recordings were made
IFF Academies, which provide business-specific learning
their successful career journeys. During a two-week period, 257 virtual and available afterward through IFF University for ongoing support.
solutions to build knowledge, skills and expertise for specific
job families. In 2023, IFF Academies significantly expanded
the number of trainings employees can access, with each
business unit or function now having their own Academy.
For new employees, these resources serve as foundational
elements to the onboarding process. For example, we now
have approximately 75 different modules available within
the Scent Academy for new and existing employees
to learn more.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
55
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
In conjunction with IFF University, our Learning Management System (LMS) LEADERSHIP PROGRAMS
allows employees to find and access thousands of on-demand, instructor-
Challenging and relevant development experiences are an integral part of
led, in-person and virtual training modules that are accessible in multiple
ensuring a robust and engaged group of leaders are prepared to guide IFF
languages. Trainings may be consolidated under corporate oversight as
into the future. Through a variety of partnerships and programs, we offer
well as managed at local, regional and/or global levels, in accordance
leadership development opportunities that aim to inspire and empower
with requirements or other specifications. The LMS is integrated within a
current and prospective employees to become capable agents of change.
broader HR software platform that maintains employee profiles, allowing
clear visibility of employee training records and facilitating the performance We have specific leadership development programs designed to empower
management process, the talent review process and legal compliance. employees at various levels of their careers to make decisions and drive
Managers review training records with employees during mid- and year-end change. For example:
performance cycles to confirm trainings in support of their development
• Management Essentials: Our junior management training program for
plans, allowing managers to make more informed decisions regarding
new or aspiring managers, regardless of level, is comprised of self-paced
employee assignments, moves or promotions.
courses and live group webinars over two months that cover key concepts
In 2023, we also leveraged IFF University and the LMS to launch targeted such as giving and receiving feedback, managing performance and
trainings and personalized learning campaigns for select employee groups, managing workplace conflict. In 2023, 1,200 participants completed the
such as the Women in Leadership program (arming women with actionable program, up from 400 participants in 2022, due to the high demand for
strategies for accelerating their careers) and the Plant Manager Program this program and the subsequent expansion of the program’s capacity.
(developing skills for plant managers to empower and inspire their teams.)
• People Leader Program: Our program for first-line supervisors, managers
Looking ahead, we will continue to explore and develop new learning
with direct reports and employees who are new to management, is
programs that are aligned with the business strategy, future talent needs,
conducted over six months to focus on front-line leadership skills and
employee interests and workforce planning efforts.
build a foundation for understanding leadership while broadening
perspectives and expanding internal networks. In 2023, 173 participants
completed the program. The program combines a blended learning
approach (virtual and live) and included a five-day in-person conference
for the first time since 2019.
• Organizational Leader Program: Our senior manager program, conducted
over six months, guides participants in designing and executing business
strategy and leading teams while emphasizing a cross-functional mindset.
In late 2023, 119 participants began the program, with an in-person
conference that took place in early 2024.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
56
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
To support the continued growth of our most experienced senior leaders, CAREER LADDERS
in 2023 we launched two new blended learning (virtual and live) programs.
Every career is a personalized journey. To help our employees understand
Both were presented in partnership with globally recognized academic
required skills and competencies for success and facilitate more meaningful
institutions and practitioners, such as INSEAD and Hult-EF, among the
performance discussions with their managers, we offer “Career Ladders.”
world’s leading graduate business schools:
These occupational roadmaps outline a type of career path for a specific
job family/function and demonstrate a linear career progression and
• Accelerated Leadership Development Program: Our highly selective
vertical growth from one level to the next based on increasing level of
program for senior level directors, or “managers of managers,” challenges
responsibilities, outcomes, complexity and job specification. These tools
participants to develop an improved understanding of the impacts
help IFF match the right people with proper capabilities and build our
of internal and external forces on IFF and use those insights to more
internal pipeline.
effectively lead their teams. A total of 20 participants completed this
inaugural program. In 2023, we rolled out nine new Career Ladders, including for Technical
Perfumery, Supply Chain, Capital Engineering and Human Resources
• Enterprise Leader Program: Our most senior-level program for
& Communications, among others. We also initiated an exercise to
successors to executive leadership team roles provides complex and
understand the percentage of our workforce that currently have a Career
introspective experiences that guide participants towards a more
Ladder available to them, revealing coverage for approximately 80% of
thorough understanding of navigating ambiguous and complex challenges.
all employees. By searching for the guide most relevant to their current
Fifteen participants completed the initial offering of this program.
role — or a role they aspire to — they can access tailored guidance on the
educational requirements, training, experience, competencies, attributes,
To strengthen our talent pipeline, we have specialized internal schools
behaviors, knowledge and skill sets recommended to successfully manage
for perfumer and flavorist development. Externally, we partner with the
their careers. Looking ahead, we will continue to grow our library of
world’s premier perfumery school, ISIPCA, to offer a unique Masters level
resources for more roles and functions. Encouraging our employees to apply
graduate program in Scent Design & Creation. Since 2019, IFF has hired 32
their talents in new ways on different teams will also bring the benefits of
graduates of this program, and one of our major customers has also hired
collaboration and the cross-pollination of new perspectives that we need
four graduates.
to succeed together.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
57
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Diversity, equity & inclusion DEI STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK & MISSION
Our commitment to DEI has never wavered, even as the
program has evolved over time to drive continued progress.
In 2023, we implemented a refreshed strategic framework
and mission for DEI to emphasize data-driven and globally
Approach Progress
consistent efforts that are also locally relevant and embedded
into how we work every single day. Comprised of three pillars,
“YOUR UNIQUENESS UNLEASHES OUR PEOPLE: ACCELERATING OUR INCLUSIVE
our approach is underpinned by leadership accountability and
OUR POTENTIAL” TALENT PIPELINE
external certifications, both of which support our aspirational
We are focused on building a more inclusive organization where our people We seek to ensure that the flow of talent into our organization is inclusive goals and continuously benchmark our efforts.
feel like they belong and can grow while having a positive impact on our at all levels and for all demographic groups, such that our incoming hires
world, and our diversity, equity & inclusion (DEI) program is an essential reflect the communities around the world where we are located. For
component of that. When we bring the unique experiences, backgrounds, example, in 2023 our DEI and Talent Acquisition teams further strengthened OUR PEOPLE: Accelerating our Inclusive
and perspectives of our employees together at the intersection of science IFF’s recruitment strategy by building in expectations for inclusive candidate Talent Pipeline
and creativity, we know the possibilities are endless. slates and interview panels as tools to ensure fairness for all candidates.
How we attract, hire, develop, retain, and
Additionally, because we view inclusive leadership as a key capability,
advance a workforce that represents the
Our Global Head of DEI is responsible for setting strategy and partnering
we have added behavioral interview questions addressing these attributes
communities we are part of
with business leaders to drive inclusive outcomes that help us achieve our
to all our people leader role interviews.
2030 Do More Good Plan goals (see page 16). Ultimate accountability for
DEI rests with our Chief HR, Communications and DEI Officer and our CEO, Our refreshed DEI strategy showed positive impact during the year by
who together approve the annual plan and strategy for DEI. Additionally, guiding us closer to our 2030 aspirational DEI-related goals and helping us
OUR SPIRIT: Cultivating an Inclusive Culture
the Human Capital & Compensation Committee of the Board oversees build an employee experience where everyone can thrive. As of the end of
How we foster a sense of belonging that inspires
IFF’s human capital management strategies and programs, including DEI. 2023, women at IFF make up 37.5% of our global workforce and 38% of
innovation where everyone can thrive
Finally, our eight Colleague Communities provide grassroots input based on management roles (executive, upper and middle management employee
their members’ lived experiences at IFF, which informs and influences the categories). To work toward our gender parity goal of reaching 50% women
strategies, practices and policies the DEI team creates. We also use their at all levels of the organization by 2030, we are continuing to focus on
feedback to evaluate the effectiveness of our DEI management approach recruitment, succession and promotion efforts. OUR WORLD: External Engagement
and to identify new opportunities for engagement. How we contribute to the business and to
For example, we strive to ensure the equitable access to training and
a more inclusive world through our actions
career development opportunities by assessing both the diversity of our
IFF’s Global Equity Policy outlines our commitment and partnerships
nomination and self-nomination processes for such programs. In 2023, we
to providing equal employment opportunities to our
launched several new additions to our leadership development suite, such
employees, and our Code of Conduct outlines our as Ignite your Impact, a pilot program completed by 51 women across IFF,
expectations for creating and maintaining a diverse designed to help them navigate some of the unique challenges they may
workplace and being an inclusive colleague. face in leadership. After a successful first run, we are excited to expand it
further in 2024.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
58
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
LIVING WAGE PLEDGE In addition to tracking gender representation, we also assess gender pay Leadership Accountability: In 2023, 5% of variable
data to ensure we are upholding our commitment to providing equal pay compensation for senior leaders was linked
IFF recognizes that rising inequality and poverty can be
for equal work. We regularly analyze pay equity and conduct independently
to progress against ESG metrics aligned with our 2030
underlying drivers of potential human rights risks, and
audited gender pay gap assessments, the results of which continued to
we acknowledge the positive role we can play within the Do More Good Plan goals, including reaching 50% women
affirm in 2023 that IFF has no statistically significant gender pay gaps (learn
communities where we do business. In 2023, IFF committed in management roles companywide.
more on page 61). We also offer trainings with people managers to ensure
to the Living Wage Pledge, embarking on the journey
gender bias is not a factor in annual compensation planning or decisions.
to ensure all our employees around the world receive a
living wage as defined within their country. As part of this
effort, by 2030 we are committed to achieving Fair Wage
Certification as defined by the Fair Wage Network. The Fair
Wage framework is an economically rigorous standard and 2023 ETHNIC DIVERSITY BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY 2023 GENDER DIVERSITY BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY
methodology designed to assess, develop, and optimize (Permanent employees, U.S. only) (Permanent employees, Global)
wage policies. IFF’s commitment builds on our long-standing
Male Female
focus on promoting human rights and equal pay
Executive Executive
for equivalent work and underscores our related 2030 management 10% 10% 80.0% management 73% 27%
Do More Good Plan goals on human rights and DEI (see
Upper management 12.8% 12.8% 74.4% Upper management 65% 35%
page 16). As a next step toward certification in 2024, in
partnership with the Fair Wage Network, IFF will complete Middle management 14.4% 7.4% 73.2% Middle management 62% 38%
a data gathering exercise and assessment of our wage
practices in the 61 countries where we have employees. Junior management 13.8% 6.1% 73.5% Junior management 50% 50%
The resulting assessment report will be used as a tool
Operational Operational
to identify our baseline status and inform an action plan management 6.5% 16.3% 11.1% 62.7% management 70% 30%
to close any identified gaps.
Total 9.8% 10.9% 9.0% 67.6% Total 63% 37%
20 40 60 80 100
Asian* Native American Two or
or Alaska Native More Races For more information on our workforce and diversity data, please see
page 92.
Black or North African / White
African American Middle Eastern
Hispanic or Latinx
* I ncludes Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
59
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
OUR SPIRIT: CULTIVATING AN INCLUSIVE PARENTAL LEAVE
CULTURE
As part of our efforts to create a fairer and more inclusive place to work,
To foster a sense of belonging at IFF and reinforce our ongoing creation our internal Global Parental Leave Policy provides fully paid leave for both
of an equitable environment, we focus on embedding inclusive behaviors, men and women and goes beyond what is legally required in most countries
systems and policies throughout our organization. This includes building where IFF operates. Specifically, this Policy grants 16 weeks of 100% paid
skills among our leaders and workforce, promoting a thriving DEI ecosystem leave for all new IFF parents, both men and women, regardless of gender
through engagement opportunities with our colleagues, and establishing identity and/or expression. The Policy applies to birth parents, adoptive
consistent communication standards that foster awareness, understanding parents, same-sex parents and parents who use a surrogate. The coverage
and transparency. For example, in 2023 the IFF DEI team partnered with: starts immediately once the employee is benefit-eligible, based on local law.
In 2023, 235 employees in the U.S. (comprised of 31.5% women and 68.5%
• AccessAbilities@IFF Colleague Community and Corporate
men), utilized the parental leave benefit. During their leaves of absence,
Communications to activate accessibility features on our intranet and
they were paid for more than 132,000 hours of covered time. All women
include accessibility expectations in our social media guidelines for all
and a majority of men taking Global Parental leave in the U.S. utilized at least
corporate channel posts.
75% of available time. This is considerably higher than the average rate in
• Information Technology to introduce the option for employees to add
the U.S. of 66.5%, according to the United States Census Bureau.
their pronouns on all their IFF digital platforms and profiles, including
their email signature lines. COLLEAGUE COMMUNITIES
IFF’s eight employee resource groups, or Colleague Communities, are a
• Human Resources and Operations to develop and deliver a training
vital platform for engaging employees on DEI at IFF — providing grassroots
module (as part of the broader 2023 IFF University Plant Manager
insights about the lived experience of their constituents, facilitating unique
Program completed by more than 100 leaders) highlighting the
growth opportunities, and helping to build a more inclusive IFF for all.
importance of inclusive leadership and work environments for achieving
Membership is open to all employees, including for those who identify
strong safety and quality outcomes at our sites.
as members of the group and for those who wish to join as allies. Each
Community also has an Executive Sponsor who is an Executive Leadership
Team member reporting to the CEO.
In 2023, more than 6,800 people participated in more than 25 events
sponsored by our Colleague Communities to increase awareness, skills,
and insights on topics of importance for these Communities. While each
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
60
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Colleague Community has a distinctive mission, they all contribute to our OUR WORLD: EXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT During the year, we leveraged a variety of external engagement
larger DEI strategy in unique ways: opportunities and benchmarks to continue advancing on our 2030 DEI goals
At IFF, we use our voice to advocate for a more inclusive world for all parts
(see page 16) focused on ensuring the inclusion of specific groups, including
of our community. Whether through memberships, partnerships, pledges
• AccessAbilities@IFF provides a community for colleagues who care about
women in management; People of Color; lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender
or certifications, we are pleased to join with other like-minded companies,
disability, learning differences, special needs or neurodiversity, whether
and intersex, queer and questioning (LGBTIQ+) Colleagues; and People with
including many of our customers, to contribute to a more equitable world.
for themselves or as a caregiver to a child, relative or friend.
Disabilities. For example:
While we are proud of our accomplishments related to DEI, we are never
• ACE@IFF (Asian Colleagues for Equity, Empowerment & Excellence) satisfied. That is why we also benchmark ourselves externally through
promotes an inclusive and empowered environment for colleagues of ratings, rankings and indices to continually raise the bar for ourselves WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT
Asian heritage and their allies. and evaluate how we can do better.
• Signatory to the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles, a set of seven
• BE@IFF (Black Excellence) advocates for and support an inclusive and tenets to advance and empower women, and provide equal treatment
equitable environment for all Black/African American employees at IFF We believe in sharing our learnings and insights to help in the workplace, marketplace and community.
and beyond. other organizations advance their DEI journeys. IFF was
• Maintained global certification at the EDGE Move level, confirming equal
honored to be one of four companies profiled by the
• NextGen@IFF fosters the personal and professional development of IFF’s pay for equivalent work (i.e., no statistically relevant gender pay gap in
MBS Group as a case study in an in-depth research study
early career professionals and emerging talent through the support of a favor of men) in 27 countries assessed.
strong community of worldwide peers and allies from across the business. on the progress of DEI in the Beauty sector. Read the full
• Included for the second consecutive time in the 2023 Bloomberg
report here.
• PRISMA leads the way in sustaining a culture that welcomes our LGBTIQ+ Gender-Equality Index, for our commitment to transparency and setting
colleagues in bringing their authentic selves to work and celebrating Pride a new standard in gender-related data reporting.
around the world, while ensuring IFF remains an inclusive workplace for
• Named the top U.S. company for gender equality and tenth globally
all colleagues.
in 2024 by Equileap, a leading organization providing data and insights
• SERVE@IFF (Supporting Emergency Responders and Veterans on gender equality in the corporate sector.
Engagement) offers a supportive setting for employees who
serve or have served their communities in selfless, and at times,
dangerous situations.
• IFFers UNIDOS makes IFF stronger through better representation,
advancement and inclusion of colleagues of Latin and Hispanic
cultures and their allies.
• Women@IFF creates an inclusive space where women can advance
their skills and leadership potential through connection, mentorship,
collaboration and discussion.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
61
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
PEOPLE OF COLOR CLOSING THE GENDER
• Continued to uphold the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™ pledge
PAY GAP
in support of more inclusive workplaces.
• Participated for the first time as one of only 43 companies in the In 2023, we were pleased to maintain our partnership
Coqual Black Equality Index, providing a set of standards to measure and with, and recognition by, Economic Dividends for Gender
advance progress toward racial equity in the workplace. Moving forward, Equality (EDGE), the leading global assessment and
our participation will allow us to better track progress and improve our business certification for gender and intersectional equity.
practices year-over-year. While EDGE considers a gender pay gap of less than 5% to
be statistically insignificant, having any gender pay gap is
unacceptable by our standards. Using the EDGE Pay Tool™ —
LGBTIQ+ EQUALITY
which uses a regression analysis that considers the variables
• Continued to align with the UN Global LGBTI Standards of Conduct for of gender, tenure and age, among others — we regularly
Business in our efforts to tackle discrimination against LGBTIQ+ people. DISABILITY INCLUSION monitor any possible unexplained gender pay gaps and take
• Named among the 2023 Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion corrective action as needed.
• Strengthened our partnership with Workplace Pride, a not-for-profit
by Disability:IN for the fourth consecutive year, scoring 100%.
foundation dedicated to improving the lives of LGBTIQ+ people in We are also committed to maintaining transparency on
workplaces worldwide, including participating in the Workplace Pride • Joined for the second consecutive year in Disability:IN’s multi-year gender pay data and our strategy to close any gender
LGBTIQ+ Global Benchmark for the third consecutive time and raising unscored Global Disability Equality Index pilot program, findings from pay gaps. To validate our approach, we use the EDGE
our score by 10% from the prior year. This exercise provides valuable which will inform the launch of a scored benchmark that will open in 2024 methodology as an independent audit. We were pleased in
data to help us continually assess and enhance LGBTIQ+ workplace to seven new countries in addition to the United States. 2023 to maintain our certification (valid from 2022–2024)
inclusion opportunities. as EDGE Move level globally, confirming that we have
• Continued to support The Valuable 500, a global movement and pledge
closed our mean, unadjusted gender pay gap and that we
• Signed the Count Me In Pledge reaffirming our support of LGBTIQ+
to put disability on the business leadership agenda.
offer equal pay for equivalent work (i.e., no statistically
inclusion and equality by joining together with fellow employers and
relevant gender pay gap in favor of men) in 27 countries
business allies deeper action and visibility.
assessed15, representing approximately 90% of our
• Recognized again by the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) as a top
employee population.16 Attaining this certification followed
company for LGBTIQ+ equality in both the U.S. and Mexico, based
a rigorous review of gender representation, pay equity,
on the 2023 HRC Corporate Equality Index and the HRC Equidad
the effectiveness of policies and practices and the results
Mexico, respectively.
of companywide employee survey. We also continued to
maintain the EDGEplus component to our certification,
reflecting our commitment to intersectionality inclusion,
which examines our progress at the intersection of gender
and other identities to ensure full spectrum equity and
15 Countries of operation that have more than 200 employees.
inclusion. We will undergo EDGE recertification in 2024.
16 All pay is calculated for full-time equivalent (FTE). Formula used is the difference between average male salary and average female salary divided by average
male salary (all salary figures converted to USD via exchange rates as of December 31, 2022).
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
62
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Environment, health & safety
Approach
ZERO INJURIES, ZERO INCIDENTS We also strive to mitigate EHS risks and minimize our impact on the
& 100% COMPLIANCE environment and the communities in which we operate. Occasionally
environmental matters arise that require reporting and corrective action
We support our people and the communities where we operate by being
plans. These matters may include events such as permit deviations or
committed to continuously improving our safety program. We strive to
containment release incidents and are evaluated and reported as part
achieve an incident-free workplace and world-class safety performance,
of IFF’s internal Global Incident Management Policy. IFF leverages lessons represent all our employees at the respective site and address
in addition to complying with all local regulations. Our pursuit of excellence
learned from these events to continuously improve as we strive for safety-related issues with leadership. The committees must have
and best practice guidelines drive us to go beyond regulations to keep our
zero events. agreement with site management regarding the safety action plan for the
people and facilities safe and environmentally friendly.
site and support for safety-related initiatives. Site management has final
Our comprehensive EHS management system covers 100% of employees EHS GOVERNANCE authority over site initiatives but must align with the safety committees.
and contractors under supervision for activities at sites globally and
• Site managers and first line supervisors are responsible for enforcing
is designed to manage risk in alignment with regulatory compliance IFF’s Global Environment, Health & Safety Policy
safety procedures at every location worldwide, and they are held
requirements. Integration of the EHS management system was established
accountable for their site's safety and environmental outcomes; meeting demonstrates our commitment to maintaining a safe
to proactively prioritize and address our most significant risks identified
their safety objectives; and investigating and resolving any incidents that work environment for all employees, business partners,
by our internal risk assessment practices. The IFF EHS management
may occur (including defining root causes and related action plans). contractors, consultants and temporary employees or
system is modeled to align with ISO 14001 guidelines as many of our large
manufacturing sites are certified under the corporate ISO 14001 certificate. • Line managers set the safety standards and expectations and are involved secondees. This policy is translated into local languages
Employees, contractors and visitors are expected and encouraged to uphold in employee incident investigations and compliance assessments. and available as posters at sites around the world. Our
all IFF’s policies, report any incidents and suggest opportunities that will internal Global Incident Management Policy establishes
• The global corporate EHS team reports to the IFF’s Global Operations
improve the safety of work sites. Local teams report safety performance to Officer and consists of members of our EHS Center of Excellence (CoE) a uniform method of reporting and classifying incidents,
the corporate global EHS team, who reviews all incidents and works with
and a team of divisional/regional EHS leaders. conducting investigations and managing work-related
local teams to support investigations and resolve issues as appropriate,
incidents in accordance with IFF expectations and local
• The EHS CoE provides expertise and support to the business and regions
including identifying corrective actions and safety improvement plans.
in key EHS competencies and is responsible for EHS systems, training and regulatory requirements. It is carefully tailored to avoid
To ensure a rigorous safety and compliance culture, site management teams
improvement, auditing and compliance. stifling communications regarding safety-incidents, and all
conduct safety observations, near miss reporting and self-assessments (or
first party audits). External site audits also provide support and verification • Manufacturing site safety committees meet monthly, and creative center employees are encouraged and expected to escalate their
of our processes. safety committees meet quarterly. Manufacturing site safety committees concerns on these matters.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
63
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Progress
EHS TRAINING PREVENTION & MITIGATION OF EHS RISKS industrial hygiene risk assessments, site-based job safety analysis and task
risk assessments. Manufacturing sites are provided training on incident
EHS training for employees is customized by each site based on local and IFF’s established corporate EHS objectives are developed for all
investigation aligned with the incident management response process.
global policies and regulations. Ongoing mandatory training is also held manufacturing locations based on recognized safety and health impacts at
Additionally, IFF engages our online internal incident investigation tool to
for EHS managers and teams on topics related to key safety priorities that our operational facilities. Annually, the global EHS CoE develops a set of key
systematically determine root causes of incidents. We also collaborate with
reflect regulatory requirements and best practices.17 The Global EHS team objectives and critical operating tasks that are aligned to address our most
trainers to provide in-depth root cause analysis training and certify our
analyzes safety incident data and identifies trends and training needs for significant risks and current control capability. Our EHS policies — a key part
internal incident investigation leaders in this process.
the year, as well as competency areas for improvement. Ongoing mandatory of our EHS management system — are compliant with OSHA regulations
training is also held for EHS managers and teams on topics related to key as a global benchmark for the most stringent regulatory requirements.
safety priorities that reflect regulatory requirements and best practices. As global policies are implemented, our manufacturing sites are required
to perform gap assessments that identify required changes to fully
Monthly network training sessions are held for EHS professionals and site
implement any new requirements. Our internal audits process systematically
managers on specific topics driven by the EHS CoE and divisional/regional
evaluates implementation of the policies, EHS objectives and programs at
leaders. In 2023, trainings were deployed for six policies: Contractor Safety,
selected sites based on size, geography and inherent risk. Injury and illness
Hot Work, Refrigerant Management, Process Safety Governance, Technology
results are analyzed monthly to identify trends and progress against our
and Process Hazard Analysis/Layers of Protection Analysis (PHA /LOPA).
EHS objectives.
All sites are requested to assess policy requirements via an internal audit and
by defining their internal action plans to manage full compliance based on We leverage the collective experience and needs of IFF manufacturing sites
the policy implementation timeline. Tools are provided to help support this to inform the organization on hazard identification and risks through regional
process and enhance policy implementation work. Training sessions related EHS clusters and business unit peer networks. The hazard identification
to Industrial Hygiene and Environmental Compliance are also conducted process is based on internal site audits, corporate-led second-party
throughout the year to enhance site competencies and ensure regulatory audits and incident reporting from the sites. IFF engages in many forms
and internal compliance. of risk assessments, including process hazard analysis (PHA), qualitative
In 2023, we launched an online Global Incident Management Policy overview training for all employees through IFF’s
integrated learning solutions platform. Designed to create a unified identification and reporting framework at every level
of the organization, the training covers responsibility in reporting an incident or near miss, methods of reporting and incident
and how to manage work-related injuries as outlined in the Global Incident Management Policy. The training was translated
into local languages and achieved an 85.3% completion rate among all employees as of year-end.
17 Our approach for reporting EHS incidents and the criteria we use for corporate tracking is based on U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
64
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
LIFE SAVING PRINCIPLES EHS RECOGNITIONS
We know that certain work-related activities present high risks that have to operations at that location, including a process to identify engineering We believe an important element of building a strong safety
the potential to lead to serious consequences. In 2023, our Operations team controls to eliminate or minimize hazards to acceptable levels. All sites are culture at IFF is to recognize good work and to inspire our
launched the Life Saving Principles initiative to drive greater awareness of required to follow Management of Change (MOC) processes for alterations colleagues to keep it up. Our EHS recognition program is
the highest-risk activities and to provide guiding concepts for employees to process controls and safeguards, which include a Pre-Startup Review for individuals, teams or sites who have gone above and
to recognize activities that could cause a serious injury, illness or fatality. (PSR) to identify hazards that require corrections, including engineering beyond in showcasing the value of safety at IFF. In 2023,
The three basic principles of this program are to: controls, before the new equipment or process is commissioned. 58 winners worldwide were recognized for a variety of
innovative reasons.
EHS CULTURE
For example, IFF’s Markovci site in Slovenia organized a
The EHS team continued to define, measure, evaluate and provide the right “Hand Safety Week” to raise awareness and promote safe
support to strengthen IFF’s safety culture during 2023. For example, our behaviors to avoid hand injuries. The events included
Safety Focus Program assists sites with improving their safety performance highlighting the importance of proper glove use, and a
through our “Fresh Eyes” visits to identified safety-focused sites by demonstration of the challenges of limited hand function
1. I dentify tasks 2. C onfirm critical 3. S top work and seek designated “Site Buddies” and a global EHS team leader to jointly discuss as a result of an injury. Employees left their palm prints on
with the potential actions are in help when there is safety culture, among other engagement activities. In 2023, we conducted a poster, noting safety hazards and preventative measures for
for serious injury, place and effective an indication that 14 Fresh Eyes visits across all regions to further advance our safety culture a memorable and engaging experience. Their commitment
illness or fatality before starting critical actions or integration plan and ensure meaningful progress forward. Moving forward in to safety at the Markovci site resulted in zero major (defined
high-risk activities safeguards are 2024, the program will be integrated into the baseline audit for new sites. internally as “Levels 1–3”) incidents or injuries in 2023.
not adequate
In 2023, as a part of our safety culture advancement strategy, we built on
work conducted the prior year to assess the existing safety culture and
As part of the initiative, each site is encouraged to customize the training performance of selected operating locations across all business units. We
to focus on the high-risk activities most common to their operations. also implemented new engagement programs co-created by Global EHS
These high-risk activities were identified based on IFF incident experience, team members and site workers based on the results of the safety culture
industry benchmarking and published data on serious injuries and fatalities. evaluations. Looking ahead to 2024, we will use insights from these
A team of EHS leaders from all regions of the world analyzed and refined exercises to further build IFF’s overall safety culture roadmap and move
the data to result in the high-risk activities addressed by the Life Saving toward becoming a fully interdependent organization that is taking
Principles initiative. Of these high-risk hazards, IFF experienced only one ownership and responsibility at all levels.
serious injury in 2023 related to contact with powered machinery. To address
these high-risk hazards, policy integration of Line & Equipment Opening and
Lockout Tag Out took place in 2023, which outlines a process of specific
planning, control methods and verification to minimize risk. Manufacturing
sites are required to train employees on the high-risk activities relevant
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
65
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
EHS PERFORMANCE 2023 LOST TIME INCIDENTS TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE*^
IFF’s safety performance has continued to improve as we have expanded Per 100 employees and supervised contractors
4.76%
critical safety best practices across all sites globally. In 2023, we saw an
4.76% 2021 0.63
improvement from the prior year, with a Total Recordable Incident Rate
4.76%
(TRIR) of 0.39 (a 19% decrease from 2022) and a Lost Time Incident Rate
2022 0.48
(LTIR) of 0.08 (a 50% decrease from 2022).
4.76%
33.33%
These improvements correlate with the implementation of our Life Saving 2023 0.39
Principles initiative; a strengthening of EHS culture, including increased
engagement and interaction with sites around the world; the prioritization 9.52% Percentage per 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
incident type
of preventative actions during incident investigations; and deploying the
necessary expertise to sites when needed. We additionally held a training LOST TIME INCIDENT RATE*^
for our site managers on safety culture which we believe also aided in overall
Per 100 employees and supervised contractors
improvements to our safety performance. 19.05%
19.05%
2021 0.24
Work-related hazards that pose a risk of ill health are identified through risk
assessments performed by the sites and reported through peer networks.
2022 0.16
We also utilize recorded injuries and illnesses to identify unaddressed
hazards. For example, in 2023, we recorded three cases of ill health, all
2023 0.08
of which were attributed to strain due to repetitive motion. As a result, Incident Source Percentage
this became part of the ergonomic topics of the month at manufacturing
Slip/Trip/Fall 33.33 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
sites to raise awareness of the risk.18
Safety Exposure 19.05
2023 WORK-RELATED ILL-HEALTH
Strain 19.05
#of recordable cases #of fatalities as a result
Impact 9.52
of work-related ill-health of work-related ill-health
Repetitive Strain 4.76
For all employees 3 0
Electrical 4.76
For all workers who are 0 0
Pinch/Caught Between 4.76 not employees but whose
work and/or workplace is
Fall from Height 4.76 controlled by IFF
18 Any reported ill-health is excluded if claims are made following the departure of the individual from * IFF calculates TRIR and LTIR by estimating hours worked based on the Global HR monthly headcount figures and an assumption of a 40-hour work week, 50 weeks worked per year. Rates are presented per
IFF or pending litigation. Data is compiled from injury and illness reporting from site-based EHS and 200,000 hours worked. An injury or illness is classified as a Lost Time Injury (LTI) when the employee is unable to work for one or more days after the injury. For better local alignment with OSHA, differences
operations resources based on the global IFF Incident Management Policy. Injuries and illnesses in the prescription of medical leave are considered. The determination is decided by the medical lead or nurse, in collaboration with the regional safety lead.
are reported based on OSHA recordkeeping requirements (Title 29 Code of Federal Regulations
^ COVID-19 cases (as defined by OSHA) were tracked and evaluated for work-relatedness separately according to OSHA guidelines and/or country requirements. In 2023, there were 0 COVID-19 cases that were
Standard 1904).
determined to be work related.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
66
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
PROCESS SAFETY ZERO AWARDS
In 2023, 136 IFF sites (or approximately 69%) were
In 2023, as part of our ongoing focus on process safety, we issued Process Safety Metrics 2023 Progress
recognized for the significant achievement of finishing the
integrated internal corporate policies for Process Safety Governance, Process Safety Incidents Count (PSIC) full year with zero accidents or incidents. These sites were
Process Knowledge, Process Hazards Analysis and Layers of Protection
Tier 1 5 recognized by the EHS CoE with a “Zero Award,” meaning
Analysis. These were accompanied by associated training modules and
that they had:
Tier 2 0
implementation tools, all consistent with the Guidelines for Risk Based
Process Safety, as outlined by the Center for Chemical Process Safety Process Safety Total Incident Rate (PSTIR) 0.0199 • Zero employee recordable injuries
(CCPS). Site gap assessments of the requirements of these policies were Process Safety Incident Severity Rate (PSISR) 0.1789 • Zero contractor recordable injuries
completed by the end of the year, with site implementation timing to be
• Zero major (defined internally as “Level 1 and 2”) incidents
based on site risk and applicability. Process Safety Focal Points have been
identified at each site, and guidance for Process Safety Implementation
IFF’s safety award programs are carefully tailored to avoid
Roles and Expectations has been defined.
stifling communications regarding safety-incidents, and
all employees are encouraged and expected to escalate their
Of five total Tier 1 and 2 events in 2023, three involved Days Away
concerns on these matters.
from Work Injuries with low severity factors, and two were instances of
Exceeded Threshold Quantity. Additional engineering and administrative
controls have been implemented to prevent recurrence. Looking ahead
to 2024 and beyond, process safety efforts will be applied to training, site
implementation and deployment as part of the next waves of integrated
policies and guidebooks.
Below: IFF employees at the Karawang, Indonesia site, one of our
Zero Award winning sites in 2023.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
67
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Transparency &
Accountability
STRIVING TO DELIVER ON OUR PROMISES
2023 HIGHLIGHTS
IFF is committed to complying with all applicable laws, holding ourselves and our
partners to the highest ethical standards and acting as responsible global citizens,
• ESG metrics for GHG emissions and DEI tied to
both individually and collectively. We are proud of what our company stands for, the
variable compensation for all eligible employees
relationships we have established and the trust we have built with our stakeholders.
• 100% completion rate on annual business
We strive to adhere to the highest ethical standards, committing to transparency and
ethics training
to holding our leaders accountable. To maintain our stakeholder relationships and
• 160+ Ethics Champions in approximately
our strong reputation, we have a robust corporate governance program designed to
200 IFF locations globally
ensure compliance with our company policies and all applicable laws and regulations.
• Zero material information security incidents
or breaches of personal data
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
68
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Transparency & Corporate governance
Accountability strategy
In line with our Code of Conduct and related governance
documents and charters, we understand that adhering
Approach
to sound principles of corporate governance is critical to
earning and maintaining the trust of our key stakeholders
GOVERNING OUR BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY CEO to focus on developing and implementing the Company’s strategic
and to achieving our financial goals.
business plans and managing the Company’s day-to-day business operations
We strive to maintain a transparent framework of processes, policies and
Our commitment to advancing transparency and and allows our Chair to lead the Board in its oversight and advisory roles.
structures to guide IFF decision-making at all levels. Our commitment to
accountability spans four focus areas: Consistent with our previously announced plan to evolve our Board in
good corporate governance begins with our Board of Directors, which
line with best-in-class corporate governance standards by the Annual
represents the interests of IFF’s shareholders and oversees and reviews
• Upholding our commitment to corporate governance,
Shareholder Meeting in May 2023, the size of the Board was reduced
IFF’s significant risks. The Board receives updates on the Company’s risk
through both internal management structures as well
from 14 to ten directors, plus one Icahn Capital designee director.
through management’s Enterprise Risk Management program report to
as external engagements in public policy arenas
Additionally, Roger W. Ferguson, Jr., was named Chair of the IFF Board
the Board.
• Guiding our ethical and moral conduct through business and three outside senior executives with specific management, strategy
ethics and compliance programs and initiatives Since 2022, the roles of Chair and CEO have been held separately. and operations expertise relevant to IFF’s current profile were appointed
The Board believes separating the roles of Chair and CEO allows our as Board members.
• Embodying a culture of ownership and prioritizing
product safety and quality
• Protecting our systems and networks from potential
breaches or attacks through our information
security program BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Read more about our progress against our
Do More Good Plan 2030 Goals on page 16.
Audit Committee Human Capital & Governance & Corporate Innovation Committee
Compensation Committee Responsibility Committee
Oversees financial risks and the policies Oversees risks related to R&D and
and practices established to manage Oversees risks associated with Oversees governance risk and risks innovation programs, emerging science
such risks and also oversees and reviews compensation policies and practices, related to sustainability and corporate and technology issues and related
procedures for monitoring compliance our compensation plans (including responsibility, and risk related to business opportunities
with laws and our Code of Conduct equity compensation plans), severance, CEO succession
change in control, talent and other
employment-related matters
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
69
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
IFF’s Executive Leadership Team (ELT) is chaired by our CEO and Progress
comprises the Company’s most senior leaders. As the highest approval
body before the Board, the ELT manages IFF’s day-to-day business risks, RISK MANAGEMENT
leads our risk management process and addresses all strategic, operational
IFF implements internal control processes to comply with existing
and financial matters. During 2023, IFF welcomed a new President for our
regulations and proactively develop appropriate control mechanisms. Overall
Nourish Division, augmenting the deep experience and industry knowledge
responsibility for risk management lies with the Board of Directors. The ELT
we have among executives with relevant experience from adjacent
is responsible for applying the strategic direction set by the Board and then
industries. For more information on our ELT, please see
establishing, executing and implementing the appropriate Board-approved
www.iff.com/about/leadership.
policies and procedures. Our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program,
For more information about our governance approach, including committee which is structurally independent of the Company’s business lines, considers
membership information, please refer to the Governance page on our company risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition
website, our Notice of 2024 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and Proxy or results of operations. Our ERM team consults with cross-organizational
Statement and our Corporate Governance Guidelines. leaders to gather information necessary to identify risks, evaluate their
ESG GOVERNANCE
likelihood and severity, identify necessary mitigations and assess the
Together with our Executive Leadership Team, the IFF potential impact of those mitigations on residual risk. Sustainability and ESG topics are governed
by the Board, and specific responsibility for
Board is responsible for overseeing and reviewing the On an operational level, our Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and General
overseeing the Company’s ESG program is held by
Company’s enterprise-wide risks and the policies and Counsel (GC), both of whom report to the CEO, have dedicated
the Governance & Corporate Responsibility Committee.
practices established to manage such risks. Four Board responsibility for risk management, including monitoring and auditing risk
All ELT members — including our Chief Executive Officer;
management performance. Additionally, our ERM Committee — chaired by
committees are also responsible for the oversight of risks
Chief Human Resources, Communications and DEI Officer and
the CFO and GC and comprised of senior leaders representing each risk
relevant to their functions and each regularly reports to our General Counsel and Corporate Secretary — are responsible for
domain — integrates global risks to ensure appropriate prioritization
the full Board. managing and reporting to the Board on IFF’s impacts on the economy,
of resources and alignment across the Company. The ERM Committee
environment and people. The ELT also integrates ESG considerations into
meets with the ELT as needed, and at least annually with the Board of
IFF’s operations, management approaches, policies, strategic direction and
Directors to discuss the ERM process. This includes presenting on risks
innovation pipeline. This process helps IFF deliver sustainable and equitable
identified (i.e., descriptions, likelihoods and magnitude of potential impacts);
solutions that meet the needs of our internal and external stakeholders.
as well as on risk mitigation actions and reporting for compliance.
Together with the Board, the ELT, and its direct reports, including our
Chief Sustainability Officer, oversee the execution of our global ESG+
strategy, the Do More Good Plan, including the related activities, targets
and action plans within IFF’s business units and functions. To measure our
progress while holding ourselves accountable, our Annual Incentive Plan
(AIP) compensates our executive officers, managers and other employees
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
70
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
based on the achievement of both individual performance and certain levels scientific, risk-based approaches to ingredients evaluation. IFF is a member
of Company financial performance. In 2023, the AIP again included two ESG of more than 200 trade associations, for which our level of participation and
metrics, which were achieved: financial contributions vary. For those trade associations most important
to our industry — such as the International Fragrance Association (IFRA),
• Reducing our GHG emissions by approximately 2% year-over-year through
International Organization of the Flavor Industry (IOFI), FoodDrinkEurope,
energy-related projects
International Food Additives Coalition (IFAC), European Chemical Industry
• Increasing the proportion of women in middle and senior management by Council (CEFIC), EuropaBio and the Renewable Carbon Initiative (RCI),
at least 1% year-over-year among others — IFF contributed approximately $3 million USD in 2023. IFF’s
total lobbying expenditures in 2023 were approximately $200,000 in the
The ESG-linked goals impacted variable compensation by 5% for the ELT United States and between €300,000–399,999 in the European Union (for
and was expanded, for the first time, to all eligible employees. more information, you can view our filings at the EU Transparency Register).
IFF also monitors developments in registration and compliance
PUBLIC POLICY
requirements to inform our R&D innovation processes. During 2023, IFF’s
IFF’s Global Regulatory Affairs (GRA) group monitors and analyzes legislative
engagement increased in several business-critical regulatory filings through
and regulatory developments that impact the Company. GRA works with
advocacy, indirectly via trade associations or directly as IFF. For example, as
business teams to help them understand and comply with government
outlined in our IFF Biotechnology Statement, published for the first time in
regulations, self-regulatory frameworks and internal corporate policies. The
2023, IFF is well-positioned to responsibly use modern biotechnology as a
organization is led by the Vice President for Global Regulatory Affairs, who
toolkit to develop safe and sustainable products tailored to the needs of our
reports to the Chief Operating Officer. Within GRA, IFF’s Scientific and
customers across the spectrum of food, health and consumer products and
Public Affairs (SPA) team advances IFF’s business and reputational priorities
to produce them in volumes relevant to society at large. We also support
with public policy stakeholders. Through SPA, IFF creates private and
broader awareness and acceptance of responsible biotechnology use in
public sector support for responsible innovation for sustainable solutions.
food processing among our customers and other stakeholders. In 2023,
The team collaborates internally and externally to address emerging/
IFF provided input and contributions to an industry report that ultimately
perceived and known risks in product safety, efficacy, environmental impact
informed the administration of U.S. President Biden’s Executive Order to
and other areas. It also engages with stakeholders around IFF’s approach
advance biotechnology and biomanufacturing innovation, which is intended
to responsible innovation and safety. The team’s external engagement
to strengthen supply chain resilience and create a more sustainable
informs IFF’s advocacy, sustainability and ESG objectives and practices.
American bioeconomy.
For example, in 2023, IFF signed the EU Code of Conduct on Responsible
Food Business and Marketing Practices — joining food processors, food
BIOTECHNOLOGY & CONSUMER PRODUCTS
services operators, retailers and other stakeholders “between the farm and
IFF promotes discussion with our customers and other stakeholders
the fork” — to support its seven objectives for transitioning to a food system
(e.g., NGOs and policymakers) to facilitate science-based positioning and
that improves consumption patterns and makes it easier for consumers to
decision-making on contemporary issues such as ultra-processed foods
choose healthy and sustainable diets. In the regulatory science space, IFF
and the use of biotechnology for bio-based manufacture of ingredients
shares technical information through publications and industry organizations
and materials. During these discussions, IFF provides objective technical
with government authorities to inform policymaking and promote the use of
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
71
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
information on the benefits of processing (such as consumer convenience, provisions of the Inflation Reduction Act and the Biden Administration’s Bold POLITICAL
longer shelf life and reduced food waste) and the role of our products Goals. In the E.U., we also supported policies toward carbon pricing that
CONTRIBUTIONS
(e.g., enzymes in food and feed) in maximizing those benefits. In parallel, are aligned with reaching net zero by 2050, such as the Net-Zero Industry
we convey substantiated information on the sustainability gains that our Act for strengthening the European manufacturing capacity of net-zero
IFF encourages all our employees to be involved in their
downstream customers can take advantage of by including our enzymes technologies and the Communication on Sustainable Carbon Cycles, aiming
communities and to be politically and socially active citizens.
from renewable resources in their manufacturing processes (such as for at least 20% of the carbon used in the chemical and plastic products
IFF does not have a Political Action Committee and in 2023,
replacement of hazardous chemicals in textile processing) or in consumer from sustainable non-fossil sources by 2030.
as in previous years, we did not make any political contributions
products (such as enabling cold water laundry detergents). Further, we
In 2023, IFF participated with other private and NGO stakeholders in the to local, regional or national political campaigns, organizations
provide information to our customers for the safe use of our enzyme
United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP28) to educate decision or candidates. Our internal Political Contributions Policy
products, and we lead industry efforts in safety evaluation of food enzymes
makers about the complex intersection of trade and climate as it relates to strictly prohibits:
and ingredients made with microbial biotechnology.
topics such as deforestation, carbon pricing and the bioeconomy. Policy
• Direct or indirect contributions by IFF to any political campaign
We support supply chain transparency and the need for consumers to know topics discussed of particular importance to IFF included tariffs and
or political organization, as well as the reimbursement of any
the origin of food ingredients, including the use of biotechnology. We use technical barriers to trade on green products and technologies; rules on
such contribution made by an employee.
biotechnology to design genetically engineered microbes (GEMs) to produce subsidies and green competition; and trade facilitation, among others.
products such as enzymes and other ingredients for use in food and feed, These COP discussions on trade-related climate measures laid the
• Use of employees’ working time or other company resources
but these final products do not contain live GMOs. IFF sources certain groundwork for future trade actions addressing the climate crisis and
or assets for political purposes.
raw materials from genetically modified commodities, such as soybeans, helped elevate climate considerations at the WTO’s 13th Ministerial
• Posting or distributing political materials on IFF property or
for markets and applications where this is accepted. However, our refined Conference (MC13) in early 2024, where IFF was also represented. MC13
soliciting other employees while working.
products such as soy protein and lecithin also do not contain live GMOs. saw the adoption of a Ministerial Declaration on strengthening regulatory
As customer requirements vary, IFF’s Ingredients business delivers protein cooperation to reduce technical barriers to trade, which remains relevant
solutions in both GM and Identity Preserved non-GM categories. We also to modern global trade challenges and emerging policy concerns, including
provide our customers technical information that informs their decision- measures taken to address climate change.
making regarding their ability to seek third-party GMO certification for
consumer foods processed with IFF enzymes or containing IFF ingredients.
CLIMATE ALIGNMENT
IFF’s lobbying and public affairs priorities and activities align with the Paris
Climate Agreement objectives. IFF supports science-based public policy and
private sector action in support of the Paris Agreement goal to limit global
warming to well below 2 degrees Celsius and/or net zero by 2050. For
example, in the U.S. in 2023, IFF advocated for policies to enable the growth
of the bioeconomy, strengthening of the U.S. BioPreferred program, policies
to make biofuels more available and efforts to implement the climate change
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
72
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Business ethics & compliance
Approach Progress
DOING BUSINESS THE RIGHT WAY Our global ethics and compliance program is led by our Chief Compliance BUSINESS ETHICS TRAINING
Officer, who reports to IFF’s General Counsel. The General Counsel or Chief
We are proud of our commitment to conducting our business with the All IFF employees, including temporary employees (contingent workers and
Compliance Officer provides regular updates to the Board of Directors,
highest standards of ethics, honesty and integrity, and in compliance with contractors), directors and officers in all our regions around the world are
the Audit Committee of the Board and the Executive Leadership Team,
all applicable laws and regulations. responsible for reviewing, understanding and complying with the Code of
including the CEO, on matters related to compliance. IFF also conducts
Conduct and related compliance policies and procedures that we make
Our Code of Conduct (“Code”) forms the basis of how we expect periodic compliance risk assessments to assess corruption risks within
available and communicate about throughout the year. Employees, directors
IFF employees to conduct themselves. Available in 25 languages on our or related to our organization. Insights from such risk assessments help
and officers complete mandatory annual ethics and compliance training
Policy Center, the Code outlines our values and summarizes our policies us continuously improve our efforts to combat corruption, including by
every year, and new hires are also required to complete online Code of
on important topics such as anti-bribery and corruption, workplace safety, informing the design of our policies and procedures and helping us measure
Conduct training as part of our onboarding process.
protecting confidential information and DEI. The Code also provides the effectiveness of our management approach.
practical guidance for situations that employees may encounter throughout
In line with our internal Antitrust and Competition Policy, it is the In 2023, 100% of the total workforce was trained on
their careers, including scenarios about ethical dilemmas. It was last
responsibility of all employees to comply with all applicable antitrust and business ethics issues related to the expectations outlined
reviewed and updated in February 2022. In addition, we maintain a
specific Code of Conduct for Directors and Code of Conduct for competition laws and regulations. From time to time, we are involved in a in our Code of Conduct. The type of training was tailored
number of legal claims, regulatory investigations and litigation. In 2023, IFF
Executive Officers. to the type of employee and their role, and 100% of
was subject to antitrust and competition investigations in the United States
employees completed the trainings assigned to them.
and Europe, as well as class action lawsuits against us and certain of our
Topics included anti-bribery, ethical conduct,
competitors in the United States and Canada, alleging violations of antitrust
anti-corruption and antitrust and fair competition,
laws and related claims. IFF has been and intends to continue cooperating
with these investigations. IFF is unable, however, to predict or determine the among others.
scope, duration or outcome of these investigations.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
73
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Training modules were made available in 24 languages. As part of the ETHICS & COMPLIANCE DISCLOSURE
completion requirements, all employees also certified that they read,
understood and agreed to comply with IFF’s Code of Conduct, Anti-Bribery To help collect and track annual and ongoing certifications and disclosures related to employees’
Policy and other applicable company policies. adherence to the Code and policies, in 2023 we continued our mandatory Ethics and Compliance
Disclosure campaign, consisting of a mandatory online questionnaire in 11 languages to a targeted
Through additional training opportunities and internal communications
group of IFF employees.
channels during the year, we also seek to ensure that employees understand
other important compliance topics as well, such as workplace harassment, In alignment with our Anti-Bribery Policy and internal Conflict of Interest Policy, in 2023 we also
reporting concerns, information security, political contributions and use continued to promote the Ongoing Compliance Disclosure process, according to which every IFF
of company assets. For example, in addition to the annual global business employee must, in real time:
ethics training campaign described above, in 2023 we also conducted
• Disclose actual, potential or perceived conflicts of interest.
targeted trainings for select employee groups based on their specific areas
of responsibility. This included Integrity Training for plant managers as part • Disclose gifts or hospitality of any amount to government officials (such as the payment for hotel,
of the IFF University Plant Manager Program, which covered ethics and transportation, meal and entertainment expenses or anything of value provided or offered on behalf
compliance expectations for leaders, among other topics. For employees of IFF), within 30 days of giving.
whose roles require direct or indirect interactions with government officials,
• Request pre-approval for gift- and hospitality-related expenses involving government officials that
we required an additional Anti-Bribery training focused on government
exceed $25 USD (or local currency equivalent) 14 days prior to the event. Such disclosures must be
interactions to raise awareness about bribery and corruption risks and
submitted online via the IFF Ethics and Compliance Portal, accessible via our intranet.
to provide related tools and resources. We also conducted targeted live
antitrust and fair competition trainings for particular employee groups
based on their job roles.
In 2023, we continued to leverage our Ethics Champions network of
employees to help promote our ethics and compliance initiatives and
communications at the site level, such as training campaigns, SpeakUp
Policy expectations or guidelines on our ongoing obligations for
compliance disclosures. The support of this global network was
crucial for the success of the 2023 annual compliance training
campaign. The network includes more than 160 Champions
covering approximately 200 IFF sites globally.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
74
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
SPEAKUP: REPORTING CONCERNS
The success of IFF depends on employees acting ethically, speaking up related to potential fraud, bribery, corruption or other potentially significant
and seeking advice when in doubt. All employees have an obligation to concerns. Violations of the Code, IFF policies and all applicable laws and
conduct business in full compliance with the Code of Conduct, IFF policies regulations — and attempts to conceal violations — may result in disciplinary
and applicable laws and regulations. We strive to maintain an environment action up to and including termination of employment.
of trust and confidence where we will be alerted to potential issues or
concerns that might compromise the health and wellbeing of our employees In 2023, 341 reports of potential violations of the Code
or the reputation of IFF. To support this process, we offer a corporate
of Conduct were reported, 100% of which were or are
whistleblower hotline, as well as additional reporting channels for use by our
being investigated, and 103 were substantiated or partially
employees, customers, business partners and the public.
substantiated.19 Reported issue types, among others,
As outlined in our SpeakUp: Reporting Concerns & Non-Retaliation included concerns about employee relations, the potential
Policy, anyone who has knowledge of potential misconduct, unethical
misuse of corporate assets and conflicts of interest. We
activity, violations of our Code or other policies or other applicable laws is HUMAN RIGHTS
believe the volume of SpeakUp reports is an indication
encouraged to “speak up” in one of the following ways:
of the success of our concerted efforts to communicate Human rights are rights, freedoms and standards of
• Direct outreach to an IFF manager/supervisor or a member of IFF’s broadly about the availability of our SpeakUp channels treatment regarded as belonging to all persons. As outlined in
Human Resources, Legal or Global Ethics & Compliance teams. our Global Human Rights Policy, IFF respects and supports
and the case management system. In IFF’s 2023 employee
internationally recognized human rights, and this Policy is
• Email to our Global Ethics & Compliance team at compliance@iff.com. engagement survey, 93% of participants responded “agree”
guided by the principles found in the UN Guiding Principles
or “strongly agree” to the statement, “I know how to report
• Online via the iff.com/speakup web-based reporting tool, hosted by an for Business and Human Rights, Universal Declaration of
suspected unethical business practices.”
independent third-party service provider. Human Rights and the International Labor Organization’s
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
• Phone hotline, using the telephone numbers listed at iff.com/speakup,
All IFF personnel, consultants and suppliers must respect
available in more than 25 languages, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
and support these standards.
When making a report online, individuals have the option to request
Issues related to human rights are managed by our business
anonymity if allowed under local law. IFF strictly forbids reprisal, retaliation
units and Human Resources teams, and any potential human
or subsequent discrimination against any person who, in good faith,
rights violations are investigated by the Law department.
raises a concern or reports possible misconduct. IFF takes all reports of
We release an annual Slavery and Human Trafficking
potential violations or misconduct seriously and is committed to reviewing
Statement that provides information on our global human
and investigating them. IFF’s Audit Committee receives regular updates
rights due diligence processes.
on whistleblower reporting, including trends, data analytics and reports
Learn more about how we uphold human rights in our supply
chain on page 22.
19 Some substantiated or partially substantiated cases may have been initiated in a prior year.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
75
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Product safety & quality QUALITY OPERATING MODEL
Approach
NEVER COMPROMISING ON SAFETY Listen to the voice of Drive quality as a cultural value Reinforce quality principles
OR QUALITY the customer Emphasizing leadership, message Driving continuous improvement
Gathering and understanding credibility, peer involvement and and leveraging best practices to
At IFF, product safety and quality is rooted in our core principles, guiding
customer feedback to improve employee ownership. standardize, benchmark, digitize
everything we do, and represents the essential way we strive to Be the
customer satisfaction and and automate.
Premier Partner for our customers. Our Global Quality Policy affirms our
gain trust.
commitment to excellence for our customers and all our stakeholders.
Our Quality Operating Model guides our approach to executing this
commitment (see figure, right).
Managerial responsibility for product safety and quality lies with IFF’s Create value and gain customers trust
Senior Vice President of Quality, who reports to IFF’s Chief Operating
Officer. Under their leadership, and in cooperation with regulators and
trade associations, we manage a set of corporate policies and procedures
for IFF to achieve product safety compliance in all countries where we
operate. Our regulatory disclosure approach provides the framework for
Quality service compliance Enterprise risk cost
responding to product information requests from regulatory agencies
while managing proprietary information.
Our promise is to never compromise on the safety or
quality of any product, as it is our responsibility to protect
our employees, customers, consumers and communities
and shareholders.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
76
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Progress
LISTENING TO THE VOICE OF THE CUSTOMER DRIVING QUALITY AS A CULTURAL VALUE
Equipped with insights directly from the voice of our customers, we Through specialized communication tools and opportunities for knowledge
proactively enhance the product safety and quality performance of our sharing, we strive to create a workforce environment that embraces a
products in several ways. For example: sense of leadership and employee ownership. Our internal Culture of the
Quality program is continuously evolving in all manufacturing locations with
• Product Marketing and Labeling: We partner with our customers to
peer-to-peer quarterly discussions on internal quality programs, as well as
help address potential marketing and labeling challenges. In the event
biannual “Stop for Quality” operations messages. This program enables
of a product safety- or quality-related incident, we have a rigorous
and empowers employees to collaboratively solve problems and to think
investigation and corrective action process through which we coordinate
strategically about long-term solutions.
directly with our customers and regulatory authorities as needed. In the
case of potential health concerns for customers, IFF has programs in As we continue to strengthen our quality management system and
place to voluntarily recall products. drive a cohesive culture of quality, the corporate Quality team continues
to harmonize our quality policies from the different business units.
To further improve the accuracy of FDA-compliant information on labels,
The objective of the harmonization process is to create a strong foundation
in 2023 IFF implemented a new product labeling technology platform in
for our manufacturing sites that will drive consistent improvements in areas
our North American plants. By pulling information directly from finalized
such as environmental monitoring, allergen control and product labeling.
label fact sheets within our database, the new system assures greater
Procedures have been enhanced in quality control testing, operational
product safety on behalf of our customers.
assessments and engagement with suppliers and customers. We have
• Customer Engagement: We participate with our customers in partnership also provided deeper support to internal teams for the development of
events to find new ways to collaborate and to discuss their expectations IFF product groups, as well as to our customers to help them meet current
for product safety and quality. In 2023, we hosted presentations on IFF’s and emerging international regulations.
product safety and quality processes for quality managers at several of our
With any cultural initiative, it is vital to have leadership buy-in. For IFF,
largest customer accounts.
our SVP of Quality and Global Quality leaders host monthly networking
To continually assess the effectiveness of our management approach in
opportunities for all operations employees, during which Quality personnel
these areas with our customers, and to drive continuous improvement,
share best practices and learnings, address regulation changes and describe
we track internal key performance indicators, such as year-over-year
ISO standards. The group can also brainstorm on challenges they are
reductions in rejections and customer complaints. By using a business
experiencing or simply discuss how to improve quality management systems.
intelligence platform that aggregates and visualizes trend data over time,
To complement these networking opportunities, the corporate Quality team
we are able to make real-time adjustments to our programs. This level of
continues to regularly communicate internally with all Operations employees
data and trend analysis in 2023 supported our achievement of a more
through bimonthly electronic newsletters and quality alerts. The quality
than 20% improvement in quality performance from the prior year.
alerts are created to highlight industry product safety events, share key
learnings and to reinforce our quality culture.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
77
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
CONTINUOUS REINFORCING QUALITY PRINCIPLES
We are continually taking steps through our program and partnerships to
LEARNING
reinforce quality principles and exemplify best practices in all that we do.
For example, this includes:
Through employee training opportunities, we strive
to drive harmonization across our product safety and
• Monitoring: Our manufacturing facilities are certified to the standards that
quality programs. In 2023, the IFF Human Resources team
apply to each facility’s specific product categories. Standards include, but
launched a new IFF University Plant Manager Program, which
are not limited to, the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) for nutrition
included a module on Quality, among others. The Quality
and animal feed products; EXCiPACT for excipient products; ISO 22716
module emphasized that “We must never compromise on
for personal care and cosmetics and/or ISO 9001 Quality Management
Quality, Product Safety and Service,” and outlined how we
Systems. These standards are audited by external auditing bodies to
learn from the voice of the customer, share our successes
determine our compliance. To reconfirm that IFF is in a ready state, we
and empower each other. During the session, plant managers
perform regular drills on our product safety and quality programs.
from around the world engaged with one of our Global Key platforms to automate religious certifications. This program improved our
Account customers to understand their perspective on their • Quality Control Testing: Each of our manufacturing facilities has a efficiency by 20% in terms of number of workdays and automated more
quality vision and strategy. The module continued with a robust quality control program. This program focuses on evaluating the than 30% of our employee’s manual processes.
focus on the future. During a live session, plant managers ingredients and produced formulas to confirm the safety, quality and
reviewed some key opportunities and focus areas so IFF efficacy of our products. We operate Product Integrity Analysis Labs that
GLOBAL VENDOR QUALITY
can ensure our teams will be successful in complying with all are strategically placed in global regions. These labs have the capability
quality and product safety standards. In 2023, 95% of the and expertise to test raw materials to identify potential contamination at In addition to managing the safety and quality of our products, the IFF
plant managers completed the Quality Module. low levels and determine if raw materials are meeting new and/or existing Quality team also uses effective manufacturing quality control techniques
regulations. to monitor and verify our vendors’ ability to deliver products that meet
our global material specifications and service requirements. As part of our
• Investing & Improving: In 2023, we made significant investments in new
due diligence and risk management processes, new suppliers are required
high-end equipment to improve IFF’s contaminant testing labs and prepare
to complete an in-depth qualification process and vendors are assessed
for pending regulatory changes in the U.S. and Europe. Specifically, the
by our internal qualification committee. Selected new suppliers undergo
equipment will support action levels for mineral oil-saturated hydrocarbons
initial audits of their operations by IFF personnel (which may include
(MOSH), mineral oil aromatic hydrocarbons (MOAH) and per- and
testing raw material samples) to confirm that they meet IFF’s specifications,
polyfluoroalkyl substances, known as PFAS. Having this equipment and
requirements, and standards from both a regulatory and quality perspective.
technical expertise in-house provides us the opportunity to gain additional
Existing suppliers are also audited on a periodic basis. We also maintain a
knowledge on complex ingredients and work in collaboration with the
comprehensive risk assessment, scoring and risk-based testing program on
industry and customers.
our vendors to inform the level of testing we complete on the raw materials
• Automating: We seek to simplify processes and automate programs by we procure. These audits are complemented by IFF’s Vendor Quality Risk
leveraging technology in new ways and harnessing new efficiencies through Management program, which tracks vendor performance to help determine
digitalization. For example, in 2023, in association with a third-party audit frequency. Vendor risk scorecards allow us to focus our resources
religious organization, IFF was able to connect our supplier and our internal where the needs are greatest.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
78
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Information security
Approach
PROTECTING IFF DATA, SYSTEMS INFOSEC PROGRAM COMPONENTS
AND SERVICES
• Governance, Risk and Compliance: policies, awareness and
Defending our organization against today’s increasing and persistent cyber training, risk assurance, compliance and audits and Nth party risk.
threats is of the utmost importance to IFF. Our comprehensive information
• Cyber Fusion Center: incident management, security analysis, email
security (InfoSec) program is designed to protect the confidentiality,
security, endpoint security and threat intelligence.
integrity and availability of IFF sensitive data, information systems and
services against unauthorized use, disclosure modification, damage and loss. • Data Security: data privacy, data classification, insider trust and forensics,
and prevention of data leakage through controls for email, external file
Our Chief Information Officer (CIO), who reports to the CEO, is
sharing sites and USB.
responsible for delivering the Company’s global information technology (IT)
• InfoSec Architecture: InfoSec architectural standards, mobile security,
strategy, including infrastructure, data and analytics, application delivery,
network security, Nth party integrations and Enterprise Resource Planning
end-user services, cybersecurity risk management and the digital technology
(ERP) security.
transformation program. Under the guidance of the CIO, IFF’s Chief
Information Security Officer (CISO) leads the full end-to-end scope of our • Identity and Privileged Access Management: application security and
InfoSec program, organized into five towers (or “program components,” see vulnerability management.
next section, right) that are aligned to U.S. NIST and ISO27001 Cybersecurity
Frameworks. By aligning our five towers to 24 InfoSec programs, we can InfoSec is overseen by the InfoSec Steering Committee, comprising
use consistent terminology across projects, gap/risk assessments and senior leaders representing all corporate functions and business units and
governance. It also allows us to tie threats to vulnerabilities and to benchmark the InfoSec Governance Review Board, the IT leadership team and the
program for identifying, detecting, protecting, responding to, recovering
our programs more easily against the maturity of industry peers. InfoSec leadership team. To measure the effectiveness of our governance
from and mitigating data privacy and InfoSec risks. The CIO and CISO
and to continually improve, in 2023 we began onboarding a new platform
provide at least annual updates on IT and InfoSec initiatives to the full
that provides high-level InfoSec metrics and dashboards, backed up
Board and quarterly updates to the Audit Committee. In 2023, members of
by actionable data. This helps inform our executive stakeholders and
the Board and Executive Leadership Team participated in a cybersecurity
implementation teams on what to remediate, by priority and by asset.
exercise led by our CIO and CISO as training and to prepare for incident
Our Board of Directors and Audit Committee’s principal role is one of response. InfoSec is also an important element of IFF’s enterprise risk
oversight, recognizing that management, led by our CIO and CISO, is management process, through which relevant risk reductions are
responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance of an effective tracked quarterly.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
79
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
Progress (for both IFF-owned and personal devices); media disposal (to ensure
IFF data is permanently removed from electronic media before disposal
GOVERNANCE, RISK & COMPLIANCE or reuse); human resources (to protect data during the onboarding and
de-provisioning of users); and artificial intelligence (to outline the
In alignment with industry best practices, our InfoSec governance approach
responsible use of AI-generated content).
manages the following four primary risks:
In accordance with our internal InfoSec Compliance & Audit Policy, we
• Service Disruption: operations disabled due to threats such as
periodically conduct risk assessments to assess the severity and likelihood
denial-of-service attacks.
of potential incidents, as well as audit systems for compliance with
• Data Leakage: theft or disclosure of critical business data and information. applicable policies and controls. We participate in external audits of our
control procedures, policies and compliance mechanisms to ensure their
• Cyber Fraud: fraudulent or accidental financial impact resulting from
effectiveness and confirm adherence. InfoSec reviews all audit results and
inappropriate user access rights or vulnerabilities.
companywide emails focused on InfoSec and/or privacy best practices.
findings with auditors, tracks findings to ensure prompt resolutions or
• Nth Party Cyber Risk: disclosures, modification or unavailability of critical mitigating controls and regularly reports remediation status to management Another important touchpoint is through our cloud-based IT support
information due to inappropriate controls. until each finding is closed. We also annually re-certify compliance with platform, which offers employees more than 40 workflows to support
engagement with the InfoSec team, such as reporting suspicious emails or
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, governed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
By aligning to these well-established risks, we can easily communicate potential incidents. Additionally, all computer users, including factory floor
Commission, to improve the accuracy of corporate disclosures and to
with other InfoSec leaders and non-technical stakeholders, as well as more workers, are required to annually complete mandatory InfoSec training, and
protect shareholders and the public from accounting errors and fraudulent
seamlessly integrate with our enterprise risk management program and new hires are required to complete the training within 30 days of joining the
practices in enterprises.
related reporting requirements. To manage these risks, we have a robust company. As part of this training, employees must also annually acknowledge
awareness and training program for employees, accompanied by more IFF’s Acceptable Use Policy, which outlines the appropriate, responsible and
We are progressing towards ISO27001 certification, the
than 30 internal InfoSec policies, guidelines and standards available on our acceptable use of IFF Systems and Data.
international standard to manage information security.
intranet. In 2023, we added new internal policies on mobile device security
As part of this process, we completed a companywide To keep employees engaged and informed of the latest information, we
update our required InfoSec training topics every year. In 2023, the package
security gap assessment, began addressing remediation for
covered InfoSec essentials, email security threats, social engineering and
gaps identified and completed an internal audit. In 2024,
mobile device security. During the year, we also launched a mandatory
we plan to complete the final steps toward certification.
training for employees with elevated access to sensitive data, such as teams
in Human Resources, Finance and IT. We also plan to set up a new Privileged
Access Management platform in 2024.
AWARENESS & TRAINING
InfoSec is a shared responsibility, and to best protect our network,
Each year, our employees become better able to detect and
computers and data from threats, we empower our employees to be our first
report suspicious emails they receive from threat actors and
line of defense against information security breaches and privacy threats,
as part of our monthly phishing campaign, clicking on fewer
beginning with awareness. This includes regular communications, including
monthly newsletters, advisories, events, simulated phishing campaigns and simulated phishing emails.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
80
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Sustainable Solutions Climate & Planetary Health Equity & Wellbeing Transparency & Accountability
NTH PARTY CYBER RISK ASSESSMENT PROGRAM procedures outline how we will continue to operate. Our internal InfoSec TESTING IFF’S DEFENSES
Resiliency Policy reinforces this approach by helping to ensure that IFF’s
As outlined in our Vendor Code of Conduct, we expect external parties
critical business processes and support systems remain functional within an Recognizing that cyber threats constantly evolve, we stay ahead of
doing business with us to protect IFF’s and our customers’ confidential
acceptable timeframe following an unplanned business process failure. risks by proactively conducting vulnerability analyses and continually
information and personal data. To minimize risk and ensure compliance with
evaluating the effectiveness of our systems. In 2023, we engaged
our InfoSec and data privacy practices, we have a strong third-party due
Looking ahead, our Cyber Fusion Center will be taking steps to mature our
independent partners to assess the current state and maturity of our
diligence and risk assessment program for suppliers, vendors, contractors,
threat intelligence capacity in 2024.
cybersecurity program and to conduct an end-to-end penetration test,
IT service providers and consultants who access, store, host or process
which included a simulated cyber-attack.
confidential IFF information and/or personal data.
In 2023, we did not experience any material20 information
Additionally, we partnered with an external company to conduct a
In 2023, we matured our approach for onboarding vendors by introducing security incidents or breaches of personal data.
cyber exercise to test our incident response protocols with executive
additional triage questions. Based on their responses, vendors may be
leaders, focused on understanding the key considerations during an
required to complete an ISO27001-aligned Vendor Risk Assessment to
DATA SECURITY & PRIVACY
incident (e.g., time pressures and decision-making trade-offs), as well
assess their cybersecurity program, and/or a Solution Design Assessment
(SDA) to evaluate how data would be stored and shared between the IFF is committed to protecting the privacy of the personal data of our as identifying ideas for enhancing our InfoSec Incident Response Plan.
organizations. This year we also added supplements to the assessments to employees, customers and any other parties with whom we have a business
Assessment results were presented to the Audit Committee and the
cover situations involving privacy data, operational technology security and relationship and from whom we collect personal data. IFF’s Global Privacy
full Board and were used to update our InfoSec Incident Response
artificial intelligence. Compliance Program, overseen by our Chief Privacy Officer, ensures
Plan. This includes incorporating lessons learned and opportunities for
compliance with applicable privacy and data protection laws in the countries
improvement into governance and operations, program integration,
CYBER FUSION CENTER in which we do business. This program includes privacy notices to individuals
metrics and reporting and technology enablement.
whose data is processed by IFF, employee privacy policies and training,
Our comprehensive InfoSec Incident Response Plan outlines processes
processes for regulatory compliance and data protection agreements
to identify, detect, assess, respond to and recover from threats, including
with third parties that process personal data on IFF’s behalf. We also keep
cybersecurity threats. We follow those processes to manage risks from
abreast of and review pending global privacy laws on an ongoing basis.
cybersecurity threats, including risks relating to disruption of business
operations or financial reporting systems; intellectual property theft; fraud; We follow defense in-depth principles to deter threat actors, block
extortion; harm to employees or customers; violation of privacy laws; and suspicious emails and avoid IT system interruptions. This includes
other litigation/legal risk and reputational risk, as part of our overall risk implementation of measures designed to protect the personal data in our
management system and processes. All IFF personnel can directly report a possession of employees, customers and third parties with whom we do
suspected or confirmed InfoSec incident, data breach or related concern to business from unauthorized access and disclosure, such as firewalls, secure
InfoSec@iff.com. Users may also confidentially report concerns or violations remote access tools, unique and complex passwords, encryption, endpoint
without fear of retaliation through our dedicated reporting channel at security and email security.
http://iff.com/speakup.
In 2023, we completed major upgrades to our data security controls by
In the event of an unplanned event, incident or breach that may take further containerizing IFF data and blocking access to file sharing, personal
critical IFF systems offline, our business continuity and disaster recovery email, chat and social media platforms.
20 Material information security incidents are determined according to IFF’s Incident Response Plan.
Appendix
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
81
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
About this Report Membership Associations Stakeholder Engagement Performance Data
About this report
Reporting scope
The content of this report is based on our Do More Good Plan, including
our 2030 ESG+ goals and our 2023 double materiality assessment.21
The scope of this 2023 Do More Good Report covers January 1, 2023, to
This report was developed through an in-depth consultation process with
December 31, 2023, and includes facilities owned and operated by IFF, as
relevant subject matter experts across the IFF organization. The report
well as all entities included in IFF’s 2023 consolidated financial statements.
was then reviewed by senior managers from each business function with
feedback incorporated. The CEO, who also serves on the Board of Directors, In recent years, we have acquired or merged with several companies. Most
is responsible for reviewing and approving our Do More Good Report, recently, on February 1, 2021, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger
including our material topics, and the Executive Leadership Team also with DuPont de Nemours, Inc. (“DuPont”), a wholly owned subsidiary of IFF
reviews and approves this report prior to its publication. merged with and into Nutrition & Biosciences, Inc. (“N&B”), a subsidiary of
DuPont holding its Nutrition and Biosciences division.
This report should be read in conjunction with our 2023 Annual Report and
2024 Proxy Statement available at ir.iff.com/annual-reports-proxy-materials. Consistent with best practices and applicable framework guidelines for ESG
IFF has annually issued a standards-adherent sustainability report since our reporting, we have historically included the performance data of merged or
first reporting year in 2010. Previous years’ sustainability/ESG+ reports and acquired entities in our reporting boundary for the first full year of operation
data are available in our Report Library at iff.com/responsibilities. following the merger or acquisition.22 The scope of this 2023 Do More
Good Report includes N&B unless stated otherwise and the analysis of our
combined company footprint has informed the development of our new
2021 baseline as the basis for our future performance reporting.
Acquisition / Merger Year Acquired Data Inclusion in 2023 Do More Good Report
Frutarom 2018 Yes
DuPont N&B 2021 Yes
Health Wright Products 2022 Yes (workforce and EHS data, unless otherwise specified).
No (environmental data).
21 Our ESG reporting describes the topics we consider to be the most important to stakeholders when evaluating environmental, social and governance issues at IFF. Materiality for these purposes is assessed using
multiple reporting standards and frameworks as well as our internal determinations. Unless so specified, materiality does not directly correspond to the concept of materiality used under U.S. securities law or other
applicable laws and does not represent any determination by the Company that any of the content contained in this presentation is “material” for purposes of U.S. securities law or in the context of financial reporting
and should not be construed as a characterization regarding the materiality of such information to IFF’s financial results or operations.
22 With respect to financial reporting, we include the results of the acquired entity from the day we acquire the company.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
82
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
About this Report Membership Associations Stakeholder Engagement Performance Data
Standards & basis of calculations
of environmental data
IFF’s GHG emissions are calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas The organizational boundaries for this report align with the Operational
Protocol. This ESG Report includes all Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions Control approach outlined in the GHG Protocol. Following Scope 1
(for which we target less than 5% data estimation), and for Scope 3, Guidance for Direct Emissions, we use appropriate emission factors such
we include six of the 15 Greenhouse Gas Protocol categories that are as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 2006 Guidelines
supported by actual spend data and activity data: Category 1 - Purchased for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories and the U.S. Environmental
goods and services; Category 2 - Capital goods; Category 3 - Fuel- and Protection Agency (EPA) Fugitive Emissions Guidance. For electricity (Scope
energy-related activities; Category 4 - Upstream transportation and 2 emissions), we follow generally accepted factors such as the EPA’s 2023
distribution; Category 5 - Waste generated in operations; and Category eGrid Subregion emission factors, the latest International Energy Agency
6 – Business travel (air travel only, see Performance Data, page 88)23. IFF emission factors, Australian Government National Greenhouse Account
has determined that four additional Scope 3 categories out of the 15 are Factors, RE-DISS Residual European Mix, US Residual Mix, as well as verified
also relevant (Category 7 - Employee commuting; Category 9 - Downstream supplier specific emission factors. Emission factors for purchased steam are
transportation and distribution; Category 10 - Processing of sold products; specific for each site and are provided by the suppliers.
and Category 12 - End-of-life treatment of sold products). These additional
Emissions for process-derived fuels are specific to each site and are
four categories are based on estimates and not included in this Report but
calculated by mass balance based on product mix. The emissions
are reflected as estimates in our annual CDP Climate Change Questionnaire.
calculations include GHGs covered by the Kyoto Protocol — carbon dioxide
IFF reports environmental data for all manufacturing sites under the
(CO ), methane (CH ), nitrous oxide (N O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs),
company’s operational control, and for non-operational sites with an 2 4 2
perfluorocarbons (PFCs) and sulfur hexafluoride (SF ) — and are reported as
employee headcount that is equal to or greater than 20 employees. 6
CO equivalents (CO e).
2 2
We use the global warming potentials provided in the IPCC’s Sixth
Assessment Report, where available. We report both market-based and
location-based emissions data in this Do More Good Report, which follow
the methodologies provided in the Scope 2 Guidance of the GHG Protocol.
Market-based emissions use supplier-specific emission factors and include
renewable energy credits.
23 Scope 3 Categories 1, 2 and 4 are calculated off actual spend by category; Categories 3 and 5 are
calculated from source activity data and Category 6 is calculated from data provided by travel agent
data. For Scope 3 spend-based calculations, EPA EEIO factors that include related transportation and
distribution margins are used.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
83
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
About this Report Membership Associations Stakeholder Engagement Performance Data
Disclosure frameworks
To assist stakeholders in understanding and benchmarking our performance, and provides an overview of our commitments to sustainable and socially
we annually prepare our Do More Good Report in accordance with three responsible policies in these areas. For more on IFF’s UNGC membership,
credible and widely recognized disclosure frameworks. please visit https://www.unglobalcompact.org.
• GRI: The Global Reporting Initiative is an independent standards
organization that helps businesses understand and communicate External assurance
their economic, environmental and social impacts related to business
We retained ERM CVS to conduct a third-party assurance of our 2023
performance. Our 2023 Do More Good Report was prepared in
Do More Good Report. Specifically, they assessed whether the report
accordance with the revised Universal Standards, launched in October
presents a complete and balanced presentation of IFF’s sustainability
2021, which aim to set a new global benchmark for sustainability
activities and performance in accordance with the GRI Standards, and
reporting. We have aligned with the GRI to guide our ESG disclosures
whether the 2023 information and data for specified indicators are fairly
annually since our first sustainability report was released in 2010.
presented in accordance with the reporting criteria. ERM CVS does not
• SASB: The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board is an independent, verify general market-related claims that are not linked to IFF’s ESG
nonprofit organization with a mission to develop and disseminate performance. Select environmental indicators for North America, covering
sustainability accounting standards that help public corporations sites in the United States and Canada, were reasonably assured in 2023.
disclose material, decision-useful information to investors. For the third This includes Scope 1 GHG emissions (392,402 metric tons CO e), and
2
consecutive year, we have included in this report a disclosure for the Scope 2 location-based (LB) and market-based (MB) emissions (LB: 462,300
Chemicals industry, specifically the Resource Transformation sector. metric tons CO e; MB: 419,990 metric tons CO e). This also includes direct
2 2
energy (2,165,041 MWh), indirect energy (1,253,056 MWh) and total energy
• TCFD: The Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related
consumption (3,418,097 MWh). IFF’s Chief Sustainability Officer oversees
Financial Disclosures is a set of recommendations developed to inform
the Company’s external assurance process for this report.
investment, credit and insurance underwriting decisions, as well as enable
stakeholders to better understand the financial system’s exposures ERM CVS conducted four onsite and four virtual facility visits, as well as
to climate-related financial risks. For the second consecutive year, additional virtual interviews with subject matter experts and review data
we have prepared a disclosure in alignment with the guidance and systems. Additional documentation to support corporate claims and
EDITORIAL TEAM
recommendations of TCFD. operational data was provided as needed to inform the process.
• Global Sustainability: sustainability@iff.com
For more information on the assurance standards used, the level of
Additionally, since 2015, IFF has been a formal signatory of the UNGC,
assurance obtained, and the assurance process, please see the ERM • Public Relations & Corporate Communications:
a strategic policy initiative for companies committed to aligning their
CVS Assurance Report at the end of this report, which details the scope, media.request@iff.com
operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas
activities and conclusions of their engagement.
of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Our 2023 Do More • Investor Relations: investor.relations@iff.com
Good Report serves as our annually required Communication on Progress
• Strategic advisory and report design:
thinkPARALLAX
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
84
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
About this Report Membership Associations Stakeholder Engagement Performance Data
Membership associations
The following is a selection of the industry associations, other membership associations, national or international advocacy organizations or partnerships in which IFF participates. It does not represent an exhaustive list. Leadership positions
held are also noted, where applicable.
Alternative Fuels & Chemicals Coalition (AFCC)
American Chemical Council
American Cleaning Institute (ACI) Board of Directors
Animal-Free Safety Assessment Collaboration (AFSA)
Animal Nutrition Association of Canada
Associação Brasileira da Indústria e Comércio de Ingredientes e Aditivos para Alimentos (ABIAM)
Associação Brasileira de Biotecnologia Industrial (ABBI)
Association for Chemoreception Sciences (AChemS)
Association of Manufacturers and Formulators of Enzyme Products (AMFEP) Executive Committee, Treasurer
Bio-based Industries Consortium (BIC)
Chinese Institute of Food Science and Technology (CIFST)
Cosmetic Executive Women Board of Governors
Cosmetics Europe
Cosmetic Valley
Delaware State Chamber of Commerce
Disability:IN Inclusion Works Accessibility Leadership Committee
Distillers Grains Technology Council (DGTC)
Enzyme Technical Association (ETA) Executive Committee, Treasurer
EU Association of Specialty Feed Ingredients and their Mixtures (FEFANA)
European Association for Bioindustries (EuropaBio)
European Bioplastics (EUBP)
European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic)
European Federation for Cosmetic Ingredients (EFfCI)
European Food Emulsifiers Manufacturers Association (EFEMA)
European Food & Feed Cultures Association (EFFCA)
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
85
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
About this Report Membership Associations Stakeholder Engagement Performance Data
European Organization of Cosmetic Ingredients Industries and Services (UNITIS) Board of Directors, Treasurer
European Primary Food Processing Industry (PFP) Board of Directors, PFP President
European Renewable Ethanol Association (ePURE)
European Vegetable Protein Association (Euvepro) Board of Directors
EU Specialty Food Ingredients (EUSFI) Board of Directors
Feed Ingredient & Premix of Asia (FIPAA) Board of Directors
FEEDLATINA
FELGBTI+ (La Federación Estatal de Lesbianas, Gais, Trans, Bisexuales, Intersexuales y más)
FoodDrinkEurope Board of Directors
Flavor and Extract Manufacturers Association of the United States (FEMA) Board of Governors
The Fragrance Foundation Board of Directors
Fragrance Creators Association Board of Directors
Friends of Champions 12.3 network
Fuels America
Growth Energy
Household & Commercial Products Association (HCPA) Board of Directors
Institute for the Advancement of Food and Nutrition (IAFNS) Scientific Leadership Council
International Association for Soaps, Detergents and Maintenance Products (A.I.S.E.)
International Collaboration on Cosmetic Safety Board Member
International Federation of Essential Oils and Aroma Trades (EFEO)
International Food Additives Council (IFAC) Board of Trustees
International Food Information Council (IFIC) Board of Directors
International Fragrance Association (IFRA) Board of Directors
International Humane Society (HSI)
International Organization of the Flavor Industry (IOFI) Board of Directors
International Pharmaceutical Excipients Council (IPEC) Executive Committee, Past Chair
International Probiotics Association (IPA) VP, Executive Board of Directors
International Special Dietary Foods Industries (ISDI)
Marinalg International Board of Directors
North American Sustainable Palm Oil Network (NASPON)
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
86
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
About this Report Membership Associations Stakeholder Engagement Performance Data
National Association of Corporate Directors
Natural Products Association (NPA) Board of Directors
Personal Care Products Council (PCPC) Board of Directors
Pharmabiotic Research Institute (PRI)
Renewable Carbon Initiative (RCI)
Renewable Fuels Association (RFA)
Research Institute for Fragrance Materials (RIFM) Board of Directors, Chairman
Round Table on Responsible Soy Association (RTRS)
Roundtable on Sustainable Biomaterials (RSB)
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO)
Sedex
Self-Care Association of South Africa
Society for Corporate Governance
The Society of Flavor Chemists
Soy Nutrition Institute Global (SNIG) Board of Directors, President
Supplement Safety & Compliance Initiative (SSCI)
Sustainable Brands
Together for Sustainability
Union for Ethical BioTrade (UEBT)24
United Nations Global Compact and Global Compact Network USA
Upcycled Food Association25
Workplace Pride
World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)
World Customs Organization
24 LMR Naturals by IFF
25 Associate Member
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
87
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
About this Report Membership Associations Stakeholder Engagement Performance Data
Stakeholder engagement
IFF is committed to engaging with our stakeholders to understand their expectations of us. We use their feedback to inform our strategies and to proactively respond with solutions that continue
to create value for all.
Stakeholder Group Examples of How We Engage Examples of Key Topics and Concerns Raised Learn More
in 2023
Communities • Volunteer and charitable activities that are organized, hosted and implemented locally by sites around the world Community wellbeing, philanthropy and socioeconomics; Community & biodiversity programs,
biodiversity and ecosystems; pollution page 28
• Initiatives through our Responsible Sourcing program to support the sustainable development of communities
where our ingredients are grown
Customers • Industry events, expos, meetings, roundtables or presentations Innovation and sustainable product solutions; Sustainable Solutions, page 18
greenhouse gas and energy footprint; human rights;
• Partnerships and joint projects, including accompanying communications (e.g., press releases and social media)
customer experience and transparency;
• Questionnaires, surveys, or sustainability performance reviews on environmental and social performance information security
Employees • Regular communications, including emails, newsletters, videos, town halls, the intranet, CEO blog and social media Innovation and sustainable product solutions; human Equity & Wellbeing, page 49
rights; talent acquisition, engagement and retention;
• Employee engagement campaigns, surveys, webinars, e-learning courses and trainings
information security
Investors • Regular filings, disclosures and press releases Biodiversity and ecosystems; working conditions; Transparency & Accountability, page 67
occupational health and safety; talent acquisition,
• Quarterly meetings and conference calls to maintain an open dialogue on our strategies, performance, matters of
engagement and retention; business conduct, ethics
corporate governance and executive compensation
and compliance; innovation and sustainable product
solutions; responsible sourcing
Governmental and non- • Participation in trade associations, industry groups and multilateral organizations that amplify the business voice and Climate change risk; occupational health and safety; Public Policy, page 70
governmental organizations represent industry interests human rights; product safety and quality; business
conduct, ethics and compliance
• Interaction and advocacy with governmental agencies and legislators to ensure clear understanding of business needs,
inform regulatory decisions and align on policy interpretation External Initiatives, Memberships &
Associations, page 84
Suppliers • Questionnaires, audits, or disclosures via third-party platforms to assess supplier performance Responsible sourcing; biodiversity & ecosystems; Responsible Sourcing, page 19
greenhouse gas and energy footprint; business conduct,
• Participation in initiatives and global networks to support the sustainability performance of industry supply chains
ethics and compliance
• Outreach, such as training/guidance, audits or questionnaires
• Collaborative partnerships and shared value programs to strengthen local communities and supply chains
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
88
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
About this Report Membership Associations Stakeholder Engagement Performance Data
Performance data
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA
Units 2021 2022 2023
SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2 GHG EMISSIONS
Direct emissions (Scope 1) Metric Tons COe 889,095 828,178 694,072
2
CO Metric Tons COe 869,593 811,050 676,017
2 2
CH Metric Tons COe 846 816 683
4 2
NO Metric Tons COe 2,074 2,028w 1,702
2 2
Refrigerants Metric Tons COe 16,582 14,285 13,748
2
Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) by source
Fuel combustion % 98.1 98.3 98.0
Other % 1.9 1.7 2.1
Operated indirect emissions (market-based Scope 2) Metric Tons COe 1,023,016 961,357 824,185
2
CO Metric Tons COe 1,020,584 959,174 822,964
2 2
CH Metric Tons COe 996 862 464
4 2
NO Metric Tons COe 1,436 1,320 757
2 2
Operated indirect emissions (location-based Scope 2) Metric Tons COe 969,798 894,118 837,194
2
CO Metric Tons COe 964,547 889,198 833,046
2 2
CH Metric Tons COe 2,076 1,946 1,544
4 2
NO Metric Tons COe 3,175 2,974 2,604
2 2
SCOPE 3 GHG EMISSIONS
Indirect emissions (Scope 3) Metric Tons COe 7,643,948 8,516,583 5,667,289
2
Employee business air travel Metric Tons COe 2,398 3,283 6,381
2
Purchased goods and services Metric Tons COe 6,456,862 6,894,125 4,346,181
2
Capital goods Metric Tons COe 44,999 94,769 98,573
2
Fuel- and energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2) Metric Tons COe 438,817 463,037 639,950
2
Upstream transportation and distribution Metric Tons COe 513,630 769,409 444,929
2
Waste generated in operations Metric Tons COe 187,242 291,960 131,275
2
BIOGENIC CO EMISSIONS
2
CO emissions from biomass burned onsite Metric Tons COe 192,946 182,637 153,082
2 2
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
89
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
About this Report Membership Associations Stakeholder Engagement Performance Data
Units 2021 2022 2023
HYDROCHLOROFLUOROCARBON (HCFC) EMISSIONS
HCFC emissions from refrigerants used onsite Metric Tons COe 2,437 1,652 1,854
2
AIR EMISSIONS (EXCLUDES GHGS)^
Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) Metric Tons 42.98 45.01 44.51
NO emissions Metric Tons 414.88 382.94 423.87
x
SO emissions Metric Tons 157.24 116.68 116.59
x
Particulate matter emissions Metric Tons 61.49 56.85 363.30
CO emissions Metric Tons 668.65 620.84 918.60
ENERGY USE
Nonrenewable fuels (nuclear fuels, coal, oil, natural gas, etc.) MWh 4,535,925 4,241,375 3,504,252
purchased and consumed
Nonrenewable electricity purchased MWh 1,698,651 1,706,873 1,296,479
Stream/heating/cooling and other energy (nonrenewable) MWh 1,284,212 1,265,848 1,075,689
purchased and consumed
Total renewable energy (wind, solar, biomass, hydroelectric, MWh 898,558 774,340 889,692
geothermal, etc.) purchased or generated
Total nonrenewable energy consumption MWh 7,518,788 7,214,095 5,876,420
Production energy intensity MWh/Metric Ton 4.18 4.42 4.56
Electricity MWh/Metric Ton 0.84 0.86 0.67
Purchased steam, district heating MWh/Metric Ton 0.57 0.63 0.64
Fuel oil, LPG (propane), and LNG MWh/Metric Ton 0.07 0.05 0.04
Natural gas MWh/Metric Ton 2.18 2.30 2.32
Process-derived MWh/Metric Ton 0.07 0.08 0.09
Renewable electricity (purchased and onsite) MWh/Metric Ton 0.16 0.14 0.27
Biomass MWh/Metric Ton 0.28 0.28 0.32
Direct energy use Thousand MWh 5,244 4,894 4,121
Natural gas Thousand MWh 4,404 4,147 3,438
Diesel Thousand MWh 68 47 30
Nonrenewable energy used in onsite mobile sources Thousand MWh 42 20 9
(i.e., trucks, forklifts, cars, etc.)
Purchased electricity Thousand MWh 2,029 1,798 1,402
Renewable energy certificates (RECs)* Thousand MWh 92 252 401
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
90
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
About this Report Membership Associations Stakeholder Engagement Performance Data
Units 2021 2022 2023
WATER WITHDRAWAL
Total water withdrawal Megaliters 95,460 93,310 79,033
Groundwater Megaliters 17,020 17,395 13,721
Municipal Megaliters 17,990 17,596 15,493
Surface water Megaliters 60,310 57,722 49,320
Process water Megaliters 140 597 499
Rainwater Megaliters - - -
Annual water use intensity Megaliter per metric ton of production 0.05 0.05 0.05
WATER DISCHARGE
Total water discharge Megaliters 64,340 81,437 71,113
Municipal Megaliters 9,380 12,852 11,516
Groundwater Megaliters 4,660 4,986 4,622
Surface water Megaliters 50,140 63,592 54,969
Truck/rail Megaliters 160 6 6
SOLID WASTE
Nonhazardous waste Thousand metric tons 502.43 493.98 452.68
Recovery/reuse/recycle % 75.4 78.1 74.8
Landfill % 8.5 5.4 11.5
Incineration % 1.4 1.4 0.8
Composted % 12.9 12.2 11.0
Other % 1.8 2.9 1.9
Hazardous waste Thousand metric tons 45.4 179.9 28.4
Recovery/reuse/recycle % 18.0 7.2 25.2
Landfill % 1.9 0.3 6.7
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
91
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
About this Report Membership Associations Stakeholder Engagement Performance Data
Units 2021 2022 2023
Incineration % 65.0 83.7 49.9
Composted % - - -
Other % 15.0 8.8 18.2
Annual hazardous waste intensity Metric tons per metric ton of production 0.02 0.10 0.02
Total waste (hazardous + nonhazardous) Thousand metric tons 547.79 673.86 481.11
Recovery/reuse/recycle % 70.7 59.2 71.8
Landfill % 7.9 4.0 11.3
Incineration % 6.6 23.4 3.7
Composted % 11.9 8.9 10.3
Other % 2.9 4.5 2.9
Basel Convention (recovery/reuse/recycle) Metric Tons 0 0 0
OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS**
ISO 14001-certified operations production percentage % of production 95 96 98
Number of ISO 14001-certified operation sites # of sites 30 48 48
^ Air emissions are estimated based on fuel consumption as well as onsite flare emissions. Local regulatory reporting values may differ. For 2023, data reported includes biomass, diesel (mobile), gasoline (petrol), liquefied natural gas (LNG), and propane (mobile). These sources were not included in data reported in 2021 and 2022.
* This includes RECs from onsite generated green electricity, as well as renewable purchasing.
** This data reflects the large facilities ISO 14001 certification status. Facility size is defined by production volume. Facility size is defined on an annual basis based on statistic quartiles and averaging the second and third quartile which minimizes effects of outliers. Please note that IFF has many small and medium sites that are ISO
14001 certified but are not included in this data.
Notes:
GHG Direct (Scope 1) emissions consist of CO, CH and NO.
2 4 2
Location-based Scope 2 emissions are lower than market-based Scope 2 emissions due to the use of residual mix emission factors versus country-specific or region-specific emission factors for select facilities.
IEA Emissions Factors are in accordance with the IPCC Sixth Assessment cycle in IFF’s 2023 reporting, where applicable.
The reporting boundary for our dataset is detailed in the About this Report section.
For Scope 3 Category 6 in the years 2021, 2022, 2023, IFF includes Tank-to-Wheel (TTW) and Well-to-Tank (WTT) per the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) requirement.
IFF has determined that Health Wright Products has an immaterial contribution to the 2023 environmental footprint and is therefore excluded from 2023 reporting. Health Wright Products environmental data will be included in IFF’s 2024 reporting.
The production volume (intensity factor) for 2021, 2022 and 2023 were: 2,016,438 metric tons, 1,806,119 metric tons, and 1,484,363 metric tons, respectively.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
92
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
About this Report Membership Associations Stakeholder Engagement Performance Data
WORKFORCE DATA
Employee Contract 2021 2022 2023
Permanent employees 24,114 24,586 21,458
Temporary employees (contingent workers) 1,716 1,245 767
Interns 483 603 572
Permanent employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 36.3% 20.6% 17.0%
Permanent employee type
Full-time 23,297 22,826 20,610
Part-time 817 1,760 848
Permanent employee gender
Male 15,412 15,686 13,416
Female 8,702 8,899 8,042
Permanent employee hires and hire rate
New hires 3,135 3,930 2,202
New hire rate 13.0% 16.0% 10.0%
Permanent employee turnover count
Voluntary 1,921 2,387 1,678
Involuntary 990 975 3,364
Retirement and other 308 325 293
Total 3,219 3,687 5,335
Permanent employee turnover rate
Voluntary 8.0% 9.7% 7.3%
Involuntary 4.1% 4.0% 14.7%
Retirement and other 1.3% 1.3% 1.3%
Total 13.3% 15.0% 23.3%
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
93
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
About this Report Membership Associations Stakeholder Engagement Performance Data
Gender Diversity by Region
(Permanent Employees) 2021 2022 2023
Total % Male % Female Total % Male % Female Total % Male % Female
Europe, Africa and Middle East 10,429 61.9% 38.1% 10,600 61.8% 38.2% 9,174 60.6% 39.4%
Greater Asia 4,614 63.7% 36.3% 4,673 64.2% 35.8% 4,110 62.6% 37.4%
Latin America 3,514 66.4% 33.6% 3,563 65.4% 34.6% 2,956 63.6% 36.4%
North America 5,557 66.3% 33.7% 5,750 66.2% 33.8% 5,218 65.1% 34.9%
Total 24,114 63.9% 36.1% 24,586 63.8% 36.2% 21,458 62.5% 37.5%
Gender Diversity by Employee Category
(Permanent Employees) 2021 2022 2023
Total % Male % Female Total % Male % Female Total % Male % Female
Executive management 11 73% 27% 12 75% 25% 11 73% 27%
Upper management 67 64% 36% 70 66% 34% 80 65% 35%
Middle management 1,461 64% 36% 1,481 63% 37% 1,496 62% 38%
Junior management 8,208 53% 47% 8,683 52% 48% 7,648 50% 50%
Operational 14,367 70% 30% 14,340 71% 29% 12,223 70% 30%
Total 24,114 64% 36% 24,586 64% 36% 21,458 63% 37%
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
94
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
About this Report Membership Associations Stakeholder Engagement Performance Data
Age Diversity by Region
(Permanent Employees) 2021 2022 2023
Age <30 Age 30–50 Age >50 Age <30 Age 30–50 Age >50 Age <30 Age 30–50 Age >50
Europe, Africa and Middle East 1,080 5,987 3,362 1,481 5,826 3,293 1,193 5,075 2,906
Greater Asia 703 3,158 753 928 2,988 757 756 2,712 642
Latin America 712 2,294 508 872 2,168 523 607 1,885 464
North America 618 2,810 2,129 908 2,794 2,048 775 2,617 1,826
Total 3,113 14,249 6,752 4,189 13,776 6,621 3,331 12,289 5,838
Age Diversity by Employee Category
(Permanent Employees) 2021 2022 2023
Age <30 Age 30–50 Age >50 Age <30 Age 30–50 Age >50 Age <30 Age 30–50 Age >50
Executive management — 2 9 — 3 9 — 3 8
Upper management — 25 42 — 25 45 — 27 53
Middle management — 668 793 2 702 777 — 739 757
Junior management 445 5,492 2,271 788 5,574 2,321 624 5,040 1,984
Operational 2,668 8,062 3,637 3,399 7,472 3,469 2,707 6,480 3,036
Total 3,113 14,249 6,752 4,189 13,776 6,621 3,331 12,289 5,838
Ethnic Diversity by Employee Category
(Permanent Employees, U.S. Only) Asian* Black or African American Hispanic or Latino Native American or Alaskan
2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023
Executive management 2 1 — - 1 1 2 - - - - -
Upper management 5 3 5 - - - 10 6 5 - - -
Middle management 80 81 76 16 18 13 38 40 39 1 1 1
Junior management 268 253 243 85 101 89 110 119 107 2 4 3
Operational 141 139 183 392 415 461 262 273 313 52 51 46
Total 496 477 507 493 535 564 422 438 464 55 56 50
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
95
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
About this Report Membership Associations Stakeholder Engagement Performance Data
Ethnic Diversity by Employee Category (continued)
(Permanent Employees, U.S. Only) North African / Middle Eastern Two or More Races White Not Specified
2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023
Executive management - - 1 - - - 7 9 8 - - -
Upper management 1 - - - - - 24 25 29 - - -
Middle management 4 - 3 5 7 9 413 406 386 - - -
Junior management 9 1 2 24 20 22 1,488 1,416 1,291 - 3 3
Operational 4 4 3 36 48 46 1,799 1,804 1,769 - 8 13
Total 18 5 9 65 75 77 3,731 3,660 3,483 - 11 16
Ethnic Diversity by Employee Category
(Permanent Employees, Brazil Only) Asian Black Pardo^ White Not Specified
2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023
Upper management - - - - - - - - - - 2 3 - - -
Middle management - 5 6 - - - - 5 5 - 57 57 - - -
Junior management - 16 15 - 10 13 - 34 42 - 343 336 - 4 4
Operational - 20 29 - 90 83 - 147 133 - 764 680 - 10 15
Total - 51 50 - 100 96 - 186 180 - 1,166 1,076 - 14 19
New Employee Hires by
Region, Age and Gender
(Permanent Employees) 2021 2022 2023
Age<30 Age 30-50 Age>50 Male Female Age<30 Age 30-50 Age>50 Male Female Age<30 Age 30-50 Age>50 Male Female
Europe, Africa and Middle East 413 492 95 622 377 541 607 123 751 520 350 397 54 422 379
Greater Asia 318 248 8 597 206 382 254 23 435 224 159 161 12 184 148
Latin America 437 344 22 530 228 522 396 39 644 313 229 226 18 291 182
North America 297 329 132 393 181 391 504 148 705 338 214 303 79 373 223
Total 1,465 1,413 257 2,142 992 1,836 1,761 333 2,535 1,395 952 1,087 163 1,270 932
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
96
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
About this Report Membership Associations Stakeholder Engagement Performance Data
Employee Turnover by Region, Age and Gender
(Permanent Employees) 2021 2022 2023
Age <30 Age 30–50 Age >50 Male Female Age <30 Age 30–50 Age >50 Male Female Age <30 Age 30–50 Age >50 Male Female
Europe, Africa and Middle East 239 579 357 743 432 250 541 324 670 445 402 1,137 693 1,417 815
Greater Asia 152 285 61 311 187 207 316 68 375 216 196 473 220 608 281
Latin America 294 302 70 509 157 420 417 58 638 257 378 537 146 732 329
North America 195 391 294 623 257 255 500 331 718 368 200 525 428 789 364
Total 880 1,557 782 2,186 1,033 1,132 1,774 781 2,401 1,286 1,176 2,672 1,487 3,546 1,789
Employee Turnover Rate by Region, Age and Gender
(Permanent Employees) 2021 2022 2023
Age <30 Age 30–50 Age >50 Male Female Age <30 Age 30–50 Age >50 Male Female Age <30 Age 30–50 Age >50 Male Female
Europe, Africa and Middle East 22% 10% 11% 12% 11% 17% 9% 10% 10% 11% 30% 21% 23% 24% 21%
Greater Asia 22% 9% 8% 11% 11% 22% 11% 9% 13% 13% 23% 17% 21% 22% 18%
Latin America 41% 13% 14% 22% 13% 48% 19% 11% 27% 21% 51% 27% 29% 35% 29%
North America 32% 14% 14% 17% 14% 28% 18% 16% 19% 19% 24% 20% 23% 22% 19%
Total 28% 11% 12% 14% 12% 27% 13% 12% 15% 14% 31% 21% 24% 24% 21%
*Includes Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander
^ Pardo is a term used in Latin American countries to describe a person who is of European and African heritage and is commonly used to refer to mixed-race Brazilians, individuals with varied racial ancestries.
Notes:
New hire rate is based on the number of new hires divided by the total global, permanent headcount in that category at year-end 2023.
Turnover rate is based on the total turnover headcount divided by the total headcount in that category at year-end 2023.
Turnover information is inclusive of departures related to synergies in IFF’s recent mergers and acquisitions.
IFF does not utilize a significant number of part-time, self-employed, or seasonal workers in our workforce.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
97
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
About this Report Membership Associations Stakeholder Engagement Performance Data
GOVERNANCE & SAFETY DATA
GOVERNANCE Units 2021 2022 2023
Total members of the Board of Directors Number 13 14 11
Independent Board members Number 12 13 10
Female members of the Board Percentage 23% 21% 27%
Racially diverse members of the Board Percentage 15% 21% 36%
Members of the Board who are non-U.S. citizens Percentage 31% 21% 9%
Board members in the 50-and-above age group Percentage 100% 100% 91%
Political contributions USD 0 0 0
ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH & SAFETY
Workforce fatalities Number 0 0 0
Lost time incident rate (LTIR)*^ Per 100 permanent employees and supervised contractors 0.24 0.16 0.08
Total recordable incident rate (TRIR)*^ Per 100 employees and supervised contractors 0.63 0.48 0.39
* IFF calculates TRIR and LTIR by estimating hours worked based on the Global HR monthly headcount figures and an assumption of a 40-hour work week, 50 weeks worked per year. Rates are presented per 200,000 hours worked. An injury or illness is classified as a Lost Time Injury (LTI) when the employee is unable to work
for one or more days after the injury. For better local alignment with OSHA, differences in the prescription of medical leave are considered. The determination is decided by the medical lead or nurse, in collaboration with the regional safety lead.
^ COVID-19 cases (as defined by OSHA) were tracked and evaluated for work-relatedness separately according to OSHA guidelines and/or country requirements. In 2023, no COVID-19 cases were determined to be work-related.
Note:
The reporting boundary for our dataset is detailed in the About this Report section.
IFF FACILITY CERTIFICATIONS*
IFF Facilities** by Business Unit SMETA 4 Pillar ISO 14001 ISO 9001 GFSI RSPO ISO 45001 ISO 22716 Excipact
Nourish Yes (29 of 29) Yes (29 of 29) Yes (10 of 29) Yes (28 of 29) Yes (14 of 29) Yes (7 of 29) No (0 of 29) No (0 of 29)
Health & Biosciences Yes (9 of 9) Yes (9 of 9) Yes (7 of 9) Yes (6 of 9) No (0 of 9) Yes (3 of 9) Yes (1 of 9) No (0 of 9)
Scent Yes (7 of 7) Yes (7 of 7) Yes (7 of 7) No (0 of 7) Yes (4 of 7) Yes (2 of 7) Yes (5 of 7) No (0 of 7)
Pharma Solutions Yes (4 of 4) Yes (3 of 4) Yes (4 of 4) Yes (3 of 4) No (0 of 4) Yes (1 of 4) No (0 of 4) Yes (4 of 4)
* IFF facilities within our business units have other certifications that are applicable to their facility, including, but not limited to, Halal, Kosher, ISO 22000, etc.
** Not a comprehensive list of all facilities where IFF does business. List includes a subset of large facilities.
Indices
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
98
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
UN Sustainable SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls
IFF is a signatory of the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles, and we believe that gender
equality is a fundamental human right. We were pleased in 2023 to maintain our certification
Development Goals
(valid from 2022–2024) as EDGE Move level globally, confirming that we have closed our mean,
unadjusted gender pay gap and that we offer equal pay for equivalent work (i.e., no statistically
relevant gender pay gap in favor of men) in 27 countries assessed, representing approximately
90% of our employee population (learn more about our partnerships for gender equality on
IFF’s Do More Good Plan is in alignment with the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),
page 60). Further, we strive to assure participation of women in decision-making and governance
which represent a common framework through which the public and private sectors can work together to identify
at all levels. In 2023, we increased the percentage of women in management roles globally
transformational opportunities to achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The SDGs create a pathway
to 38%.
for moving beyond incremental progress toward meaningful transformative change that has the potential to create
value, drive resilience and support sustainable long-term growth.
We support access to child and dependent care by providing services, resources and information
to both women and men. Our internal Global Parental Leave Policy provides fully paid leave for
both men and women, and specifically, this Policy grants 16 weeks of 100% paid leave for all
new IFF parents, regardless of gender identity and/or expression, and applies to birth parents,
SDG 2: End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote
adoptive parents, same-sex parents, and parents who use a surrogate.
sustainable agriculture
Learn more in our Equity & Wellbeing chapter.
The growing pressure on global food systems is a critical sustainable development challenge.
IFF contributes to ensuring greater food security by improving agricultural systems and
expanding access to nutritious food. For example, IFF enzymes allow our food producing
SDG 6: Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all
customers to optimize production, maximize yield and address the need for healthier products.
Through our Responsible Sourcing program, we strive to enhance ingredient traceability and Access to water and sanitation are basic human rights and are critical sustainable development
demonstrate transparency in agricultural supply chains. Our community programs encourage challenges. At IFF, water is an essential input to our business operations, including for cooling,
small-scale farming and sustain grower communities, increase agricultural productivity and steam generation, feedstock process and cleaning. We strive to implement best practice
farmers’ livelihoods, and expand agricultural investment and knowledge sharing. technologies for water efficiency and conservation at our facilities and the communities where
we operate, particularly water scarce areas.
Learn more on in our Sustainable Solutions chapter.
Our Green Teams drive awareness about the importance of water efficiency. For example, when
our Scent facility in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil was identified as having a high level of water risk
in 2023, the local Green Team implemented a water reuse system at the facility’s wastewater
treatment plant. This project allows the facility to save over 2,800 cubic meters of water annually
while also reducing costs significantly.
Learn more in our Climate & Planetary Health chapter.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
99
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
SDG 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all SDG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns
We support the transition to an affordable, reliable and sustainable energy system by One way to facilitate sustainable development imperatives is to shift consumption
prioritizing energy efficiency in our operations through science-based actions and patterns to reduce ecological footprints and allow for the regeneration of natural
investing in renewable energy resources. As a member of RE100, we are committed to resources. IFF contributes to shifting consumption patterns by using tools such as
limiting global warming in line with the Paris Agreement and to sourcing 100% of our life cycle assessment (LCA) to guide innovation and deliver more sustainable product
operational electricity needs from renewable sources by 2030. In 2023, we made progress solutions. In addition, our products often lower environmental impacts through their
on executing a new vPPA in North America after completing our first-ever vPPA in Europe performance during the use phase and help our customers reach their ESG goals.
the previous year. Once operational, this agreement is expected to cover approximately For example, our animal feed enzymes reduce phosphorous and GHG emissions by
20 to 25% of our electricity requirements in North America. Meanwhile, the new solar limiting the need for inorganic phosphate in swine and poultry diets; our cold-water
field being developed under our Europe vPPA is expected to begin delivery of green laundry enzymes enable consumers to use less energy by washing their clothes at lower
electricity in mid-2025. temperatures; and our plant-based proteins accelerate the wider adoption of alternatives
with a lower environmental footprint. In alignment with our zero waste to landfill goal,
Additionally, our sustainable solutions help the transportation industry reduce GHG
we are working to reduce our own manufacturing impacts by upcycling byproducts that
emissions. For example, our fuel alcohol yeast and enzymes enable the production of
would otherwise be wasted.
ethanol, a renewable low carbon fuel.
Learn more in our Sustainable Solutions and Climate & Planetary Health chapters.
Learn more in our Sustainable Solutions and Climate & Planetary Health chapters.
SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts
SDG 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization
and foster innovation Achieving the UNFCCC goal of limiting global temperature rise requires urgent
transformation of energy, industry, transport, food, agriculture and forestry systems.
Our world-class R&D program promotes breakthrough innovations that offer creative
IFF’s LCA and sustainable innovation capabilities enable our customers and consumers
solutions to sustainability challenges while helping our customers achieve their own ESG
to save more CO e than IFF generates at our own manufacturing sites. Within our
goals. In 2023, ~5.5% of our sales were spent on R&D. We also continued to invest in new, 2
operations, we are reducing our carbon footprint, including a 50% reduction in absolute
resilient infrastructure in developing countries and strive to retrofit existing infrastructure
GHG emissions under our operational control (Scope 1 and 2) by 2030 (compared to
to make it more sustainable.
a 2021 baseline) and sourcing 100% renewable electricity by 2030. In 2023, we made
Learn more in our Sustainable Solutions chapter. progress on executing a new vPPA in North America after completing our
first-ever vPPA in Europe the previous year. Once operational, this agreement is expected
to cover approximately 20 to 25% of our electricity requirements in North America.
Meanwhile, the new solar field being developed under our Europe vPPA is expected to
begin delivery of green electricity in mid-2025.
Learn more in our Climate & Planetary Health chapter.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
100
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
SDG 14: Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for SDG 16: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development,
sustainable development provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions
at all levels
IFF supports marine conservation and the people who depend on oceans. IFF is one
of the largest global buyers and harvesters of seaweed for alginates and carrageenan. We commit to working with governments, civil society and all our stakeholders to
Through our Seaweeds Responsible Sourcing Program (SRSP), we seek to support eliminate corruption in all its forms and to strengthen the rule of law. In our own business,
seaweed farmers and continuously improve the social and environmental criteria and we strive to adhere to the highest ethical standards and act with transparency. Our
performance of our seaweed cultivation and harvesting processes. Through the SRSP, business ethics and compliance programs are grounded in our Code of Conduct and
and in partnership with the Anderson Cabot Center for Ocean Life at the New England tracked by our IFF SpeakUp hotline. We contribute to the development of transparent
Aquarium and other stakeholders, we strive to increase scientific knowledge and develop institutions and inclusive decision-making through our corporate governance structures
new research capacities to improve ocean health and better understand how seaweed and by linking ESG metrics for GHG emissions and DE&I to variable compensation for all
can contribute to food security, climate change mitigation, poverty alleviation and eligible employees. We respect the human rights of workers and prohibit forced labor,
support for marine ecosystems. Additionally, in 2023 we announced a partnership with coercion, child labor and discrimination, as outlined in IFF’s Code of Conduct, Global
environmental non-governmental organization Bellona to begin a long-term project to Human Rights Policy and Vendor Code of Conduct. We are also committed to ensuring
restore seaweed forests in northern Norway. the prevention of modern slavery and human trafficking in our business and supply chain,
and we publish our Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement in compliance with the UK
Learn more in our Sustainable Solutions chapter.
Modern Slavery Act.
Learn more in our Transparency & Accountability chapter.
SDG 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems,
sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation,
and halt biodiversity loss
Through IFF’s Responsible Sourcing program, we are taking steps to retain the integrity
and vitality of the natural resources in our value chain. Our commitment to sustainable
palm oil demands that our palm oil supply chain does not contribute to deforestation,
biodiversity destruction or human rights abuses. We support biodiversity through
community engagement. In 2023, IFF continued our financial support to the Sungai
Linau Landscape Conservation and Livelihoods Programme (SLP) in Indonesia, which
is made up of both peat swamp forest and agricultural land that is mostly used for palm
and fiber production. Coordinated by the non-profit organization, Proforest, the SLP
aims to support community-based land use development, strengthen village members’
livelihoods, protect high-conservation-value and high-carbon-stock forest and reduce
greenhouse gas emissions through forest and peat protection and restoration.
Learn more in our Sustainable Solutions chapter.
Indices
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
101
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
GRI content index
Our 2023 Do More Good Report was prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards for the period January 1, 2023–December 31, 2023. We apply the 2021 version of the GRI 2: General Disclosures and
GRI 3: Material Topics. We apply the 2018 version of the GRI Standards for GRI 303 and GRI 403; 2020 version of the GRI Standards for GRI 306; and 2016 version of the GRI Standards for all other disclosures in this index. The “2016,” “2018,”
“2020,” and “2021” labels in the GRI Content Index refer to the respective GRI Standards issue dates, not the date of information presented in the report.
GRI 2: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2021
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions
THE ORGANIZATION AND ITS REPORTING PRACTICES
2-1 Organizational details Our company, page 6 None
IFF at a glance, page 7
Contact us, page 142
2023 Form 10K (Business, pages 3–12; Properties, page 32)
Where We Operate
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting About this report, page 81 None
2023 Form 10K (Business, pages 3–5)
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point About this report, page 81 None
Contact us, page 142
IFF reports on the Company’s ESG performance annually. IFF’s 2023 ESG+ Report
publication date: May 29, 2024.
2-4 Restatements of information There were no restatements of information in this report. None
2-5 External assurance About this report (External assurance, page 83) None
Independent assurance statement, page 138
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
102
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
GRI 2: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2021
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions
ACTIVITIES AND WORKERS
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships Our company, page 6 None
IFF at a glance, page 7
Responsible sourcing, page 19
About this report, page 81
Membership associations, page 84
Stakeholder engagement, page 87
What We Do
Our End Markets
Products & Ingredients
Portfolio
Supplier Partnerships
2023 Form 10K (Business, pages 3–12)
2-7 Employees Diversity, equity & inclusion (Progress, page 57) Due to confidentiality, data on temporary, non-guaranteed hours, full-time and
Performance data (Workforce Data, page 92) part-time employees is not disclosed. However, IFF discloses information on
permanent employee gender diversity, ethnic diversity and age diversity by
2023 Form 10K (Environmental, Social and Governance, pages 7–8; Our People,
employee category.
pages 9–10)
2023 EEO-1 Report
2-8 Workers who are not employees Performance data (Workforce Data, page 92) This information is unavailable. IFF does not utilize a significant number of
part-time, self-employed or seasonal workers in our workforce; therefore,
workers who are not employees are not material to the Company.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
103
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
GRI 2: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2021
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions
GOVERNANCE
2-9 Governance structure and composition Corporate governance, page 68 None
Governance
Board of Directors
2024 Proxy Statement (Board Leadership Structure, page 19; Board Committees,
pages 20–26)
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Guidelines None
Governance & Corporate Responsibility Committee
2024 Proxy Statement (Governance & Corporate Responsibility Committee,
pages 24–25)
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body Board of Directors None
2024 Proxy Statement (Our Board, page 1)
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing Corporate governance, page 68 None
the management of impacts
Audit Committee
Human Capital & Compensation Committee
Governance & Corporate Responsibility Committee
Innovation Committee
2024 Proxy Statement (Our Board, page 1; Board Committees, pages 20–26)
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Corporate governance, page 68 None
2024 Proxy Statement (Risk Management Oversight, pages 27–29)
2-14 Role of the highest governance body Double materiality, page 9 None
in sustainability reporting
Corporate governance, page 68
About this report, page 81
Governance & Corporate Responsibility Committee
2024 Proxy Statement (Governance & Corporate Responsibility Committee,
pages 24–25)
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
104
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
GRI 2: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2021
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions
GOVERNANCE (CONTINUED)
2-15 Conflicts of interest Business ethics & compliance, page 72 None
Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors
Related Person Transaction Policy
2024 Proxy Statement
Information related to material incidents of conflicts of interest would be disclosed
to stakeholders in IFF’s annual Proxy Statement.
2-16 Communication of critical concerns 2024 Proxy Statement (Shareholder Communications, pages 117–118) Due to confidentiality, the total number and nature of critical concerns that
were communicated to the Board of Directors in 2023 is not disclosed.
2-17 Collective knowledge of highest governance body ESG governance, page 69 Due to unavailable information, additional measures to advance the collective
knowledge, skills and experience of the highest governance body on
Board of Directors
sustainable development is not disclosed.
2024 Proxy Statement (Skills and Qualifications, page iv; Director Nominee
Experience, Qualifications, Diversity and Tenure, pages 1–3; Nominees for Director,
pages 6–15)
2-18 Evaluation for the performance of the highest governance Corporate Governance Guidelines None
body
2024 Proxy Statement (Board and Committee Assessment Process, page 27;
Directors’ Compensation, pages 34–36)
2-19 Remuneration policies Corporate governance, page 68 None
Corporate Governance Guidelines (Board Compensation, page 8)
Human Capital & Compensation Committee
2024 Proxy Statement (Compensation Discussion and Analysis, pages 44–68)
2-20 Process to determine remuneration Corporate Governance Guidelines (Board Compensation, page 8) None
Human Capital & Compensation Committee
2024 Proxy Statement (Directors’ Compensation, pages 34–36; Compensation
Discussion and Analysis, pages 44–68)
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio 2024 Proxy Statement (Pay Ratio, page 100) The ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-
paid individual to the median annual total compensation for all employees
(excluding the highest-paid individual) is not disclosed.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
105
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
GRI 2: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2021
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions
STRATEGY, POLICIES AND PRACTICES
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy Message from our CEO, page 4 None
2-23 Policy commitments Responsible sourcing, page 19 None
Diversity, equity & inclusion, page 57
Environment, health & safety, page 62
Business ethics & compliance, page 72
Policy Center
Code of Conduct
Anti-Bribery Policy
Global Human Rights Policy
Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement
Responsible Sourcing Policy
Vendor Code of Conduct
2-24 Embedding policy commitments Responsible sourcing, page 19 Due to unavailable information, training related to the implementation of all
policy commitments is not disclosed.
Diversity, equity & inclusion, page 57
Environment, health & safety, page 62 IFF does disclose information related to training of certain policy
commitments, including our Code of Conduct.
Business ethics & compliance, page 72
Policy Center
Code of Conduct
Anti-Bribery Policy
Global Human Rights Policy
Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement
Responsible Sourcing Policy
Vendor Code of Conduct
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
106
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
GRI 2: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2021
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions
STRATEGY, POLICIES AND PRACTICES (CONTINUED)
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts Transparency & Accountability, page 67 None
Corporate governance, page 68
Business ethics & compliance, page 72
2024 Proxy Statement (Risk Management Oversight, pages 27–29)
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns Business ethics & compliance, page 72 None
Code of Conduct (SpeakUp, page 10–11)
SpeakUp: Reporting Concerns & Non-Retaliation Policy
SpeakUp Hotline
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations Business ethics & compliance, page 72 None
2023 Form 10K
2-28 Membership associations Membership associations, page 84 None
Stakeholder engagement, page 87
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
107
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
GRI 2: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2021
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Double materiality, page 9 None
Membership associations, page 84
Stakeholder engagement, page 87
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements Performance data (Workforce Data, page 92) None
Code of Conduct (Human Rights and Fair Labor, page 15)
IFF fully respects the rights of our employees to freely associate and bargain
collectively in a legal, ethical and safe way. For employees not covered by collective
bargaining agreements, IFF does not determine their working conditions and terms of
employment based on collective bargaining agreements that cover its other employees
or based on collective bargaining agreements from other organizations.
DISCLOSURES ON MATERIAL TOPICS
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions
GRI 3: Material 3-1 Process to determine material topics Double materiality, page 9 None
Topics 2021
About this report, page 81
Stakeholder engagement, page 87
3-2 List of material topics Double materiality, page 9 None
About this report, page 81
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
108
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
ECONOMIC
Economic Performance | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Business Conduct, Ethics & Compliance; Climate Change Risk; Talent Acquisition, Engagement & Retention
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Strategy None
Topics 2021
2023 Form 10K
2024 Proxy Statement
Global Tax Policy
2023 CDP Climate Change Response
GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated 2023 Form 10K (Business, pages 3–12; Results of Operations, page 36; None
Communities
Economic and distributed Revenue Recognition, page 58)
Performance Customer
2024 Proxy Statement (Executive Compensation, pages 81–105)
2016 Investors
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Climate change & energy management, page 42 None
Regulators
opportunities due to climate change
TCFD Report, page 135
Suppliers
2023 CDP Climate Change response
2023 Form 10K (Risk Factors, pages 16–17)
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Talent acquisition, engagement & retention Due to confidentiality, metrics related to
retirement plans (Benefits & employee support programs, page 53) employee retirement plans, including level of
participation and percentage of salary contributed
2023 Form 10K (Pension and Other Post-retirement Obligations, page 43;
to retirements plans by employees or IFF, are not
Employee Benefits, pages 93–100)
disclosed. General information on retirement plans
is included in the provided references.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
109
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
ECONOMIC (CONTINUED)
Indirect Economic Impacts | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Community Wellbeing, Philanthropy & Socioeconomics
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Sustainable Solutions, page 18 None
Topics 2021
Responsible sourcing (Strategic raw materials, page 25;
Community & biodiversity programs, page 28)
Sustainable innovation, page 29
Stakeholder engagement, page 87
Communities
Responsible Sourcing Policy
Customers
Responsible Sourcing
Investors
Responsibilities
Regulators
GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure investments Responsible sourcing (Strategic raw materials, page 25; Information on the type of infrastructure and
Suppliers
Indirect and services supported Community & biodiversity programs, page 28) services investments during the reporting period is
Economic not available.
Stakeholder engagement, page 87
Impacts 2016
UN Sustainable Development Goals, page 98
Responsible Sourcing
Responsibilities
Anti-Corruption | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Business Conduct, Ethics & Compliance
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Business ethics & compliance, page 72 None
Topics 2021
Code of Conduct
Anti-Bribery Policy
2023 Form 10K (Risk Factors, pages 22 and 27)
Customers
GRI 205: 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related Business ethics & compliance, page 72 Due to confidentiality, significant risks related to Investors
Anti-corruption to corruption corruption identified through the risk assessment
Code of Conduct Regulators
2016 are not disclosed.
Anti-Bribery Policy Suppliers
205-2 Communication and training about Business ethics & compliance, page 72 The number and percentage of employees and
anti-corruption policies and procedures governance body members that have received
Code of Conduct
training broken down by employee category and
Anti-Bribery Policy
region are not disclosed.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
110
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
ECONOMIC (CONTINUED)
Anti-Competitive Behavior | Relevant IFF Material Topic(S): Business Conduct, Ethics & Compliance
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Business ethics & compliance, page 72 None
Topics 2021
Code of Conduct
Anti-Bribery Policy
2023 Form 10K (Risk Factors, pages 22 and 27) Investors
GRI 206: 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Business ethics & compliance, page 72 None Regulators
Anti-competitive anti-trust and monopoly practices
Code of Conduct
Behavior 2016
Anti-Bribery Policy
2023 Form 10K (Risk Factors, pages 22 and 27)
Tax | Relevant IFF Material Topic(S): Business Conduct, Ethics & Compliance
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics 2023 Form 10K None
Topics 2021
Global Tax Policy
Audit Committee Investors
GRI 207: 207-1 Approach to tax 2023 Form 10K None Regulators
Tax 2019
Global Tax Policy
Audit Committee
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
111
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
ENVIRONMENTAL
Materials | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Innovation & Sustainable Product Solutions; Responsible Sourcing
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Responsible sourcing (Strategic raw materials, page 25)
Topics 2021
Sustainable innovation, page 29
Life cycle assessment, page 31
GRI 301: 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Responsible sourcing (Strategic raw materials, page 25) Aggregated data for total weight or volume of
Communities
Materials 2016 materials used is not available. IFF will evaluate
Sustainable innovation, page 29
opportunities to measure and disclose this Customers
Life cycle assessment, page 31
information in the future.
Investors
Portfolio spotlights, page 33
Regulators
301-2 Recycled input materials used Responsible sourcing (Strategic raw materials, page 25) Aggregated percentage of recycled input materials
Suppliers
used is not available. IFF will evaluate opportunities
Sustainable innovation, page 29
to disclose this information in the future.
Life cycle assessment, page 31
Portfolio spotlights (Re-Imagining new solutions to food waste), page 34
Upcycling
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
112
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
ENVIRONMENTAL (CONTINUED)
Energy | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Climate Change Risk; Greenhouse Gas & Energy Footprint
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Climate & Planetary Health (2023 Highlights, page 15; None
Topics 2021
Climate & Planetary Health strategy, page 40)
Climate change & energy management, page 42
Energy Management
Global Environmental Sustainability Policy
2023 CDP Climate Change response
2023 Form 10K (Environmental, Social and Governance, pages 7–8)
2024 Proxy Statement
(Environmental, Social and Governance Initiatives, pages 17–18) Communities
Customers
GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Climate change & energy management, page 42 None
Energy 2016 Investors
About this report
(Standards and basis of calculations of environmental data, page 82) Regulators
Performance data (Environmental data, page 88) Suppliers
Independent assurance statement, page 138
302-2 Energy consumption outside the Climate change & energy management, page 42 None
organization
Performance data (Environmental data, page 88)
302-3 Energy intensity Climate change & energy management, page 42 None
Performance data (Environmental data, page 88)
303-4 Reduction of energy consumption Climate & Planetary Health (2023 Highlights, page 15) None
Climate change & energy management, page 42
Performance data (Environmental data, page 88)
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
113
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
ENVIRONMENTAL (CONTINUED)
Water and Effluents | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Water Use
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Climate & Planetary Health (Climate & Planetary Health strategy, page 40) None
Topics 2021
Water stewardship, page 46
Water Management
Global Environmental Sustainability Policy
2022 CDP Water Security Response
2023 Form 10K (Environmental, Social and Governance, pages 7–8)
2024 Proxy Statement
(Environmental, Social and Governance Initiatives, pages 17–18)
GRI 303: 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Climate & Planetary Health (Climate & Planetary Health strategy, page 40) None
Water
Water stewardship, page 46
and Effluents
Water Management
2018
Communities
2022 CDP Water Security Response
Customers
303-2 Management of material topics Climate & Planetary Health (Climate & Planetary Health strategy, page 40) Due to confidentiality, information on
Investors
internal water quality standards is not
Water stewardship, page 46
disclosed. Compliance with water quality Regulators
Water Management
standards is based on local regulations. Suppliers
2022 CDP Water Security Response
303-3 Interactions with water as a shared resource Water stewardship, page 46 Although IFF tracks total water withdrawal
from areas with water stress, a breakdown of
Performance data (Environmental data, page 88)
water withdrawal data from areas with water
Independent assurance statement, page 138
stress by source types is unavailable. IFF
will evaluate opportunities to measure and
disclose this information in the future.
303-4 Water discharge Water stewardship, page 46 Although IFF tracks total water discharge by
destination, a breakdown of water discharge
Performance data (Environmental data, page 88)
to areas with water stress by source types is
Independent assurance statement, page 138
unavailable. IFF will evaluate opportunities
to measure and disclose this information in
the future.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
114
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
ENVIRONMENTAL (CONTINUED)
GRI 303: 303-5 Water consumption Water stewardship, page 46 Total water consumption from all areas with Communities
Water water stress is unavailable. IFF will evaluate
Performance data (Environmental data, page 88) Customers
and Effluents opportunities to measure and disclose this
Total water consumption was 7,920 Megaliters, calculated by total water withdrawal Investors
2018 information in the future.
(79,033) minus total water discharge (71,113) Megaliters.
(Continued) Regulators
Suppliers
Biodiversity | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Biodiversity & Ecosystems
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Responsible sourcing (Approach, page 19; Progress, page 21; None
Topics 2021 Strategic raw materials, page 25; Community & biodiversity programs, page 28)
Climate change & energy management (Looking ahead, page 45)
Stakeholder engagement, page 87
UN Sustainable Development Goals, page 98
Global Environmental Sustainability Policy
Responsible Sourcing Policy Communities
Sustainable Palm Oil Policy Customers
Sustainable Soy Policy Investors
2023 CDP Forests Response Regulators
2023 CDP Climate Change Response Suppliers
GRI 304: 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products Responsible sourcing (Approach, page 19; Progress, page 21; Information on the nature and significance
Biodiversity and services on biodiversity Protecting forests & livelihoods in Indonesia, page 26; of impacts is unavailable. IFF will evaluate
2016 Strategic raw materials, page 25; Community & biodiversity programs, page 28) opportunities to collect and disclose this
information in the future.
Climate change & energy management (Looking ahead, page 45)
2023 CDP Forests Response
2023 CDP Climate Change Response (C15, pages 180–183)
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
115
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
ENVIRONMENTAL (CONTINUED)
GRI 304: 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Responsible sourcing (Approach, page 19; Progress, page 21; Information on size of all habitat areas Communities
Biodiversity Strategic raw materials, page 25; Community & biodiversity programs, page 28) protected or restored and the status of each
Customers
2016 area based on its condition at the close of
Portfolio spotlights, page 33
Investors
(Continued) the reporting period is not available. IFF
2023 CDP Forests Response
will evaluate opportunities to collect and Regulators
disclose this information in the future.
Suppliers
Emissions | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Climate Change Risk; Greenhouse Gas & Energy Footprint
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Climate & Planetary Health (2023 Highlights, page 15; Climate & Planetary Health None
Topics 2021 strategy, page 40)
Climate change & energy management, page 42
Energy Management
Global Environmental Sustainability Policy
2023 CDP Climate Change Response
2023 Form 10K (Environmental, Social and Governance, pages 7–8)
2024 Proxy Statement (Environmental, Social and Governance Initiatives, pages 17–18)
Communities
GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Climate change & energy management, page 42 None
Emissions Customers
About this report (Standards & basis of calculations of environmental data, page 82)
2016
Investors
Performance data (Environmental data, page 88)
Regulators
Independent assurance statement, page 138
Suppliers
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Climate change & energy management, page 42 None
About this report (Standards & basis of calculations of environmental data, page 82)
Performance data (Environmental data, page 88)
Independent assurance statement, page 138
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Climate change & energy management, page 42 None
About this report (Standards & basis of calculations of environmental data, page 82)
Performance data (Environmental data, page 88)
Independent assurance statement, page 138
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
116
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
ENVIRONMENTAL (CONTINUED)
GRI 305: 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Climate change & energy management, page 42 None
Emissions
About this report (Standards & basis of calculations of environmental data, page 82)
2016
Performance data (Environmental data, page 88)
(Continued) Communities
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Climate change & energy management, page 42 None Customers
Performance data (Environmental data, page 88) Investors
Regulators
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NO), sulfur oxides (SO) Climate change & energy management, page 42 None
x x
and other significant air emissions Suppliers
About this report (Standards & basis of calculations of environmental data, page 82)
Performance data (Environmental data, page 88)
Independent assurance statement, page 138
Waste | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Hazardous Substances; Pollution; Waste
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Life cycle assessment, page 31 None
Topics 2021
Climate & Planetary Health (2023 Highlights, page 15; Climate & Planetary Health
strategy, page 40)
Communities
Waste management, page 47
Customers
Waste Management
Investors
Upcycling
Regulators
Global Environmental Sustainability Policy
Suppliers
2023 Form 10K (Environmental, Social and Governance, pages 7–8)
2024 Proxy Statement (Environmental, Social and Governance Initiatives,
pages 17–18)
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
117
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
ENVIRONMENTAL (CONTINUED)
GRI 306: 306-1 Waste generation and significant Life cycle assessment, page 31 None
Waste waste-related impacts
Climate & Planetary Health (2023 Highlights, page 15; Climate & Planetary Health
2020
strategy, page 40)
Waste management, page 47
Waste Management
Upcycling
Global Environmental Sustainability Policy
306-2 Management of significant Life cycle assessment, page 31 None
waste-related impacts
Climate & Planetary Health (2023 Highlights, page 15; Climate & Planetary Health
strategy, page 40)
Communities
Waste management, page 47
Customers
Waste Management
Investors
Upcycling
Regulators
Global Environmental Sustainability Policy
Suppliers
306-3 Waste generated Waste management, page 47 None
Performance data (Environmental data, page 88)
Independent assurance statement, page 138
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Performance data (Environmental data, page 88) Information related to the location (i.e., onsite
or offsite) of waste diverted from disposal is
Independent assurance statement, page 138
not available. IFF will evaluate opportunities
to disclose this information in the future.
306-5 Waste directed to disposal Waste management, page 47 Information related to the location (i.e., onsite
or offsite) of waste directed to disposal is not
Performance data (Environmental data, page 88)
available. IFF will evaluate opportunities to
disclose this information in the future.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
118
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
ENVIRONMENTAL (CONTINUED)
Supplier Environmental Assessment | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Responsible Sourcing
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Responsible sourcing (Approach, page 19; Progress, page 21; Strategic raw materials, None
Topics 2021 page 25; Community & biodiversity programs, page 28)
Stakeholder engagement, page 87
Supplier Partnerships
Global Environmental Sustainability Policy
Responsible Sourcing Policy
Sustainable Palm Oil Policy
Sustainable Soy Policy
2023 CDP Forests Response
Customers
2023 CDP Climate Change Response
Investors
Vendor Code of Conduct
Regulators
GRI 308: 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Responsible sourcing (Approach, page 19; Progress, page 21; Strategic raw materials, None Suppliers
Supplier environmental criteria page 25; Community & biodiversity programs, page 28)
Environmental
Stakeholder engagement, page 87
Assessment
2023 CDP Forests Response
2016
2023 CDP Climate Change Response (Question C12.1-C12.2, pages 171–175)
GRI 308: 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the Responsible sourcing (Approach, page 19; Supplier engagement, page 22; Specific metrics for negative environmental
Supplier supply chain and actions taken Strategic raw materials, page 25; Community & biodiversity programs, page 28) impacts in the supply chain and actions taken
Environmental are not available.
Stakeholder engagement, page 87
Assessment
2023 CDP Forests Response
2016
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
119
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
ENVIRONMENTAL (CONTINUED)
IFF Specific Topic: Climate Change Risk
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Climate & Planetary Health (2023 Highlights, page 15; Climate & Planetary Health None
Topics 2021 strategy, page 40)
Climate change & energy management, page 42
Energy Management
Global Environmental Sustainability Policy
2023 CDP Climate Change Response
2023 Form 10K (Environmental, Social and Governance, pages 7–8)
2024 Proxy Statement (Environmental, Social and Governance Initiatives, Communities
pages 17–18) Customers
N/A Climate change adaptation measures Climate & Planetary Health (2023 Highlights, page 15; Climate & Planetary Health None Investors
strategy, page 40) Regulators
Climate change & energy management, page 42 Suppliers
Energy Management
Global Environmental Sustainability Policy
2023 CDP Climate Change Response
2023 Form 10K (Environmental, Social and Governance, pages 7–8)
2024 Proxy Statement (Environmental, Social and Governance Initiatives,
pages 17–18)
TCFD Report, page 135
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
120
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
ENVIRONMENTAL (CONTINUED)
IFF Specific Topic: Hazardous Substances
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Climate & Planetary Health (2023 Highlights, page 15; Climate & Planetary Health None
Topics 2021 strategy, page 40)
Waste management, page 47
Waste Management
Upcycling
Global Environmental Sustainability Policy
2023 CDP Climate Change Response Customers
2023 Form 10K (Environmental, Social and Governance, pages 7–8) Investors
2024 Proxy Statement (Environmental, Social and Governance Initiatives, pages Regulators
17–18)
Suppliers
N/A Identifying and managing hazardous Climate & Planetary Health (2023 Highlights, page 15; Climate & Planetary Health None
substances strategy, page 40)
Waste management, page 47
Waste Management
Upcycling
Global Environmental Sustainability Policy
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
121
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
ENVIRONMENTAL (CONTINUED)
IFF Specific Topic: Pollution
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Climate & Planetary Health (2023 Highlights, page 15; Climate & Planetary Health None
Topics 2021 strategy, page 40)
Water stewardship, page 46
Waste management, page 47
Water Management
2022 CDP Water Security Response
Upcycling
Global Environmental Sustainability Policy Customers
2023 Form 10K (Environmental, Social and Governance, pages 7–8) Investors
2024 Proxy Statement (Environmental, Social and Governance Initiatives, Regulators
pages 17–18)
Suppliers
N/A Preventing, controlling and reducing Water stewardship, page 46 None
emissions of water and waste pollutants
Waste management, page 47
Water Management
Waste Management
2022 CDP Water Security Response
Upcycling
Global Environmental Sustainability Policy
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
122
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
SOCIAL
Employment | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Talent Acquisition, Engagement & Retention; Working Conditions
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Talent acquisition, engagement & retention, page 50 None
Topics 2021
Diversity, equity & inclusion, page 57
Global Equity Policy
Careers
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Performance data, page 88 None
Employment
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Talent acquisition, engagement & retention (Benefits & employee support programs, Due to confidentiality, details on benefits by
2016
that are not provided to temporary or page 53) locations of operation are not disclosed.
part-time employees
Please note, IFF does not utilize a significant number of part-time, self-employed or
Communities
seasonal workers in our workforce.
Investors
401-3 Parental leave Talent acquisition, engagement & retention (Benefits & employee support programs, Information related to the number of
Suppliers
page 53) employees outside the U.S. that were
entitled to and took parental leave (including
Diversity, equity & inclusion (Parental leave, page 59)
those that returned to work and retention
rates) is not available. IFF is evaluating
opportunities to provide this information in
the future. Additionally, the total number
of employees that returned to work
after parental leave ended that were still
employed 12 months after their return to
work, by gender, is not yet available because
2023 was the first full year the benefit was
in place.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
123
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
SOCIAL (CONTINUED)
Labor/Management Relations | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Human Rights; Working Conditions
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Talent acquisition, engagement & retention, page 50 None
Topics 2021
Global Human Rights Policy
Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement Communities
Customers
GRI 402: 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding We comply with notice periods (as defined by collective bargaining agreements None
Labor/ operational changes in place or by local laws or regulations) prior to the implementation of any Investors
Management changes that could potentially involve our employees. In each case, we follow the Regulators
Relations 2016 appropriate channels of communication to ensure our employees and their elected
Suppliers
representatives or union/works councils are informed and consulted where required.
Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes range from no notice to
seven months.
Occupational Health and Safety | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Talent Acquisition, Engagement & Retention; Occupational Health & Safety; Working Conditions
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Environment, health & safety, page 62 None
Topics 2021
Health & Safety
Global Environment, Health & Safety Policy
2023 Form 10K (Environmental, Social and Governance, page 7; Our People, Communities
pages 9–11)
Customers
GRI 403: 403-1 Occupational health and safety management Environment, health & safety (Approach, page 62) None Investors
Occupational system
Health & Safety Regulators
Health And
Global Environment, Health & Safety Policy Suppliers
Safety 2018
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment and Environment, health & safety, page 62 None
incident investigation
Global Environment, Health & Safety Policy
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
124
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
SOCIAL (CONTINUED)
GRI 403: 403-3 Occupational health services Environment, health & safety, page 62 None
Occupational
Talent acquisition, engagement & retention (Benefits & employee support programs,
Health And
page 53)
Safety 2018
Health & Safety
(Continued)
Global Environment, Health & Safety Policy
403-4 Worker participation, consultation and Environment, health & safety, page 62 None
communication on occupational health
and safety
403-5 Worker training on occupational health Environment, health & safety, page 62 None Communities
and safety
Health & Safety Customers
Investors
403-6 Promotion of worker health Talent acquisition, engagement & retention (Benefits & employee support programs, None
Regulators
page 53)
Suppliers
Environment, health & safety, page 62
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health Environment, health & safety, page 62 None
and safety management system
403-9 Work-related injuries Environment, health & safety, page 62 Individual data for contractors is not available.
IFF’s current data management processes are
Performance data, page 88
aligned with OSHA reporting, which combines
Independent assurance statement, page 138
employee and contractor safety data.
The safety data for recordable or total recordable and lost time incidents submitted
by our facilities is subject to global third-party verification. IFF considers lost time
incidents as high consequence injuries.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
125
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
Training and Education | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Talent Acquisition, Engagement & Retention
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Talent acquisition, engagement & retention (Learning & development, page 53) None
Topics 2021
Careers
GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per year Talent acquisition, engagement & retention (Learning & development, page 53) None
Communities
Training and per employee
Investors
Education
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills Talent acquisition, engagement & retention (Learning & development, page 53) None
2016 Suppliers
and transition assistance programs
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Talent acquisition, engagement & retention (Performance reviews, page 52) None
performance and career development reviews
Diversity and Equal Opportunity | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Equity & Wellbeing, page 49 None
Topics 2021
Diversity, equity & inclusion, page 57
Global Equity Policy
Careers
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Code of Conduct
Communities
Global Human Rights Policy
Customers
2023 Form 10K (Environmental, Social and Governance, page 7;
Our People, pages 9–11) Investors
2024 Proxy Statement (Diversity, pages 2–3; Environmental, Social Regulators
and Governance Initiatives, page 29)
Suppliers
GRI 405: Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies Diversity, equity & inclusion, page 57 None
and Equal and employees
Performance data, page 88
Opportunity 2016
2024 Proxy Statement (Diversity, pages 2–3)
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration Diversity, equity & inclusion (Our People, page 57; Closing the gender pay gap, Due to confidentiality, the ratio of the basic salary and
of women to men page 61) remuneration of women to men for each employee category
by significant locations of operation is not disclosed.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
126
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
Non-Discrimination | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Diversity, Equity & Inclusion; Customer Experience and Transparency
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Diversity, equity & inclusion, page 57 None
Topics 2021
Global Equity Policy
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Code of Conduct Communities
Global Human Rights Policy Customers
2023 Form 10K (Environmental, Social and Governance, page 7; Investors
Our People, pages 9–11)
Regulators
2024 Proxy Statement (Diversity, pages 2–3; Environmental, Social
Suppliers
and Governance Initiatives, page 29)
GRI 404: Training 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective Diversity, equity & inclusion, page 57 We do not publicly disclose details on claims
and Education 2016 actions taken of alleged discrimination due to privacy and
SpeakUp: Reporting Concerns, page 74
confidentiality constraints.
Freedom Of Association and Collective Bargaining | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Human Rights; Working Conditions
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Responsible sourcing (Progress, page 21; None
Topics 2021 Human rights in the supply chain, page 22)
Business ethics & compliance (Human rights, page 74)
Code of Conduct
Global Human Rights Policy
Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement
Communities
Vendor Code of Conduct
Customers
IFF fully respects the rights of our employees to freely associate and bargain
Investors
collectively in a legal, ethical and safe way.
Regulators
GRI 405: Diversity 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right Responsible sourcing (Progress, page 21; None
Suppliers
and Equal to freedom of association and collective Human rights in the supply chain, page 22)
Opportunity 2016 bargaining may be at risk
Business ethics & compliance (Human rights, page 74)
Code of Conduct
Global Human Rights Policy
Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement
Vendor Code of Conduct
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
127
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
Child Labor | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Human Rights; Working Conditions
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Responsible sourcing (Progress, page 21; Human rights in the supply chain, page 22) None
Topics 2021
Business ethics & compliance (Human rights, page 74)
Human Rights
Supplier Partnerships
Code of Conduct
Global Human Rights Policy Communities
Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement Customers
GRI 408: Child 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk Responsible sourcing (Progress, page 21; Human rights in the supply chain, page 22) None Investors
Labor 2016 for incidents of child labor Business ethics & compliance (Human rights, page 74) Regulators
Human Rights Suppliers
Supplier Partnerships
Code of Conduct
Global Human Rights Policy
Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement
Vendor Code of Conduct
Forced or Compulsory Labor | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Human Rights; Working Conditions
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Responsible sourcing (Progress, page 21; Human rights in the supply chain, page 22) None
Topics 2021
Business ethics & compliance (Human rights, page 74)
Communities
Human Rights
Customers
Supplier Partnerships
Investors
Code of Conduct
Regulators
Global Human Rights Policy
Suppliers
Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement
Vendor Code of Conduct
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
128
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
GRI 409: 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk Responsible sourcing (Progress, page 21; Human rights in the supply chain, page 22) None
Forced or for incidents of forced or compulsory labor
Business ethics & compliance (Human rights, page 74)
Compulsory Communities
Human Rights
Labor 2016
Customers
Supplier Partnerships
Investors
Code of Conduct
Regulators
Global Human Rights Policy
Suppliers
Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement
Vendor Code of Conduct
Rights of Indigenous Peoples | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Human Rights
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Responsible Sourcing Policy None
Topics 2021
Human Rights
Communities
Supplier Partnerships
Customers
GRI 413: Local 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of Responsible Sourcing Policy None
Suppliers
Communities indigenous peoples
SpeakUp: Reporting Concerns, page 74
2023 Form 10K
Local Communities | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Community Wellbeing, Philanthropy & Socioeconomics; Human Rights
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Responsible sourcing (Community & biodiversity programs, page 28) None
Topics 2021
Portfolio spotlights, page 33
Stakeholder engagement, page 87
Supplier Partnerships Communities
2023 Form 10K (Environmental, Social and Governance, pages 7–8) Customers
GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with local community Responsible sourcing (Community & biodiversity programs, page 28) Due to confidentiality, specific metrics related Suppliers
Communities engagement, impact assessments and to all operations with local community engagement,
Portfolio spotlights, page 33
development programs impact assessments and development programs
Stakeholder engagement, page 87
are not disclosed.
IFF Facility Certifications, page 97
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
129
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
Supplier Social Assessment | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Human Rights; Occupational Health & Safety; Responsible Sourcing; Working Conditions
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Responsible sourcing (Approach, page 19; Progress, page 21; Strategic raw materials, None
Topics 2021 page 25; Community & biodiversity programs, page 28)
Stakeholder engagement, page 87
Human Rights
Global Environment, Health & Safety Policy
Responsible Sourcing Policy
Sustainable Palm Oil Policy
Communities
Sustainable Soy Policy
Customers
Vendor Code of Conduct Investors
Regulators
GRI 414: 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using Responsible sourcing (Approach, page 19; Progress, page 21; Strategic raw materials, None
Suppliers
Supplier social criteria page 25; Community & biodiversity programs, page 28)
Social
Stakeholder engagement, page 87
Assessment
2016
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain Responsible sourcing (Approach, page 19; Progress, page 21; Strategic raw materials, Specific metrics for negative social impacts in the
and actions taken page 25; Community & biodiversity programs, page 28) supply chain and actions taken are not available.
IFF will evaluate opportunities to disclose this
Stakeholder engagement, page 87
information in the future.
Public Policy | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Business Conduct, Ethics & Compliance
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Business ethics & compliance (Political contributions, page 71) None
Topics 2021 Membership associations, page 84 Communities
Customers
Code of Conduct
Investors
GRI 415: 415-1 Political contributions Business ethics & compliance (Political contributions, page 71) None Regulators
Public Suppliers
Performance data, page 97
Policy 2016
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
130
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
Customer Health and Safety | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Product Safety & Quality
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Global Quality Policy None
Topics 2021 Communities
Global Environment, Health & Safety Policy
Customers
Statement on Biotechnology
Investors
GRI 416: 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Product safety & quality, page 75 None
Regulators
Customer the health and safety impacts of products
2023 Form 10K
Health and and services Suppliers
Safety 2016
Marketing and Labeling | Relevant IFF Material Safety & Quality Topic(s): Customer Experience & Transparency; Product Safety & Quality
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Responsible sourcing, page 19 None
Topics 2021
Product safety & quality, page 75
Communities
Global Quality Policy
Customers
Animal Testing Policy
Investors
Animal Testing Statement – Non-Laboratory Animals
Regulators
GRI 417: 417-2 Incidents of noncompliance concerning Product safety & quality, page 75 None
Suppliers
Marketing product and service information and labeling
2023 Form 10K
and Labeling 2016
Customer Privacy | Relevant IFF Material Topic(s): Information Security
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Information security, page 78 None
Topics 2021
Privacy Communities
Code of Conduct Customers
SpeakUp Hotline Investors
Regulators
GRI 418: 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning Information security, page 80 None
Customer breaches of customer privacy and losses Suppliers
Privacy 2016 of customer data
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
131
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
MATERIAL TOPICS (continued)
Disclosure Description Cross-Reference or Answer Omissions Relevant External Entities
IFF Material Topic: Product Quality & Safety
GRI 3: Material 3-3 Management of material topics Responsible sourcing, page 19 None
Topics 2021
Product safety & quality, page 75
Global Quality Policy
Communities
Animal Testing Policy
Customers
Animal Testing Statement – Non-Laboratory Animals
Investors
N/A Animal welfare practices Responsible sourcing, page 19 None
Regulators
Product safety & quality, page 75
Suppliers
Global Quality Policy
Animal Testing Policy
Animal Testing Statement – Non-Laboratory Animals
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
132
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
SASB disclosures
We have included the topics and metrics below related to the Resource Transformation sector and the Chemicals industry. We do not claim to fulfill the disclosures for all indicators this year, but we are continuing to enhance our responses
and evaluate them for future disclosures.
Topic Accounting Metric Code Cross-Reference or Answer
Greenhouse Gross global Scope 1 emissions and the percentage covered under emissions-limiting regulations RT-CH-110a.1 Climate change & energy management (Scope 1 & 2 emissions reduction roadmap, page 43)
Gas Emissions
Performance data, page 88
In 2023, 8.9% of IFF’s Scope 1 emissions were covered under the EU Emissions Trading System (ETS).
Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, RT-CH-110a.2 2030 goal progress, page 15
emissions reduction targets and an analysis of performance against those targets
Climate & Planetary Health (Climate & Planetary Health strategy, page 41)
Climate change & energy management, page 42
2023 CDP Climate Change Response
Air Quality Air emissions of the following pollutants: (1) NO (excluding NO), (2) SO, RT-CH-120a.1 Climate change & energy management, page 42
x 2 x
(3) volatile organic compounds and (4) hazardous air pollutants (HAPs)
Performance data, page 88
Hazardous air pollutants are not material to our operations.
Energy (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity, (3) percentage renewable, RT-CH-130a.1 Climate change & energy management (Energy management, page 45)
Management (4) total self-generated energy
Performance data, page 88
28.8% of electricity is from renewable sources. Percentage of renewable energy consumed is 13.1%
(renewable sources out of total energy consumed, including fuels and purchased steam, etc.)
Water (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed, percentage of each in regions RT-CH-140a.1 Water stewardship (Progress, page 46)
Management with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Performance data, page 88
Total water consumed was 7,920 Megaliters, calculated by total water withdrawal (79,033) minus total water
discharge (71,113) Megaliters.
Number of incidents of noncompliance associated with water quality permits, RT-CH-140a.2 IFF had no material incidents of noncompliance concerning water quality permits, standards or regulations
standards and regulations in 2023
Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies and practices RT-CH-140a.3 Water stewardship, page 46
to mitigate those risks
2023 CDP Water Security Response
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
133
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
Topic Accounting Metric Code Cross-Reference or Answer
Hazardous (1) Amount of hazardous waste generated, and (2) percentage recycled RT-CH-150a.1 Waste management (Our waste streams, page 47)
Waste
Performance data, page 88
Management
Community Discussion of engagement processes to manage risks and opportunities associated RT-CH-210a.1 Responsible sourcing (Identifying potential ESG risks, page 21; Community & biodiversity programs, page 28)
Relations with community interests
Stakeholder engagement, page 87
UN Sustainable Development Goals, page 98
Responsible Sourcing Policy
Workforce (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) and RT-CH-320a.1 Environment, health & safety (EHS performance, page 65)
Health & (2) fatality rate for (a) direct employees and (b) contract employees
Performance data, page 88
Safety
IFF’s current data management processes are aligned with OSHA reporting, which combines employee
and supervised contractor safety data.
Description of efforts to assess, monitor and reduce exposure of employees and contract workers RT-CH-320a.2 Environment, health & safety, page 62
to long-term (chronic) health risks
Global Environment, Health & Safety Policy
Product Revenue from products designed for use- phase resource efficiency RT-CH-410a.1 Sustainable Solutions, page 18
Design for
Sustainable innovation, page 29
Use-phase
Our R&D Excellence
Efficiency
Our Innovation Programs
Open Innovation
We have embedded our commitment to circular design and sustainable innovation across our business.
We have identified a set of select sustainable solutions from across our portfolio that increase use-phase
resource efficiency in processes at the customer and consumer level, such as our entire enzyme business,
which enables efficiency improvements in our customers’ value chains by catalyzing better yields, reducing
water and energy use, replacing chemical alternatives and allowing for biobased solutions such as biofuels.
Based on an initial analysis of revenue from products designed for use-phase resource efficiency
(including, but not limited to, enzymes, plant proteins, biodegradable and biobased scent solutions, etc.)
we conservatively estimate that the sales of circular/sustainable solutions amounted to more than 26% of
IFF’s total revenues in 2023. This preliminary estimation has not been subject to assurance. Additionally,
significant uncertainty applies to this estimation, due to the tentative nature of the analysis, the lack of an
exact and comprehensive definition of circular/sustainable solutions and other limitations. IFF will evaluate
opportunities to further define this metric in the future.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
134
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
Topic Accounting Metric Code Cross-Reference or Answer
Safety & (1) Percentage of products that contain Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling RT-CH-410b.1 Sustainable Solutions, page 18
Environmental of Chemicals (GHS) Category 1 and 2 Health and Environmental Hazardous Substances, and (2)
IFF has products that have been classified as GHS Category 1 and 2 Health and Environmental Hazardous
Stewardship of percentage of such products that have undergone a hazard assessment
Substances. The percentage of products that contain GHS Category 1 and 2 Health and Environmental
Chemicals
Hazardous Substances and that undergone a hazard is not available.
Discussion of strategy to (1) manage chemicals of concern and (2) develop alternatives with reduced RT-CH-410b.2 Sustainable Solutions, page 18
human and/or environmental impact
Product safety & quality, page 75
Our R&D Excellence
Our Innovation Programs
Open Innovation
Genetically Percentage of products by revenue that contain genetically modified organisms (GMOs) RT-CH-410c.1 Responsible sourcing (Strategic raw materials, page 25)
Modified
Corporate governance (Biotechnology & consumer products, page 70)
Organisms
Statement on Biotechnology
Management Discussion of corporate positions related to government regulations and/or policy proposals that RT-CH-530a.1 Corporate governance (Public policy, page 70)
of the Legal address environmental and social factors affecting the industry
Stakeholder engagement, page 87
& Regulatory
2023 Form 10K (Risk Factors, pages 26–27)
Environment
Operational Process Safety Incidents Count (PSIC), Process Safety Total Incident Rate (PSTIR) and Process RT-CH-540a.1 Environment, health & safety (Process safety, page 66)
Safety, Safety Incident Severity Rate (PSISR)
Emergency
Preparedness Number of transport incidents RT-CH-540a.2 Environment, health & safety (EHS performance, page 65)
& Response
In 2023, IFF had no significant or reportable transport incidents.
Activity Metric
Production by reportable segment RT-CH-000.A Our company, page 6
IFF at a glance, page 7
Additional information on our reportable segments can be found in IFF’s 2023 Form 10K.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
135
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
TCFD report
IFF’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report is aligned with the four sections of the TCFD framework: (1) governance, (2) strategy, (3) risk management and (4) metrics and targets. For more information on TCFD,
please visit https://www.fsb-tcfd.org.
Disclosure Cross-Reference or Answer
GOVERNANCE
Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities.
Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities Corporate governance (ESG governance, page 69)
Governance & Corporate Responsibility Committee
2023 CDP Climate Change Response (Question C1.1, pages 4–6)
Management’s role in assessing and managing Corporate governance (ESG governance, page 69)
climate-related risks and opportunities
2023 CDP Climate Change Response (Questions C1.2 and C1.3, pages 6–13)
STRATEGY
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy and financial planning.
Climate-related risks and opportunities identified over 2023 performance snapshot, page 14
short-term, medium-term and long-term horizon
2030 goal progress, page 15
Climate & Planetary Health, page 40
Climate change & energy management, page 42
2023 CDP Climate Change Response (Questions C2.1–C2.4, pages 13–33)
We define time horizons for climate risks and opportunities as: short-term (1–3 years), medium-term (3–6 years) and long-term (6–10 years). We define ‘substantive financial impact’ when
identifying or assessing climate-related risks in both our direct operations and supply chain as any change that would significantly affect our business and operations. We utilize revenue
and expenditures as quantifiable indicators of risk, but do not have a specific quantifiable definition for “substantive financial impact” as risks are evaluated on an individual basis.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
136
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
Disclosure Cross-Reference or Answer
Impact on businesses, strategy and financial planning Sustainable Solutions, page 18
Sustainable innovation, page 29
Life cycle assessment, page 31
Climate & Planetary Health, page 40
Climate change & energy management, page 42
Corporate governance (Risk management, page 69)
2023 CDP Climate Change Response (Questions C3.1–C3.4 pages 33–42)
Impact of different scenarios, including a 2⁰C scenario Climate change & energy management (Progress, page 42)
2023 CDP Climate Change Response (Question C3.2 pages 33–38)
RISK MANAGEMENT
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy and financial planning.
Process for identifying and assessing climate-related risks Climate & Planetary Health, page 40
Climate change & energy management, page 42
Corporate governance (Risk management, page 69)
2023 CDP Climate Change Response (Question C2.2 pages 14–19)
At the corporate level, IFF’s general approach for identifying and managing significant risks and opportunities relies on our management’s evaluation of current events and its expectations
regarding future developments. Climate risks and opportunities are assessed based on the magnitude and likelihood of impact, potential financial impact, return on investment, scale of capital
costs or operational expenditures and potential for disruption or delays in production.
Processes for managing climate-related risks Climate & Planetary Health, page 40
Climate change & energy management, page 42
Corporate governance (Risk management, page 69)
2023 CDP Climate Change Response (Question C2.2 pages 14–19)
Our CEO and other senior management oversee the day-to-day execution of the risk management process, including decisions to mitigate, transfer, accept or control climate-related risks.
Management maintains the enterprise risk management (ERM) program, which is designed to identify and assess our global risks and to develop steps to mitigate and manage risks.
The Global Risk Committee, composed of key members of management, meets quarterly to discuss critical risks, critique mitigation plans and review the gap analyses.
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
137
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
UN Sustainable Development Goals GRI Content Index SASB Disclosures TCFD Report
Disclosure Cross-Reference or Answer
Integration into overall risk management Climate & Planetary Health, page 40
Climate change & energy management, page 42
Corporate governance (Risk management, page 69)
2023 CDP Climate Change Response (Question C2.2 pages 14–19)
IFF has a multidisciplinary companywide ERM program that continually assesses risks more than once a year, including sustainability issues and climate change, on our business and the
business of our customers. This ERM program considers risks for short-, medium- and long-term time horizons within our direct operations. By assessing these time horizons in tandem
with the procedures above, this ERM program determines which risks could have a substantive financial or strategic impact.
METRICS & TARGETS
Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities.
Metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related Climate & Planetary Health, page 40
risks and opportunities
Climate change & energy management, page 42
About this report (Standards & basis of calculations of environmental data, page 82)
Performance data, page 88
Independent assurance statement, page 138
2023 CDP Climate Change Response (Questions C6–C9 pages 83–162)
Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions Climate change & energy management, page 42
About this report (Standards & basis of calculations of environmental data, page 82)
Performance data, page 88
Independent assurance statement, page 138
2023 CDP Climate Change Response (Questions C6–C9 pages 83–101)
Targets used and performance against targets 2023 performance snapshot (Climate & Planetary Health, page 40)
Climate & Planetary Health, page 40
Climate change & energy management, page 42
Performance data, page 88
Independent assurance statement, page 138
2023 CDP Climate Change Response (Questions C4.1–4.2 pages 44–61)
Independent Assurance Report to International Flavors & Fragrances Inc.
ERM Certification & Verification Services Incorporated (“ERM CVS”) was engaged by International
Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (“IFF”) to provide limited and reasonable assurance in relation to the Selected
Information set out below and presented in IFF’s 2023 Do More Good Report, GRI Index, and SASB
Index (together the “Report”).
Engagement summary
Do More Good Report
• Whether the 2023 Report presents a complete and balanced presentation of IFF’s
sustainability activities and performance in the reporting year in accordance with the
reporting criteria.
Performance indicators
Whether the 2023 data and information for the following specified indicators are fairly
presented in the Report, in all material respects, with respect to the reporting criteria.
Emissions
• Total Scope 1 GHG emissions [metric tons CO2e]
• Total Scope 2 GHG emissions [metric tons CO2e] – by location and market-based
methods
• Scope 3 GHG emissions for each of the following categories: [metric tons CO2e]:
• Category 1: Purchased Goods and Services
• Category 2: Capital Goods
• Category 3: Fuel-and-Energy-Related Activities
• Category 4: Upstream Transportation and Distribution
• Category 5: Waste Generated in Operations
Independent Assurance Report • Category 6: Business Travel (air travel only)
• Other emissions: VOCs, NOx, SOx [metric tons]
Energy
• Direct energy consumption [thousand MWh]
• Indirect energy consumption [thousand MWh]
• Total energy consumption (direct and indirect) (absolute and intensity) [thousand
MWh and thousand MWh/metric ton of production]
DO MORE GOOD REPORT INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2 S0 c2 o3 p H e I oG f H oL urI GHWTaSs t e 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
assurance • Total hazardous waste generated (absolute and intensity) [thousand metric tons 138
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS engagement and metric tons per metric ton of production]
• Total non-hazardous waste generated [thousand metric tons]
Water
• Total water withdrawal as the sum of groundwater, municipal, surface, process, and
rainwater [megalitres and megaliters per metric ton of production]
• Total water discharge as a sum of municipal, groundwater, fresh surface water and
truck/rail [megaliters]
Independent Assurance Report to International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. Safety
• Total Recordable Incident Rate (per 100 employees and supervised contractors)
• Total Lost Time Incident Rate (per 100 employees and supervised contractors)
ERM Certification & Verification Services Incorporated (“ERM CVS”) was engaged by International
Flavors & Fragrances Inc. (“IFF”) to provide limited and reasonable assurance in relation to the Selected ISO 14001 certifications
• ISO 14001-certified operations production percentage [% of production from large
Information set out below and presented in IFF’s 2023 Do More Good Report, GRI Index, and SASB
Index (together the “Report”).
facilities] *
• Number of ISO 14001-certified operation sites [# of large sites] *
Engagement summary
Production
• Total production volume [metric tons]
Do More Good Report
Product Sustainability
• Whether the 2023 Report presents a complete and balanced presentation of IFF’s
• Total avoided GHG emissions for specified product segments [metric tons CO2e]
sustainability activities and performance in the reporting year in accordance with the
• Ratio of total avoided GHG emissions for specified product segments [metric tons
reporting criteria.
CO2e] and the sum of IFF Total Scope 1 GHG emissions & Scope 2 GHG
Performance indicators emissions [metric tons CO2e] – by market-based method
Whether the 2023 data and information for the following specified indicators are fairly
• % of new innovations that have a sustainable value proposition that supports people
presented in the Report, in all material respects, with respect to the reporting criteria.
and planet [%]
Emissions RSPO
• Total Scope 1 GHG emissions [metric tons CO2e] • % of RSPO-certified palm oil, palm kernel oil, and their derivatives through the mass
• Total Scope 2 GHG emissions [metric tons CO2e] – by location and market-based balance, segregated, and identity preserved supply chain models [%]
methods
• Scope 3 GHG emissions for each of the following categories: [metric tons CO2e]:
• Category 1: Purchased Goods and Services
• Category 2: Capital Goods
• Category 3: Fuel-and-Energy-Related Activities
• Category 4: Upstream Transportation and Distribution
• Category 5: Waste Generated in Operations
• Category 6: Business Travel (air travel only)
• Other emissions: VOCs, NOx, SOx [metric tons]
Energy
• Direct energy consumption [thousand MWh]
• Indirect energy consumption [thousand MWh]
• Total energy consumption (direct and indirect) (absolute and intensity) [thousand
MWh and thousand MWh/metric ton of production]
Scope of our Waste
assurance • Total hazardous waste generated (absolute and intensity) [thousand metric tons
engagement and metric tons per metric ton of production]
• Total non-hazardous waste generated [thousand metric tons]
Water
• Total water withdrawal as the sum of groundwater, municipal, surface, process, and
rainwater [megalitres and megaliters per metric ton of production]
• Total water discharge as a sum of municipal, groundwater, fresh surface water and
truck/rail [megaliters]
Safety
• Total Recordable Incident Rate (per 100 employees and supervised contractors)
• Total Lost Time Incident Rate (per 100 employees and supervised contractors)
ISO 14001 certifications
• ISO 14001-certified operations production percentage [% of production from large
facilities] *
• Number of ISO 14001-certified operation sites [# of large sites] *
Production
• Total production volume [metric tons]
Product Sustainability
• Total avoided GHG emissions for specified product segments [metric tons CO2e]
• Ratio of total avoided GHG emissions for specified product segments [metric tons
CO2e] and the sum of IFF Total Scope 1 GHG emissions & Scope 2 GHG
emissions [metric tons CO2e] – by market-based method
• % of new innovations that have a sustainable value proposition that supports people
and planet [%]
RSPO
• % of RSPO-certified palm oil, palm kernel oil, and their derivatives through the mass
balance, segregated, and identity preserved supply chain models [%]
This assurance engagement does not extend to information in respect of earlier periods
or to any other information included in the Report.
* Facility size is defined by IFF annually based on production volume using statistic
quartiles and averaging the second and third quartile to categorize facilities.
Reporting period 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2023
• GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards
• SASB Chemical sector reporting requirements
• IFF’s reporting criteria and definitions by indicator as disclosed in the Report on
page 82 and footnotes
• WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004, as updated January 2015) for the Scope 1
Scope 2 GHG emissions
• WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and
Reporting
Reporting Standard for the Scope 3 GHG emissions.
criteria
• Science Based Targets initiative for Scope 3, Category 6
• IFF’s basis of reporting for avoided emissions and portfolio sustainability and product
sustainability criteria (as disclosed in the Report on page 32 and footnotes)
• Estimating and reporting the comparative emissions impacts of products working
paper, WRI 2019
• IFF’s Innovation 4 Sustainability (I4S) reporting criteria and definitions, based upon
the WBCSD Portfolio Sustainability Assessment (PSA) guidelines
We performed a limited and reasonable assurance engagement, in accordance with the
International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance
Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information issued by
the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
Reasonable assurance
• Total Scope 1 GHG emissions from IFF’s North American operations [metric tons CO2e]
Assurance
• Total Scope 2 GHG emissions from IFF’s North American operations [metric tons CO2e]
standard and
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGleHveLlI oGfH TS – b2y0 lo2c3a tiPonE aRnFdO mRarMkeAtN-bCasEe d m e tAhoPdPs ENDIX INDICES
assurance • Energy from IFF’s North American operations: 139
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS • Direct energy consumption [megawatt hours]
• Indirect energy consumption [megawatt hours]
• Total energy consumption [megawatt hours]
Limited assurance
• All other scopes set out under ‘Scope of our assurance engagement’, above.
This assurance engagement does not extend to information in respect of earlier periods
IFF is responsible for preparing the Report and for the collection and presentation of the
or to any other information included in the Report.
information within it, and for the designing, implementing, and maintaining of internal
* Facility size is defined by IFF annually based on production volume using statistic controls relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Report.
quartiles and averaging the second and third quartile to categorize facilities. Respective
ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions to IFF on the agreed scope based on
responsibilities
our engagement terms with IFF, the assurance activities performed and exercising our
Reporting period 1 January 2023 to 31 December 2023
professional judgement. We accept no responsibility, and deny any liability, to any party
other than IFF for the conclusions we have reached.
• GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards
• SASB Chemical sector reporting requirements
• IFF’s reporting criteria and definitions by indicator as disclosed in the Report on Our opinion
page 82 and footnotes In our opinion, the 2023 Total Scope 1 GHG emissions, Total Scope 2 (by location and market-based methods)
• WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004, as updated January 2015) for the Scope 1 GHG emissions, and Energy consumption (direct, indirect, and total) from IFF’s North American Operations are
Scope 2 GHG emissions fairly presented in the Report, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria.
• WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and
Reporting
Reporting Standard for the Scope 3 GHG emissions.
Our conclusion
criteria
• Science Based Targets initiative for Scope 3, Category 6
Based on our activities, as described below, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the Selected
• IFF’s basis of reporting for avoided emissions and portfolio sustainability and product
Information, as listed under ‘Scope of our assurance engagement’ above, except for Total Scope 1 GHG
sustainability criteria (as disclosed in the Report on page 32 and footnotes)
emissions, Total Scope 2 (by location and market-based methods) GHG emissions, and Energy consumption
• Estimating and reporting the comparative emissions impacts of products working
(direct, indirect, and total) from IFF’s North American Operations are not fairly presented in the Report, in all
paper, WRI 2019
material respects, with the reporting criteria.
• IFF’s Innovation 4 Sustainability (I4S) reporting criteria and definitions, based upon
the WBCSD Portfolio Sustainability Assessment (PSA) guidelines
We performed a limited and reasonable assurance engagement, in accordance with the
International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance
Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information issued by
the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
Reasonable assurance
• Total Scope 1 GHG emissions from IFF’s North American operations [metric tons CO2e]
Assurance
• Total Scope 2 GHG emissions from IFF’s North American operations [metric tons CO2e]
standard and
– by location and market-based methods
level of
assurance • Energy from IFF’s North American operations:
• Direct energy consumption [megawatt hours]
• Indirect energy consumption [megawatt hours]
• Total energy consumption [megawatt hours]
Limited assurance
• All other scopes set out under ‘Scope of our assurance engagement’, above.
IFF is responsible for preparing the Report and for the collection and presentation of the
information within it, and for the designing, implementing, and maintaining of internal
controls relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Report.
Respective
ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions to IFF on the agreed scope based on
responsibilities
our engagement terms with IFF, the assurance activities performed and exercising our
professional judgement. We accept no responsibility, and deny any liability, to any party
other than IFF for the conclusions we have reached.
Our opinion
In our opinion, the 2023 Total Scope 1 GHG emissions, Total Scope 2 (by location and market-based methods)
GHG emissions, and Energy consumption (direct, indirect, and total) from IFF’s North American Operations are
fairly presented in the Report, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria.
Our conclusion
Based on our activities, as described below, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the Selected
Information, as listed under ‘Scope of our assurance engagement’ above, except for Total Scope 1 GHG
emissions, Total Scope 2 (by location and market-based methods) GHG emissions, and Energy consumption
(direct, indirect, and total) from IFF’s North American Operations are not fairly presented in the Report, in all
material respects, with the reporting criteria.
Our assurance activities
Considering the risk of material misstatement in the Report and the Selected Information, a multi-disciplinary
team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed a range of procedures that included, but were not
restricted to, the following:
• Assessing the suitability of the reporting criteria for the Selected Information and Report;
• Evaluating relevant reporting systems and processes (including internal control processes);
• Reviewing of external media reporting relating to IFF to identify sustainability issues in the reporting
period that may be relevant to the assurance scope;
• Reviewing of the materiality determination process including the results of stakeholder engagement
processes, assessment of impacts, risks and opportunities and interviews with management
representatives responsible for managing the selected issues;
• Interviewing relevant staff to understand and evaluate the relevant management systems and
processes (including internal review and control processes) used for collecting and reporting the
selected information;
• Reviewing of samples of documentary evidence, including internal and external documents, relating to
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 202th3e HaIsGseHrLtioIGnsH mTSad e r e g2a0r2d3in gP 2E0R2F3O sRusMtaAinNaCbEili ty p e rAfoPrPmEaNncDeI Xan d a cItNivDitiIeCsE inS the Report;
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
• Conducting visits to a risk-based selection of four in-person visits (Cedar Rapids, US; Kotka, Finland; 140
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS Penang, Malaysia; Midland, US) and four virtual visits (Migdal H’aemeq – Enzymotec, Israel;
Jacksonville, US; Tecoman; Mexico; Esteio, Brazil) to IFF facilities to observe local data management
practices, agreement of impacts of operations to data, systems and source data reviews;
• Reviewing of the year-end data submitted by all locations included in the consolidated 2023 group data
for the Selected Information which included testing the completeness and mathematical accuracy of
conversions and calculations, and consolidation in line with the stated reporting boundary;
• Reviewing a sample of qualitative and quantitative evidence supporting the reported information at
corporate level; and
• Reviewing the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report to ensure
consistency with our findings.
Our assurance activities The limitations of our engagement
Considering the risk of material misstatement in the Report and the Selected Information, a multi-disciplinary The reliability of the assured information is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for
team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed a range of procedures that included, but were not determining, calculating, or estimating the underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance
restricted to, the following: conclusions in this context.
• Assessing the suitability of the reporting criteria for the Selected Information and Report;
• Evaluating relevant reporting systems and processes (including internal control processes); Our independence, integrity, and quality control
• Reviewing of external media reporting relating to IFF to identify sustainability issues in the reporting ERM CVS is an independent certification and verification body accredited by UKAS to ISO 17021:2015.
period that may be relevant to the assurance scope; Accordingly, we maintain a comprehensive system of quality control, including documented policies and
• Reviewing of the materiality determination process including the results of stakeholder engagement procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards, and applicable legal and
processes, assessment of impacts, risks and opportunities and interviews with management regulatory requirements. Our quality management system is at least as demanding as the relevant sections of
representatives responsible for managing the selected issues; ISQM-1 and ISQM-2 (2022).
• Interviewing relevant staff to understand and evaluate the relevant management systems and
ERM CVS applies a Code of Conduct and related policies to ensure that its employees maintain integrity,
processes (including internal review and control processes) used for collecting and reporting the
objectivity, professional competence, and high ethical standards in their work. Our processes are designed and
selected information;
implemented to ensure that the work we undertake is objective, impartial and free from bias and conflict of
• Reviewing of samples of documentary evidence, including internal and external documents, relating to
interest. Our certified management system covers independence and ethical requirements that are at least as
the assertions made regarding 2023 sustainability performance and activities in the Report;
demanding as the relevant sections of the IESBA Code relating to assurance engagements.
• Conducting visits to a risk-based selection of four in-person visits (Cedar Rapids, US; Kotka, Finland;
Penang, Malaysia; Midland, US) and four virtual visits (Migdal H’aemeq – Enzymotec, Israel; ERM CVS has extensive experience in conducting assurance on environmental, social, ethical and health and
Jacksonville, US; Tecoman; Mexico; Esteio, Brazil) to IFF facilities to observe local data management safety information, systems, and processes, and provides no consultancy-related services to IFF in any respect.
practices, agreement of impacts of operations to data, systems and source data reviews;
• Reviewing of the year-end data submitted by all locations included in the consolidated 2023 group data
for the Selected Information which included testing the completeness and mathematical accuracy of
conversions and calculations, and consolidation in line with the stated reporting boundary;
• Reviewing a sample of qualitative and quantitative evidence supporting the reported information at
corporate level; and
• Reviewing the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report to ensure
Andrea Duque
consistency with our findings.
Partner, Corporate Assurance
Malvern, PA
The limitations of our engagement
The reliability of the assured information is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for 28 May 2024
determining, calculating, or estimating the underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance On behalf of
conclusions in this context.
ERM Certification & Verification Services Incorporated
Our independence, integrity, and quality control www.ermcvs.com | post@ermcvs.com
ERM CVS is an independent certification and verification body accredited by UKAS to ISO 17021:2015.
Accordingly, we maintain a comprehensive system of quality control, including documented policies and
procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards, and applicable legal and
regulatory requirements. Our quality management system is at least as demanding as the relevant sections of
ISQM-1 and ISQM-2 (2022).
ERM CVS applies a Code of Conduct and related policies to ensure that its employees maintain integrity,
objectivity, professional competence, and high ethical standards in their work. Our processes are designed and
implemented to ensure that the work we undertake is objective, impartial and free from bias and conflict of
interest. Our certified management system covers independence and ethical requirements that are at least as
demanding as the relevant sections of the IESBA Code relating to assurance engagements.
ERM CVS has extensive experience in conducting assurance on environmental, social, ethical and health and
safety information, systems, and processes, and provides no consultancy-related services to IFF in any respect.
Andrea Duque
Partner, Corporate Assurance
Malvern, PA
28 May 2024
On behalf of
ERM Certification & Verification Services Incorporated
www.ermcvs.com | post@ermcvs.com
INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY 2023 HIGHLIGHTS 2023 PERFORMANCE APPENDIX INDICES
DO MORE GOOD REPORT
141
2023 ESG+ PROGRESS
Special note regarding
forward-looking statements
Statements in this annual ESG+ Report that are not historical facts or information are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning
of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements should be evaluated with consideration given
to the many risks and uncertainties inherent in the Company’s business that could cause actual results and events to differ materially
from those in the forward-looking statements. Certain of such forward-looking information may be identified by such terms as “expect,”
“anticipate,” “believe,” “outlook,” “may,” “estimate,” “should” and “predict” or similar terms or variations thereof. Such forward-looking
statements are based on a series of expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections about the Company, are not guarantees of
future results or performance, and involve significant risks, uncertainties, and other factors, including assumptions and projections,
for all forward periods. Actual results of the Company may differ materially from any future results expressed or implied by such
forward-looking statements.
The Company intends its forward-looking statements to speak only as of the time of such statements and does not undertake or plan to
update or revise them as more information becomes available or to reflect changes in expectations, assumptions, or results.
The Company can give no assurance that such expectations or forward-looking statements will prove to be correct. Any public statements
or disclosures by IFF following this report that modify or impact any of the forward-looking statements contained in or accompanying this
report will be deemed to modify or supersede such outlook or other forward-looking statements in or accompanying this report.
Contact us
VISIT US
iff.com
iff.com/domoregoodreport
iff.com/responsibilities
iff.com/media
ir.iff.com
ENGAGE WITH US
Find and follow #DoMoreGoodxIFF
to join the conversation.
WE VALUE YOUR FEEDBACK
We welcome any questions, comments,
suggestions or feedback on our Do More Good Report:
iff.com/contact-us or sustainability@iff.com.
521 West 57th Street
New York, NY 10019
United States
©2024 International Flavors & Fragrances. All rights reserved.
IFF is a registered trademark.
