2023 ESG REPORT
I B M I m p a c t
--------
- - - --
- -- - -- - --- ----
-----
___ , _ IXI
Contents
Introduction About this Report
Governance
Social
Environment
This report covers our progress and performance in 2023. The current year data presented covers our global
Appendix
The content of this report is informed by collaboration and operations from January 1, 2023 to December 31, 2023.
engagement with communities, clients, stockholders, and Certain employee-related data and programs presented
employees, and considers standards and initiatives such as may not include or may not be applicable to certain
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, the acquired or non-wholly owned subsidiaries. Certain
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), the supplier data presented may not include or may not be
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures applicable to certain business units or acquired or non-
(TCFD), the Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics, and the United wholly owned subsidiaries. On November 3, 2021, the
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). More company completed the separation of its managed
information on IBM's Environmental, Social and infrastructure services unit. Accordingly, unless otherwise
Governance (ESG) reporting can be found on the IBM noted, the 2021 information presented in this report
Impact website. An ESG Data Summary with reference to includes 10 months of activity related to the managed
the GRI and SASB standards and the UN SDGs can be infrastructure services business, and therefore may not be
found in the Appendix of this report on page 60. comparable to 2022 and 2023 information. To the extent
any historical information is updated or recast, the
We conduct regular assessments that identify topics information will be disclosed accordingly. Information
important to our stakeholders and inform our ESG strategy. about our business and financial performance is provided
We are currently performing a double materiality in the 2023 IBM Annual Report.
assessment as required in accordance with the Corporate
Sustainability Reporting Directive. Our assessments are IBM also completed an external limited assurance audit of
solely intended to reflect priority ESG issues and should our 2023 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory and
not be construed as a characterization regarding the the underlying data and calculation processes.
materiality of such information to IBM’s business or
operating results. These assessments are not a Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
determination of “materiality” as the term is defined in
Any forward-looking statement in this report speaks only
securities or other laws of the United States or other
as of the date on which it is made; IBM assumes no
jurisdictions, nor its use in the context of financial
obligation to update or revise any such statements except
reporting. We regularly refresh these analyses to capture
as required by law. Forward-looking statements are based
changing circumstances and to adopt a more dynamic
on IBM’s current assumptions regarding future business
approach to identifying key ESG topics.
and performance; these statements, by their nature,
address matters that are uncertain to different degrees.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks,
uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual
results to be materially different.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 1
Contents
Introduction About IBM®
Governance
Social
Environment
IBM is addressing the hybrid cloud and artificial
Appendix
intelligence (AI) opportunity with a platform-centric
approach, focused on providing client value through a
combination of technology and business expertise. We
provide integrated solutions and products that leverage:
data, information technology, deep expertise in industries
and business processes, with trust and security and a
broad ecosystem of partners and alliances. Our hybrid
cloud platform and AI technology and services capabilities
support clients’ digital transformations and help them
engage with their customers and employees in new ways.
These solutions draw from an industry-leading portfolio of
capabilities in software, consulting services and a deep
incumbency in mission-critical systems, all bolstered by
one of the world’s leading research organizations.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 2
Contents
Introduction
Governance
Introduction Equitable Impact | Social
Social
Environment Letter from Our Chairman and CEO 5 Our Culture 23
Appendix Our ESG Goals 7 Supporting Our Employees 24
Accountability for ESG at IBM 9 Diversity and Inclusion 27
Human Rights at IBM 10 Community Development 35
Supply Chain Social Responsibility 39
Ethical Impact | Governance Environmental Impact | Environment
Corporate Governance and the Board 12 Global Environmental Management System 44
Business Ethics 16 Energy and Climate Change 46
Responsible Technology 17 Conservation and Biodiversity 52
Policy Advocacy 21 Pollution Prevention and Waste Management 54
Supply Chain Environmental Responsibility 57
Solutions for Sustainability 58
Appendix
ESG Data Summary 60
Awards and Recognition Highlights 71
Top Suppliers 72
IBM 2023
ESG Report 3
Contents
Introduction
Governance
Social
Environment
Appendix
Introduction
IBM 2023
ESG Report
Contents
Introduction Letter from Our
Governance
Social Chairman and CEO
Environment
Appendix
I'm proud to present this 2023 IBM Impact report, We also applied technology in new ways to make our
which highlights our progress across the three pillars world's essential systems more efficient and
of our IBM Impact framework: strengthening sustainable. We expanded the IBM Sustainability
business ethics, fostering greater equity in the Accelerator program, which leverages AI and other
communities in which we work and live, and leading-edge technologies to help populations
protecting our environment. vulnerable to environmental threats. In addition to
clean energy and agriculture projects, the initiative
As IBMers, we believe in leveraging technology to grew to include water and city resiliency projects and
make a transformative impact on business and earned the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation
society. At the same time, rapid advances in Citizens Award for “Best Sustainability Program.” In
powerful technologies like AI must be balanced by addition, last year we beat our 2025 target for
responsible scaling and deployment strategies. Last reducing IBM’s operational GHG emissions, a solid
year, IBM released watsonx.governance™, an end-to- milestone towards our goal of net-zero operational
end toolkit for AI governance that enables GHG emissions by 2030.
responsible, transparent and explainable AI
workflows. In addition, IBM and Meta announced the These and other initiatives earned IBM various
formation of the AI Alliance, a group of more than honors, including recognition by Ethisphere as one of
seventy industry and academic leaders joining the World’s Most Ethical Companies and by Time
together to advance open, safe and responsible AI. Magazine as one of the 100 Most Influential
Companies.
We recognize that promoting equitable access to AI
skills is also crucial to tomorrow's workforce. As our progress in 2023 showed, IBM is committed
Internally, we created the watsonx™ challenge for to trusted technology as a force for good. The
IBMers around the world to grow their knowledge application of transformative technologies like AI
through hands-on experience in AI for business. and hybrid cloud is enabling productivity and
Externally, we announced a new goal to train 2 business transformation at a scale and speed
million learners in AI skills by the end of 2026 previously unimaginable. I’m deeply grateful to the
through expanded education collaborations and new many IBMers throughout the world who are helping
Arvind Krishna
generative AI coursework on IBM SkillsBuild®. We us to shape and lead this moment responsibly.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
have already engaged over 11 million learners on our
platforms, evidence of the substantial progress
we've made towards our goal to train 30 million
people by 2030.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 5
Contents
Introduction IBM Impact
Governance
Social Ethical Impact
Environment
Creating innovations, policies, and
IBM is focused on the challenges
Appendix practices that prioritize ethics, trust,
and complexities facing today’s transparency, and above all - accountability
world. Our ESG reporting embodies
this philosophy through the
three pillars of our IBM
Impact framework.
Environmental Impact
Equitable Impact
Creating better pathways to
conserve natural resources,
Creating spaces and opportunities
reduce pollution, and minimize
for everyone by focusing on
climate-related risks
diversity, equity and inclusivity
within IBM, as well as globally
IBM 2023
ESG Report 6
Contents
Introduction Our ESG Goals As detailed throughout this report, our commitment to creating Ethical
Impact, Equitable Impact, and Environmental Impact includes goals.
Governance
Progress for a subset of these goals for calendar year 2023 is as follows:
Social (1 of 2)
Environment Ethical Impact
Appendix
Topic Goal Progress Status
Business Ethics Achieve 100% employee participation in our annual Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG) We attained 100% employee participation in our annual BCG program in 2023. ACHIEVED IN 2023
program. ✔
Responsible Train 1,000 technology suppliers in technology ethics by 2025. After exceeding our goal to train 1,000 ecosystem partners in technology ethics in 2022, we
Technology announced our goal to train technology suppliers. In 2023, we trained more than 600
suppliers in technology ethics towards this goal.
Prepare our company and clients for responsible AI adoption aligned with IBM Principles In 2023, we released watsonx.governance, a component of watsonx designed to accelerate ACHIEVED IN 2023
for Trust and Transparency. responsible, transparent and explainable AI workflows, and led the creation of the AI ✔
Alliance, an open community to accelerate responsible AI innovation.
Policy Advocacy Engage in responsible policy advocacy to drive growth and innovation across the globe on In 2023, IBM advanced a risk-based approach to the regulation of AI and a skills-first ACHIEVED IN 2023
topics including, AI, cybersecurity, trade, data privacy and workforce skills. approach to filling critical tech jobs through activities such as publishing a policymaker’s ✔
guide to responsible AI foundation models and supporting the introduction of two U.S.
bipartisan workforce development bills.
Diversity and Annual Incentive Program for executives includes a modifier to drive accountability in Executive representation of women globally, as well as Black and Hispanic executives in the The executive incentive program will
Inclusion improving executive diversity representation. U.S., excluding Red Hat, changed by +1.1 points, -0.2 points and +0.6 points, respectively, in continue to include a modifier and our goal
2023. These results did not increase or decrease the incentive score. remains to improve executive representation
in these areas.
Supply Chain Engage 100% of IBM Global Procurement suppliers on sound practices including social and In 2023, IBM Global Procurement engaged 100% of our suppliers on sound practices. ACHIEVED IN 2023
Responsibility environmental responsibility, ethics and risk planning. ✔
Equitable Impact
Topic Goal Progress Status
Diversity and $250 million investment in apprenticeships and new-collar programs by 2025. Since 2022, we have invested $100.3 million towards apprenticeships and new-collar
Inclusion programs, in line with expectations.
Maintain our longstanding practice of pay equity, ensuring equal pay for equal work. IBM continues to pay equitably for similar work. Women globally earn $1.00 for every $1.00 ACHIEVED IN 2023
earned by men for similar work. The same is true for underrepresented minorities in the U.S. ✔
Community Skill 30 million people globally by 2030. Since 2021, over 11.5 million learners have engaged with free IBM training content.
Development
Log 4 million volunteer hours by 2025. Since 2022, IBMers logged over 974,000 volunteer hours towards our goal.
Supply Chain 15% of first-tier supplier diversity spend from Black-owned suppliers by 2025. In 2023, approximately 8.5% of our first-tier supplier diversity spend was with Black-owned
Responsibility suppliers.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 7
Contents
Introduction Our ESG Goals As detailed throughout this report, our commitment to creating Ethical
Impact, Equitable Impact, and Environmental Impact includes goals.
Governance
Progress for a subset of these goals for calendar year 2023 is as follows:
Social (2 of 2)
Environment Environmental Impact
Appendix
Topic Goal Progress Status
Energy and Implement a minimum of 3,000 energy conservation projects to avoid the consumption of Since 2021, we have completed 2,130 energy conservation projects as of year-end 2023,
Climate Change 275,000 megawatt-hours (MWh) of energy from 2021 to 2025. avoiding an estimated 256,000 MWh of energy consumption.
Procure 75% of the electricity IBM consumes worldwide from renewable sources by 2025, In 2023, our renewable electricity procurement represented 70.6% of our total electricity
and 90% by 2030. consumption, which keeps us on track to meet our 2025 goal.
Reduce IBM’s operational GHG emissions 65% by 2025 against base year 2010, adjusted In 2023, we reduced our operational GHG emissions 68.5% against base year 2010, ACHIEVED IN 2023
for acquisitions and divestitures. adjusted for acquisitions and divestitures, meeting our goal of 65% emissions reduction by ✔
2025 two years early.
Reach net-zero operational GHG emissions by 2030. We continue to make progress towards net-zero operational GHG emissions by 2030. IN PROGRESS
Conservation Achieve a year-to-year reduction in water withdrawals at larger IBM locations in water- In 2023, water withdrawals at these locations increased by 3.4% versus 2022 as a result of NOT ACHIEVED IN 2023
and Biodiversity stressed regions.† employees returning to the office.
Source paper and paper/wood-based packaging directly procured by IBM from forests that In 2023, 99.8% (based on spend) of the paper and paper/wood-based packaging IBM
are sustainably managed and certified as such. directly procured worldwide came from suppliers that warranted that the source was derived
from sustainably managed forests.
Plant 50 pollinator gardens at IBM locations globally by year-end 2023 to support We exceeded our goal, with 70 pollinator gardens planted globally at IBM locations by year- ACHIEVED IN 2023
biodiversity. end 2023. ✔
Pollution Divert 90% (by weight) of IBM’s total nonhazardous waste from landfill and incineration by In 2023, we diverted 94.2% (by weight) of our total nonhazardous waste from landfill and ACHIEVED IN 2023
Prevention 2025 through reuse, recycling, composting and waste-to-energy processes. Use waste-to- incineration. Of the total amount diverted, 10% (by weight) was sent to waste-to-energy ✔
and Waste energy processes for no more than 10% (by weight) of the diverted waste. processes thereby meeting our goal.
Management
Eliminate nonessential, single-use plastic items (including cups, straws, cutlery, plates, As of year-end 2023, we eliminated all nonessential, single-use plastic items at 58 of the 60
carry bags and food containers) from IBM-managed cafeteria operations globally by 2025. IBM-managed cafeteria operations worldwide.
Solutions for Document 100 client engagements or research projects in which IBM solutions have Since 2021, we have documented 72 such engagements or projects.
Sustainability enabled demonstrable environmental benefits by 2025.
† Approximately 85% of water withdrawals at these locations are for domestic consumption in the workplace and heating, ventilating and air conditioning of buildings.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 8
Contents
Introduction Accountability Committee Responsibilities Members
Governance IBM Board The Board and its committees have The Directors and Corporate Governance Committee: Oversees policies and
oversight responsibility for ESG-related practices related to corporate social responsibility, sustainability and other
Social for ESG at IBM of Directors matters and are continuously engaged environmental, social and governance matters.
with senior management on risk
Environment
management and activities, policies, and
The Executive Compensation and Management Resources Committee: Oversees
IBM’s compensation programs and employee engagement as an indicator of
progress on these matters.
Appendix company culture, and reviews IBM’s human capital management, diversity and
inclusion, and other management resources programs.
The Audit Committee: Oversees internal controls regarding publicly reported
IBM’s long-term performance strategy environment, social and governance data, as well as compliance with legal and
regulatory requirements.
integrates economic, environmental, and
societal performance and leadership. ESG The ESG Executive Steering Committee - Chair: Vice President - Vice President & Chief - Vice President,
provides leadership and direction on & Chief Impact Officer Leadership, Culture, Investor Relations
The IBM Board of Directors oversees IBM’s long-term
E Stx ee ec ru inti gv e
k ae ny
d
c oo rgrp ao nr ia zate
ti
ore ns -p wo idn esi gb oil ait ly
s
.i s Is
t
u me es
ets - Vice President & Chief
and Inclusion Officer
- Vice President,
business strategy and is actively engaged in ensuring that monthly, chaired by the Vice President, Operating Officer, IBM - Vice President & Chief Government and
IBM’s culture reflects its commitment to integrity, trust and Committee Corporate Social Responsibility & Chief Research Privacy and Trust Regulatory Affairs
transparency, and inclusion. Under the guidance and Impact Officer, and includes senior - Vice President, Officer - Vice President,
executives from functional areas across
supervision of our Board and its committees, IBM senior
the company. Each functional area is
Corporate - Vice President & Chief Assistant General
management is responsible for the company’s responsible for developing its specific Environmental Affairs Procurement Officer Counsel &
environmental and social performance and regularly goals and strategies. and Product Safety & - Vice President & Corporate
reports to the Board and its committees on IBM’s ESG Chief Sustainability Controller, Secretary
activities. Our ESG function coordinates day-to-day ESG
Officer
Environmental, Social - Vice President &
and corporate responsibility-related activities and is led by - Director, Labor and Governance Chief Risk Officer
the Vice President & Chief Impact Officer who reports to Relations - Vice President & - Global Managing
the Senior Vice President, Marketing and Communications Global Head of Partner, IBM
& Chief Communications Officer. Product Management Consulting
and Strategy, IBM
Sustainability Software
ESG The ESG Working Group executes and Representation is cross-functional with expertise in relevant and varied disciplines
maintains awareness of ESG matters across the company.
Working
occurring across the company, monitors
Group regulators and standard-setters’
sustainability-related matters, and helps
bring the interests of external
stakeholders and IBM’s value chain
forward for discussion. It includes
representatives from functional areas
across IBM and meets at least
monthly to review key policy and
strategic issues, and to make
recommendations to the ESG Executive
Steering Committee.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 9
Contents
Introduction Human Rights at IBM
Governance
Social
Environment
Salient Human Rights Issues
At IBM, we have always set high standards
Appendix
for the way we conduct business – from
corporate and social responsibility to sound
business ethics.
Product and Research Misuse Human Autonomy and Dignity
In 2019, we adopted a Human Rights Statement of
Principles. These principles represent our commitment to
Inequality / Discrimination via Freedom of Expression and
respect all human rights in line with international
Products Access to Information
standards such as the UN Guiding Principles on Business
and Human Rights, the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, and the International Labour Organization (ILO)
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Human Rights in the Supply Chain Labor Rights at IBM
In 2021 and 2022, we worked with a nonprofit
sustainability and human rights organization to identify the Environment and
Privacy and Cybersecurity
salient human rights issues across our business. This Human Rights
assessment prioritized areas for future due diligence and
informed the development of our human rights strategy,
including the formation of a role dedicated to overseeing Ethics and Corruption Right to Science
our human rights initiatives. In 2024, we will evaluate our
due diligence approach to identify areas in which we can
advance our human rights initiatives.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 10
Contents
Introduction
Governance
Social
Environment
Appendix
Ethical
Impact
IBM 2023
ESG Report
Contents
Introduction Corporate Governance
Governance
Social and the Board
Governance Highlights
Environment
Effective Leadership, Independent Oversight, Strong Corporate Governance
Appendix
- Independent Lead Director with robust and well-defined responsibilities
Corporate Governance - Committee sessions with key strategic leaders from senior management
- Annual Board self-evaluations led by the independent Lead Director
IBM’s Board of Directors has long adhered to governance - Executive session led by independent Lead Director at each board meeting
principles designed to ensure the continued vitality of the Board
- Proactive Board and committee refreshment, with focus on diversity and the
and excellence in the execution of its duties.
optimal mix of skills and experience
IBM's corporate governance principles include a policy of - Annual review of the Board leadership structure
requiring a majority of the Board to be independent directors, - Director overboarding policy
the importance of equity compensation to align the interests of
directors and stockholders, and the practice of regularly
scheduled executive sessions, including executive sessions of Stockholder Rights and Accountability
independent non-management directors, led by the
independent Lead Director. The IBM Board Corporate - Annual election of all directors
Governance Guidelines reflect IBM’s principles on corporate - Majority voting for directors in uncontested elections
governance matters.
- Stockholder special meeting right
IBM’s Business Conduct Guidelines is our code of ethics for - Proxy access
directors, executive officers and employees. Any amendment to, - No stockholder rights plan
or waiver of, the Business Conduct Guidelines that applies to
- No supermajority voting provisions
one of our directors or executive officers may be made only by
the Board or a board committee, and would be disclosed on - Robust year-round stockholder engagement process
IBM’s website. IBM also has a process by which stockholders - Signatory of Commonsense Principles 2.0
and other interested parties may communicate with the Board
- Endorser of Investor Stewardship Group Principles
or non-management directors.
- Signatory to the Business Roundtable Statement on the Purpose of a
Corporation
- Stockholder right to remove directors
IBM 2023
ESG Report 12
Contents
IBM’s Board of Directors
Introduction
Governance
The IBM Board is composed of a diverse group of Optimal Mix of Skills and Experience of Directors
Social members, all leaders in their respective fields. All current
directors have leadership experience at major domestic IBM's directors collaboratively contribute significant
Environment
and international organizations with operations inside and experience in the areas most relevant to overseeing our
Appendix outside the U.S., at academic or research institutions or in business and strategy.
government. Directors also have deep industry expertise as
leaders of organizations within some of the company’s The skills and experience of our Board include, but are not
most important client industries and constituencies. limited to:
The Board includes directors who have a deep - Industry leaders with deep executive and oversight
understanding of our business, and members who bring experience;
new skills and fresh perspectives. We have a deliberate
- Global operational experience to oversee a business of
mix of age and tenure on the Board, which reflects our
IBM's scale, scope and complexity;
commitment to ongoing and proactive board refreshment.
- Technology, cybersecurity and digital transformation
The Directors and Corporate Governance Committee and experience;
the Board believe that the above-mentioned attributes,
- Key insight into IBM's regulatory environment; and
along with the leadership skills and other experiences of
the Board members described on the next page, provide - Diversity of backgrounds and experiences.
IBM with the perspectives and judgment necessary to
guide IBM’s strategies and oversee their execution.
Independent and Diverse Board
Independence Gender and Ethnic Diversity Average Tenure
1
Non- 2
Independent
3 >10 Years
Average
92% 38% Women 5.9
and
5 years 6
3
12 5-10 Years <5 Years
Ethnically
Independent Diverse Directors
IBM 2023
ESG Report 13
Contents
IBM Board of Directors - Experience and Skills
Introduction
Governance
Marianne C. Thomas David N. Alex Michelle J. Arvind Andrew N. F. William Michael Martha E. Peter R. Frederick H. Alfred W.
Social Director Brown Buberl Farr Gorsky Howard Krishna Liveris McNabb III Miebach Pollack Voser Waddell Zollar
Environment
Client Industry Expertise
Appendix
Organizational Leadership
and Management
Global Operations
CFO
Specific Risk Oversight/
Risk Management Exposure
Technology,
Cybersecurity or Digital
Academia
Government/ Regulatory,
Business Associations or
Public Policy
Public Board
Gender Identity Female Male Male Male Female Male Male Male Male Female Male Male Male
White/ White/ White/ White/ Black/African Asian/Pacific White/ White/ White/ White/ White/ White/ Black/African
Race and/or Ethnicity
Caucasian Caucasian Caucasian Caucasian American Islander Caucasian Caucasian Caucasian Caucasian Caucasian Caucasian American
Born Outside the U.S.
Energy Healthcare Manufacturing Information Technology
Financial Services
Government Research & Development Chemicals
& Insurance
IBM 2023
ESG Report 14
Contents
Risk Management
Introduction
Governance We maintain a consistent, systemic, and integrated Environmental and Climate-Related Risks
Social approach to enterprise risk management (ERM) that is
designed to identify, mitigate, and manage significant Climate change is a serious concern that warrants
Environment risks and align with recognized standards such as the meaningful action on a global basis. In addition to other
Appendix COSO ERM framework and the ISO 31000 standard. risks identified by our ERM process, we consider risks
We assess risks across the organization to maintain a identified by the TCFD in our risk management profile. IBM,
holistic, enterprise-level view of risks arising from evolving like other companies, is subject to potential
regulatory, financial, and geopolitical environments as well climate-related risks and costs, such as those resulting
as from our operations, strategic planning and execution. from increased severe weather events, prolonged changes
This assessment includes evaluation of ESG-related risks. in temperature, new regulations affecting hardware
products and data centers, carbon taxes, and increased
The IBM Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing environmental disclosures requested or required by
management’s execution of risk oversight, for assessing clients, regulators and others.
IBM’s approach to risk management, and the full Board
regularly reviews IBM’s enterprise risk management Our senior management assesses the significance of
framework and processes. IBM’s senior management is environmental and climate-related risks and opportunities
responsible for assessing and managing IBM’s various and manages them accordingly. Reports on IBM’s
exposures to risk on a day-to-day basis, including the environmental programs, challenges, and emerging issues
creation of appropriate risk management programs and are regularly provided to the Board and its Directors and
policies. Management regularly reports to the Board and its Corporate Governance Committee.
committees on a variety of risks. The ERM program, which
drives senior management decision-making, is led by our We do not expect compliance with environmental laws and
Chief Risk Officer who reports up through our Chief climate change regulations to have a disproportionate
Financial Officer. We have developed tools that employ effect on the company or its financial position, results of
analytics and AI technologies to assist our ERM processes operations and competitive position. Conversely, we
and utilize a Country Risk Scorecard to identify and assess believe there is opportunity to use IBM’s AI, hybrid cloud,
emerging risk areas. By leveraging a series of key risk and other technologies to assist clients with managing
indicators, we can timely and proactively respond together their climate-related risks.
with country and regional leadership.
We promote a company culture of risk awareness through
online education and mandatory training in areas such
as business integrity and cybersecurity— including a Risk
Academy, where all employees can take courses and
earn badges on risk management awareness and skills.
Additionally, all employees are encouraged to report
potential risks through numerous channels (anonymously if
preferred) or to local management.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 15
Contents
Introduction Business Ethics
Governance
Integrity in our Daily Operations
Social
Environment
IBM is committed to principles of business ethics and lawful conduct. It is
Every year, employees worldwide participate in IBM’s
Appendix IBM’s policy to conduct itself ethically and lawfully in all matters and to
Business Conduct Guidelines (BCGs) program to certify maintain IBM’s high standards of business integrity.
their understanding of our code of business conduct
IBM Business Conduct Guidelines
and ethics, and recommit to doing business with
Available in 26 languages and accompanied by an annual online course and
integrity. The IBM BCGs policy and the accompanying
certification, which IBM employees are required to complete.
online course are available in multiple languages and
address the ethical dilemmas that employees may face IBM Code of Conduct for Business Partners
day-to-day. During 2023, IBM again achieved 100% The standards of business conduct and business practices with which IBM
requires IBM Business Partners to comply.
participation in the annual BCGs program.
Supply Chain Code of Conduct
In addition, IBM Trust and Compliance conducts extensive in-person and
First-tier suppliers of hardware, software, and services are required to adhere
virtual training on public procurement, business amenities, anti-corruption,
to the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct which outlines
speaking up and non-retaliation, gatekeeper responsibility and fraud
requirements for labor, health and safety, environmental, ethics and
prevention matters. Sponsored and attended by our business leaders, these
management systems. IBM’s own operations also adhere to the RBA Code
training initiatives set the tone from the top and are customized to highlight
of Conduct.
the risks a particular audience might face. Various tools and approaches
such as live polling and role plays, are leveraged to drive engagement
IBM Policies
and participation.
Govern internal and external company-wide actions including:
Our internal reporting channel enables employees to report concerns or
- Business conduct and ethics - Quality
suspected violations of our BCGs and unethical or unlawful behavior within
IBM. Similar reporting channels have been established for suppliers, - Reciprocity - Politics
business partners and others to raise concerns. Learning about issues and
- Workforce diversity - Human rights principles
concerns allows us to intervene early, investigate and remediate.
- Health and safety - Global employment standards
Our annual Global Integrity Survey enables employees to provide feedback - Data privacy - Cognitive principles
on their perception of ethics and integrity within IBM. The insights gained
- Diverse business relationships - Statements on individual issues
from the survey help us gauge employee sentiment regarding speaking up,
- Environmental affairs
retaliation and “doing the right thing.” Survey results are also used to
implement program changes and enhance training on targeted topics.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 16
Contents
Introduction Responsible
Governance
Social Technology
Environment
The IBM Principles for Trust and Transparency are the guiding values that
Appendix distinguish IBM’s approach to AI ethics.
- The purpose of AI is to augment human intelligence
Technology Ethics - Data and insights belong to their creator
- Technology must be transparent and explainable
For more than a century, IBM has earned the trust of our clients
and society by ushering powerful new technologies into the world
The Pillars of Trust are our foundational properties for AI ethics that
responsibly and with clear purpose. We maintain this trust as
support the Principles.
society explores the opportunities presented by transformative
technologies, such as AI, through our continued commitment to
ethics by applying the IBM Principles for Trust and Transparency. Explainability Good design does not sacrifice transparency in creating a
seamless experience.
At the center of IBM’s responsible technology efforts is our AI
Ethics Board, who infuse IBM's principles into business and Fairness Properly calibrated, AI can assist humans in making
product decision-making. The AI Ethics Board is steered by a fairer choices.
diverse set of senior leaders from across the company and is
Robustness As systems are employed to make crucial decisions,
supported by a strong advocacy network and our AI Ethics Focal
AI must be secure and robust.
Points within various business units. In addition to actively
supporting the principles, IBM’s AI Ethics Board shares thought
Transparency Transparency reinforces trust, and the best way to promote
leadership around emerging issues, and in 2023, published various
transparency is through disclosure.
white papers, including "Augmenting Human Intelligence – the
IBM Point of View" and "Foundation Models: Opportunities, Risks Privacy AI systems must prioritize and safeguard consumers’
and Mitigations." The Foundation Models white paper is the basis privacy and data rights.
for IBM’s AI Risk Atlas in the product documentation of our AI
platform, watsonx.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 17
Contents
Advancing a smart risk-based approach to the regulation of
Introduction
artificial intelligence was one of our policy advocacy priorities in
Governance 2023. Last year, IBM’s Chief Privacy and Trust Officer, Christina
Montgomery, addressed the need for responsible AI innovation in
Social
her testimony before the U.S. Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Collaborations and initiatives
Environment Privacy, Technology, and the Law, and contributed to the
Appendix
Artificial Intelligence Commission Report as a member of the U.S. - In early 2023, IBM reaffirmed its commitment to the Rome Call for AI Ethics to champion
Chamber of Commerce AI Commission, and the U.S. National AI ethical approaches to the design, development and deployment of artificial intelligence.
Advisory Committee (NAIAC) Year 1 Report as a NAIAC member.
- We led the creation of the AI Alliance, a broad range of global organizations fostering an open
For additional AI policy advocacy highlights from 2023 see "Policy
community to enable developers and researchers to accelerate responsible AI innovation
Advocacy" on page 21.
while ensuring scientific rigor, trust, safety, security, diversity and economic competitiveness.
IBM is a “living lab” for the technology it brings to market, - The Notre Dame – IBM Technology Ethics Lab released its 2023-2024 Call for Proposals
continually improving product capabilities that help businesses (CFP), “The Ethics of Large-Scale Models.” The Lab also delivered a virtual symposium on the
and governments use, integrate and deploy AI responsibly. Our ethical use of foundation models in enterprises, along with an Auditing AI Workshop, and a
governance frameworks are integrated into solutions like the course titled “Auditing AI: An Introduction.” Finally, collaborative projects between Notre
recently released watsonx.governance, a component of watsonx Dame and IBM researchers have focused on topics, such as understanding how organizations
designed to accelerate responsible, transparent and explainable AI can quantify the return on investments (ROI) in AI ethics.
workflows. Beyond the governance we embed in our own
- IBM and 18 other enterprise companies worked together under the aegis of the Data & Trust
solutions, we are making excellent progress on the goal we
Alliance organization to create Data Provenance Standards, the first cross-industry metadata
announced last year to train 1,000 technology suppliers in
to bring transparency to the origin of datasets used for both traditional data and AI
technology ethics by 2025, with more than 600 suppliers trained
applications.
at the end of 2023.
- IBM contributed to the U.S. Department of Commerce’s National Institute of Standards and
IBM recently renamed the Chief Privacy Office to the Office of Technology (NIST) AI Risk Management Framework, a guidance document to help manage
Privacy and Responsible Technology. This change reflects the the risks of AI technologies. IBM also contributed to the development of a companion
evolution of our privacy, data and AI program as IBM and our resource for generative AI through a NIST Generative AI Public Working Group.
clients prepare for AI regulatory requirements and demonstrates
- IBM contributed to the Partnership on AI’s “PAI’s Guidance for Safe Foundation Model
our commitment to remain at the leading edge of responsible
Deployment,” a framework for model providers to responsibly develop and deploy a range of
technology now and in the future.
AI models, promote safety for society, and adapt to evolving capabilities and uses.
- IBM is an International Association of Privacy Professionals (IAPP) AI Governance
Foundational Supporter and has supported the development of training and a new
certification path for professionals working in the field of AI governance, including support to
develop the IAPP Body of Knowledge.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 18
Contents
Cybersecurity
Introduction
Governance
From an enterprise perspective, IBM implements a multi- IBM Cybersecurity Governance
Social faceted risk management approach to identify and address
cybersecurity risks based on the NIST Cybersecurity
Environment
Framework. We have established policies and procedures that
Appendix provide the foundation upon which IBM’s infrastructure and
data are managed. We regularly assess and adjust our
technical controls and methods to identify and mitigate
emerging cybersecurity risks. We use a layered approach with
overlapping controls to defend against cybersecurity attacks IBM
and threats on IBM networks, end-user devices, servers, Responsible for overseeing management’s execution of Board of
applications, data and cloud solutions. cybersecurity risk management and for assessing IBM’s Directors
approach to risk management & Audit
We draw heavily on our own commercial security solutions Committee
and services to manage and mitigate cybersecurity risks. IBM
maintains a Security Operations Center (SOC) that monitors for
threats to IBM’s networks and systems, utilizing threat
Composed of, among others, SVPs from the major business
intelligence provided by a range of sources, including the IBM
units, the SVP overseeing cybersecurity, and the SVP for
Security® X-Force® Exchange platform, which maintains one of
Legal and Regulatory Affairs & General Counsel; the CAC is Cybersecurity
the largest compilations of threat intelligence in the world. We
responsible for, among other things, setting the Company’s Advisory
also rely on tools licensed from third party security vendors to
governance structure for managing cybersecurity risk and Committee (CAC)
monitor and manage cybersecurity risks. We periodically
reviewing noteworthy cybersecurity incidents and
engage third parties to supplement and review our
strategies to prevent recurrence
cybersecurity practices and provide relevant certifications.
We have a global incident response process, managed by Manages the team responsible for leading enterprise-wide
IBM Chief Information
IBM’s Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT), information security strategy, policy, standards,
Security Officer (CISO)
that relies primarily on internal expertise to respond to architecture and processes for IBM’s internal systems
cybersecurity threats and attacks. We utilize a combination of
online training, educational tools, videos and other awareness
initiatives to foster a culture of security awareness and
responsibility among our workforce, including responsibility for
reporting suspicious activity. Coordinate with the Office of the CISO on security issues Business Unit Information Security
specific to particular business segments Officers (BISOs) for each business area
IBM has a third party supplier risk management program to
oversee and identify risks from cybersecurity threats
associated with its use of third party service providers and
vendors. Risks are assessed and prioritized based, among
other things, on the type of offering/engagement, supplier
assessments, threat intelligence and industry practices.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 19
Contents
Data Privacy
Introduction
Governance
IBM is committed to developing policies and practices that
Social prioritize ethics, trust, transparency and accountability. Our
Principles for Trust and Transparency have built a strong
Environment
foundation that enables us to successfully adapt to new
Appendix eras of digital transformation and breakthroughs. To
address the ever-changing regulatory environment, IBM
has implemented an Integrated Governance Program (IGP)
to drive a continuous compliance approach in data privacy
and data governance. The IGP includes data and model
clearance that was used extensively in the creation of the
IBM watsonx Granite™ model series, decoder-only
foundation models for generative AI tasks for
enterprise use.
We regularly review and update the IBM Privacy
Statement, translating it into multiple languages, with the
continued goal to simplify the explanation of how IBM
collects, uses and shares personal information. We are
firmly committed to the responsible stewardship of data
entrusted to us by our clients. Every six months, we publish
reports of inquiries we may receive from law enforcement
agencies regarding data and the steps we take to protect
the integrity of such information.
As current and emerging technologies raise new
challenges to privacy and consumer welfare, IBM remains
committed to helping in the development of precise
technology and policy safeguards. IBM worked with the
Future of Privacy Forum on its report, Data Sharing for
Research: A Compendium of Case Studies, Analysis and
Recommendations, that reviewed corporate-academic
partnerships and provided practical recommendations for
companies and researchers on sharing data for research.
To prepare for what comes next with new technologies like
neurotechnology and quantum, IBM will continue
collaborating with academic, industry and government
leaders to create enduring solutions.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 20
Contents
Introduction Policy Advocacy
Governance
IBM’s public advocacy highlights in 2023 included:
Social
- Advancing a risk-based approach to the regulation of
Environment
artificial intelligence with:
We advocate for public policies that are IBM is committed to meaningful management and
Appendix
oversight, and accurate reporting with respect to our - Attendance by IBM CEO Arvind Krishna at the first
relevant to our business and to our
engagement with government officials, and we consistently U.S. Senate AI Insight Forum;
stakeholders – including our employees,
seek to provide our stakeholders with relevant data
- Testimony before the U.S. Senate Judiciary
our partners, our stockholders, and the regarding our public policy engagement. We receive
Committee on Rules for AI by IBM Vice President &
consistently high ratings from independent analysts of
communities where we live and work.
corporate practices on lobbying and political spending, Chief Privacy and Trust Officer
including from the Center for Political Accountability and Christina Montgomery;
We engage policymakers and leaders globally to promote Transparency International UK.
ideas that can help spur growth and innovation with new
- Attendance by IBM SVP & Director of Research
technologies or address societal challenges, such as IBM is also committed to advocating for policies that Dario Gil at the AI Safety Summit in the
building a skilled and diverse workforce. We do this by advance diversity and inclusion globally. For information on United Kingdom;
developing innovative policy ideas that are aligned with our advocacy efforts, see "Diversity and Inclusion" on
national agendas, through building trusted relationships page 27.
- Welcoming the White House Executive Order on AI
and the introduction of The AI Research,
with government leaders, and through partnerships with
academia and civil society. IBM has never made political More information about our public policy governance and Innovation, and Accountability Act of 2023 in the
contributions nor endorsed candidates for office, and our public reporting is available on our IBM Government and U.S. Senate;
company does not have a political action committee. Regulatory Affairs website.
- Welcoming a provisional agreement on the world’s
first comprehensive AI legislation, the European
The IBM Policy Lab, established in 2020, convenes leaders
Union’s AI Act; and
worldwide in public policy, academia, and technology to
develop clear and actionable policy recommendations that - Joining as a signatory on the Government of
leverage technology to help tackle some of today’s most Canada’s voluntary AI code of conduct.
pressing issues. In 2023, the IBM Policy Lab released
papers covering: - Advancing a skills-first approach to filling critical tech
jobs - especially in key areas such as cybersecurity
- How governments can strengthen their cloud and AI - by supporting the release of the Office of the
policies globally; National Cyber Director’s National Cyber Workforce
and Education Strategy, supporting the introduction of
- The role of technology companies in the fight against
two bipartisan workforce development bills in the U.S.
climate change;
House of Representatives, and with testimony before
- A policymaker’s guide to AI foundation models; the U.S. House of Representatives Education and the
- Digital skills for the EU;
Workforce Committee.
- A technology workforce playbook for the U.S.; and
- Policy principles to develop and implement
cybersecurity reporting.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 21
Contents
Introduction
Governance
Social
Environment
Appendix
Equitable
Impact
IBM 2023
ESG Report
Contents
Introduction Our Culture
Governance
Social Over 187,000 employees globally responded to the annual Engagement Survey
Environment Nearly More than
IBM operates in more than 175 countries 9 out of 10 8 out of 10
Appendix
and employs over 282,000 people. We are
employees who participated in the survey reported employees who participated in the survey indicated
in constant pursuit of our goal to make the
feeling empowered to express their authentic that they were engaged at work.
world work better and are proud to be at identities at work.
the forefront of groundbreaking changes
in the industries we serve and the world Our Culture Formula
at large.
Our culture formula brings the IBM work experience to life. Our purpose articulates why we exist and the role we
We do this by delivering innovative products and services play in society and industry, while our three fundamental values serve as the principles that govern our culture
that maximize the productivity and efficiency of businesses and brand. Our Growth Behaviors guide how we show up for each other and for our clients and partners.
while contributing positively to society. IBMers are critical
to accomplishing this. By providing an inclusive
environment that encourages learning and the exploration
of new ideas and innovative approaches, we can make the
IBM Culture
greatest impact with our clients, partners and the world.
=
Our culture is what drives us. It’s what motivates every
IBMer to do their best work. Together, we think big, set the Purpose + Values + Behaviors
pace for our industry, forge partnerships, and make the
world work better. In 2023, our engagement and inclusion
- To be the catalyst that makes - Dedication to every - Growth Minded
results from our annual Engagement Survey remain strong,
the world work better client’s success
demonstrating that our value proposition and work - Trusted
environment support a world class culture. - Innovation that matters - for
- Team Focused
our company and for
the world - Outcome Focused
- Trust and personal - Resourceful
In 2023, our voluntary attrition decreased
responsibility in
- Courageous
when compared to each of the past all relationships
two years.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 23
Contents
Introduction Supporting
Governance
Social Our Employees
Environment
Appendix
IBMer Career and Development
Twice annually, IBMers complete performance reflections
which encourage them to celebrate their accomplishments
Our current learning resources:
and plan for focus areas going forward. They are evaluated
against two dimensions: business outcomes and skills. Your Learning at IBM
Managers and employees engage in this process together.
Generates personalized learning recommendations and
resources for IBMers using IBM Watson® AI technology.
IBMer Learning
IBM invests in its employees’ professional development Your Career at IBM
with a range of advanced tools and resources that
Designed to help IBMers assess their current skills, identify
empower IBMers to direct their own career paths and build
skills they need for new roles, and find career opportunities
the skills required to pursue their goals. Our next
within IBM, it connects IBMers to certification programs, as
generation learning strategy deeply centers on skills
well as coaching and mentoring to supplement
growth. We have refreshed our learning program to better
their development.
align with this strategy. Our enterprise-wide shift
emphasizes learning and experiences to build skills and
expertise critical to job roles and internal mobility. With our
refreshed programs, IBMers will accelerate skills growth 85 Average Learning Hours Per
and gain more relevant skills in a more efficient and Regular, Full Time Employee
personalized manner, allowing for deeper learning in less
time. For additional employee learning data see "ESG Data
Summary" on page 63.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 24
Contents
Leadership Development IBM Leadership Behaviors
Introduction
for Executives
Governance To ensure the continued growth of IBM and the
achievement of our strategic goals, last year, we
Social
introduced the IBM Leadership Behaviors which define the
Environment characteristics and capabilities required of IBM executives.
These behaviors are built upon the IBM Growth Behaviors
Appendix
and articulate our expectations for how IBM executives
show up for our clients, partners, and employees. The Inspire Followership Activate the Enterprise Accelerate Strategy
behaviors are the anchor for the framework we use to
- Role model for IBM’s culture - Drive ambition for the IBM - Make big bets without fear of failure
assess and develop executives at the senior most levels of
Corporation
our company and are embedded into a set of Signature - Exude the confidence to achieve - Infuse speed and agility
Executive Learning Experiences that act as the starting what might seem impossible - Maximize productivity by
- Make appropriate trade-offs to
point for each phase of the IBM executive leadership
- Foster an environment of caring,
leveraging the full power of IBM
maximize outcomes
journey. We believe these Behaviors are a market
belonging and inclusivity - Create positive energy from friction
differentiator and are key to selecting and developing the
executive talent required to achieve long-term success.
Growth
Behaviors
Growth Minded Trusted Team Focused Outcome Focused Resourceful Courageous
IBM 2023
ESG Report 25
Contents
Health, Safety, and Well-being
Introduction
Governance
IBM has a long-standing commitment to the health, safety, Well-being Programs Mental Health
Social and well-being of its employees. This commitment is
embodied in our health and safety policy and through our We believe our employees perform their best at work, at
At IBM, mental health has always been and will
Environment
compliance with country legal requirements, both of which home and in the communities where they live and work
continue to be a priority. All employees worldwide
Appendix are implemented through IBM’s Health & Safety when their well-being is supported. Our well-being have access to:
Management System (HSMS). Established in 1999, our programs, which include physical, mental, and financial
HSMS provides a framework to manage evolving and health, are shaped by risk assessments, frequent surveys - Employee assistance programs and
supplemental resources that provide
emerging health and safety risks by providing a system to and employee feedback sessions. In 2023, our well-being
confidential, 24/7 critical mental
identify, assess, and address the health and safety risks programs focused on cardiovascular, musculoskeletal and
health support;
employees face in their day-to-day work activities. mental health.
For worker-related injuries and ill health data see "ESG
- Our Mental Health Ally Badge program,
designed to help employees become mental
Data Summary" on page 63.
Our well-being programs vary by country health allies with an online training that covers
basic information about mental health, how to
IBM's Health and Safety Management
and are based on the prevailing health
recognize and address stigma, and ways to
System supports IBM operations globally
and safety needs of the applicable connect peers in need of support with an
appropriate service or resource; and
and has been externally certified since
end-users.
- A resilience-building tool to help equip them
2019 to comply with the ISO 45001:2018 with the ability to handle challenges, thrive in
the face of stress, and bounce back smarter
occupational health and safety standard.
and stronger to face changing work and
life demands.
Benefits
IBM is committed to helping our employees
achieve balance while fostering success by
providing them with an array of benefits, such as
paid leave and programs to support health and
well-being.
We offer a comprehensive benefits program
designed to support IBM employees and
their families across multiple dimensions of
health – physical, mental, social and financial.
Benefits vary from country to country.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 26
Contents
Introduction Diversity
Governance
Social and Inclusion Employee Experience Accountability
Environment
We are champions of inclusion, enabling We harness data transparency to enable
Appendix diverse communities of IBMers to thrive accountability, action and outcomes for
and grow. increased diversity representation and
inclusion at every level of our company.
At IBM, we foster a culture of conscious
inclusion and active allyship, where every
IBMer can make a positive impact on
society while bringing their authentic selves
to work. We aspire to create a sense of
belonging for all by building a more diverse
workforce, cultivating a flexible work
environment and advocating for equity,
both inside and outside of IBM.
Our four strategic
priorities measure
our progress
through actions
and outcomes
Advocacy Allyship
We work to drive systemic change We provide training and support to
that creates opportunity for help every IBMer be an upstander
diverse communities. through inclusive behaviors.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 27
Contents
Employee Experience
Introduction
Governance Our eight official communities include Women, LGBTQ+,
People with Diverse Abilities, Black, Hispanic, Native
Social
American, Pan-Asian and Veteran. We set strategy for each
Environment of our communities annually through Community
Leadership Councils which are supported by our most
Appendix
senior IBM leaders and amplified through our Business
Resource Groups.
We believe it is important to create a work environment
where employees feel supported. IBM’s Inclusive
Workplace Design initiative continued in 2023 which
included all-gender restrooms, reflection and prayer
rooms, lactation rooms, increased aisle widths and turning
radius and tonal contrast materials for the visually
impaired. These design elements will be included in all
new workplace projects going forward. The guidelines also
include baseline Inclusive Design elements which are
required at IBM legacy locations.
Business Resource Groups
Business Resource Groups are volunteer, employee-led
groups formed around a common interest, bond,
or background.
- Over 200 Business Resource Groups
- Employees in more than 50 countries
participate
- In 2023, IBM established 25 new Business
Resource Groups
IBM 2023
ESG Report 28
Contents
Advocacy
Introduction
Governance We demonstrate advocacy through our effort to drive Skills-First Talent Strategies
IBM U.S. Apprenticeship Program
systemic change that creates opportunity for diverse
Social
communities. For information on our philanthropic efforts For nearly a decade, IBM has developed our organization’s
Our U.S. Department of Labor registered
Environment to support inclusivity see "Community Development" on talent model to put skills first. We emphasize skills-first
program is competency-based and enables
page 35 and for information on our work with diverse hiring, which means we prioritize the right mix of in-
Appendix apprentices to be paid while they learn skills
suppliers see "Supplier Diversity" on page 42. demand skills over specific degrees when looking for talent
for various strategic roles. Launched in 2017,
to work in technology's fastest-growing areas, like AI. This
the program began with software engineering
Policy Advocacy policy and what we call our "new-collar" programs provide
and has expanded to 35 job roles, including
an entry point into IBM for people with relevant skills, but
data science, cybersecurity, and design. We
In 2023, we supported several bills brought forth to the without advanced degrees, therefore expanding ways for
have hired nearly 1,000 apprentices through
U.S. Congress and state legislatures in support of our people to enter the workforce. Our new-collar programs,
our U.S. program, with more than 90% of past
diverse communities: like apprenticeships and returnships, can help close the
program graduates becoming full-time IBMers.
opportunity gap, as well as narrow the skills gap in IT. To
- The Equality Act, to extend civil rights promote this approach, in 2022 IBM committed to
protections to the LGBTQ+ community investing $250 million in apprenticeship and new-collar
IBM Tech Re-Entry Program
programs by 2025, towards which we have invested
- The Dream Act and the American Dream and
$100.3 million. Our continued investment in
Promise Act, to provide protections and Our re-entry program serves people looking to
apprenticeships and new-collar programs globally helps to
certainty for Deferred Action for Childhood
ensure the next decade in tech is more inclusive.
rejoin the workforce after a career break. This
Arrivals (DACA) recipients, or DREAMers paid “returnship” provides a path back to full-
time employment and helps individuals
- State policing reform proposals We recognize that for new-collar strategies to make an
modernize their skills with learning, plus
impact on the labor market at scale, we must work
mentorship from IBM experts. Available in 20
Additionally, we urged the Czech Republic's Prime Minister together. This is why we founded and have chaired for four
countries, this initiative is also providing
to support same-sex marriage and joined a business years the Consumer Technology Association’s
opportunities to people whose careers were
coalition advocating for LGBTQ+ inclusion in Slovakia. Apprenticeship Coalition that helps companies launch
disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic.
apprenticeship programs in the U.S. Additionally, we are
founding members of the OneTen Coalition and the New
York Jobs CEO Council, as well as a chair of the Business
Roundtable’s Multiple Pathways Initiative. These efforts
work to improve opportunities by scaling new-collar
programs and encouraging more companies to adopt
skills-first talent strategies.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 29
Contents
Allyship
Introduction
Governance IBM provides voluntary training and support to help
every IBMer be an upstander through inclusive
I’m In Allyship Campaign
Social
behaviors. In addition, we require all employees
Environment globally to complete training on the Business Conduct In 2023, we launched a yearlong allyship campaign called I’m In, which included a series of strategic initiatives
Guidelines, which includes learnings on sexual focused on mentorship, sponsorship, career development, and building empathy through storytelling. Our
Appendix harassment, discrimination, bullying and retaliation programming enables active allyship, supports our commitment to attracting and retaining talent, reinforces our
prevention as part of its annual certification process. pledge to inclusion and creates a sense of belonging.
We regularly refresh education for our employees to
help foster an inclusive culture and provide them with
the tools and knowledge to become an ally through our Allyship Circles Be Equal Podcast
Be Equal® Ally Badge, which has been earned by
thousands of IBMers annually. These events feature immersive sessions that This thought-provoking and empowering podcast
explore allyship and actionable strategies for series delves into the multifaceted world of Diversity
immediate impact. Dynamic breakout sessions and Inclusion. Hosted by passionate IBMers and
provide a safe space for meaningful conversations available on all major streaming platforms, this series
and knowledge sharing, fostering personal growth. provides a platform for a wide range of voices and
The events conclude with actionable steps for global perspectives that encourages dialogue, learning,
becoming better allies and contributing positively and action to create a more inclusive workplace.
to a more inclusive workplace.
Boots2Blue
Executive Speed Mentoring
An IBM veteran hiring initiative representing the
The Executive Speed Mentoring program journey a veteran makes from wearing boots while in
seamlessly combines career road mapping and military service to transitioning to a civilian career
executive mentorship in a collaborative setting. at IBM.
Through its four-part structure, employees
showcase accomplishments, learn practical career Travelers Requiring Special Assistance Helpdesk
progression strategies and gain insights from
executives. The integration of executive mentoring A new concierge service we created in collaboration
adds valuable support, guidance, and perspectives with American Express Global Business Travel to
to enhance career growth and development. support our employees who have special needs when
traveling. A helpdesk of trained counselors provides
inclusive travel assistance, including airport, train,
hotel, and ground transportation booking, and
coordinates accommodation support throughout the
travel experience.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 30
Contents
Accountability
Introduction
Governance IBM harnesses data transparency to enable accountability, Diversity-Linked Executive Compensation Opportunities for Self-Identification
action and outcomes for increased diversity representation
Social
and inclusion at every level of our company. To reinforce our focus on attracting and retaining diverse IBM believes that
Environment talent in our workforce that represents our clients and the providing opportunities for self-
Pay Equity world, we include a diversity modifier as part of our disclosure allows employees to
Appendix
executive compensation plan. It measures improvement in voluntarily share their uniqueness. By
Paying people fairly based on their job and without executive representation for women globally and self-identifying, we show awareness
discrimination—regardless of gender or race—is not underrepresented minority (URM) groups (specifically, and may leverage differences by
optional. It is a mandate that aligns with our values. IBM Black and Hispanic) in the U.S. Our goal remains to creating solutions and network
has a longstanding practice of pay equity and is firmly improve and close the gap in representation. We believe a opportunities for a successful
committed to equal pay for equal work. It has been part of diverse workforce drives creativity and innovation in our company. Of employees who self-
our global policy since 1935—preceding the U.S. law by products and services and as a result increases identified in 2023, approximately:
several decades. We have been conducting statistical pay shareholder value.
equity analysis in the U.S. since the 1970s. To support our - 10% self-identified as LGBTQ+
commitment to pay equity, each year we follow a
- 5% self-identified as Veterans
consistent methodology to identify and address any pay
In 2023, of our global promotions,
equity gaps across genders globally and across races and - 5% self-identified as People with
ethnicities in the U.S. In 2023, all countries where IBM has Diverse Abilities
employees were included in our pay equity analysis. The were women and,
pay equity data represents total compensation, including 40.8%
of our U.S.
base, bonus and equity.
promotions,
The privacy of our employees is a chief concern.
We are proud of the results: overall, IBM pays equitably for We comply with all applicable legal requirements
when handling employee information. Self-
similar work. Women globally earn $1.00 for every $1.00
earned by men for similar work. The same is true for 9.4% were Black
i mde an nt ai gfi eca rst i oo rn ti en afo mrm ma et mion
b
eis
rs
n ao nt dv i is si b hl ee
l
dto
i n
underrepresented minorities in the U.S.
employees and
strictest confidence.
9.2% were Hispanic
employees.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 31
Representation and Hiring Trends
Overall
Representation
Women
(Global)
21 22 23
*%7.63 *%2.73 %4.73
Black
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%4.7 %7.7 %5.7
Hispanic
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%6.6 %0.7 %0.7
Native American
(U.S.)
21 22 23
*%3.0 *%3.0 %3.0
Native Hawaiian/
Pacific Islander
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%2.0 %2.0 %2.0
Pan-Asian
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%2.91 %7.91 %5.02
Multi-race
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%9.0 %9.0 %9.0
New Hires
Women
(Global)
21 22 23
%1.04 *%7.93 %5.04
Black
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%8.31 %5.31 %4.21
Hispanic
(U.S.)
21 22 23
*%6.9 %8.9 %9.8
Native American
(U.S.)
21 22 23
*%3.0 *%3.0 %5.0
Native Hawaiian/
Pacific Islander
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%2.0 %3.0 %2.0
Pan-Asian
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%5.32 %0.42 %6.72
Multi-race
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%7.0 %7.0 %5.0
Management
Representation
Women
(Global)
21 22 23
*%0.13 *%1.13 %4.13
Black
(U.S.)
21 22 23
*%6.5 *%8.5 %6.5
Hispanic
(U.S.)
21 22 23
*%0.5 *%6.5 %9.5
Native American
(U.S.)
21 22 23
*%3.0 *%3.0 %4.0
Native Hawaiian/
Pacific Islander
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%1.0 %1.0 %1.0
Pan-Asian
(U.S.)
21 22 23
*%1.71 *%4.81 %6.91
Multi-race
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%8.0 *%8.0 %8.0
New Hires
Women
(Global)
21 22 23
*%1.43 *%4.03 %4.33
Black
(U.S.)
21 22 23
*%0.01 *%8.8
%5.5
Hispanic
(U.S.)
21 22 23
*%1.8
*%0.4
%2.01
Native American
(U.S.)
21 22 23
*%5.0 *%0.0 %0.0
Native Hawaiian/
Pacific Islander
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%3.0 %4.0 %0.0
Pan-Asian
(U.S.)
21 22 23
*%4.91 *%9.22 %3.72
Multi-race
(U.S.)
21 22 23
*%3.0 *%0.0 %0.0
Contents
Introduction
Governance
Social
Environment
Appendix
Management includes all executives and people managers. IBM hired over 30,000 employees in 2023.
Data excludes students.
* For 2023, IBM revised the definition of employee categories to improve consistency and prior results have been restated to align with these definitions. IBM has also included an additional racial category for Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander with prior
years’ results.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 32
Representation and Hiring Trends
Technical
Representation
Women
(Global)
21 22 23
%1.03 *%6.03 %1.13
Black
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%6.6 %1.7 %8.6
Hispanic
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%7.6 %0.7 %8.6
Native American
(U.S.)
21 22 23
*%2.0 *%3.0 %3.0
Native Hawaiian/
Pacific Islander
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%2.0 %2.0 %2.0
Pan-Asian
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%5.42 *%7.42 %6.32
Multi-race
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%0.1 *%9.0 %9.0
New Hires
Women
(Global)
21 22 23
%0.43 %5.23 %8.23
Black
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%6.11 %5.11 %7.11
Hispanic
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%9.8 *%6.8
%7.6
Native American
(U.S.)
21 22 23
*%2.0 *%2.0 %8.0
Native Hawaiian/
Pacific Islander
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%2.0 %3.0 %2.0
Pan-Asian
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%9.92 %9.13 %2.43
Multi-race
(U.S.)
21 22 23
*%9.0 *%9.0 %7.0
Executive
Representation
Women
(Global)
21 22 23
%8.82 %1.92 %2.03
Black
(U.S.)
21 22 23
*%1.6 %6.6 %4.6
Hispanic
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%5.5 %9.5 %4.6
Native American
(U.S.)
21 22 23
*%3.0 %5.0 %5.0
Native Hawaiian/
Pacific Islander
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%1.0 %1.0 %1.0
Pan-Asian
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%7.51 *%6.61 %6.71
Multi-race
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%5.0 %6.0 %7.0
New Hires
Women
(Global)
21 22 23
*%2.33 *%9.03 %4.63
Black
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%4.01
*%1.7 %8.6
Hispanic
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%1.7 *%4.6
%6.31
Native American
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%0.0 %0.0 %0.0
Native Hawaiian/
Pacific Islander
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%4.0 %0.0 %0.0
Pan-Asian
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%0.02 *%5.02 %4.82
Multi-race
(U.S.)
21 22 23
%0.0
*%9.1
%0.0
Contents
Introduction
Governance
Social
Environment
Appendix
Executive includes Director level and above. As noted in the Proxy, excluding Red Hat, executive representation of women globally, as well as Black and Hispanic executives in the U.S., changed by
+1.1 points, -0.2 points and +0.6 points, respectively in 2023.
Data excludes students.
* For 2023, IBM revised the definition of employee categories to improve consistency and prior results have been restated to align with these definitions. IBM has also included an additional racial category for Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander with prior
years’ results.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 33
Contents
The data below is from IBM and Red Hat’s unofficial submission of U.S. EEO-1 data as of December 31, 2023.
Introduction
IBM EEO-1
Governance
Female Male
Social
Native Native
Environment American Hawaiian American Hawaiian
Indian or Black or or Other Two or Indian or Black or or Other Two or
Appendix
Alaska African Pacific Hispanic More Alaska African Pacific Hispanic More
Native American Islander White Asian or Latino Races Native American Islander White Asian or Latino Races Total
Executive/Senior Officials and Managers 6 67 — 470 123 56 16 4 90 3 912 306 99 20 2,172
First/Mid-level Officials and Managers 12 199 3 1,446 401 143 48 10 182 8 2,862 1,072 248 97 6,731
Professionals 25 1,088 18 5,135 2,644 779 131 51 1,378 43 12,009 4,969 1,503 258 30,031
Technicians 1 36 — 130 23 30 1 7 171 5 930 112 186 8 1,640
Sales Workers 11 201 5 1,045 304 164 17 28 361 6 3,212 724 370 37 6,485
Administrative Support Workers — 81 — 295 27 35 3 — 20 1 115 6 17 2 602
Craft Workers — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
Laborers and Helpers — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
Service Workers — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
Operatives — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
Totals 55 1,672 26 8,521 3,522 1,207 216 100 2,202 66 20,040 7,189 2,423 422 47,661
Red Hat EEO-1
Female Male
Native Native
American Hawaiian American Hawaiian
Indian or Black or or Other Two or Indian or Black or or Other Two or
Alaska African Pacific Hispanic More Alaska African Pacific Hispanic More
Native American Islander White Asian or Latino Races Native American Islander White Asian or Latino Races Total
Executive/Senior Officials and Managers — — — 15 1 1 — — — — 51 8 2 — 78
First/Mid-level Officials and Managers 2 35 — 365 47 21 5 3 27 — 675 93 39 13 1,325
Professionals 1 132 2 957 267 84 31 10 182 4 2,553 500 227 98 5,048
Technicians — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
Sales Workers — 9 — 183 13 12 7 — 22 3 543 57 31 19 899
Administrative Support Workers — 11 — 37 5 4 — — 1 — 5 2 2 1 68
Craft Workers — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
Laborers and Helpers — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
Service Workers — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
Operatives — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
Totals 3 187 2 1,557 333 122 43 13 232 7 3,827 660 301 131 7,418
Data includes all U.S. employees on IBM and Red Hat’s payroll, including active full-time, part-time, casual, temporary (if on the company payroll), co-ops/interns, and people on short-term disability. Not included are employees who are inactive, terminated or on
severance, retired (but still on the payroll for benefits or payouts), expatriates, contractors, inpatriates on foreign payrolls, or people on long-term disability.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 34
Contents
Introduction Community
IBM’s social impact programs aim to address complex societal challenges by utilizing our technologies and
Governance
our greatest strength, our employees. Our priority areas are:
Social Development
Education & Skills – We are investing in the future of work with a holistic, end-to-end ecosystem
Environment
approach that fosters access to education and training, while creating a more diverse pipeline
Appendix of applicants.
- We are committed to skilling 30 million individuals by 2030.
Corporate social responsibility (CSR) has
- Since 2021, over 11.5 million learners have engaged with free IBM training content.
been a hallmark of IBM’s culture for over
- In 2023, we announced that we will train two million learners in AI by the end of 2026, with a
100 years. Together, we have a shared
focus on historically underrepresented communities in the technology industry.
commitment to creating a better, more
- In addition, we are collaborating with 20 historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs) to
equitable world—for each other and within
establish IBM Cybersecurity Leadership Centers.
our global communities. During the past
Sustainability – As a technology company, IBM can play a key role in enabling organizations to turn
year we have launched, expanded, and
sustainability ambition into action.
enhanced innovative social impact
programs that are driving greater - By the end of 2025, we expect to provide $30 million worth of cash, technology, and services
through our IBM Sustainability Accelerator to organizations helping populations vulnerable to
global impact.
environmental threats. In 2024, we announced up to an additional $45 million investment over
the next five years.
More than IBM Giving and Volunteering – We connect employees with the resources they need to make an
8 out of 10 impact in communities around the world.
- IBM is progressing towards our goal of 4 million volunteer hours by 2025 with over 974K
employees believe IBM makes a positive
volunteer hours recorded thus far.
impact in the community.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 35
Contents
Education & Skills
Introduction
Governance We believe the talent gap is one of the biggest challenges With AI-powered recommendations available for each
facing businesses today and are taking bold action to help learner, this interdisciplinary coursework connects topics
Social
close it through our social impact education programs. In such as ecology and biodiversity, with technology training
Environment 2021, we committed to skill 30 million people by 2030. in AI and data analytics.
This will help democratize opportunity, fill the growing
Appendix
skills gap, and give new generations of workers the tools IBM’s STEM for Girls initiative, designed to foster a robust
they need to build a better future for themselves and STEM ecosystem for the upcoming generation of women in
society. Since then, over 11.5 million learners have India, was more deeply integrated into IBM SkillsBuild in
engaged with free IBM training content through our 2023. This integration aims to facilitate deeper
combined education initiatives. In 2023, as part of this engagement by program participants with the courses
goal, we committed to train 2 million learners in AI by the offered on the platform.
end of 2026. To achieve this, we are expanding our
collaborations with universities and partners to deliver AI HBCU Cybersecurity Leadership Centers
training to adult learners, and are launching new
generative AI coursework through IBM SkillsBuild. IBM has collaborated with over 20 HBCUs to create IBM
Cybersecurity Leadership Centers that are advancing
Through our social impact education programs, IBM is STEM-based opportunities for students. Through this
meeting the needs of different learners while providing collaboration, faculty and students at participating schools
education and digital credentials. Our cornerstone have access to coursework, lectures, immersive training
programs are: experiences, certifications, IBM Cloud®-hosted software,
and professional development resources, all at no cost
IBM SkillsBuild to them.
IBM SkillsBuild is a free education program that provides P-TECH®
valuable skills and career opportunities to traditionally
underrepresented communities in technology. It includes In 2011, IBM co-created P-TECH as an innovative high
an online platform that is complemented by customized school model incorporating post-secondary pathways and
practical learning experiences delivered in collaboration workplace experiences aligned to career readiness. Today,
with a global network of partners. The program serves it has evolved into a successful, global, open model with an
learners around the world and offers over 1,000 courses in ecosystem of education partners. IBM supports the model
over 20 different languages on AI, cybersecurity, data including mentoring, career exploration and access to
analysis, cloud computing and many other technical IBM SkillsBuild.
disciplines in addition to workplace skills.
Since 2021, over
Last year, IBM SkillsBuild added a new selection of
generative AI courses as part of our new AI training learners have
commitment and launched a new sustainability curriculum 11.5M engaged with free
to help equip the next generation of leaders with skills for
IBM training
the green economy through free training that connects
content.
cutting edge technologies to ecology and climate change.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 36
Contents
Sustainability
Introduction
Governance We believe the power of science, technology and The IBM Sustainability Accelerator currently has three
innovation can help tackle environmental issues while active cohorts and, in 2024, announced our RFP for the
Social
serving the communities exposed to environmental fourth cohort focused on resilient cities:
Environment hazards. By uniting experts and technology with the
- Sustainable Agriculture: In support of the UN SDG 2 to
purpose of improving the lives of populations most
Appendix end hunger, achieve food security and improved
affected by environmental threats, we have the potential to
nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture. Focused
make a lasting, scalable impact.
on helping smallholder farmers make agriculture more
sustainable to increase their productivity and income,
IBM Sustainability Accelerator
consumer awareness and the development of more
sustainable markets. Three out of the five projects from
The IBM Sustainability Accelerator is a pro bono social
the cohort concluded in 2023, with approximately
impact program that applies IBM technologies, such as
40,000 direct beneficiaries. The rest of the projects are
hybrid cloud and AI, and expertise to enhance and scale
currently undergoing technical implementation.
nonprofit and government organization solutions, helping
populations especially vulnerable to environmental - Clean Energy: In support of the UN SDG 7 to ensure
threats. Each year, we select five organizations to access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern
participate in cohorts centered around different energy for all. Focused on addressing clean energy
sustainability topics. Since its launch in 2021, the program issues such as electricity access, energy usage, energy
has made significant progress. transition and renewables strategies for communities.
The cohort started testing and deploying solutions in
Last year, the program joined the U.S. government's communities around the world.
PREPARE Call to Action and VACS Champions initiative, the
- Water Management: In support of the UN SDG 6 to
UN Water Action Agenda, the UN Climate Technology
ensure availability and sustainable management of
Centre and Network, and formed a UN Energy Compact.
water and sanitation for all. Focused on scaling
technology solutions that address water issues by
At the beginning of 2024, building on top of our goal to
supporting availability and sustainable management of
provide $30 million in cash, technology, and services by
water and sanitation for vulnerable communities. In the
the end of 2025 towards this program, we announced that
second half of 2023, the cohort kicked off and entered
we plan to increase this goal by up to an additional $45
the ideation phase with IBM Garage™.
million over the next five years. Since 2021, we have
invested nearly $11.7 million towards the IBM - Resilient Cities: In support of the UN SDG 11 to make
Sustainability Accelerator. cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. This new
cohort, targeted for launch in 4Q2024, will aim to find
ways to foster urban resiliency in the long-term.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 37
Contents
IBM Giving and Volunteering
Introduction
Governance Volunteerism and giving are at the epicenter of our work - IBM Service Corps: Provides IBMers with opportunities
and are foundational to our commitment to advancing to use their professional skills to help communities
Social
diversity, equity and inclusion. tackle complex challenges in education, humanitarian
Environment efforts, cybersecurity, and economic development. Diversity and inclusion are foundational principles of
IBM Volunteers® Since 2008, employees have participated in 478 IBM's culture. Deeply embedded into our volunteer
Appendix
projects in 56 countries. programs, these values help us create a more
IBM Volunteers leverage the collective power of people equitable future for everyone. Throughout 2023, IBM
- IBM Sustainability Accelerator: IBM volunteers deliver
and resources to ensure meaningful impact worldwide. offered volunteer opportunities aligned with our eight
innovative technology solutions to nonprofit
The program supports active and retired IBMers who Diversity & Inclusion Communities that fostered an
organizations, aiding populations especially vulnerable
donate their time and talents to academia, grassroots environment of conscious inclusivity where differences
to environmental threats and producing outcomes that
initiatives, and organizations helping to build our are embraced and IBMers could make a positive
will lead to a more sustainable world.
communities. IBM routinely brings our workforce together impact on society.
through global campaigns that feature both in-person and
IBM Giving Worldwide
virtual opportunities for meaningful community
engagement that addresses critical mission areas. In
IBM has a comprehensive giving strategy that allows us to
2023, more than 27,000 volunteers participated in IBM
provide our expertise, technology, and cash to support our
volunteering, collectively logging over 543,000
CSR mission and priorities in education and skills,
volunteer hours.
sustainability and other areas. Our giving strategy is global
and focuses on areas where IBM seeks to make a IBM is deeply committed to supporting organizations
significant impact on those with the greatest need. and communities in need. In 2023, the Disaster Relief
Volunteering Hours 2022 2023 Program offered IBMers the opportunity to support
Worldwide retiree and employee 431,000† 543,000 For the breakdown of our total contributions worldwide see communities around the world through charitable
volunteer hours "ESG Data Summary" on page 66. giving. Through this program, IBM also establishes
charitable giving campaigns where we match
† Restatement from prior year to reflect calculation correction. employee donations 1:1.
IBM Giving
IBMers are committed to engaging with purpose-driven
initiatives through our signature volunteer programs that
align with both the enterprise and our CSR priority areas of $386.9M Total
education, skills and sustainability. Our signature volunteer contributions
programs include:
2023 worldwide
- IBM SkillsBuild & P-TECH: IBM volunteers champion
education equity and workforce inclusion by sharing
their career expertise with learners and job seekers,
creating pathways for all individuals to participate in the
future of work.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 38
Contents
Introduction Supply Chain Social Responsibility
Governance
Social
Environment
In 2023, we worked with over 10,000 Responsible Business Alliance (RBA): IBM is a founding
Appendix
member of the RBA, a nonprofit industry group that
suppliers of hardware, software, and
enables its members to strive for continuous improvement
services, and continued to promote social
in the social, environmental, and ethical responsibility of
and environmental responsibility among their companies, and upstream supply chains.
our global supply network and across
- We require our first-tier suppliers of hardware, software,
our industry.
and services (as well as IBM’s internal operations) to
adhere to the RBA Code of Conduct, which contains
Since 2010, IBM has required its first-tier suppliers to provisions on labor, health and safety, environmental
create and maintain a social and environmental requirements, ethics and management systems. The
management system to address their responsibilities RBA code is the foundation for the social and
within a year of starting to do business with us. IBM environmental management system criteria that we
suppliers must establish their management systems, require our suppliers to maintain.
measure performance, set goals, disclose results, and
- To help suppliers meet our requirements, we provide
cascade these requirements to their upstream suppliers
and facilitate education, including online access to the
who perform work material to the goods and services
RBA learning academy that we augment with IBM
provided to IBM. See the IBM Supply Chain Responsibility
developed materials. We regularly update these
website for more details.
programs to address areas where assessments have
revealed needed improvement.
For information on our promotion of environmental
responsibility among our global supply chain see "Supply
We encourage our suppliers to publish ESG reports to help
Chain Environmental Responsibility" on page 57.
drive greater supply chain transparency and best practice
sharing. Our top 50 Production and Logistics suppliers and
top 50 Services and General Procurement suppliers for
2023 are listed in "Top Suppliers" on page 72. From this
group, 81 published ESG reports with 68 in reference to
GRI standards (as does IBM).
IBM 2023
ESG Report 39
Contents
Supplier Audits
Introduction
Governance Annually, a cross-section of our first-tier suppliers are In 2023, the RBA audit protocol was changed to feature a Modern Slavery and Forced Labor
requested to participate in RBA-validated audits to gauge distributed assessment of Management Systems within the
Social
their conformance to the RBA code and to IBM’s other four provisions of the Code: Labor, Health and Safety, Over the past decade, there has been growing realization
Environment requirements. If an RBA full audit reveals Environment, and Ethics. This change helps to ensure that of the circumstances surrounding the involuntary
nonconformance, we work with suppliers to review their inadequacies are addressed in subsequent corrective exploitation of individuals under modern slavery and the
Appendix
corrective action plans and suggest recommendations to action plans and vetted during re-audits. We largely potential for forced labor in extended supply chains.
reach code conformance. For suppliers with corrective attribute the net increase in the number of supplier Through our membership in the RBA, we have been active
action plans, we require them to be re-audited to measure nonconformances from the prior year to the change in the in addressing this issue. In 2020, RBA membership
their progress towards full conformance. audit protocol. adopted a code change that explicitly addressed
parameters to prevent forced labor in the supply chain. We
In 2023, IBM suppliers participated in 82 RBA full audits In 2023, IBM collaborated with 48 suppliers to plan and have built upon the RBA code provisions to develop online
and 48 re-audits in 22 countries where heightened risks execute RBA re-audits to vet corrective action plans training for our buyers and employees and have
for social and environmental responsibility are known to associated with full audits performed during 2021-2023. collaborated with external parties to create a technology
exist. The 82 full audits revealed a total of 664 These re-audits yielded an 85% improvement in platform to assist multi stakeholders in interrupting
nonconformances against the five provisional sections of conformance from the findings in the related full audits - a modern slavery. Annually, we publish three reports in
the RBA Code. 14 point improvement over 2022. This was the result of response to Canadian, Australian and United Kingdom
heightened collaboration and evidence validation with our legislation with details on our activities to combat modern
2023 Distribution of Nonconformances by Section of the global suppliers in their corrective action plans to guide slavery and forced labor. These reports are updated each
RBA Code of Conduct and assure improvements were being made according to June and are available on our IBM Impact website.
plan. In this same group, 44% of suppliers attained full
9% 8% conformance to the RBA Code after one cycle of full audit, For more information on our RBA full audits and re-audits,
Ethics Environmental correction action plan and re-audit. For continuous see "ESG Data Summary" on page 67.
improvement, we remain engaged with suppliers that show
14% 82 residual nonconformance and require a second corrective
action plan to be developed for further assessment.
Management
System Full Audits
As part of our RBA Code conformance management
35% system, we review full and re-audit results monthly with
IBM’s procurement teams and vice presidents, and
Labor
quarterly with our Chief Procurement Officer. From this
34%
dialogue, we make alterations to our supplier education
Health programs, assistance and future sourcing patterns.
and Safety
IBM 2023
ESG Report 40
Contents
Responsible Minerals Sourcing
Introduction
Governance Since the passage of Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank As a complementary activity, IBM’s Responsible Minerals
Financial Reform Act of 2010, our focus has been to team maintains communications with our research
Social
ensure that 3TG minerals (tantalum, tin, tungsten and community to keep them abreast of the challenges in the
Environment gold) used in our products do not contribute directly or marketplace associated with minerals sourcing. This can
indirectly to armed groups in the Democratic Republic of help to influence future development of products. As an
Appendix
the Congo and adjoining countries. We deploy a example, the IBM Almaden Research Center has invented
multifaceted approach that includes robust policies and a battery technology free of nickel and cobalt, which
practices, as well as external collaboration, to reach could potentially help eliminate the need for critical metals
these objectives. in battery production and transform the long-term
sustainability of many elements of our
Our responsible minerals sourcing policy is aligned with energy infrastructure.
the framework of the Organisation for Economic Co-
Operation and Development (OECD) Due Diligence Our annual Conflict Minerals Report (CMR) is anticipated to
Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from be published in May 2024 and will include information on
Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas (CAHRAs), including our in-scope suppliers’ use of conformant 3TG SORs in
Annex II and the related supplements pertaining to 2023. A library of current and past CMRs, in addition to our
downstream companies. IBM has expanded its efforts to Responsible Minerals policy, due diligence process, and
include ethically sourced cobalt and mica, following the our white paper “IBM’s Journey in Responsible Minerals
approach we built with our suppliers on 3TG. Sourcing,” are available on the IBM Responsible
Minerals website.
We are an active member of the Responsible Minerals
Initiative and engage directly with our in-scope suppliers to
collaborate and build capacity. We require in-scope
suppliers to source 3TG minerals from ethical smelters or Our working relationships span multiple
refiners (SORs) that are conformant or active in a
layers of the supply chain, in which
recognized third-party validation scheme, or from recycled
many interrelationships exist, in order to
scrap sources. IBM pairs skilled members of our
responsible minerals team with first-tier (and upstream) sustain progress.
suppliers to work on training, best practice sharing, and
overcoming the challenges of a dynamic market
environment where SOR conformant status changes occur
and must be adapted to. Our working relationships span
multiple layers of the supply chain, in which many
interrelationships exist, in order to sustain progress.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 41
Contents
Global Supplier Diversity
Introduction
Governance We recognize that a diverse supplier base is integral to our First-Tier Supplier Diversity Spend ($B)† 2023
company’s profitability and strategic objectives —
Social
solidifying the connection between customer satisfaction U.S. $0.9
Environment and success in the marketplace.
Appendix Non-U.S. $0.3
Building and maintaining a community of diverse suppliers
increases IBM’s opportunity to hear new ideas, apply
different approaches, and gain access to additional Total $1.2
solutions that respond to customer needs. Such
collaboration helps IBM deliver innovation, quality
products and world-class service to a growing † In 2023, our second-tier supplier diversity spend was approximately
$0.5B.
global marketplace.
In 2020, IBM set a goal of dedicating 15% of our first-tier
Our global supplier diversity program includes suppliers
supplier diversity spending to Black-owned businesses by
that are majority owned, operated, and controlled by
2025. In 2023, approximately 8.5% of our first-tier
people from a racial or ethnic minority (as defined in each
supplier diversity spend was with Black-owned suppliers.
applicable country or region), women, military veterans,
LGBTQ+ individuals, or people with diverse abilities. Learn
more about our program on the IBM Supplier
Diversity website.
IBM’s Global Supplier Diversity Program,
in existence for over 55 years, operates in
all countries where we do business, and
diverse suppliers provide products and
services for each of our procurement
categories. We require our first-tier
suppliers to report their own diverse
supplier expenditures that are utilized in
support of IBM contracts and is collected
as second-tier spend.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 42
Contents
Introduction
Governance
Social
Environment
Appendix
Environmental
Impact
IBM 2023
ESG Report
Contents
With a 50-plus year commitment to environmental responsibility in all of its business activities
Introduction
and a 34-year history of annual public environmental reporting, IBM continues to take
Governance
deliberate actions to drive real results.
Social
Environment
Appendix
Global Environmental
Management System
IBM’s corporate environmental policy, first We have continuously maintained a single global registration
to the ISO 14001 EMS standard since 1997 and to the ISO
formalized in 1971, provides the strategic
50001 energy management systems standard since 2012. In
framework for our global environmental
addition, our GHG emissions quantification process is certified
management system (EMS). We have to the ISO 14064-1:2018 standard and our GHG emissions
inventory and disclosures are verified with limited assurance
maintained an EMS for decades and
by an independent third-party using the ISO 14064-3:2019
continually update it to reflect our current
standard. More information about IBM’s management system
intersections with environmental matters. certifications and our environmental programs can be found
on the IBM Environment website.
The global scope of our EMS covers hardware
product design and development,
manufacturing, data centers, real estate
operations, procurement, logistics, and asset
recovery services. Setting and executing
against goals to drive continual improvement
is an integral part of our EMS. We currently
have 21 environmental sustainability goals
that address energy and climate change,
conservation and biodiversity, pollution
prevention and waste management, supply
chain and value chain, and EMS.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 44
Contents
Stakeholder Engagement Technip Energies (TEN): IBM Research invented the VolCat selected for a Phase 2 award from the NSF’s Convergence
Introduction
Technology as a more efficient, and sustainable way to recycle Accelerator as part of Track I: Sustainable Materials for Global
Governance polyethylene terephthalate (PET) used in textiles and Challenges. This effort builds upon the Phase 1 year of
We proactively engage and collaborate on environmental
packaging and, in 2021, IBM formed the VolCat Technology planning, scoping, and collaborating with key semiconductor
Social matters with stakeholders from a cross-section of
Joint Venture with TEN and Under Armour to develop the industry groups and leading consumer electronics
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), government agencies,
Environment VolCat Technology into a process robust enough to regenerate manufacturers during 2023.
businesses, industry associations, investors, academia,
dyed PET packaging, polyester textile and cotton-polyester
Appendix communities, and employees. Some examples are:
blends. In 2023, building on our partnership, TEN announced Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC): For information on our
the launch of Reju, a polyester regeneration company that will engagement with the WHC, see "Biodiversity" on page 53.
European Green Digital Coalition (EGDC): The EGDC is a
take the VolCat Technology to industrial scale.
group of companies committed to supporting the EU’s “green
and digital transformation.” IBM’s Flex Platform solution,
The Green Grid (TGG): TGG focuses on creating tools,
which provides balancing capacity for the grid, was selected by
providing technical expertise and advocating for the
EGDC to demonstrate “calculator” development across six
optimization of data center energy and resource efficiency. As
economic sectors (energy/power, transport, construction/
a member of TGG since its inception in 2007, IBMers actively
buildings, manufacturing, agriculture and smart cities) to help
participate on the TGG Executive Leadership Council, the
digital technologies users assess the net environmental impact
Server and Storage Energy Standing Working Group and hold
(positive or negative) of selected solutions with methodologies
chair positions on both the Data Center Energy Efficiency
jointly developed by member companies, together with NGOs
Standards Standing Working Group and the Data Center IT
and relevant expert organizations. The IBM Flex Platform
Equipment Energy Efficiency Metric Activity Working Group. In
solution case study calculator was finalized in June 2023 and
2023, TGG provided its technical expertise and advocacy on
presented at the Digital with Purpose Global Summit in
proposed laws and regulations in the U.S., the EU, China, and
September 2023.
India, and on new and updated standards developed by
the ISO.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA):
In 2023, IBM and NASA expanded our collaboration on AI
U.S. Department of Energy (DOE): IBM joined the U.S. DOE’s
foundation models to encompass geospatial analytics and
Energy Efficiency Scaling for 2 Decades program which aims to
large language models. Together, we announced and open-
increase the energy efficiency of computing by 1,000 times
sourced the first geospatial foundation model to monitor our
over the next two decades.
changing planet using NASA earth observation data.
Downstream applications include detecting natural hazards
U.S. National Science Foundation (NSF) Convergence
and tracking changes to forests and agricultural practices. This
Accelerator: IBM Research has partnered with the University
model was showcased at COP28 and highlighted reforestation
of Pittsburgh, Cornell University, NuMat Technologies,
efforts with the Government of Kenya. We also co-developed
ChemForward and Digital Science to accelerate the discovery
and open-sourced a new large language model trained on
of alternatives, replacements, and remediation solutions for
scientific literature to make this knowledge more accessible
per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), a growing class of
and announced development of a new AI foundation model for
environmental pollutants commonly referred to as ‘forever
weather and climate. Downstream applications include
chemicals.’ This project, called PFACTS, includes the
downscaling climate projections and fine-tuning forecasts to
development of an online platform, AI tools, and community
support renewable energy forecasting.
engagement to help reduce and eventually eliminate the
nonessential use of PFAS. In February 2024, PFACTS was
IBM 2023
ESG Report 45
Contents
Introduction Energy and - Reach net-zero operational GHG emissions by 2030, using These goals and reporting cover our activities taking place in
feasible technologies to remove emissions in an amount locations owned or leased by IBM. These locations include
Governance which equals or exceeds IBM’s residual emissions. IBM data centers located in facilities managed by third parties
Social Climate Change Correspondingly, aim for residual emissions of 350,000 where IBM does not procure the energy or control the
metric tons of CO -equivalent (mtCO e) or less by 2030. operations of the buildings – also known as co-location data
2 2
Environment centers. All figures contained in this section have been
- With reference to the voluntary Greenhouse Gas adjusted for acquisitions and divestitures.1
Appendix Protocol, our GHG emissions goals address Scope 1 and
Scope 2 (market-based) emissions, as well as Scope 3 Our GHG emissions goals achieve a rate of reduction that
emissions associated with IBM's electricity consumption exceeds what scientists from the UN Intergovernmental Panel
For decades, IBM has been committed to at third-party co-location data centers. on Climate Change (IPCC) indicate is necessary to limit Earth’s
addressing climate change through the - Implement a minimum of 3,000 new energy conservation warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels.
company’s energy conservation and climate projects to avoid the consumption of 275,000 MWh of
energy from 2021 to 2025. For information on our supplier engagement goals related to
protection programs.
energy and climate, see "Supply Chain Environmental
- Improve average data center cooling efficiency 20% by Responsibility" on page 57.
2025 against base year 2019.
As a founding partner, IBM helped the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) launch ENERGY STAR in 1992. We
began disclosing our CO emissions in 1994, set our first CO
2 2
emissions reduction goal in 2000, and made our first purchase Energy and Climate Change 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
of renewable electricity in 2001. In 2007, we published our
policy position on climate change, recognizing that climate Total operational energy consumption in MWh 2,837,000 2,529,000 2,486,000 2,448,000 2,287,000†
change is a serious concern that warrants timely, meaningful
action on a global level. Our company supported the Paris Renewable electricity procurement as % of total electricity 42.9% 55.6% 62.7% 65.9% 70.6%
Agreement in 2015, and in 2017, we publicly reiterated our consumption (goal 75% by 2025, and 90% by 2030)‡
support for the U.S. to remain a party to it. IBM became a
founding member of the Climate Leadership Council in 2019, Total operational GHG emissions covered by our goal 809,000 569,000 475,000 430,000 364,000
supporting a bipartisan plan for a carbon tax with 100% of the in mtCO e§,¶
2
net proceeds returned to citizens as a carbon dividend.
Operational GHG emissions reduction as % of 2010 base 30.0% 50.8% 58.9% 62.8% 68.5%
year (goal 65% by 2025)¶
Our goals for energy efficiency and conservation, renewable
electricity procurement and GHG emissions reduction include: † 4.7% of energy consumption has been estimated for IBM locations that use less than 500 MWh of energy per year and in cases where the utility invoices were not
available at the time of reporting.
- Procure 75% of the electricity IBM consumes worldwide ‡ Renewable electricity procurement includes contracted purchases and renewable electricity that automatically comes to IBM via routine grid power.
from renewable sources by 2025, and 90% by 2030. § Covers all of IBM’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, as well as Scope 3 emissions associated with IBM’s electricity use at co-location data centers.
¶ GHG emissions from previous years and base year have been adjusted to remove GHGs not covered by the Kyoto Protocol, which are not classified as Scope 1
- Reduce IBM’s operational GHG emissions 65% by 2025
emissions according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
against base year 2010, adjusted for acquisitions
and divestitures.
1 Figures have been adjusted to account for the separation of IBM's managed infrastructure services unit that was completed on November 3, 2021. IBM does
not take credit for a reduction of GHG emissions because of a significant divestiture. For those divestitures, we have removed the relevant GHG emissions
from the base year of the calculation. For acquisitions, we have not adjusted the base year, but our current year data and performance against our goal include
the acquired GHG emissions.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 46
Contents
Energy Consumption
Introduction
In 2021, we established a goal to implement a minimum of
Governance One of the most effective ways to reduce IBM’s GHG 3,000 energy conservation projects to avoid the consumption Total Energy Consumption
emissions is to make our operations more efficient, thereby
of 275,000 MWh of energy from 2021 to 2025. As of year-end
Social reducing our actual consumption of energy, which is our most
2023, we completed 2,130 energy conservation projects
Environment significant source of GHG emissions. towards our 2025 goal, avoiding an estimated 256,000 MWh
of energy consumption.
Appendix IBM’s energy use decreased by 6.6% in 2023 from 2022,
driven by increased operational efficiencies and a continued
Since 1990, we have conserved an estimated 10.1 million
focus on energy conservation. Our global operations
MWh of energy consumption —equivalent to more than four
consumed approximately 2,287,000 MWh of energy across all
times our current annual energy consumption— saving an
commodities, of which 82% was electricity.
estimated $691 million and avoiding an estimated 4.66 million
Energy Conservation mtCO e emissions.
2
During 2023, we implemented 675 energy conservation In 2023, we implemented 675 energy
projects across more than 130 locations globally, avoiding an
conservation projects globally, avoiding
estimated 95,000 MWh of energy consumption and 33,000
mtCO e emissions, thereby saving approximately $11 million.1 an estimated 95,000 MWh of 2
More than 58% of energy conservation savings were due to energy consumption.
upgrades in IT equipment at our data centers, most of which
now incorporate hot/cold aisle containment.2 We also
continued to execute projects aimed at enhancing the energy
efficiency of both cooling and IT equipment, retrofitting
lighting systems and optimizing the operational efficiency in
our data center facilities. For our other infrastructure buildings,
additional savings were generated through strategic
adjustments to lighting levels, temperature, and other building
systems to avoid unnecessary energy consumption as we
continue to adapt to new levels of onsite working.
1 In measuring performance against IBM's energy conservation goal, we only include the first year's savings from projects. Accordingly, IBM's total energy savings
and GHG emissions avoidance from these projects are greater than the simple summation of the annual results. We do not include reductions in energy
consumption resulting from downsizings, the sale of operations or cost-avoidance actions, such as fuel switching and off-peak load shifting, in our energy
conservation results.
2 Hot/cold aisle containment is a strategy used in data centers to improve energy efficiency and reduce cooling costs. It involves organizing server racks in a way that
achieves the greatest separation of hot exhaust air and cold intake air.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 47
)hWM(
sruoh-ttawageM
3,000,000
2,500,000
2,000,000
1,500,000
1,000,000
500,000
0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
¢ Fuels
¢ Heating, Cooling and Steam
¢ Electricity
2023 Energy Conservation Savings by Project Type
2%
4%
Lighting projects
Other
projects 1%
Controls
10% projects
Space efficiency
projects
12%
Central utility
plant projects 58%
IT
equipment
upgrade
projects
13%
Heating and cooling
projects
Contents
Data Center Energy Efficiency
Introduction
Governance
Our comprehensive approach to reducing the environmental
Social
footprint of our data centers prioritizes energy efficiency and
Environment includes the following strategies:
Appendix
- Space Utilization: We optimize existing data center space to
increase workload density, minimizing energy consumption per
unit of compute power.
- Technology Upgrades: We invest in energy-efficient IT
infrastructure, leveraging advancements in hardware and
software efficiency.
- Leasing Strategy: We prioritize leasing more energy-efficient
co-location data centers equipped with advanced cooling and
power management systems.
In 2021, we established a goal to improve the average data center
cooling efficiency 20% by 2025 against base year 2019.1 In 2023,
our weighted average Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE)2 was 1.46,
an improvement of 16.4% in cooling efficiency when compared to
our baseline of 1.55 in 2019.
New requirements for co-location data center landlords
implemented in our leasing strategy are continuing to yield results,
and our ongoing efforts to enhance the utilization of our data
centers offer a viable route towards accomplishing our goal.
1 To determine our performance against this goal, we actively measure Power
Usage Effectiveness (PUE) in all data centers under our direct control in which we
have metering. For co-located facilities, we use PUE data provided by landlords. In
cases where direct PUE data is unavailable, we utilize industry benchmark data to
track progress and measure our overall energy efficiency performance.
2 PUE is the ratio of the total energy consumed by the data center divided by the
energy consumed by the IT equipment. The closer the value is to 1, the more
energy efficient the data center and its cooling delivery are.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 48
Contents
Renewable Electricity Consumption
Introduction
Use of Renewable Electricity as Percent of Global Electricity Consumption, and by Source (2023)
Governance We increased our renewable electricity consumption to
approximately 1,322,000 MWh in 2023, representing
Social
70.6% of our total electricity consumption, up from 65.9%
70%
Environment in 2022. That includes 56.6% contracted directly from
Appendix power suppliers or obtained via landlords, and 14.0% 60% 5% 1%
already in the electricity mix we received from the grid. Biomass
Other
50%
12%
renewables
We remain on track to meet our current goal of procuring
75% of our worldwide electricity consumption from Solar
40%
renewable sources by 2025, and 90% by 2030.
Performance in 2023 was primarily driven by an increased
30%
use of renewables in our offices in India and in two IBM
Cloud data centers in the United States. Overall, 74% of
20%
the electricity consumed in our data centers came from
48%
renewable sources, including both contracted and grid-
10% 34%
supplied compared to 66% in 2022. Globally, 28 data Hydropower
Wind
centers were supplied with 100% renewable electricity
0%
in 2023. 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Our reporting of renewable electricity consumption counts ¢ Contracted Renewables ¢ Grid-supplied Renewables
only what is generated in the grid regions where our
consumption actually occurs. We do not rely upon the
purchase of unbundled renewable energy certificates to
comprise any “percent renewable” if we cannot credibly
consume the electricity those certificates represent. Our
definition of “grid region” aligns with how the U.S. Energy
Information Administration defines power balancing
authorities’ territories. We apply the same concept for
other jurisdictions.
More information about IBM’s approach to renewable
electricity procurement and reporting can be found on
the IBM Environment website.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 49
Contents
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Introduction
Governance In 2023, we reduced IBM's operational GHG emissions 68.5% Determining Scope 3 GHG emissions across a company’s IBM has long committed to doing business with suppliers who
against base year 2010, adjusted for acquisitions and value chain can be extremely challenging due to a lack of conduct themselves with high standards of ethical,
Social
divestitures, meeting our 2025 goal two years early. These access to primary source data across multiple entities. We environmental, and social responsibility, and we have goals in
Environment reductions occurred due to our increase in renewable report Scope 3 emissions in five of the fifteen categories place that aim to incentivize key suppliers in emissions-
electricity purchases, our continued focus on operational defined by the GHG Protocol's Corporate Value Chain intensive industries to reduce their operational GHG
Appendix
efficiency and energy conservation and lowered Emissions Accounting and Reporting standard. IBM calculates emissions. To learn more about IBM’s goals around supply
energy consumption. certain Scope 3 emissions related to the “Purchased Goods chain engagement and our progress, see "Supply Chain
and Services" category — namely, emissions associated with Environmental Responsibility" on page 57.
We plan to maintain and improve performance by continuing electricity IBM consumes in third-party operated spaces that
to use energy responsibly and efficiently and by purchasing IBM leases for data center operations (referred to as
more renewable electricity. Our focus remains to reach net- co-location data centers), and we furthermore approximate
zero operational GHG emissions by 2030, with residual emissions in four other Scope 3 categories. These
emissions of no more than 350,000 mtCO e. This will require approximations represent Scope 3 emissions pertaining to
2
both further emissions reductions and the use of feasible areas for which we have some relevant information upon
technologies to remove our residual emissions by 2030. For which to make assumptions. For IBM’s reported Scope 3
our GHG emissions inventory, see "ESG Data Summary" on emissions, see "ESG Data Summary" on page 69.
page 69.
Emissions Covered by IBM’s Fifth-Generation Goal
(mtCO e) 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
2
Scope 1 (direct emissions)† 98,000 73,000 78,000 78,000 71,000
Scope 2 market-based (indirect emissions)‡ 460,000 262,000 221,000 183,000 150,000
Scope 3 (indirect emissions)§ 251,000 234,000 176,000 169,000 143,000
Total emissions covered by IBM’s current goal 809,000 569,000 475,000 430,000 364,000
Operational GHG emissions reduction as 30.0% 50.8% 58.9% 62.8% 68.5%
% of 2010 base year
† Emissions associated with IBM’s use of fuels for building operations and transportation, as well as from the use of refrigerants and chemicals with a global warming
potential. These emissions have been adjusted to remove substances that are not covered by the Kyoto Protocol, which are not classified as Scope 1 emissions
according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
‡ Emissions from IBM’s use of electricity, cooling, heat and steam at IBM-managed locations, accounting for our purchases of renewable electricity.
§ Emissions associated with the generation of electricity consumed by IBM’s data centers located in third-party managed facilities, reported under category
“Purchased goods and services” of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 50
Contents
Product Energy Efficiency
Introduction
Governance IBM designs its products to be energy efficient, to incorporate increased performance, they also contributed to a decrease in In addition, IBM Storage FlashSystem products provide more
recycled content and environmentally preferable materials, compute power per kilowatt delivered of 11% in an IBM z16 power and temperature data for clients to understand their
Social
and to facilitate reuse and recycling at product end-of-life. single frame with 6 configurable processors and 5% in an IBM environmental impact through IBM Storage Insights, a
Environment For more than two decades, we have maintained a goal to LinuxONE Rockhopper 4 with 68 configurable processors.2 cloud-based, AI-driven storage monitoring service.
improve the computing power delivered for each kilowatt-hour
Appendix Consolidating Linux workloads on an IBM z16 single frame or
of electricity consumed for new server products as compared IBM Cloud® Carbon Calculator
IBM LinuxONE Rockhopper 4 instead of running them on
to equivalent, previous-generation products with a valid
compared x86 servers with similar conditions and location can
upgrade path. Businesses today are interested in tracking their GHG
reduce energy consumption by 75% and space by 67%.3 This
emissions across various IT infrastructure to help meet their
can have the associated benefit of reducing the amount of
Enterprise Servers environmental sustainability goals or report performance.
cooling required in data centers and potentially alleviating
physical IT growth so that clients that are constrained for Developed by IBM Cloud and IBM Research in association with
As an important part of our comprehensive portfolio of
space can defer or avoid expanding or building new Intel, the IBM Cloud Carbon Calculator helps measure and
sustainability solutions, IBM z16™ and IBM LinuxONE 4
data centers. track emissions associated with the use of IBM Cloud services.
systems continue to be developed with consideration of their
Based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol standards, it helps
environmental impacts. In 2023, we introduced the IBM z16 IBM continues to certify in-scope products under the U.S. EPA
uncover emission patterns, anomalies and potential “hot
single frame and IBM LinuxONE Rockhopper 4, both with new ENERGY STAR program. In 2023, IBM had 9 enterprise
spots” that can help in building a strategy to mitigate GHG
rack mount options, designed to deliver strong sustainability Power9® and Power10 servers and 6 storage products
emissions. Using an intuitive, standards-based, AI-augmented
benefits when moving workloads from x86 servers. certified to ENERGY STAR.
dashboard, users can access GHG emissions data over time for
Like their multi-frame predecessors, the IBM z16 single frame multiple types of workloads by location, by service and by
Storage
and IBM LinuxONE Rockhopper 4 utilize the dual-chip IBM cloud group. For further analysis, this data can also be easily
Telum® processor. IBM Telum contains two separate exported using the IBM Cloud Carbon Calculator API for use in
IBM Storage teams are focused on designing systems for
processor chips acting as one through a high-speed other applications. By leveraging the available integration with
improved energy efficiency. For example, new IBM Storage
communications bus, for a performance increase. The largest Envizi™ (separate Envizi license required), customers can
FlashSystem® devices using IBM FlashCore® Module drives
IBM z16 single frame provides approximately 14% more IBM generate standards-based GHG emission reports for a variety
across different configurations require at least 29% less
z/OS® capacity than the largest IBM z15® T02 (both with 6 of purposes.
configurable processors).1 However, when compared to the energy than a market leading competitor.4 This may provide a
useful route for clients to quickly reduce the carbon footprint
immediate previous generation systems, while the
of their data centers.
re-architecture of the chip and the feature size reduction
1 Based on internal measurements. Results may vary by customer based on individual workload, configuration and software levels. For capacity sizing for your systems, use the IBM zPCR Capacity Planning tool and refer to the IBM Z® Large Systems Performance
Reference (LSPR) website.
2 System capacity based on data available at the IBM Z LSPR website. Power consumption published in the IBM 8562 Installation Manual for Physical Planning and the IBM 3932 Installation Manual for Physical Planning. Single-thread-based MIPS are used. For
IBM Z, the performance is LSPR Data (Average RNI Based) (GCP-IBM Z) for the maximum number of customer general purpose cores. For IBM LinuxONE, the performance is LSPR Data (Low RNI Based) (IFL-LinuxONE) for the maximum number of customer IFL
cores. All the systems are externally air cooled. Calculations use worst-case power conditions with the maximum system power configuration at the maximum utilization and for the system environment driven maximum power condition. Results may vary.
3 Compared IBM Machine Type 3932 Max 68 model consisting of 2CPC drawers and an IO drawer to support network and external storage with 68 IFLs and 7 TB of memory in 1 frame versus compared 36 x86 servers (2 Skylake Xeon Gold Chips, 40 Cores) with a
total of 1440 cores. IBM Machine Type 3932 Max 68 model power consumption was measured on systems and confirmed using the IBM Power estimator for the IBM Machine Type 3932 Max 68 model configuration. x86 power values were based on Feb. 2023
IDC QPI power values and reduced to 55% based on measurements of x86 servers by IBM and observed values in the field. The x86 server compared to uses approximately .6083 kWh, 55% of IDC QPI system watts value. Savings assumes the Worldwide Data
Center Power Utilization Effectiveness (PUE) factor of 1.55 to calculate the additional power needed for cooling. PUE is based on Uptime Institute 2022 Global Data Center Survey. x86 system space calculations require 3 racks. Results may vary based on client-
specific usage and location.
4 Based on comparable configurations between IBM FlashSystem and a 2023 Gartner Magic Quadrant report participant: https://community.ibm.com/community/user/storage/blogs/chelsey-gosse/2023/09/20/2023-gartner-magic-quadrant-primary-storage.
Each comparison was at the same temperature, memory, and core frequencies with comparable raw capacities and system performances. For each configuration, the power of the devices were estimated with engineering calculations from the typical power
withdraw of the CPUs, drives and components on each of the devices. Based on information from: https://www.manua.ls/dell/powermax-2000/manual; https://www.delltechnologies.com/asset/en-au/products/storage/technical-support/dell-powerstore-gen2-
spec-sheet.pdf; https://www.sanstorageworks.com/PowerMax-8000.asp.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 51
Contents
Introduction Conservation
Governance
Social and Biodiversity
Environment
Appendix
IBM has comprehensive programs and In 2023, our water withdrawals increased at locations in Paper and Paper/Wood-Based Packaging Sourced
water-stressed regions by 3.4% versus 2022, despite from Sustainably Managed Forests
goals that help conserve natural resources
conservation efforts which avoided withdrawals of
and protect biodiversity.
approximately 25,800 cubic meters. This increase was Our goal is to source paper and paper/wood-based
primarily associated with the continued return of packaging that is directly procured by IBM from
Water Conservation employees to offices. Conservation efforts consisted of sustainably managed forests. Suppliers must provide
replacing irrigated turf areas with native drought resistant evidence that their sources have been certified by an
Our water conservation goal is to achieve year-to-year plants, expanding water system leak detection and repair accredited third-party certification program such as the
reductions in water withdrawals at larger IBM locations in programs at our locations, upgrading humidifier Forest Stewardship Council, Programme for the
water-stressed regions. Approximately 85% of water equipment, and installing waterless urinals and faucet Endorsement of Forest Certification, Sustainable Forestry
withdrawals at these locations are for domestic aerators in washrooms. To help us identify additional Initiative, or the Canadian Standards Association Group
consumption in the workplace, of which approximately opportunities for conservation and to enable more Sustainable Forest Management System standard.
60% are for drinking water, cafeteria, washrooms, etc., and accurate measures of water use, we continued to install
approximately 25% are for heating, ventilating and air water meters in campuses and multi-tenant buildings. In 2023, 99.8% (based on spend) of our paper and paper/
conditioning of buildings. wood-based packaging IBM directly procured worldwide
came from suppliers that warranted that the source was
derived from sustainably managed forests.
Water Conservation 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
% Annual reduction in water withdrawals at larger IBM locations 2.0% 6.7% 4.3% 0.19% -3.4%
in water-stressed regions (goal year-to-year reduction)
IBM 2023
ESG Report 52
Contents
Biodiversity
Introduction
Governance Pollinator species are essential for maintaining a diverse Wildlife Habitat Council At year-end 2023,
ecosystem, yet they are in rapid decline. Recognizing the
Social
positive impact we could have on this worldwide issue, in IBM has been a member of the Wildlife Habitat Council 70 pollinator gardens
Environment 2021, IBM established a global program focused on (WHC) for more than 30 years and in 2023, 4 IBM sites were established at
creating, enhancing and restoring pollinator habitats. We (IBM Corporate Headquarters, New York; IBM Research
Appendix
set a goal to plant 50 pollinator gardens at IBM locations Triangle Park, North Carolina; IBM Almaden Research
54
globally by year-end 2023. IBM successfully surpassed Center and IBM Silicon Valley Laboratory, both in IBM locations globally
this goal by establishing 70 pollinator gardens at 54 IBM California) held WHC Conservation Certifications for their
locations across 26 countries. The gardens consisted of wildlife habitat management and conservation
rewilded meadows, terrace gardens, ground level flower education programs.
beds, containers and pots and the establishment of
drought tolerant landscaping with pollinator-friendly plants Third-Party Sustainability Certification
and flowers. Collectively, the gardens and meadows for Buildings
covered roughly 735,300 ft2.
In 2021, we set a goal to pursue third-party sustainability
EcoTeams@IBM certifications for major office construction and renovation
projects greater than 15,000 square feet or $5 million in
EcoTeams@IBM provides employees worldwide an project cost executed by IBM globally. In 2023, a total of 8
opportunity to voluntarily lead and participate in local projects received third-party certifications:
environmental initiatives that are meaningful to them and
support IBM’s environmental goals and objectives. During 1. Ahmedabad, India (LEED Platinum)
the past two years, 12 EcoTeams were actively involved in
2. Bangalore, India, Phase-I and Phase-II, Bhartiya
the pollinator garden goal and contributed to the
City, Block 3A, (WELL Platinum))
establishment and maintenance of 15 pollinator gardens.
In 2023, there were 23 active EcoTeams spanning 58 IBM 3. Bangalore, India, Phase-II, Bhartiya City, Block 3A,
locations across 16 countries. EcoTeams supported over (LEED Platinum)
70 activities such as learning events, tree plantings, beach
4. Bangalore, India, Bhartiya City, Block 3B, (LEED
and park clean ups, bike to work events, as well as
Platinum & WELL Platinum)
providing plant kits for employees to use at home, and
maintaining bird boxes. EcoTeams also actively 5. Hong Kong, China (WELL Platinum)
participated in global events such as Earth Day,
6. Kochi, India (LEED Platinum)
International Day for Biological Diversity and Zero
Emissions Day. 7. Toronto, Canada (WELL Silver)
8. Washington, DC, U.S. (LEED Gold)
IBM 2023
ESG Report 53
Contents
Introduction Pollution Prevention
Governance
Social and Waste Management
Environment
Appendix
We believe the best way to prevent Nonhazardous Waste
pollution is to avoid the generation of waste
Our nonhazardous waste goal encompasses IBM-owned The waste diversion results were achieved through proper
at its source.
locations and leased locations of 100,000 square feet or management of IBM generated end-of-life IT equipment,
greater worldwide and includes two parts: parts, and product scrap (approximately 44% by weight of
IBM’s total nonhazardous waste generated in 2023);
1. Divert 90% or more (by weight) of our total improved waste collection infrastructure resulting in better
For waste that is generated, we minimize nonhazardous waste from landfill and incineration by sorting of waste; recycling of construction debris,
pollution through a comprehensive and proactive 2025, through reuse, recycling, composting and waste- promotion of the IBM Furniture Donation Program for
waste management program that calls for to-energy processes. employees and external organizations; and the continued
implementation of the following practices, in focus on elimination of nonessential, single-use plastic
order of preference: 2. Use waste-to-energy processes for no more than 10% items from our cafeterias.
(by weight) of the diverted waste.
1. Reuse While IBM met its nonhazardous waste goal in 2023, the
2. Recycling In 2023, reporting locations generated approximately diversion rate may decrease next year, and the amount of
16,500 mt of nonhazardous waste worldwide, an increase waste sent to waste-to-energy processes may increase, as
3. Recovery (e.g., waste-to-energy)
of 12% over 2022. The increase of nonhazardous waste a result of various factors. In 2024, we will continue to look
4. Other treatment (e.g., aqueous and chemical generated year-over-year was due to construction debris for opportunities to decrease our use of waste-to-energy
treatments, incineration) at several locations, which accounted for approximately processes and will focus on providing additional education
5. Land disposal 8% (by weight) of IBM’s total nonhazardous waste to employees on proper waste segregation.
generated in 2023, and the continued return of employees
back to the office. Nevertheless, we diverted 94.2% (by
weight) from landfill or incineration, meeting the first
component of our goal. Of the total amount diverted,
10% (by weight) was sent to waste-to-energy processes,
meeting the second component of our goal.
Nonhazardous Waste Landfill and Incineration Avoidance 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Total generated (mt x 1,000) 31.5 22.1 20.7 14.8 16.5
% By weight diverted from landfill or incineration (goal 90% by 2025) 87.3% 83.3% 94.2% 93.8% 94.2%
% By weight of diverted waste sent to waste-to-energy processes — — 9.7% 11.9% 10.0%
(goal no more than 10%, established in 2021)
IBM 2023
ESG Report 54
Contents
Nonessential, Single-Use Plastics in Cafeterias
Introduction
Governance As part of IBM's effort to conserve natural resources and To reduce the environmental impacts of our product - Replaced polyethylene (PE) bubble inserts in Jiffy mailers
minimize waste, in 2021 we established a goal to eliminate packaging, IBM set a goal in 2021 to eliminate nonessential with 35% recycled content paper-based inserts. This
Social
nonessential, single-use plastic items (e.g., cups, straws, plastic packaging from IBM logo hardware products by year- project is estimated to avoid the use of 0.16 mt of
Environment cutlery, plates, carry bags, and food containers) from IBM- end 2024. For essential plastic packaging, our goal is to PE annually.
managed cafeteria operations globally by 2025. In 2023, we ensure such packaging is designed to be 100% reusable,
Appendix
conducted on-site assessments to monitor conformance recyclable, or compostable, or incorporates 30% or more - Replaced PU foam void fillers used at our U.S. assembly
against our goal and amended procurement contracts with our recycled content where technically feasible. plant to protect IBM Power®. products with AirWave void
largest food services vendors to ensure single-use plastic fillers which are starch-based. This effort will eliminate the
items are not reintroduced and that controls are in place to Most of the packaging material (by weight) used for IBM logo use of roughly 0.14 mt of PU foam void filler annually.
products is cellulose-based (e.g., timber, corrugated
prohibit future ordering. As of year-end 2023, we eliminated
cardboard) and procured from suppliers that certify it is - Through redesign and consolidation of the IBM Spectrum
all nonessential, single-use plastic items at 58 of the 60 IBM-
managed cafeteria operations worldwide.1 sourced from sustainably managed forests. Small amounts of Fusion™ rackless packaging, we reduced the use of
primary packaging are plastic, used mainly to protect IBM logo expanded polyethylene (EPE) foam. This action will reduce
products from moisture during handling and shipment or the use of EPE foam by 95% by volume with estimated
Our focus for 2024 will be to complete the elimination of
physical damage from shock and vibration of fragile systems. savings of 0.03 mt of EPE foam annually.
nonessential, single-use plastic items from two remaining
In addition, ancillary plastic packaging is used for secondary or
locations, to continue conducting on-site assessments to
tertiary applications to help secure and consolidate loads for The 13 projects completed thus far will avoid the use of an
monitor conformance, and to ensure new procurement
shipment. We identified 21 single-use plastic elimination or estimated 99.7 mt per year of virgin plastic.
contracts for IBM-managed cafeterias incorporate the
substitution projects and have completed 13 projects as of
objectives of the goal.
We also implemented other packaging material use efficiency
year-end 2023. In 2024, we plan to complete the 8 remaining
and waste reduction projects in 2023. For IBM Spectrum
projects. The projects we completed in 2023 include:
Product Packaging
Fusion and IBM Power, we completed several packaging
- Replaced polyurethane (PU) foam inserts used at our redesigns which resulted in the consolidation of products into
IBM has maintained a program focused on the environmental
storage assembly plant in Hungary to protect IBM Storage bulk packaging. With this redesign, the packaging for IBM
attributes of our product packaging since the late 1980s. A key
system circuit boards with a cellulose fiber-based “wood- Spectrum Fusion was reduced by 73% (by weight) for wood,
priority is to design products which can be shipped with
foam” insert that is recyclable and sourced from sustainably 95% for plastic foam, and 42% for corrugated cardboard. For
minimal packaging. Whenever possible, we choose packaging
managed forests. This project will contribute to the IBM Power, we reduced the number of pallets required for
materials that have less adverse impact on the environment
reduction of PU use annually. These efforts were recognized larger orders through consolidation of the packages onto
and collaborate with suppliers to use recycled and recyclable
in collaboration with our supplier, Nefab, with a WorldStar larger pallets, eliminating smaller pallets. This combination of
materials and to promote reuse.
Award from the World Packaging Organisation. projects resulted in the elimination of 73.5 mt of packaging
waste in 2023.
1 Nonessential, single-use plastic items were removed from 37 IBM-managed cafeterias in accordance with legal requirements in Europe and India.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 55
Contents
Product Reuse and Recycling Remediation
Introduction
2023 Product End-of-Life Processing Methods
Governance For many decades, IBM has developed products with When groundwater contamination was first discovered at
consideration for serviceability and upgradability, and for one of our sites in 1977, we voluntarily initiated
Social 2.5% 0.7%
the reuse, recyclability and recoverability of materials groundwater monitoring at our manufacturing and
Environment within them. We have a long-standing goal to reuse or development locations worldwide and that practice Waste-to- Landfill or
energy incineration
recycle end-of-life products such that the amount of continues today. We are committed to taking proactive
Appendix
product waste sent by our operations to landfills or for measures to prevent environmental contamination from
incineration does not exceed a combined 3% (by weight) of our operations and are taking swift action to clean up
5.2%
the total amount processed. environmental contamination found at 3 current IBM
Reused
locations and 17 formerly-owned locations where we
In 2023, we processed approximately 12,400 mt of
retain responsibility for environmental remediation.
end-of-life products and product scrap from 63 countries,
with 96.8% (by weight) resold, reused, or sent for Under the U.S. Superfund law, we are involved in
recycling, 2.5% sent to waste-to-energy processes, and remediation activities at some third-party sites in the U.S. 29.9%
0.7% sent to landfills or for incineration for final The Superfund law creates retroactive responsibility for all
Resold
disposition. This includes both end-of-life products parties that may have sent waste or otherwise contributed
generated by IBM and its clients. to contamination at a site, regardless of whether the site’s 61.7%
operations and/or the shipments of waste to that site were Sent for
Since we began reporting on product disposal in 1995,
legal, or even best practices, at the time. Currently, we are recycling
IBM has processed 1.14 million mt (2.51 billion pounds) of
participating in remediation activities or bear some
products and product waste worldwide.
financial responsibility at 15 Superfund sites.
Product Reuse and Recycling 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Total end-of-life products and product waste processed (mt x 1,000) 20.8 16.9 18.0 12.4 12.4
% By weight of total end-of-life products and product waste sent by IBM’s 0.8% 0.5% 0.3% 0.4% 0.7%
product end-of-life operations to landfill or incineration for treatment (goal
not to exceed a combined 3% by weight)
IBM 2023
ESG Report 56
Contents
Introduction Supply Chain
Governance
Social Environmental Responsibility
Environment
Appendix
- Require key suppliers in emissions-intensive business
IBM has long committed to doing - Convene an annual Sustainability Leadership
sectors to set an emissions reduction goal by 2022,
Symposium to recognize progress and achievement
business with suppliers who conduct addressing their Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions,
among suppliers in emissions-intensive business
themselves with high standards of ethical, that is aligned with scientific recommendations from the
sectors across applicable areas of
UN IPCC to limit Earth’s warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius
environmental, and social responsibility. environmental stewardship.
above pre-industrial levels.
We support this commitment by setting - In September 2023, we held our second annual
- As of year-end 2023, 98% of the key logistics, airline,
specific environmental requirements for symposium with the theme of innovative approaches
hotel, production, and technology product suppliers
to waste reduction – an area that touches all
our suppliers and by partnering with them in scope of IBM’s goal demonstrated that they have
businesses and is key for preventing pollution and
set GHG emissions reduction goals. We will continue
to drive continual improvement. reducing the consumption of natural resources. We
to engage with the remaining 2% of in-scope
had over 100 participants, including a diverse mix of
suppliers and track the status of their goal setting
Environmental Goals for Suppliers suppliers such as manufacturers, logistics providers,
process through completion.
facility service providers, hotels, and airlines. The
Since 2010, IBM has required first-tier suppliers to - Establish, by year-end 2021, individual baselines for symposium included 4 roundtable discussions
establish their own environmental management systems, fleet carbon intensity with each key carrier and addressing: (1) Driving a circular economy through
as well as set, and publicly disclose progress on, shipment supplier involved with our product distribution procurement best practices (2) Pros, cons, and
quantifiable goals for energy management, GHG emissions globally. Starting in 2022, convene with each supplier to challenges of zero waste to landfill certifications (3)
reduction and waste management. We also established the set a fleet carbon intensity reduction target covering the Strategies to minimize manufacturing waste, and (4)
following additional goals to help accelerate GHG services they provide to IBM. Tools for tracking and measuring waste.
emissions reduction in our supply chain and to encourage
- Both goals were completed. In 2021, we engaged
suppliers to take ownership and build their capabilities
each of our key carrier and shipment suppliers to
across a broad range of sustainability topics.
better understand their GHG emissions reduction
programs and fleet carbon intensity baselines for
their respective logistics operations. During 2022, we
validated that these suppliers had GHG emissions
reduction targets in place, either based on fleet
carbon intensity or based on total absolute GHG
emissions, covering the services they provide to IBM.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 57
Contents
Introduction Solutions for When working with IBM, companies can accelerate their journey through five business and
sustainability imperatives:
Governance
Energy Transition and Climate Resilience: Transitioning to Responsible Computing and Green IT: Through energy
Social Sustainability renewable energy sources increases supply and demand efficient data centers, compute and storage platforms,
complexity. Weather events impact energy availability and the emissions observability and planning tools, and consulting
Environment infrastructure stability essential to meeting demands. Data and services, IBM helps clients modernize their IT and embed more
AI are key to transforming the increasingly distributed and responsible and sustainable strategies across the IT landscape
Appendix complex electricity grids utility providers will need. IBM to achieve their goals. Clients can design, deploy, manage and
Consulting's Energy Transition Services leverages AI, IoT and optimize energy efficient infrastructures with a hybrid cloud
blockchain to support new energy marketplaces, enable more approach using IBM LinuxONE, IBM z16, IBM Power, IBM
efficient and reliable utility operations and create more Storage, IBM Turbonomic®, Apptio® and IBM Cloud.
To track the many ways our technology and
resilient, long-lasting physical infrastructure. IBM Maximo® Organizations are seeing benefits from using AI to automate IT,
innovation enable clients to improve their helps manage and maintain widely dispersed energy business or network processes, including cost savings and
infrastructure assets to optimize power generation, distribution efficiencies. Artificial Intelligent Units (AIUs) and system-on-
environmental sustainability, we
and workforces while the IBM Environmental intelligence Suite chips dedicated to AI can save energy and increase speed. IBM
established a goal in 2021 to document provides insights to help build resilience to climate impacts. Global Asset Recovery Services (GARS) can support end-of-life
hardware refurbishment, remanufacturing, and recycling.
100 client engagements or research Client Case Studies:
projects by 2025 in which IBM products,
Neste, ABO Wind Client Case Studies:
Norsk helsenett, Coop Group
capabilities, and solutions have enabled
Intelligent Assets, Facilities, and Infrastructure: IBM helps
demonstrable environmental benefits. At clients build more efficient physical operations to increase Sustainability Strategy, Data and Reporting: With deep
productivity, advance decarbonization and reduce cost, waste industry expertise, an ecosystem of partnerships and proven
year-end 2023, 72 such engagements or
and emissions. IBM’s AI-powered asset lifecycle management co-creation methods, IBM Consulting guides clients’
projects had been documented. solutions help clients respond to new requirements by sustainable transformation journeys using a comprehensive
embedding sustainable practices into their daily operations approach firmly rooted in materiality and future-proofed
through their assets, facilities and infrastructure. Maximo and outcomes that integrate sustainability and business objectives.
IBM’s Sustainability Solutions TRIRIGA® application suites and IBM Consulting expertise Strategic advisory services and the IBM Garage™ method help
enable clients to reduce downtime and extend asset life, clients transition swiftly from vision and goals to successful
improve asset performance and reliability, optimize facility and execution of impactful, ethical innovations at scale in order to
Companies across sectors are looking to transform their
space utilization and maximize technician productivity to help achieve their business and sustainability objectives and meet
business models by leveraging sustainability to meet the
them build a more reliable and sustainable future. regulatory requirements. IBM offers industry-leading, AI-
growing demands of key stakeholders and customers. The enabled solutions including the IBM Envizi ESG Suite,
pursuit of net zero GHG emissions can only truly begin Client Case Studies: OpenPages® and Planning Analytics, which all help clients
when an organization is able to monitor, track, and report Transport for London, King Abdullah Financial District reduce the cost, time, and burden of ESG reporting and
on their energy use, GHG emissions, and associated goals, data management.
so that they can take action. Sustainable Supply Chains and Circularity: IBM helps clients
design, build and run more sustainable, resilient, and equitable
Client Case Studies:
IBM’s sustainability technology, consulting and research
ts ru ap np sl py
a
c rh ea ni tn os
p
b ey
r
ale tiv oe nr sa .g Oin ug
r
r te es cp ho nn os loib gl ye as no du r ec xin pg
e
ra tn isd
e optimize BanFast, Water Corporation
capabilities can help make data more visible and workflows to hyper-automate decision making, cut cost and
actionable. By leveraging AI and automation we can help accelerate profit by introducing AI, blockchain and integration
accelerate clients’ business objectives and sustainability capabilities into your supply chain ecosystem. Our Engineering
goals; increase productivity; reduce costs, waste, Lifecycle Management, IBM Sterling® Order and Fulfillment
and emissions—and help them meet their Suite and IBM Sterling Supply Chain Intelligence provide
supply chain resiliency and transparency with an accelerated
regulatory requirements.
time to value through actionable insights.
Client Case Studies:
Antonello Produce, Pietro Coricelli
IBM 2023
ESG Report 58
Contents
Introduction
Governance
Social
Environment
Appendix
Appendix
IBM 2023
ESG Report
Contents
Introduction ESG Data Summary
Governance
Social The following tables disclose information about our ESG programs, policies and metrics in reference to the following voluntary reporting frameworks and
initiatives: The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI); the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Software & IT Services industry standards; and
Environment
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Appendix
General
Description GRI SASB SDGs
Organization name International Business Machines Corporation 2-1
Location of headquarters Armonk, NY 2-1
Reporting practice
The current year data presented covers our global operations. Certain supplier and employee-related data and programs presented may not
Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting 2-2
include or may not be applicable to certain acquired or non-wholly owned subsidiaries.
Reporting period January 1, 2023 to December 31, 2023. 2-3
Reporting frequency Annual 2-3
Contact point ESG@IBM.com 2-3
Restatements of information To the extent any historical information has been updated or recast, the information has been disclosed accordingly. 2-4
IBM completed an external limited assurance audit of our 2023 greenhouse gas emissions inventory and the underlying data and
External assurance calculation processes. 2-5
Greenhouse Gas Independent Limited Assurance Statement
We conduct regular impact assessments to inform ESG strategy and to identify which topics are important to our shareholders. We are
Process to determine material topics currently performing a double materiality assessment as required in accordance with the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive.1 3-1, 3-2, 3-3 TC-SI-230a.2
Statement on sustainable development strategy 2023 IBM Impact Report (page 5) 2-22 16
Activities, value chain and other business relationships IBM Products, 2023 IBM Annual Report 2-6
Economic performance
Direct economic value generated and distributed 2023 IBM Annual Report (pages 8, 46-49); 2023 IBM Impact Report (pages 35-38) 201-1
IBM does not disclose government financial assistance unless deemed financially or otherwise material under U.S. accounting and securities
laws, rules and regulations. As a publicly traded company, IBM discloses matters and other transactions deemed reportable under the U.S.
Financial assistance received from government GAAP and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission regulations in IBM’s 2023 Annual Report or other required filings with the U.S. 201-4
Securities and Exchange Commission.
2023 IBM Annual Report (page 56)
We proactively engage and collaborate with stakeholders from a cross-section of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), government
Stakeholder engagement agencies, businesses, suppliers, industry associations, investors, academia, communities and employees, and stockholders to identify and 2-29
prioritize issues.
IBM proactively engages and collaborates with stakeholders from a cross-section of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), universities, industry
associations and advocacy organizations on environmental matters, diversity and equality, and supply chain responsibility. IBM has received
recognition and awards from numerous advocacy groups, governments, and NGOs for its corporate responsibility efforts. Among IBM’s memberships
and associations are the Climate Registry, the UN Science-Policy Business Forum on the Environment (UN-SPBF), and the Responsible Business
Membership associations Alliance, of which IBM is a founding member. IBM is a core partner of the New York Climate Exchange, focused on building a climate education, 2-28
workforce development and research center in New York City. IBM is also a member of MIT Climate and Sustainability Consortium. IBM has
participated in policy advocacy in support of diverse communities. IBM has supported several bills brought forth to the U.S. Congress, including The
Respect for Marriage Act, The Equality Act, The Dream Act and The American Dream and Promise Act.
2023 IBM Impact Report (pages 30, 39-42, 44, 71); IBM Voluntary Environmental Initiatives ; IBM Government and Regulatory Affairs
1 Our assessments are solely intended to reflect priority ESG issues and should not be construed as a characterization regarding the materiality of such information to IBM’s business or operating results. These assessments are not a determination of “materiality”
as the term is defined in securities or other laws of the United States or other jurisdictions, nor its use in the context of financial reporting.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 60
Contents
Introduction Ethical Impact | Governance
Description 2021 2022 2023 GRI SASB SDGs
Governance
Governance structure 2024 IBM Proxy Statement (pages 8-24); IBM Board Corporate Governance Guidelines ; 2023 IBM Impact Report (pages 9, 12-14) 2-9 8, 16
Social Nomination and selection of the highest governance body 2024 IBM Proxy Statement (pages 8-17, 23) 2-10
IBM Chairman of the Board is CEO Arvind Krishna.
Environment Chair of the highest governance body 2-11
2024 IBM Proxy Statement (pages 4, 18, 21-22); IBM Business Conduct Guidelines; IBM Board Corporate Governance Guidelines
Appendix Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the
2024 IBM Proxy Statement (pages 4, 18, 21-22); 2023 IBM Impact Report (pages 12-14) 2-12
management of impacts
Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts 2023 IBM Impact Report (page 9) 2-13
Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting 2024 IBM Proxy Statement (pages 24, 29-30); 2023 IBM Impact Report (page 9) 2-14
Collective knowledge of the highest governance body 2024 IBM Proxy Statement (pages 5, 8-10, 24, 29-30); 2023 IBM Impact Report (pages 9, 14) 2-17
Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body 2024 IBM Proxy Statement (pages 8-17, 23) 2-18
Board of directors 2023 IBM Impact Report (pages 12-14) TC-SI-330a.3 8
Average tenure (years) 4.9 5.9 5.9
Non-independent directors 1 1 1
Independent directors 11 11 12
Gender and ethnic diversity 33% 33% 38% 405-1 5
Director nominees with <5 year tenure 8 6 6
Director nominees with 5-10 year tenure 2 4 5
Director nominees with >10 year tenure 2 2 2
Risk management, business ethics, and compliance
TC-SI-550a.1,
Business continuity risks related to disruptions of operations 2024 Impact Report (page 15); 2023 IBM Proxy Statement; IBM CDP Disclosures; 2023 IBM 10-K (pages 3-11) 201-2, 205-1
TC-SI-550a.2
As a company with a substantial employee population and with clients in more than 175 countries, IBM is involved, either as plaintiff or
defendant, in a variety of ongoing claims, demands, suits, investigations and proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course
Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and of its business. As a publicly traded company, IBM discloses pending, material legal matters deemed reportable under the U.S. GAAP and
monopoly practices U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission regulations in IBM’s Forms 2023 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K or other required filings with the U.S. Securities 206-1 TC-SI-520a.1
and Exchange Commission.
2023 IBM 10-K
Communication and training about anti-corruption policies
2023 IBM Impact Report (page 16); IBM Business Conduct Guidelines 205-2
and procedures
As a company with a substantial employee population and with clients in more than 175 countries, IBM is involved, either as plaintiff or
defendant, in a variety of ongoing claims, demands, suits, investigations and proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course
of its business. As a publicly traded company, IBM discloses pending, material legal matters deemed reportable under the U.S. GAAP and
Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission regulations in IBM’s Forms 2023 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K or other required filings with the U.S. Securities 205-3
and Exchange Commission.
2023 IBM 10-K
Although IBM does not publicly disclose the total number and nature of critical concerns reported to the Board, the Board and its
committees have oversight responsibility for ESG-related matters: they are continuously engaged with senior management on risk
Communication of critical concerns management and activities, policies and progress towards our ESG goals. 2-16
2024 IBM Proxy Statement (pages 24-25); 2023 IBM Impact Report (pages 9, 12-14)
Policy commitments IBM Reports and Policies; 2024 Impact Report (page 16) ; IBM Business Conduct Guidelines 2-23, 2-24
Processes to remediate negative impacts 2023 IBM Impact Report (page 16); IBM Business Conduct Guidelines 2-25
Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns 2023 IBM Impact Report (page 16); IBM Business Conduct Guidelines 2-26
IBM 2023
ESG Report 61
Contents
Introduction Ethical Impact | Governance
Description 2021 2022 2023 GRI SASB SDGs
Governance
IBM does not disclose non-compliance unless deemed financially or otherwise material under U.S. accounting and securities laws, rules and
Social regulations. As a publicly traded company, IBM discloses matters and other transactions deemed reportable under the U.S. GAAP and U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission regulations in IBM’s Forms 2023 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K or other required filings with the U.S. Securities and
Compliance with laws and regulations 2-27
Environment Exchange Commission.
IBM Global Environmental Management System; IBM Product Stewardship; 2023 IBM Impact Report (page 15); 2023 IBM 10-K; 2023 IBM
Appendix Annual Report
Conflicts of interest 2024 IBM Proxy Statement (pages 20-21); IBM Business Conduct Guidelines 2-15
Policy advocacy IBM Government and Regulatory Affairs; 2023 IBM Impact Report (page 21) 415-1 16
IBM Tax Governance Policy; IBM Business Conduct Guidelines; 2023 IBM Annual Report (pages 78-81); 2024 IBM Proxy Statement 207-1, 207-2,
Tax
As required by OECD guidelines and U.S. tax law, our country-by-country report is filed with the U.S. Internal Revenue service. 207-3, 207-4
Customer health, safety and privacy 3
IBM has not experienced controversies about the safety of IBM's products nor has IBM paid any regulatory or court-imposed fines,
Customer health and safety settlements or awards related to the safety of IBM products or services in the past three years. 416-1, 416-2 16
2023 IBM Impact Report (page 17); IBM Product Stewardship; IBM Global Employment Standards
Product and service information and labeling IBM Global Labeling Guidelines 417-1, 417-2 12
Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing
IBM does not maintain a record of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications. 417-3 16
communications
TC-SI-220a.1,
TC-SI-220a.2,
TC-SI-220a.3,
IBM Data Privacy Policy; IBM Trust Center; Principles for Trust and Transparency; IBM Privacy Statement; 2023 IBM Annual Report; 2023
Data privacy and cybersecurity 418-1 TC-SI-220a.4, 16
IBM Impact Report (pages 17-20)
TC-SI-220a.5,
TC-SI-230a.1,
TC-SI-230a.2
IBM 2023
ESG Report 62
Contents
Introduction Equitable Impact | Social
Description 2021 2022 2023 GRI SASB SDGs
Governance
Employees 2023 IBM Annual Report (page 15); 2022 IBM Annual Report (page 15); 2021 IBM Annual Report (page 15) 2-7, 2-8
Social Total employees (in thousands)
IBM/wholly owned subsidiaries 282.1 288.3 282.2
Environment
Less-than-wholly owned subsidiaries 9.8 8.2 8.7
Appendix Complementary 15.7 14.8 14.4
Employees responded to the annual Engagement Survey 170,000 185,000 187,000 TC-SI-330a.2
Employees that indicated that they were engaged at work 8 out of 10 8 out of 10 8 out of 10 TC-SI-330a.2
Career and development 2023 IBM Impact Report (page 24); IBMer Learning and Development 404-2, 404-3
Total employee learning hours worldwide (M) 22.5 24.3 23.1 TC-SI-330a.2
Average learning hours per regular/full time employee 84 86 85 404-1 TC-SI-330a.2
403-3, 403-4,
Health, safety, and well-being 2023 IBM Impact Report (page 26); IBM Health and Safety Report 403-5, 403-6, 3
403-7
403-1, 403-2,
Health and safety management system IBM Health and Safety Policy; IBM Business Conduct Guidelines; IBM ISO Management Certifications
403-8
Worker-related injuries 403-9
Number of fatalities 1 0 0
Rate of fatalities 0.0016 0 0
Number of high-consequence work-related injuries 5 1 1
Rate of high-consequence work-related injuries1 0.0082 0.0018 0.0018
Number of recordable work-related injuries2 38 9 32
Rate of recordable work-related injuries 0.0625 0.0159 0.0588
Number of hours worked 607,952,000 564,650,000 544,558,000
Slips, trips and falls, automobile and struck Struck by/strike against an object, slips and Struck by/strike against an object, slips and
Main types of work-related injuries
by/strike against an object falls, overexertion falls, overexertion
Worker-related ill health 403-10
Number of fatalities as a result of work-related ill health 0 0 0
Number of cases of recordable work-related ill health2 22 24 35
Main types of work-related ill health Hearing loss & musculoskeletal Hearing loss & musculoskeletal Hearing loss, mental health, musculoskeletal
Benefits IBM Benefits; 2023 IBM Impact Report (page 26) 401-2, 401-3
Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 2023 IBM Annual Report (pages 57, 107-110) 201-3
Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes IBM Global Employment Standards 402-1
Compensation
Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to
IBM Global Employment Standards 202-1
local minimum wage
Overall, IBM pays equitably for similar work. Women globally earn $1.00 for every $1.00 earned by men for similar work.
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 405-2
IBM Impact Report (31); IBM Global Employment Standards
Remuneration policies and process to determine remuneration 2024 IBM Proxy Statement (pages 25-26, 33-66); IBM Executive Compensation and Management Resources Committee Charter 2-19, 2-20
Annual total compensation ratio 2024 IBM Proxy Statement (page 64) 2-21
1 1,000,000 hours worked is used for rate calculations.
2 ASTM E2920-19 Standard Guide for Recording Occupational Injuries and Illnesses is used to standardize reporting of work-related recordable (i.e., Level 1) injuries and illnesses.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 63
Contents
Introduction Equitable Impact | Social
Description 2021 2022 2023 GRI SASB SDGs
Governance
TC-SI-330a.1,
Diversity and inclusion 2023 IBM Impact Report (pages 32-34); IBM EEO-1; Red Hat EEO-1 405-1 5, 8
Social TC-SI-330a.3
Representation trends 2023 IBM Impact Report (pages 32-33) 405-1
Environment
Overall representation
Appendix
Women (Global) 36.7% 37.2% 37.4%
Black (U.S.) 7.4% 7.7% 7.5%
Hispanic (U.S.) 6.6% 7.0% 7.0%
Native American (U.S.) 0.3% 0.3% 0.3%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander (U.S.) 0.2% 0.2% 0.2%
Pan-Asian (U.S.) 19.2% 19.7% 20.5%
Multi-race (U.S.) 0.9% 0.9% 0.9%
Management representation
Women (Global) 31.0% 31.1% 31.4%
Black (U.S.) 5.6% 5.8% 5.6%
Hispanic (U.S.) 5.0% 5.6% 5.9%
Native American (U.S.) 0.3% 0.3% 0.4%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander (U.S.) 0.1% 0.1% 0.1%
Pan-Asian (U.S.) 17.1% 18.4% 19.6%
Multi-race (U.S.) 0.8% 0.8% 0.8%
Technical representation
Women (Global) 30.1% 30.6% 31.1%
Black (U.S.) 6.6% 7.1% 6.8%
Hispanic (U.S.) 6.7% 7.0% 6.8%
Native American (U.S.) 0.2% 0.3% 0.3%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander (U.S.) 0.2% 0.2% 0.2%
Pan-Asian (U.S.) 24.5% 24.7% 23.6%
Multi-race (U.S.) 1.0% 0.9% 0.9%
Executive representation
Women (Global) 28.8% 29.1% 30.2%
Black (U.S.) 6.1% 6.6% 6.4%
Hispanic (U.S.) 5.5% 5.9% 6.4%
Native American (U.S.) 0.3% 0.5% 0.5%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander (U.S.) 0.1% 0.1% 0.1%
Pan-Asian (U.S.) 15.7% 16.6% 17.6%
Multi-race (U.S.) 0.5% 0.6% 0.7%
Opportunities for self-identification 2023 IBM Impact Report (page 31)
Self-identified as People with Diverse Abilities 1.0% 1.0% 4.7%
Self-identified as Veterans 5.0% 5.0% 4.9%
Self-identified as LGBTQ+ 9.0% 9.0% 10.0%
IBM 2023
ESG Report 64
Contents
Introduction Equitable Impact | Social
Description 2021 2022 2023 GRI SASB SDGs
Governance
Hiring trends
Social Overall new hires1 Over 79,0001 Over 59,000 Over 30,000 401-1
Women (Global) 40.1% 39.7% 40.5%
Environment
Black (U.S.) 13.8% 13.5% 12.4%
Appendix Hispanic (U.S.) 9.6% 9.8% 8.9%
Native American (U.S.) 0.3% 0.3% 0.5%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander (U.S.) 0.2% 0.3% 0.2%
Pan-Asian (U.S.) 23.5% 24.0% 27.6%
Multi-race (U.S.) 0.7% 0.7% 0.5%
Management new hires
Women (Global) 34.1% 30.4% 33.4%
Black (U.S.) 10.0% 8.8% 5.5%
Hispanic (U.S.) 8.1% 4.0% 10.2%
Native American (U.S.) 0.5% 0.0% 0.0%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander (U.S.) 0.3% 0.4% 0.0%
Pan-Asian (U.S.) 19.4% 22.9% 27.3%
Multi-race (U.S.) 0.3% 0.0% 0.0%
Technical new hires
Women (Global) 34.0% 32.5% 32.8%
Black (U.S.) 11.6% 11.5% 11.7%
Hispanic (U.S.) 8.9% 8.6% 6.7%
Native American (U.S.) 0.2% 0.2% 0.8%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander (U.S.) 0.2% 0.3% 0.2%
Pan-Asian (U.S.) 29.9% 31.9% 34.2%
Multi-race (U.S.) 0.9% 0.9% 0.7%
Executives new hires
Women (Global) 33.2% 30.9% 36.4%
Black (U.S.) 10.4% 7.1% 6.8%
Hispanic (U.S.) 7.1% 6.4% 13.6%
Native American (U.S.) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%
Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander (U.S.) 0.4% 0.0% 0.0%
Pan-Asian (U.S.) 20.0% 20.5% 28.4%
Multi-race (U.S.) 0.0% 1.9% 0.0%
Diversity and international experience are crucial for IBM, which operates in more than 175 countries. Our business success is derived from
Proportion of senior management hired from the an understanding of diverse business environments and economic conditions, and a broad perspective on global business opportunities. We
202-2
local community support local management in implementing our business strategy, programs and initiatives.
IBM Global Employment Standards
1 Restated to include Red Hat and to align with 2023 revision of definition of employee categories to improve consistency.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 65
Contents
Introduction Equitable Impact | Social
Description 2021 2022 2023 GRI SASB SDGs
Governance
203-1, 203-2,
Community development 2023 IBM Impact Report (pages 35-38) 2, 6, 7, 11
Social 413-1
Total contributions worldwide ($M)1 $474.1 $447.9 $386.9
Environment
Contributions by type
Appendix Technology $387.8 $338.4 $307.8
Services $42.1 $64.7 $52.4
Cash $44.2 $44.8 $26.7
Contributions by region
Europe, Middle East, Africa $167.9 $151.1 $144.7
Asia Pacific $150.4 $103.3 $105.2
North America $109.4 $171.6 $116.8
Latin America $46.4 $21.8 $20.1
Worldwide retiree and employee volunteer hours 440,000 431,000 543,000
IBM operates in more than 175 countries and in many of them our workforce is represented by unions and collective bargaining agreements
(CBA) are in place. However, the level of the CBA (enterprise, sector, cross-sector or a combination) may differ from country to country,
Collective bargaining agreements
ranging from a small percentage of our employees being covered by a CBA in some locations, to 100% coverage in others.
2-30, 407-1
IBM Global Employment Standards; RBA Supplier Code of Conduct
406-1, 410-1,
2023 IBM Impact Report (pages 10, 17, 29, 35-38); IBM Human Rights Principles; IBM Global Employment Standards; IBM Business 411-1, 413-1,
Human rights TC-SI-330a.2 1, 2
Conduct Guidelines; IBM Global Environmental Management System; IBM Corporate Environmental Policy 413-2, 408-1,
409-1
1 Does not add due to the use of rounded numbers for disclosure purposes.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 66
Contents
Introduction Equitable Impact | Social
Description 2023 GRI SASB SDGs
Governance
Supply chain social responsibility 2023 IBM Impact Report (pages 39-42); IBM Supply Chain Responsibility; IBM Supplier Diversity 414-1, 414-2 5, 8, 16, 17
Social First-tier supplier diversity spend ($B) 204-1
U.S. $0.9
Environment
Non-U.S. $0.3
Appendix Total worldwide $1.2
Supplier RBA full audits and re-audits by country Full audit Re-audit Total
Brazil 2 2 4
Bulgaria 0 1 1
Chile 5 4 9
China 22 15 37
Columbia 0 1 1
Czech Republic 2 1 3
Germany 3 1 4
Greece 1 0 1
Hungary 1 1 2
India 9 5 14
Italy 2 0 2
Japan 4 1 5
Korea 1 1 2
Malaysia 3 1 4
Mexico 10 5 15
Philippines 3 2 5
Romania 1 2 3
Singapore 3 1 4
Taiwan 5 3 8
Thailand 3 0 3
UAE 1 1 2
United States 1 0 1
Total 82 48 130
IBM 2023
ESG Report 67
Contents
Introduction Equitable Impact | Social
Description 2023 GRI SASB SDGs
Governance
Supplier RBA full audits - Top 10 nonconformances to RBA
Priority & major nonconformance Minor nonconformance Total
Social code provisions
Labor - Management systems 11.7% 0.8% 12.5%
Environment
Health & safety - Management systems 10.7% 1.2% 11.9%
Appendix Emergency preparedness 8.3% 2.1% 10.4%
Working hours 5.7% 4.4% 10.1%
Ethics 7.1% 0.0% 7.1%
Occupational safety 6.0% 0.2% 6.2%
Environmental management systems 5.7% 0.0% 5.7%
Freely chosen employment 3.0% 1.7% 4.7%
Wages and benefits 3.5% 1.0% 4.5%
Occupational injury and illness 2.6% 0.4% 3.0%
Improved nonconformance rates from re-audits Full audits Re-audits —
Working hours (Lab) 15.3% 7.4% —
Emergency preparedness (H&S) 10.9% 0.6% —
Occupational safety (H&S) 7.0% 0.6% —
Freely chosen employment (Lab) 6.2% 0.6% —
Wages and benefits (Lab) 5.6% 2.1% —
Occupational injury and illness (H&S) 4.9% 0.0% —
Non-discrimination (Mgt) 4.1% 0.2% —
Audits and assessments (Mgt) 3.3% 0.6% —
Management accountability and responsibility (Mgt) 2.9% 0.0% —
Legal and customer requirements 2.7% 0.8% —
IBM 2023
ESG Report 68
Contents
Introduction Environmental Impact | Environment
Description 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 GRI SASB SDGs
Governance
Global environmental management system ISO 14001; ISO 50001; ISO 14064-1; 2023 IBM Impact Report (page 44)
Social 302-1, 302-2,
Energy consumption 2023 IBM Impact Report (page 46) TC-SI-130a.1 7, 8, 11, 12, 13
302-4, 302-5
Environment Total operational energy consumption (MWh) 2,837,000 2,529,000 2,486,000 2,448,000 2,287,0001
Due to the wide range of services and activities associated with IBM operations, IBM does not report an energy intensity metric for
Appendix Energy intensity 302-3
our operations.
Data center energy efficiency 2023 IBM Impact Report (page 48) TC-SI-130a.3 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13
Renewable electricity 2023 IBM Impact Report (page 46) TC-SI-130a.1 7, 8, 11, 12, 13
Renewable electricity procurement as percentage of total
electricity consumption (goal 75% by 2025, and 90% 42.9% 55.6% 62.7% 65.9% 70.6%
by 2030)2
Greenhouse gas emissions 2023 IBM Impact Report (page 50); IBM Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory 11, 13
Total operational GHG emissions covered by our goal3,4,5 809,000 569,000 475,000 430,000 364,000
Operational GHG emissions reduction as % of 2010 base year
(goal 65% by 2025)4 30.0% 50.8% 58.9% 62.8% 68.5% 305-5
GHG emissions inventory (in metric tons of CO-equivalent)5
2
Scope 1 (direct emissions) 98,000 73,000 78,000 78,000 71,000 305-1
Use of fossil fuels for operations 64,000 59,000 58,000 54,000 49,000
Use of fossil fuels for transportation 26,000 8,000 8,000 17,000 14,000
Use of chemicals with a global warming potential 8,000 6,000 12,000 7,000 8,000
Scope 2 (market-based) 460,000 262,000 221,000 183,000 150,000 305-2
Use of electricity in IBM-managed locations 434,000 240,000 198,000 170,000 139,000
Use of purchased energy commodities 26,000 22,000 23,000 13,000 11,000
Scope 2 (location-based) 546,000 413,000 356,000 330,000 306,000 305-2
Scope 3 (indirect emissions) 305-3
Purchased goods and services6 251,000 234,000 176,000 169,000 143,000
Use of sold products7 287,000 291,000 272,000 264,000 297,000
Upstream leased assets8 40,000 13,000 13,000 18,000 13,000
Business travel9 393,000 85,000 37,000 125,000 117,000
Employee commuting10 119,000 42,000 15,000 10,000 15,000
Biogenic emissions11 — — — — 700 305-3
Due to the wide range of services and activities associated with IBM operations, there is not a GHG emissions intensity metric that is
applicable across all our operations. However, an intensity metric for overall IBM operations can be derived from dividing our reported
GHG emissions intensity 305-4
Scopes 1, 2 and 3 emissions by IBM’s revenue.
IBM Energy and Climate
Air emissions IBM Pollution Prevention 305-6, 305-7 13
303-1, 303-2,
Water management 2023 IBM Impact Report (page 52) TC-SI-130a.2 6, 14, 15
303-5
Percent annual reduction in water withdrawals at larger IBM
locations in water-stressed regions (goal year-to-year 2.0% 6.7% 4.3% 0.19% -3.4% 303-3
reduction)
IBM does not report total water discharges from all locations where we operate. Water discharges are managed at a location level and
Water discharge discharge information is reported to regulatory agencies where required. 303-4
IBM Water Conservation; IBM CDP Disclosures
IBM 2023
ESG Report 69
Contents
Introduction Environmental Impact | Environment
Description 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 GRI SASB SDGs
Governance
306-1, 306-2,
Nonhazardous waste 2023 IBM Impact Report (pages 54-56) 12
Social 306-5
Total generated (metric tons x 1,000) 31.5 22.1 20.7 14.8 16.5 306-3
Environment Percent by weight diverted from landfill or incineration
87.3% 83.3% 94.2% 93.8% 94.2% 306-4
(goal 90% by 2025)
Appendix
Percent by weight of diverted waste sent to waste-to-
energy processes (goal no more than 10%, established — — 9.7% 11.9% 10.0%
in 2021)
Hazardous waste IBM Pollution Prevention 306-1, 306-2 12
Product packaging and materials use 2023 IBM Impact Report (pages 52, 54-56) 301-3 12
301-1, 301-2,
Product reuse and recycling 2023 IBM Impact Report (pages 54-56) 12
301-3
Total end-of-life products and product waste processed (mt x
20.8 16.9 18.0 12.4 12.4
1,000)
Percent by weight of total end-of-life products and product
waste sent by IBM’s product end-of-life operations to landfill
0.8% 0.5% 0.3% 0.4% 0.7%
or incineration for treatment (goal not to exceed a combined
3% by weight)
304-1, 304-2,
Biodiversity IBM Biodiversity; 2023 IBM Impact Report (pages 52-53) 13, 14, 15
304-3, 304-4
IBM Supply Chain; IBM Supply Chain Responsibility; IBM Global Environmental Management System; IBM Management System
Supplier environmental assessment 308-1, 308-2 13, 17
Requirements for Suppliers; 2023 IBM Impact Report (page 57)
1 4.7% of energy consumption has been estimated for IBM locations that use less than 500 MWh of energy per year and in cases where the utility invoices were not available at the time of reporting.
2 Renewable electricity procurement includes contracted purchases and renewable electricity that automatically comes to IBM via routine grid power.
3 Covers all of IBM’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, as well as Scope 3 emissions associated with IBM’s electricity use at co-location data centers.
4 GHG emissions from previous years and base year have been adjusted to remove GHGs not covered by the Kyoto Protocol, which are not classified as Scope 1 emissions according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
5 Rounded to nearest thousand.
6 Purchased goods and services: These are the emissions associated with IBM's use of electricity in data centers located in facilities managed by third parties where IBM does not procure the electricity (also referred to as co-location data centers).
7 Use of sold products: These are the emissions associated with the electricity consumption of our sold products when they are used by our clients. In estimating emissions from the use of our sold products, we only capture products sold during the reporting year
and account for 12 months of estimated consumption. We use product specifications such as nameplate power, quantity of products sold every year, and we make assumptions around typical client hardware utilization rates, and use industry average Power
Usage Effectiveness and global electricity GHG emission factors to estimate these emissions. We do not extrapolate this data to estimate emissions around a hypothetical lifetime of our products because that would require gross assumptions based on lifetime
and specific client applications.
8 Upstream leased assets: In some countries, IBM provides leased vehicles for employees that they may use for personal purposes. For these vehicles, we have set standard guidelines that require leasing of vehicles with lower emissions profiles. These guidelines
enable reductions in average car emission levels as the car fleets are renewed.
9 Business travel: These emissions are associated to business air travel on commercial carriers and car rentals. Business travel is a necessary and important part of ensuring that IBM understands our clients' needs and delivers the best client experience possible.
We have worked with rental car companies to require that they offer more fuel-efficient vehicles to our employees while traveling for business. IBMers can reduce the need for travel by taking advantage of strategic collaboration and meeting tools that allow them
to easily engage with clients and their colleagues to have productive meetings, without the need for travel.
10 Employee commuting: Our reported figure for employee commuting emissions only includes estimations made for our U.S. employees since this is the population for which we can make credible assumptions around their commuting behavior and we have access
to reliable third-party data to estimate emissions. IBM has been active for decades in promoting programs that reduce employees' work-related commutes and associated GHG emissions. For example, many locations promote biking to work by having bicycle
lockers, racks and showers available on-site. At several larger locations, IBM sponsors shuttle services to transport employees to mass transit stations and also between IBM campuses and buildings. Also, many IBM locations are within reach of the public
transportation system, giving employees the choice to use more energy-efficient mass transit to commute to work. Globally, many of our locations partner with local public transit authorities to develop ride-sharing programs and negotiate subsidized transit
passes for IBM employees.
11 Biogenic emissions are CO
2
emissions associated with IBM’s use of biofuels. In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, these emissions are reported separately and not accounted for as Scope 1 emissions because they are considered part of the natural
CO
2
cycle.
IBM 2023
ESG Report 70
Contents
Introduction Awards and
Governance
Social Recognition Highlights
Environment
Appendix
IBM is recognized every year for its Disability:IN | 2023 Best Place to Work for Disability Newsweek | 2023: America's Greenest Companies,
Inclusion America's Greatest Workplaces for Diversity, America's
corporate responsibility efforts by
Greatest Workplaces for Parents and Families, America's
publications, advocacy groups,
Ethisphere | 2023 World’s Most Ethical Companies Greatest Workplaces for LGBTQ+
governments, and NGOs worldwide.
Forbes | 2023: World's Best Employers, Top 100 Net Zero SEAL Awards | 2023 SEAL Sustainable Product
Below are highlights of our recognition
Leaders, Best Employers for Diversity, Best Employers for Award - IBM z16
from 2023.
Women, America's Best Employers for Veterans
TIME | 2023 100 Most Influential Companies
Black Enterprise | 2023 Best Companies for Diversity, IDC | 2023 Worldwide AI Governance Platforms Vendor
Equity & Inclusion Assessment Leader USA Today | 2023 America's Climate Leaders
Comparably | 2023: Best CEOs, Best Company Culture, Institute of Directors, India | 2023 Golden Peacock U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundations | 2023 Citizens
Best Company for Women, Best Company for Diversity, Global Award for Sustainability Award - IBM Sustainability Accelerator
Best Company Compensation, Happiest Employees, Best
Company Work-Life Balance, Best CEOs for Women, Best JUST Capital | 2023 JUST 100
CEOs for Diversity, Best Career Growth, Best Leadership
Teams, Best Company Outlook, Best Global Culture
IBM 2023
ESG Report 71
Contents
Introduction Top Suppliers
Governance
Social
Environment
IBM’s Production and Logistics Procurement suppliers support our hardware brands and product distribution
Appendix
operations, while Services and General Procurement suppliers support client services, software offerings, and internal
operations. Below are IBM’s top 50 suppliers in each category in 2023 with links to their ESG reports, if available.
Production and Logistics Services and General Procurement
AcBel Polytech Geodis Nvidia Amazon Web Services Infinite Computer Systems SHI International
Advanced Energy Industries Government Contracting NXP Semiconductors Apleona Jones Lang LaSalle Sodexo
Specialists Inc.
AMD (Xilinx) Pentair Artech Juniper Networks Sun Life
Ibiden
Amphenol Reconext ASML Holdings N.V. KPMG Supermicro
Intel
BDT Media Automation Samsung AT&T Kyndryl Tech Mahindra
Jabil
Broadcom Sanmina Beijing Foreign Enterprise Lenovo The Employment Solution
Juniper Networks Service (FESCO)
Celestica Seagate ManpowerGroup Toshiba
Kioxia BI WORLDWIDE
Cisco Smart Modular Technologies Merative UNICOM Global
KLA Corporation Boston Consulting Group
Coherent Sony MetLife UnitedHealth Group
Kyocera Broadcom (VMware)
Competitive Engineering Inc. TD SYNNEX Corporation Microsoft Westcon-Comstor
Lenovo Capgemini
Compro Business Services Trenton Systems NetApp Whiting-Turner
Marvell Technology CBRE Group
UPS Oracle WPP
Delta Electronics
Mercury Corporation Cisco
WESCO Persistent Systems
Deutsche Post DHL
Microchip Technology Cloudera
Western Digital Precisely
FedEx
Micron Technology Collabera
Wistron Rocket Software
Flex
Molex Deloitte
Zollner Elektronik Salesforce
Fujifilm
NEC Platform Technologies Dun & Bradstreet
SAP
Fujitsu
Nippon Express Fidelity
SDI International
George P. Johnson
ServiceNow
HCL Technologies
IBM 2023
ESG Report 72
International Business Machines Corporation
New Orchard Road, Armonk, New York 10504
(914) 499-1900
© 2024 International Business Machines Corporation. All rights reserved.
IBM and the IBM logo are trademarks of International Business Machines
Corporation, registered in many jurisdictions worldwide. Other product
and service names might be trademarks of IBM or other companies. A
current list of IBM trademarks is available on ibm.com/trademark.
