2022
Environmental
Social
Governance
Report
Contents
Introduction 1 Environment 11 Social 24
Message from Our Chairman 2 Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability 12 Feature: Our Racial Equity Commitment 25
Company at a Glance 3 Scaling Green Solutions 13 Inclusive Growth 30
Our Approach to ESG 5 Meeting Needs Responsibly 17 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 38
Feature: $2.5T Sustainable Development Target 6 Minimizing Our Operational Impact 18 Human Capital 43
Governance 50 Appendices 61
Corporate Governance & ESG Oversight 51 List of Acronyms 62
Stakeholder Engagement 53 Global Reporting Initiative Index 63
Political Engagement and Public Policy 55 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Index 67
Managing Environmental and Social Risks 56 Prohibited Activities and Sensitive Sectors
Activities and Locations 70
Human Rights 56
Data Privacy & Cybersecurity 57
Business Ethics 59
Introduction
JPMorgan Chase has branches across 48 states
and Washington, D.C. Pictured: Crenshaw 1
Community Branch, Los Angeles, California
Message from Our Chairman
The past year has required strength and resilience from so In a time of ongoing war, global sanctions and economic through the Firm’s $30 billion Racial Equity Commitment. Our
many. It has also shown that the work we do at JPMorgan uncertainty we strive to help support energy security around commitment to advancing racial equity in the U.S. is a long-
INTRODUCTION Chase matters. For the customers and clients of the Firm, our the globe, while also accelerating the development and transi- term journey for the Firm, and we are already thinking of
work is impactful in good times—and is particularly important tion to afordable, reliable and lower-carbon energy solutions. what comes after the fve-year mark.
Message from Our Chairman through challenging times. We strive to be resilient to crisis
We recognize the signifcant economic and societal opportuni- Our people drive our success, and it is through their ingenu-
and to weather the pressure of each day while making strides
Company at a Glance ties associated with a successful transition to a low-carbon ity, excellence and integrity that we seek to build a prosper-
toward our long-term eforts at sustainable growth and bring-
Our Approach to ESG economy. In 2022, we continued to act on our goal to align ous business. We are investing in the future of the workplace,
ing value to our shareholders.
our fnancing of key sectors—Oil & Gas, Electric Power and focusing on well-being and frm culture, and embarking on
Feature: $2.5T Sustainable
Development Target For over 200 years, JPMorgan Chase has worked to help our Auto Manufacturing—with the goals of the Paris Agreement, construction of our new global headquarters in Manhattan,
employees, customers and communities turn their aspirations and have established three new sectoral goals for Iron & planned to be a zero-emissions building with state-of-the-art
ENVIRONMENTAL into realities. Our longstanding commitment to integrity, fair- Steel, Cement and Aviation. We are targeting $1 trillion by the space for our employees.
ness and responsibility continues to guide our work today as end of 2030—as part of an overall $2.5 trillion sustainable
Our work has seldom been more challenging, or more
SOCIAL we help to power the global economy. development target—to advance renewable energy and other
important, than the last several years. JPMorgan Chase
innovative technologies. And we are minimizing the environ-
This year’s ESG Report explains how we leverage our business employees, over 290,000 of us, persevere with a grace and
GOVERNANCE mental impact of our physical operations across thousands of
and expertise to help address economic and societal chal- fortitude that makes me proud. In this year’s ESG report, I
branches, as well as our data centers and corporate ofces.
lenges, primarily by supporting our clients and providing tar- invite you to read about the work we do to remain resilient
APPENDICES
geted capital to contribute to an inclusive, sustainable econ- Our business is stronger when our economy is more inclusive. and forge meaningful progress.
omy. We pursue these initiatives because we truly believe it is We are striving to advance economic inclusion around the
Jamie Dimon
right for our customer and communities, not to chase the lat- world, including our eforts to help close the racial wealth gap
Chairman & CEO, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
est fads or trends. among Black, Hispanic and Latino communities in the U.S.
April 2023
2
Company at a Glance
How We Do Business
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“JPMorgan Chase”, the “Firm” or BUSINESS PRINCIPLES
INTRODUCTION
“we”) is a fnancial services company based in the United
Message from Our Chairman States of America (“U.S.”), with branches in 48 states and
Washington D.C., 293,723 employees in 63 countries
Company at a Glance
worldwide and $3.7 trillion in assets as of December 31,
Our Approach to ESG
2022. The Firm is a leader in investment banking, fnancial
Feature: $2.5T Sustainable Exceptional client service Operational excellence A commitment to integrity, A great team and winning
services for consumers and small businesses, commercial
Development Target fairness and responsibility culture
banking, fnancial transaction processing and asset man- 1. Focus on the customer 4. Set the highest standards of
agement. Under the J.P. Morgan and Chase brands, the performance 11. Do not compromise our integrity 16. Hire, train and retain great, diverse
2. Be feld and client driven and
ENVIRONMENTAL
employees
Firm serves millions of customers, predominantly in the operate at the local level 5. Demand fnancial rigor and risk 12. Face facts
U.S., and many of the world’s most prominent corporate, discipline; We will always main- 17. Build teamwork, loyalty and morale
3. Build world-class franchises, 13. Have fortitude
SOCIAL
tain a fortress balance sheet
institutional and government clients. JPMorgan Chase’s investing for the long term, to 18. Maintain an open, entrepreneurial
14. Foster an environment of
activities are organized, for management reporting pur- serve our clients 6. Strive for the best internal gover- meritocracy for all
respect, inclusiveness, humanity
GOVERNANCE
nance and controls
poses, into four major reportable business segments, as and humility 19. Communicate honestly, clearly and
7. Act and think like owners and consistently
well as a Corporate segment. The Firm’s consumer busi-
15. Help strengthen the communi-
APPENDICES
partners
ness is the Consumer & Community Banking (“CCB”) seg- ties in which we live and work 20. Strive to be good leaders
8. Strive to build and maintain the
ment. The Firm’s wholesale business segments are the
best, most efcient systems and
Corporate & Investment Bank (“CIB”), Commercial Banking
operations
(“CB”), and Asset & Wealth Management (“AWM”). The
9. Be disciplined in everything we do
business segments are referred to as “lines of business”
10. Execute with both skill and urgency
(“LOB”). For further information, refer to Business Seg-
ment Results on pages 61–80 of our Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2022.
3
Consumer & Community Banking Commercial Banking About This Report
CCB ofers products and services to consumers and small businesses through bank CB provides comprehensive fnancial solutions, including lending, payments, invest- This ESG Report is designed to consolidate and summarize our
branches, ATMs, digital (including mobile and online) and telephone banking. CCB is ment banking and asset management products across three primary client seg- work on ESG topics that are important to our business and
organized into Banking & Wealth Management (including Consumer Banking, J.P. ments: Middle Market Banking, Corporate Client Banking and Commercial Real Estate stakeholders, and guide readers to where they can access
Morgan Wealth Management and Business Banking), Home Lending (including Home Banking. Middle Market Banking covers small and midsized companies, local govern- more detailed information about specifc topics of interest. All
Lending Production, Home Lending Servicing and Real Estate Portfolios) and Card ments and nonproft clients. Corporate Client Banking covers large corporations. data in this report is as of December 31, 2022, unless other-
Services & Auto. Banking & Wealth Management ofers deposit, investment and Commercial Real Estate Banking covers investors, developers, and owners of multi- wise noted.
lending products, cash management, payments and services. Home Lending family, ofce, retail, industrial and afordable housing properties.
This report has also been informed by the Global Reporting
includes mortgage origination and servicing activities, as well as portfolios consist-
Initiative ("GRI") and relevant Sector Standards, as well as the
INTRODUCTION
ing of residential mortgages and home equity loans. Card Services issues credit
Asset & Wealth Management Sustainability Accounting Standards Board ("SASB") reporting
cards and ofers travel services. Auto originates and services auto loans and leases.
standards. Our ESG Report Appendices (see pages 63–69) on
Message from Our Chairman
AWM, with client assets of $4.0 trillion, is a global leader in investment and wealth GRI and SASB map our Firm’s disclosures related to these
Company at a Glance
Corporate & Investment Bank management. Asset Management ofers multi-asset investment management solu- frameworks’ indicators and recommendations.
Our Approach to ESG
tions across equities, fxed income, alternatives and money market funds to institu-
Our Firm communicates information about our ESG practices
Feature: $2.5T Sustainable
CIB, which consists of Banking and Markets & Securities Services, ofers a broad tional and retail investors providing for a broad range of clients’ investment needs.
and performance through a number of channels—including
Development Target
suite of investment banking, market-making, prime brokerage, lending, and trea- The Global Private Bank provides retirement products and services, brokerage, cus-
our Annual Report and Proxy Statement, ESG and Climate
sury and securities products and services to a global client base of corporations, tody, estate planning, lending, deposits and investment management to high net
reports, regulatory flings, our website, press releases, direct
ENVIRONMENTAL
investors, fnancial institutions, merchants, and government and municipal entities. worth clients. The majority of AWM’s client assets are in actively managed portfolios.
conversations with stakeholders, and various other reports
Banking ofers a full range of investment banking products and services in all major
and presentations. We maintain a dedicated ESG Information
SOCIAL
capital markets, including advising on corporate strategy and structure, capital-rais-
Corporate page on our website to facilitate access to information that we
ing in equity and debt markets, as well as loan origination and syndication. Banking
publish on these topics.
GOVERNANCE
also includes Payments, which provides payments services enabling clients to man-
The Corporate segment consists of Treasury and Chief Investment Ofce (“CIO") and
age payments and receipts globally, and cross-border fnancing. Markets & Securi-
Other Corporate. Treasury and CIO is predominantly responsible for measuring, mon-
APPENDICES
ties Services includes Markets, a global market-maker across products, including
itoring, reporting and managing the Firm’s liquidity, funding, capital, structural inter-
cash and derivative instruments, which also ofers sophisticated risk management
est rate and foreign exchange risks. Other Corporate includes staf functions and
solutions, prime brokerage, and research. Markets & Securities Services also
expense that is centrally managed as well as certain Firm initiatives and activities
includes Securities Services, a leading global custodian which provides custody, fund
not aligned to a specifc LOB. The major Other Corporate functions include Real
accounting and administration, and securities lending products principally for asset
Estate, Technology, Legal, Corporate Finance, Human Resources, Internal Audit, Risk
managers, insurance companies and public and private investment funds.
Management, Compliance, Control Management, Corporate Responsibility and vari-
ous Other Corporate groups.
Information about JPMorgan Chase’s fnancial performance is available in our quar-
terly earnings materials, as well as quarterly and annual reports on Form 10-Q and
Form 10-K, respectively.
4
Our Approach to ESG
The fnance sector has an important role to play in helping to Our Key ESG Topics
address some of the most pressing environmental and social
INTRODUCTION (“E&S”) challenges of our time, primarily by supporting its cli- In 2022, JPMorgan Chase undertook a process to identify and assess which ESG top- Our process identifed the following as our key ESG topics:
ents and providing targeted capital to help scale solutions. ics are most pertinent to our business, operations and stakeholders. In doing this
ENVIRONMENTAL GOVERNANCE
Message from Our Chairman Building of the foundation of our Business Principles, we are work, we engaged with internal stakeholders and subject matter experts, and
leveraging our expertise, capital, data and resources to retained the services of an external consultant. The foregoing process and identif-
Company at a Glance
• Climate Change • Board Governance
advance inclusive growth, promote sustainable development, cation of key ESG topics was undertaken for the purposes of informing our ESG
Our Approach to ESG
and support the transition to a low-carbon economy. Environ- reporting; our inclusion of topics in this report is diferent from disclosures under • Climate Policy Engagement • Climate Risk
Feature: $2.5T Sustainable
• Operational Environmental Footprint
mental, Social and Governance ("ESG") matters are an import- mandatory regulatory reporting, including under U.S. Securities and Exchange Com- • Cybersecurity
Development Target
ant consideration in how we do business, including how we mission (“SEC”) regulations. • Responsible Investment and Financing • Data Privacy
• Transition to Low-Carbon Economy
develop our products and services, serve our customers, sup-
ENVIRONMENTAL To identify our key ESG topics, we undertook the following: • Economic Performance
port our employees and help lift our communities.
• Enterprise Risk Management
External research: including conducting a high-level review of key ESG trends that
SOCIAL
SOCIAL Our approach to ESG is supported and strengthened by our • ESG Compliance
apply to the Firm and assessing relevant topic areas identifed by voluntary ESG dis-
ongoing eforts to enhance accountability, transparency and
closure frameworks, ESG raters and rankers, and industry best practice, with the • Ethical Business Practices
• Consumer Financial Protection
GOVERNANCE engagement. Additionally, we strive to leverage the Firm’s
aim of identifying a list of potential ESG topics. • Geopolitical Risk
• Community Development
robust governance structures to foster sound management
Engagement: with internal stakeholders and subject matter experts from across the • Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Equal • Political Engagement, Public Policy and
APPENDICES and a culture of accountability on ESG matters. This includes
Firm to evaluate the potential list of ESG topics. We asked subject matter experts Opportunity Lobbying
defning oversight and management of ESG matters within
questions about what topics they view as important to the Firm and its key stake- • Responsible Marketing and Labeling
• Human Capital Development
and across our lines of business.
holders, including how these topics may impact or be impacted by certain busi- • Wages/Remuneration • Stakeholder Engagement
ness-related metrics.
• Succession Planning
Evaluation: of insights gained from internal stakeholder engagement by analyzing
fndings to prioritize topics. When evaluating potential ESG topics, we also consid- In addition to the key topics above, we identifed other ESG topics that are also import-ant to our
ered business-related metrics including operational costs, revenue, regulation/com- business and stakeholders. These additional topics included: Active Ownership, Biodiversity and
pliance, reputation and strategy. Natural Capital, ESG Governance and Reporting, Human Rights and Modern Slavery, Innovation and
Digitalization, and Just Transition.
5
Feature: $2.5T Sustainable Development Target
We believe creating sustainable economic growth is important to the long-term The Target refects the Firm’s global, diversifed franchise, incorporating activity across
strength and vibrancy of the global economy, as well as to the health and prosperity both our retail and wholesale banking segments. We are focused on areas where we
INTRODUCTION of people and communities around the world. As a global fnancial institution, we are believe our capabilities and expertise can help advance sustainable and inclusive
leveraging our capabilities to provide capital and expertise for our clients and cus- growth around the world. We also prioritize topics that are important to our stakehold-
Message from Our Chairman tomers to support economic growth and address key global challenges. In 2021, we ers, including customers and clients, employees, communities and shareholders.
set our Sustainable Development Target (the “Target”) with the goal to fnance and
Company at a Glance In developing the Target's criteria and methodology, we also took into account inter-
facilitate more than $2.5 trillion over 10 years—from 2021 through the end of 2030—
Our Approach to ESG national best practices and industry standards, such as the SDGs, the International
to advance long-term solutions that address climate change and contribute to sus-
Capital Market Association’s Green and Social Bond Principles, and the International
Feature: $2.5T Sustainable
tainable development. Our end-of-2030 goal corresponds with the timeframe we set
Development Target Finance Corporation’s Anticipated Impact Measurement and Monitoring system.
to meet our initial emission intensity reduction targets within our fnancing portfolio
(see page 17), as well as the timeframe set by the United Nations for achieving the
ENVIRONMENTAL
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (“SDGs”). The Target aims to grow and
strengthen our business activities across three important objectives—Green, Devel-
SOCIAL
opment Finance and Community Development—and, at the same time, highlight the
work we’re doing through our lines of businesses and Racial Equity Commitment.
GOVERNANCE
APPENDICES
Green Development Finance Community Development
Aiming to drive climate action, clean energy, Working to support socioeconomic develop- Striving to advance economic inclusion in devel-
and sustainable resource management, with a ment in emerging economies, with a focus on oped markets, with a focus in the United States on
focus on accelerating the deployment of solu- mobilizing capital to advance the United Low-to-Moderate Income individuals and commu-
tions for cleaner sources of energy and facili- Nations Sustainable Development Goals. nities and closing the racial wealth gap among
tating the transition to a low-carbon economy. Black, Hispanic and Latino individuals and com-
We are targeting $1 trillion toward this area by munities. This includes many of the actions we are
the end of 2030. taking as part of our Racial Equity Commitment.
The Firm supports solutions that help address climate change and contribute to sustainable development.
Pictured: Dallas, Texas
6
Progress Toward the Target
PROGRESS TOWARD 10-YEAR TARGET OUR APPROACH TO TRANSACTIONS THAT SUPPORT
MULTIPLE OBJECTIVES
We track progress toward our Target by attributing business activity across the
$2.5T
$285B $197B
The three objectives of our Target—Green, Development Finance,
Firm that supports our Target’s objectives. These business activities include
2021 2022 By the end of 2030
and Community Development—refect our belief that creating sus-
transactions fnanced or facilitated by the Firm and those for which we are pro-
$482B | 19% tainable economic growth requires advancing environmental, eco-
viding advisory, risk management and other facilitation services.
Since 2021
nomic and social goals. When tracking these transactions to our
Progress toward our Target, like our other ESG-related initiatives, is subject to certain
Target, we count transactions only once and toward only one
prerequisites, including market conditions, public policy and technological advance-
objective in the following order (as applicable): Green, Develop-
ment. Our fnancing and advisory initiatives are also subject to the same macroeco-
ANNUAL PROGRESS (2022)
ment Finance or Community Development. With this approach, we
nomic conditions that impact our franchise and the broader fnancial markets.
INTRODUCTION
seek to avoid double counting, simplify tracking toward our prog-
In 2022, our progress toward our Target was characterized by a challenging mac-
ress, and create clarity in our disclosures. We disclose more infor-
$14B
Message from Our Chairman roeconomic environment. Volatile market conditions, including rising rates con-
CB mation on a few of these key areas in the coming sections, such as
Company at a Glance tributed to slower progress toward our Target compared to 2021. The challenging $40B
$19B how we track and count Sustainability Bonds and certain JPM DFI
Community
macroeconomic environment was not limited to sustainable development activi- $70B CCB
Our Approach to ESG Development TOTAL TOTAL activity toward our Green objective. We aim to be transparent in
Green $95B
ties. For example, according to Dealogic1, global investment banking fees in 2022 $197B $197B
CIB our methodology and may recalibrate our approach over time.
Feature: $2.5T Sustainable $87B
$68B Investment
were down 42% compared to 2021. We saw a similar, but lesser, decline in Invest- Development
Development Target
Finance CIB Banking Our work with the National Rural Utilities Cooperative Finance
ment Banking activities counted toward our Target. Market conditions, public pol- Markets
Corporation (“CFC”) provides an example of the mutual benefts
icy and technological advancement will continue to have an impact on our
ENVIRONMENTAL
that can be created by simultaneously supporting the advance-
results, and as such, we do not expect our progress over the decade to be linear.
ment of environmental and social issues. CFC, created and owned
In line with the Firm’s approach for the rest of our business, we do not manage
SOCIAL
by the U.S.’s electric cooperative network, is a nonproft, private
the Target focused on short term results, but rather, focused on positioning our-
lender focused on providing fnancing to over 900 rural electric
selves to drive long term progress. At JPMorgan Chase, we are focused on sup- CUMULATIVE PROGRESS (2021–2022)
GOVERNANCE
cooperatives in the U.S. Electric cooperatives, which trace their
porting our clients through the cycle in both good times and bad—including in
origin back to the U.S. federal government’s New Deal Initiative,
their sustainable development ambitions—and remain committed to playing our
APPENDICES $30B
were created by farmers and local residents to provide afordable
part to advance sustainable development. CB
$102B and dependable electricity in rural communities. In August 2022,
$54B
In 2022, our Firm fnanced and facilitated approximately $197 billion toward the Community
CCB JPMorgan Chase served as joint book-running manager on CFC’s
Development TOTAL $176B TOTAL
Target; $70 billion toward green, $87 billion toward development fnance and $40
$482B Green $482B $229B $400 million sustainability bond, the proceeds of which CFC plans
CIB
billion toward community development. Collectively, since 2021, we have fnanced $204B
to use to support broadband access for underserved and rural
$169B Investment
Development
and facilitated $482 billion toward our Target, including $176 billion toward our CIB Banking
Finance populations in the United States. Prior to this, in 2020, JPMorgan
Markets
$1 trillion green target. In this section we discuss our progress in each objective
Chase also served as joint book-running manager and sustainabil-
through December 31, 2022.
ity bond structuring agent for CFC’s inaugural sustainability bond.
To learn more about our criteria for determining what business activity is eligible These two issuances represent the only sustainability bonds so far
to count toward our Sustainable Development Target and how we account for the Note: Totals may not sum due to rounding. in the electric cooperative sector.
value of transactions, see Our Approach to Our Sustainable Development Target,
updated and efective as of January 1, 2023.
1 Source: Dealogic Quarterly Rankings, IB Revenue, Full Year 2022
7
Green
PROGRESS TOWARD THE 10-YEAR GREEN TARGET
Our $1 trillion green objective is intended to support climate action and sustainable resource management. Developing
$106B $70B $1T
2021 2022 By the end of 2030
solutions sufcient to meet the climate challenge will require signifcant capital, including capital to deploy and scale
clean energy solutions to meet the world’s growing energy needs. Capital is also required to promote the sustainable $176B | 18%
Since 2021
management of resources, including water and forests. These aims support each other; some actions that address cli-
mate change, such as reforestation, also have positive impacts on nature, biodiversity and the sustainable management
of resources. Eligible green activities include areas such as renewable and clean energy, clean technology, sustainable
CUMULATIVE GREEN PROGRESS BY LINE OF BUSINESS
transportation and water management.
2021 $B 2022 $B Total $B
In 2022, we fnanced and facilitated approximately $70 billion in support of our green objective, particularly through
INTRODUCTION
green bond underwriting and for renewable energy. We support green activities through a variety of business activities CIB Investment Banking $72 $51 $123
around our Firm, such as raising capital for clean technology companies and providing consumer auto fnancing for
Message from Our Chairman CIB Markets $32 $17 $49
electric vehicles. Many of the eligible transactions counted toward our green objective can be used for multiple eligible
Company at a Glance Commercial Banking $1 $2 $3
activities (e.g., a green bond where proceeds can be used for both renewable energy and water) and are therefore cat-
Our Approach to ESG
Consumer and Community Banking $1 $1 $2
egorized as “multiple criteria.” We show a breakdown of the types of transactions included in the multiple criteria cate-
Feature: $2.5T Sustainable
gory in the pie chart on page 8. Green Total $106 $70 $176
Development Target
ENVIRONMENTAL OUR TARGET IN ACTION: ENEOS HOLDINGS INC. CUMULATIVE GREEN PROGRESS BY ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
CASE STUDY
JPMorgan Chase served as acquiror advisor in a $1.7 billion M&A transaction for ENEOS Corporation, Japan's largest
2021 $B2 2022 $B Total $B
SOCIAL
2022 PROGRESS IN
downstream oil and gas company. ENEOS acquired Japan Renewable Energy Corporation (“JRE”), a developer of
Sustainable Transportation $22 $2 $24 “MULTIPLE CRITERIA”
solar projects, as well as onshore and ofshore wind projects in Japan. JRE has been one of the leading renewable
GOVERNANCE
Renewable and Clean Energy $15 $20 $35
energy companies in Japan that engages in renewable power generation business across the full value chain, from
$23B
Green Bonds
project development to operation and maintenance of renewable power plants. Water Management $6 $2 $8
APPENDICES
$11B
The deal not only helps ENEOS make progress toward its own net-zero emission by 2040 target—which includes Circular Economy and Waste Management $0 $1 $1
TOTAL Sustainability Bonds
$37B
reduction of Scope 1 and 2 emissions through GHG reduction at oil refneries, carbon capture and storage, and CO
2 Green Buildings $2 $4 $6
$3B
removal, such as forecast absorption—but also helps ENEOS to achieve a 2050 target: to work together with the
Clean Technology $0 $4 $4 Emissions Contracts
Japanese government and other companies to reduce Scope 3 emissions by supplying clean energy, such as renew-
Multiple Criteria $61 $37 $98 <$1B
able energy and CO -free hydrogen. The ENEOS deal stands as an example of our work supporting the transition of
2 Other
carbon intensive clients to the low-carbon economy, and won the Mergermarket Japan M&A deal of the year. Green Total $106 $70 $176
Note: Totals may not sum due to rounding.
2 In 2021, “Mixed Use” was reported at $60 billion, and “Renewable Energy & Energy Efciency” at $14 billion, due to rounding. These fgures have since been updated to $61 billion and $15 billion, respectively, and renamed to “Multiple Criteria” and “Renewable and Clean Energy” for clarity purposes and due to
refnement of our eligibility criteria per our methodology.
8
Development Finance
CUMULATIVE DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROGRESS BY LINE OF BUSINESS
The development fnance objective of the Target highlights the work of the J.P. Morgan Development Finance Institution
INTRODUCTION 2021 $B 2022 $B Total $B
(“JPM DFI”), which works to mobilize capital toward sustainable development projects in developing countries. The JPM
CIB Investment Banking $51 $39 $90
Message from Our Chairman DFI qualifes CIB transactions with anticipated environmental and socioeconomic impacts. The JPM DFI also acts as
CIB Markets $66 $48 $114
development fnance structuring agent (“DFSA”) for a diverse set of corporate and sovereign transactions, which
Company at a Glance
involves assisting clients to measure and communicate the development impact of their transaction with investors and Development Finance Total $117 $87 $204
Our Approach to ESG
other stakeholders. It also seeks to expand the market for development fnance overall and grow the pool of investors
Feature: $2.5T Sustainable
interested in transactions that ofer fnancial returns and advance the SDGs. For more information, see the JPM DFI
Development Target
CUMULATIVE DEVELOPMENT FINANCE PROGRESS BY REGION
2022 Annual Report. In 2022, approximately $87 billion of development fnance activity qualifed toward the Target.
2021 $B 2022 $B Total $B
ENVIRONMENTAL
In addition to the $87 bil-
lion, the JPM DFI qualifed
East Asia & Pacifc $38 $16 $54
CASE STUDY OUR TARGET IN ACTION: AXIAN TELECOM
$11 billion which was
SOCIAL
South Asia $5 $2 $8 counted towards the green
In February 2022, JPMorgan Chase acted as joint global coordinator and joint bookrunner, ratings advisor and objective instead of the
Latin America & Caribbean $36 $19 $55
GOVERNANCE development fnance
DFSA for a $420 million 5-year debut bond for AXIAN Telecom, a leading provider of telecommunications, mobile
objective, per our method-
Eastern Europe & Central Asia $15 $18 $32
money services and digital infrastructures operating across Africa. The bond issuance is expected to support the
ology. The total $98 billion
APPENDICES
Company’s operations in Tanzania, Togo, and Uganda; to help address development gaps in access to afordable Sub-Saharan Africa $8 $4 $12 is refected in the JPM DFI
2022 Annual Report.
telecommunication services; and to drive fnancial inclusion. This includes expanding its 4G network by adding
Middle East & North Africa $2 $0 $2
2,325 new mobile antennas and 747 km of tower fber for high-speed internet through Tanzania and Togo; deploy-
Global Development Institutions $13 $28 $40
ing solar-power sites in Uganda; growing mobile fnancial services and payment systems for small and medium
Development Finance Total $117 $87 $204
enterprises; and fostering employment with targeted eforts on women participation.
Note: Totals may not sum due to rounding.
9
Community Development
CUMULATIVE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRESS BY
LINE OF BUSINESS
Our work in the community development area of our Target supports areas such as homeownership and afordable
housing, small business growth, education and health care, with a focus on Low-to-Moderate Income (“LMI”) individuals 2021 $B 2022 $B Total $B
and Black, Hispanic and Latino individuals and communities.
CIB Investment Banking $10 $6 $16
In 2022, we fnanced and facilitated approximately $40 billion toward this objective. This includes $16 billion in home
CIB Markets $3 $4 $7
ownership, $2 billion in small business fnancing, and $15 billion for afordable housing.
Commercial Banking $14 $13 $27
The community development objective also highlights our commitment to racial equity and includes many of the activi-
Consumer and Community Banking $33 $18 $51
ties we are engaging in as part of our Racial Equity Commitment. Of the $102 billion qualifed to this objective of our Tar-
Community Development Total $61 $40 $102
INTRODUCTION get since 2021, approximately $27 billion across Afordable Housing, Home Ownership and Small Business counted
toward our Racial Equity Commitment. For more detail on our Racial Equity Commitment, see page 25.
Message from Our Chairman
CUMULATIVE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRESS BY
Company at a Glance ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
OUR TARGET IN ACTION: EVERMONT LOS ANGELES BRIDGE HOUSING CORP/
CASE STUDY
Our Approach to ESG COALITION FOR RESPONSIBLE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT/PRIMESTOR4
2021 $B 2022 $B Total $B
Feature: $2.5T Sustainable
Development Target JPMorgan Chase provided $92 million for construction fnancing, and $66 million in Low Income Housing Tax Credit Afordable Housing $17 $15 $33
(“LIHTC”) equity for new construction of afordable family and senior housing in a south Los Angeles neighborhood. The
Home Ownership $31 $16 $47
Firm also provided $40 million in New Market Tax Credit (“NMTC”) fnancing for the construction of commercial compo-
ENVIRONMENTAL
Black, Hispanic and Latino3 $14 $7 $22
nents of this transit-oriented mixed-use development. The Firm’s fnancing and equity is helping to redevelop two city
Low-to-Moderate Income $17 $8 $25
blocks, which had remained mostly vacant after their destruction during the 1992 Los Angeles uprising. The project
SOCIAL
plans to transform the property from vacant lots to a mixed-use development providing 180 units of afordable hous- Small Business $2 $2 $5
ing, retail, entrepreneurship spaces and a jobs training facility at a critical transit hub. It will be situated next to the
GOVERNANCE Black, Hispanic and Latino3 $1 $1 $2
SEED LA School of Los Angeles County, the state’s frst public boarding school, which was separately fnanced by JP
Low-to-Moderate Income $2 $1 $3
Morgan Chase with $70 million in NMTC fnancing and $15 million in a senior direct loan. The redevelopment project
APPENDICES
Social Bonds $10 $7 $17
began in 2022 and is expected to complete in 2024. To learn more about the JPMorgan Chase’s impact in afordable
Community Development Total $61 $40 $102
rental housing, please see Areas of Focus and Strategies in our Racial Equity Commitment on page 26.
Note: Totals may not sum due to rounding.
3 Per our Sustainable Development Target methodology, refected here is total dollars; whereas the Racial Equity Commitment refects incremental dollars (i.e., annual results measured as progress against 2019 baseline results).
4 The $40 million in NMTC fnancing toward Evermont, along with the $70 million ($42 million frst tranche in 2021, and $28 million second tranche in 2022) NMTC fnancing and the $15 million senior direct loan toward SEED LA, are not included in our SDT. They are only captured as part of our Racial Equity Commitment.
10
Environment
A healthy environment is crucial to the long-term success of the economy and of communities around the
world, but climate change, biodiversity loss and other environmental challenges pose increasing threats to
our collective future.
As a global fnancial institution working with clients in nearly every sector of the economy, we have an
important role to play in supporting our clients’ environmental objectives and helping advance a sustain-
able global economy.
JPMorgan Chase is helping advance resilience to climate
change by supporting initiatives with local, regional, and
international organizations. Pictured: Los Angeles, California
2022 Highlights
• Financed and facilitated $70 billion in support of • Published net-zero aligned portfolio-level emis-
the green objective of our Sustainable Develop- sion intensity targets for three new sectors—
ment Target Iron & Steel, Cement and Aviation
• Launched the Carbon Assessment Framework • Began process of implementing an internal
for in-scope capital markets transactions with price on carbon
clients covered by our portfolio-level emissions
• Met goals to source renewable energy to meet
intensity reduction targets
100% of global power needs annually and
achieve operational carbon neutrality5
5 Operational carbon neutrality achieved using carbon credits.
11
Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability
BIODIVERSITY AND NATURAL CAPITAL
Natural capital refers to the stock of natural resources,
including soil, air, water and living things that provide valu-
able goods and services for society and the broader economy,
and that are critical to supporting physical and economic
health. Over-exploitation of natural capital is threatening bio-
diversity and compromising the ability of ecosystems to miti-
JPMorgan Chase helps our clients navigate the challenges and realize the economic These eforts are guided by the three pillars of our environmental sustainability
gate climate change.
opportunities of the transition to a low-carbon economy. We believe helping our cli- strategy—scaling green solutions, meeting needs responsibly and minimizing our
INTRODUCTION ents fnance and accelerate their transition objectives creates positive environmen- operational impact—all of which is underpinned by our ongoing focus on account- The Firm recognizes the need for advancements in policies,
tal benefts and generates long-term fnancial return for our shareholders. We also ability, transparency and engagement, which helps us continue to evolve and
data and disclosure to enable accurate valuation of natural
ENVIRONMENTAL strive to minimize our own carbon footprint and the impact our corporate ofces, remain responsive to stakeholder interests. capital and the identifcation and management of nature-re-
bank branches and data centers may have on the environment.
lated risks and opportunities for our clients, operations and
Our Approach to Environmental business strategy. We continue to foster ongoing engagement
Sustainability
with internal and external stakeholders in regards to cli-
OUR APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
Scaling Green Solutions
mate-related matters and emerging nature and biodiversity
Meeting Needs Responsibly issues. In 2022, we joined the Taskforce on Nature-related
1 2 3
Financial Disclosures (“TNFD”) Forum and look forward to con-
Minimizing Our Operational Impact
tinuing to engage with the TNFD as it fnalizes its framework.
SOCIAL SCALING GREEN SOLUTIONS MEETING NEEDS RESPONSIBLY MINIMIZING OUR OPERATIONAL IMPACT We recognize nature is important for efective climate action
and support our clients’ eforts that aim to protect natural
Focusing our eorts to meet client needs Using our capital and expertise in a way that Minimizing the environmental impact of
GOVERNANCE capital, for example, through our Green Bond underwriting
and on scaling solutions the world will need is consistent with meeting economic and our own operations, including in our build-
(see page 15). We have also directed resources to promote
for long-term environmental sustainability societal needs ings, branches and data centers
APPENDICES biodiversity conservation by selecting nature-based carbon
removal ofsets for our operational emissions that we are not
yet able to eliminate (see page 21), and we have published
research that explores the fnancial impact of biodiversity loss
and strategies to address deforestation and nature decline in
the global food system.
The Firm also manages certain E&S risks, which may include
nature-related risks, in our lines of business. For more infor-
mation on how we manage risk in our business, see page 56.
12
Scaling Green Solutions
To meet client demand and global long-term environmental sustainability goals, the Providing Sustainable Solutions Our Asset Management Global Sustainable Investing team is a dedicated group of
world will need to develop and deploy a host of new technologies, business models employees that focuses on sustainability-related issues and work in collaboration
to Consumers and Investors
INTRODUCTION and other solutions. As a global fnancial institution, we have an important role to with our investment professionals globally. They provide global sustainable invest-
play by providing fnancing and strategic advice to clients and by helping investors ing research and insights on thematic ESG issues, including climate risk, that can be
Our global and diversifed franchise allows us to ofer sustainability-focused fnan-
ENVIRONMENTAL put their capital to work. cial options to those customers who want them, under both the J.P. Morgan and applied across asset classes. The team works with clients to build and implement
sustainable investing solutions and conducts our investment stewardship activities.
Chase brands. This includes a growing range of sustainability-related products and
Our Approach to Environmental Mobilizing Capital for Climate Action services through our Consumer Banking and Wealth Management businesses, In 2022, we continued the build-out of the team, adding employees in the areas of
Sustainability
sustainable investing research, client advisory and investment stewardship.
including the J.P. Morgan Global Private Bank. We aim to give individuals and fami-
Scaling Green Solutions
Developing solutions to advance the transition to a low-carbon economy will require lies the tools they need to meet their goals. In recognition of our enhanced commitment to investment stewardship, during 2022,
Meeting Needs Responsibly signifcant capital. In April 2021, we announced a target to fnance and facilitate $1 JPMAM successfully gained signatory status to the 2020 U.K. Stewardship Code that
Minimizing Our Operational Impact trillion toward green initiatives that support climate action by the end of 2030 as ASSET MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABLE INVESTING aims to promote the responsible allocation, management, and oversight of capital to
part of our broader $2.5 trillion Sustainable Development Target. For more informa- create long-term value for clients while yielding sustainable benefts for the economy,
At J.P. Morgan Asset Management (“JPMAM”), we believe that understanding the
SOCIAL tion on our progress toward our Sustainable Development Target and examples of environment and society. JPMAM believes this is an important milestone, demonstrat-
risk and opportunities related to global sustainability creates long-term value for
qualifying green transactions, see page 6. ing our continuing commitment, credibility, and transparency to our stewardship
our clients. For this reason, we continually strive to enhance our investment capabil-
GOVERNANCE responsibilities: active engagement with the companies in which we invest and exer-
We also support the market through our own Green Bond issuances. These issu-
ities and our eforts to help clients consider the material implications of ESG factors
cising our voice as a long-term investor in the best interest of our client accounts.
ances are governed by our Sustainable Bond Framework and allocate an amount
within their portfolios.
APPENDICES
equal to the net proceeds to eligible green projects which may include green build- In 2022, we published our J.P. Morgan Asset Management 2022 Inaugural Report
We ofer dedicated sustainable investment solutions to clients who seek to generate
ings, renewable energy and sustainable transportation. In October 2022, we aligned with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial
long-term returns and contribute to sustainable outcomes. For example, in 2022, we
updated our Sustainable Bond Framework which will govern our own Green Bond Disclosures (“TCFD”). The report outlines how we are considering climate-related
launched 11 funds within our sustainable product suite, including a new fxed income
issuances going forward. risks and opportunities relevant to our Asset Management business, across the
product. These products invest in businesses that we believe are providing solutions
areas of Governance, Risk Management, Strategy, and Metrics & Targets.
to global sustainability challenges such as climate risk management, preserving bio-
diversity, retroftting and constructing resilient transport and infrastructure, and
fostering social advancement.
13
GLOBAL PRIVATE BANK SUSTAINABLE INVESTING CCB EV AUTO LENDING
We continue to expand our Sustainable Investing oferings through J.P. Morgan As automakers accelerate eforts to transition to electric vehicles (“EVs”), many con-
CASE STUDY ØRSTED
INTRODUCTION
Global Private Bank, which provides high-net-worth clients with access to a sumers are evaluating them for the frst time. JPMorgan Chase is responding by
breadth of strategies across equities, fxed income, alternatives and multi-asset helping consumers understand and navigate this new segment and access fnancing When Ørsted was formed, the result of a merger among six Dan-
ENVIRONMENTAL
portfolios. In addition, and to further our response to the growing client interest to support their purchases. ish energy companies, including Danish Oil & Natural Gas, their
in sustainability-themed investing, we have expanded our range of available the- power and heat production mix was 85% fossil fuel—mostly
The EV landscape is complex and evolving quickly, and information can be hard to
Our Approach to Environmental
matic strategies and funds. For example, in 2022, we added a growth equity cli- coal—as well as oil and gas production and exploration assets in
Sustainability fnd or understand for consumers. The Chase Auto EV Education Center, a website,
mate solutions investment fund focused on decarbonization, energy efciency, the North Sea. Over a decade ago, their leadership decided to
Scaling Green Solutions helps consumers learn about, fnd and purchase electric and hybrid vehicles, includ-
resource conservation and emissions management. become a renewable energy company. The company has
ing information about charging, battery range and maintenance.
Meeting Needs Responsibly
reported reduction of its carbon emissions by 89% since 2006
We have invested in tools and solutions to help clients achieve their Sustainable
Minimizing Our Operational Impact We are also working to increase fnancing to support EV adoption, including enter-
and reported that the share of green energy in their energy
Investing goals. In June 2021, we acquired OpenInvest, a values-based investing
ing into private label relationships with EV manufacturers to provide fexible fnanc-
generation rose to 90% by the end of 2021. Throughout the
fnancial technology company to expand our toolkit of diagnostic capabilities,
SOCIAL ing options to consumers.
stages of their transition, as part of a relationship spanning
reporting, and solutions to help clients to align their investments with their val-
more than 20 years, JPMorgan Chase has provided, and contin-
ues. In the frst quarter of 2022, and as part of OpenInvest capabilities, we
GOVERNANCE
Supporting Our Clients ues to provide, Ørsted with diversifed services across our frm
launched sustainability reporting for J.P. Morgan’s Sustainable Equity Strategy
to meet their needs as they make their energy transition. JPMor-
managed by the Private Bank.
APPENDICES We continue to broaden our eforts to support the climate- and sustainability-re- gan Chase led Ørsted’s initial public ofering (“IPO”), advised on
We aim to keep our clients up to date on the latest trends by publishing Sustainable
lated banking needs of wholesale clients, from early-stage and small companies the sale of their upstream oil and gas activities, and provides
Investing insights, with topics including ESG risks and opportunities; the economic
through to multinationals and other large corporations. We deploy our capital and further services including, but not limited to, cash management,
importance of megatrends such as circular economy biodiversity and agricultural
expertise to assist clients working to transition their business model and operations tax equity, and, recently, acted as joint bookrunner for a green
technology; and how to think about sustainable investing alongside charitable giving.
to reduce emissions. As we expand our capabilities across our lines of business, we bond of approximately $2 billion equivalent in September 2022.
are able to provide clients with increasingly diverse and innovative solutions, while
helping to grow the market for green and sustainable fnancing.
14
GREEN ECONOMY BANKING CASE STUDY APPALOOSA SOLAR PROJECT
As the need for climate solutions grows, so does the number of companies focused on providing them, with each In 2022, JPMorgan Chase acted as coordinated lead arranger and committed $142 million to a series of syndi-
requiring a unique combination of fnancial services and advice to achieve its objectives. Our CB Green Economy Bank- cated project fnance loans totaling $267 million. The funds are intended to support the construction and
ing team is called upon to provide subject matter expertise, banking solutions and specialized credit underwriting for operations of the Appaloosa Solar Project in Cedar City, Utah, owned by Greenbacker Renewable Energy Cor-
the growing number of companies in the sustainable technologies, products and services industry. The Green Economy poration (GREC) and rPlus Energies. Once completed in late 2023, the Appaloosa project is expected to be the
Banking team focuses on fve sectors—renewable energy, efciency technology, sustainable fnance, agriculture and second largest in GREC’s feet of 450 renewable energy projects. The project is expected to generate more
food technology, and clean energy mobility—with senior bankers assigned to provide specifc sub-industry coverage than 550 million kWh of energy annually—enough to power more than 50,000 homes; support the local econ-
within each of these sectors. omy by utilizing local vendors and creating approximately 250 jobs for its construction; and generate mean-
ingful property tax revenue for Cedar City over 35 years. This deal was led by Commercial Banking’s Green
INTRODUCTION
Economy team and builds on JPMorgan Chase’s eforts to scale green and innovative solutions to support the
CENTER FOR CARBON TRANSITION
transition to a low-carbon economy.
ENVIRONMENTAL The Center for Carbon Transition (“CCT”) provides clients globally with low-carbon transition focused advice and exper-
tise, and works with industry coverage and product teams within the CIB and CB on a wide variety of strategic sustain-
Our Approach to Environmental ability-focused transactions. The team is also responsible for supporting our banking teams in identifying green busi-
Sustainability
ness opportunities to meet client demands and amplifying our green economy coverage.
Scaling Green Solutions
The combined expertise of the CCT and other banking teams helps provide tailored advice and solutions to clients who CASE STUDY SUPPORTING ECOSYSTEM PROTECTION FOR NATURE AND PEOPLE
Meeting Needs Responsibly
seek this advice as they adapt and grow their businesses. This includes providing strategic advice on clients’ long-term
In 2022, JPMorgan Chase served as lead underwriter for a $350 million Green Bond issued by The Nature
Minimizing Our Operational Impact business strategies working with industry and product teams to structure unique fnancing solutions in public and pri-
Conservancy (“TNC"), a global nonproft conservation organization that works on a variety of environmental
vate capital markets.
issues surrounding the protection of land, water and ecosystems. The bond constitutes the biggest green
SOCIAL
The CCT works to develop and implement the Firm’s strategy to align, over time, its fnancing portfolio with what we
bond issuance to date by a conservation nonproft organization.
consider to be the primary goals of the Paris Agreement. The teams has led the creation, and continues to oversee the
The bond issuance is expected to help TNC achieve its 2030 goals—which include avoiding or sequestering 3
GOVERNANCE
implementation, of our Carbon Assessment Framework (“CAF”), which helps us monitor our progress toward our port-
billion metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent, conserving 650 million hectares of healthy land, 30 million
folio-level emissions intensity reduction targets. For more information on our Paris-aligned fnancing commitment and
hectares of freshwater, and 4 billion hectares of oceans—and fnance and refnance eligible green projects
APPENDICES
our CAF, see page 17.
that contribute toward maximizing resilience and benefts for ecosystems and vulnerable communities.
GREEN, SOCIAL, SUSTAINABILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY-LINKED BONDS
Through our business, JPMorgan Chase is a leading underwriter of green, social, sustainability and sustainability-linked
bonds, which are aimed at supporting our clients’ sustainability-related activities. In 2022, the Firm underwrote $38.36
billion in green, social, sustainable and sustainability-linked bonds, including $16.6 billion in green bonds.
6 Source: Dealogic Sustainable Finance Report, Syndicated Bonds, Loans & Equity, Full Year 2022. Note that third-party estimates of GSS bond underwriting may not be the same as JPMC-produced data for GSS bond underwriting in our Sustainable Development Target.
15
ESG SOLUTIONS ADVANCING SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH ESG INVESTMENT RESEARCH
ESG Solutions is a team of investment bankers who provide ESG-related advice and Global Research produces a range of ESG-focused investment research to meet
transaction support to advance sustainability solutions for our clients and to pro- investors’ needs for timely insights and analysis that support their broad range of
vide clients access to ESG- and sustainability-focused capital across equity, debt and sustainability and ESG investment strategies. In 2022, we published approximately
private markets. In Europe, the Middle East and Africa, ESG Solutions also co-ordi- 900 ESG-related reports across key regions. Our published ESG content has
nates JPMorgan Chase’s investment banking coverage of clients in emerging green included regular thematic thought pieces on key developments in ESG and sustain-
economy sectors. The group works with other investment banking teams across the ability; collaborative pieces between ESG and sector analysts that assess ESG issues
CIB to identify and execute on ESG-related advisory and product opportunities. with industry context; and our ESGQ methodology, a proprietary scoring tool which
Since inception, ESG Solutions has helped clients access ESG-focused capital across combines data designed to capture the long-term corporate responsibility profles of
INTRODUCTION
equity, debt and private markets and has had a key role in several IPOs. For exam- companies and their evolution over time with more frequently updated data points.
ple, in 2022, the ESG Solutions team assisted Northvolt, a Sweden-based EV battery In addition, in the J.P. Morgan Perspectives series, we published several departmen-
ENVIRONMENTAL
manufacturer, prepare investor-focused materials to showcase its operational sus- tal ESG collaborations, most notably focusing on climate innovation, gender parity,
tainability credentials to demonstrate how ESG principles are incorporated through- food security and cyber-security. Moreover, the J.P. Morgan suite of ESG fxed
Our Approach to Environmental
out its business. The team’s work supported Northvolt’s approximately $1.1 billion income indices (JESG index family) serves clients globally with ESG benchmarks and
Sustainability
pre-IPO convertible note for which J.P. Morgan acted as a joint placement agent. has approximately $40 billion in assets managed against it.
Scaling Green Solutions
To refect the evolving client demand for ESG Research, we appointed a Head of ESG
Meeting Needs Responsibly
GLOBAL MARKETS SUSTAINABILITY CENTER
Methodology & Integration, who reports to our Co-Heads of ESG Research. We also
Minimizing Our Operational Impact
launched ESG Discovery, our frst digital platform for ESG research content in the
Within CIB Markets, the Global Markets Sustainability Center (“GMSC”) provides sus-
EMEA region to centrally house all ESG inputs from our sector and ESG analysts, and
tainability solutions across asset classes to help clients who seek to realize their
SOCIAL
address clients’ needs for both thematic deep-dives and stock-specifc views. The
sustainability strategies and transition their portfolios to a low-carbon economy. For
platform leverages artifcial intelligence (“AI”) designed to identify the most rele-
example, in 2022, GMSC developed a climate transition framework, working with a
GOVERNANCE
vant ESG themes for specifc sectors and stocks and to centralize views on the expo-
large institutional client by leveraging in-house expertise and looking at traditional
sure to and management of these ESG themes by company, allowing clients to
and non-traditional climate data (e.g. news analytics). This unique solution allows
APPENDICES
screen for and compare companies, as well as access suggested engagement ques-
for a practical multi-asset strategy solution to address the client’s needs for imple-
tions from our sector analysts.
mentable carbon reduction targets as part of their net-zero ambitions.
The Firm also facilitated dialogue between investors, companies and regulators on
key ESG issues by hosting our 7th Global ESG Conference in 2022, which was
attended by over 700 participants globally.
The Firm’s environmental sustainability strategy includes: scaling green solutions, meeting needs responsibly,
and minimizing operational impact. Pictured: Dallas, Texas
16
Meeting Needs Responsibly
While we work to scale green technologies and solutions, we also seek to use our We aim to continue expanding this work over time for additional carbon-intensive sec- Climate Resilience Grantmaking
capital and expertise to meet client demands and support societal and economic tors, engaging with our clients on their decarbonization journeys, and aligning that
INTRODUCTION needs. A sustained move to greener energy sources will not happen without a plan work with global climate goals and evolving best practices for the fnancial sector. JPMorgan Chase deploys philanthropic capital to nonproft organizations to sup-
to allocate fnancing resources. Examples of this work include aligning our lending port initiatives that help vulnerable communities in diferent parts of the world
For more information on the methodology behind setting our new net-zero aligned
ENVIRONMENTAL and underwriting decisions with our portfolio-level emissions intensity reduction advance their resilience to climate change. Since 2019, we have committed over $16
targets, please see our Carbon CompassSM methodology.
targets in key carbon-intensive sectors, managing climate risks thoughtfully in our million in grants to advance resilience to climate change, supporting initiatives with
Our Approach to Environmental business, and deploying our philanthropic capital to support initiatives that help vul- local, regional, and international organizations. To learn more about how we help
HOW WE ARE DRIVING PROGRESS TOWARD OUR TARGETS
Sustainability nerable communities globally advance their resilience to climate change. the communities we serve respond to climate change and thrive in a low-carbon
Scaling Green Solutions As we continue to expand our sector-specifc targets, we are also focused on aligning future, see page 37.
Meeting Needs Responsibly Aligning our Financing with the our capabilities and eforts to make progress toward them. We strive to use our
knowledge and expertise to help clients frame and act on their decarbonization plans.
Minimizing Our Operational Impact
Goals of the Paris Agreement
A framework for assessing our clients’ progress. To bring a climate lens to the way
SOCIAL A key aspect of our strategy is how we engage with our clients who operate in carbon- we make fnancing decisions, we have developed an assessment methodology of our
intensive industries, with the goal of accelerating the low-carbon transition and encour- clients’ emissions and decarbonization plans for consideration in our decision mak-
GOVERNANCE aging near-term actions that will set a path for global achievement of net-zero emissions. ing of new in-scope fnancing transactions for in-scope clients in our targeted sec-
tors. Our Carbon Assessment Framework (“CAF”) uses a combination of quantitative
In 2022, we announced emissions intensity reduction targets for three sectors of our
APPENDICES and qualitative measures to evaluate clients’ climate ambition and performance. We
fnancing portfolio—Iron & Steel, Cement and Aviation—building on the approach
believe our framework is reasonably designed currently, but the Firm will continue
and foundation we set with our initial three sectors—Oil & Gas, Electric Power and
to look for enhancement opportunities.
Auto Manufacturing. Our new targets are intended to align to the International
Energy Agency’s (“IEA”) Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario (“NZE”). We chose to Other key elements of our strategy include Governance of our progress, client
address these three additional sectors given their contribution to total global emis- engagement, and capital facilitation and deployment; our 2022 Climate Report pro-
sions, and in consideration of their technical and economic maturity of their avail- vides further details.
able decarbonization pathways. We believe expansion to additional sectors also
helps us further sharpen our focus on the interplay between the supply and demand
sides of the global energy system, which is vital to advancing overall decarboniza-
tion and the global path to net-zero emissions.
17
Minimizing Our
Operational Impact
Another key component of our approach to sustainability is managing the environmental impact from our operations. Energy Optimization and GHG Emission Reduction
Our reported operational environmental footprint is a result of our day-to-day activities and the resources we consume
INTRODUCTION across our more than 6,000 corporate ofces, bank branches and data centers around the world. Our strategy for mini- We are pursuing eforts to optimize energy use and reduce our GHG footprint across our global operations. Our eforts are
mizing this impact focuses on optimizing how we source and use energy, reducing direct and indirect GHG emissions, and guided by several of our key operational sustainability targets, including reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 40% by 2030,
ENVIRONMENTAL enhancing resource management, including in how we design and operate our buildings, and through our supply chain. sourcing renewable energy for 100% of our global power needs annually, satisfying at least 70% of our renewable energy goal
with on-site generation and long-term renewable energy contracts by 2025, and maintaining carbon neutral operations annually.
Our Approach to Environmental
With these goals in mind, our strategy focuses on the following:
Sustainability Our Operational Sustainability Targets7
Scaling Green Solutions IMPROVING EFFICIENCY SOURCING RENEWABLES PURCHASING ENERGY
TARGETS MET, ANNUALLY RECURRING AND ACCELERATING ATTRIBUTE CERTIFICATES
Meeting Needs Responsibly
ELECTRIFICATION Next, we are focused on transition- (“EACS”) AND CARBON
Minimizing Our Operational Impact
CREDITS
ing to zero-carbon energy sources,
Reducing energy use and using less
including installing on-site solar
Maintain carbon-neutral Source renewable energy Divert 100% of e-waste Purchase 100% of our
SOCIAL carbon-intensive energy sources are Finally, to continue to meet our
systems at JPMorgan Chase prop-
operations for 100% of our global from landfills paper from certified
commitment to source renewable
our frst priorities. We continue to
erties and establishing long-term
power needs sources
GOVERNANCE undertake a variety of energy ef- energy for 100% of our global
renewable energy procurement
power needs and address the
ciency measures—for example, opti-
agreements (e.g., power purchase
IN-PROGRESS TARGETS
APPENDICES mizing the use of heating and cool- remainder of our reported emis-
agreements (“PPAs”) and green
sions8 , we purchase applicable
ing in our buildings and procuring
power supply contracts).
EACs (e.g., Green-E certifed
more efcient servers for our data
Reduce Scope 1 and 2 Satisfy at least 70% of Reduce global water use Reduce o˘ce paper use Renewable Energy Certifcates
centers—and to expand their imple-
GHG emissions by 40% our renewable energy by 20% by 2030 vs. a by 90% by 2025 vs. a ("RECs"), International-RECs) and
mentation across our operations.
by 2030 vs. a 2017 goal with on-site renew- 2017 baseline 2017 baseline carbon credits. For more informa-
We are also looking for electrifca-
baseline able energy and o•-site tion on our purchase of carbon
tion opportunities within our build-
long-term renewable credits, please see page 21.
ings, branches and data centers.
energy contracts by 2025
7 For more information on our progress toward our operational targets, visit our website.
8 This includes Scope 1 (direct) GHG emissions from building operations and company-owned aircraft and vehicles; Scope 2 (indirect) GHG emissions from purchased electricity and steam; and Scope 3 (indirect) GHG emissions associated with business travel.
18
IMPROVING EFFICIENCY AND ACCELERATING ELECTRIFICATION
Optimizing the Firm’s use of energy is not only essential for reducing our GHG emissions, but also a means
of enhancing our operations and reducing energy costs. We therefore work to identify and implement ef-
ciency measures across our global operations. Highlights of our progress in 2022 included:
Data center efciency: With the growing role of technology in fnancial services, data centers are an
important component of our operations. To help manage the energy footprint from our data centers, we
are implementing a global strategic data center confguration designed to an optimum size to serve our
overall portfolio, and we continue to enhance the efciency of individual data centers. Our strategy
includes migrating to newer, more efcient hardware and software to increase utilization and sharing of
INTRODUCTION
physical infrastructure. This drives down the size and number of servers needed to process our business,
which lowers power consumption. We are also expanding the collection of detailed, real-time performance
ENVIRONMENTAL
data to inform how we design, build and operate data centers, this has allowed us to operate our data cen-
ters at warmer temperatures and save energy. In addition, we have implemented modern cooling technol-
Our Approach to Environmental
ogy that increases our energy efciency.
Sustainability
Scaling Green Solutions Electrifcation: Another key energy and emissions reduction opportunity is electrifcation. Transitioning
away from the use of natural gas and other fossil fuels not only reduces direct emissions and enables
Meeting Needs Responsibly
greater use of renewables but can also result in lower overall energy consumption—electric systems often
The Firm continues to expand on-site solar power at our corporate ofce buildings and retail branches across the U.S. Pictured: Carmel, Indiana. Image courtesy of EVgo.
Minimizing Our Operational Impact
convert a greater share of total energy into useful output than the systems they replace. To that end, we
intend to design and build fully electrifed retail branches wherever possible. We are additionally working
SOCIAL
to make greater use of electric transportation—for example, in urban areas, we are selecting local courier
vendors who can ofer electric vehicles or push bikes to deliver business-to-business packages, reducing
GOVERNANCE
OUR 2022 OPERATIONAL FOOTPRINT
emissions and complying with emissions regulations. We are also continuing work to transition JPMorgan
Chase’s entire owned vehicle feet to electric by the end of 2025.
APPENDICES JPMorgan Chase’s reported operational GHG emissions are driven by two primary activities: powering our buildings (e.g., electricity,
In addition to the above eforts, we are exploring and committing capital to full electrifcation and other
heating and cooling) and business travel. Scope 1 GHG emissions include those from building operations and company-owned aircraft
strategies to enhance energy efciency across our real estate portfolio. For more information, see Sustain-
and vehicles. Scope 2 emissions, from purchased electricity, are the largest driver of our building-related emissions and overall oper-
able Buildings on page 22.
ational GHG footprint. The majority of our Scope 3 business travel-related emissions are driven by commercially operated air travel
but includes other activities such as rail, car rental and hotel stays. A small portion of our business travel emissions are Scope 1
emissions from company-owned aircraft and vehicles. We expect to continue to evaluate additional categories of operational emis-
sions for future reporting.
For more information, see the detailed environmental data tables posted on our website.
19
SOURCING RENEWABLES EXPANDING ON-SITE SOLAR
We are working to scale our use of renewable energy from both on-site installations Commercial Solar Program Retail Solar Program
and long-term energy procurement contracts to further reduce our operational Capacity (MW) Capacity (MW)
92.8 15.7
emissions. Our goal is to increase the proportion of our global power needs being
met by these solutions to at least 70% by the end of 2025, to help maximize the
positive impact of our energy procurement strategy.
On-site solar: We continue to expand on-site solar power at our corporate ofce 5.5
buildings and retail branches across the U.S. In 2022, we executed contracts for
on-site solar at fve of our commercial campuses and approved planning for addi-
INTRODUCTION 10.2
tional solar capacity at another fve locations. We aim to complete construction at 62.9
all ten locations by the end of 2025, which would bring the total size of our commer-
ENVIRONMENTAL
cial solar program to over 90 MW. Within our retail portfolio, we have made on-site
solar a standard feature of our branches, where local regulations and circumstances
42.7
41.9
Our Approach to Environmental
6.1
allow. As of December 31, 2022, we had added solar installations at more than 400
Sustainability
branches in nine states including Arizona, California, Ohio and New Jersey, for a
Scaling Green Solutions 16.6
total capacity of 15.7 MW. With additional installations currently in the planning 29.0
Meeting Needs Responsibly 3.8
4.1
stages, our goal is to increase total solar capacity at our retail locations to over 25 32.3
Minimizing Our Operational Impact
MW by the end of 2024.
22.6 16.5
13.6
Long-term energy contracts: By securing additional renewable energy through
SOCIAL 3.7
long-term PPAs and green power supply contracts, we seek not only to meet our
3.2
13.6
own energy needs but to steer capital toward projects that beneft the communities 0.4
6.4
GOVERNANCE
and regions where we operate. In 2022, our eforts included expanding our use of
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2019 2020 2021 2022
long-term contracts across our global operational footprint. We now have renewable
APPENDICES
energy agreements serving ofce locations in France, Germany, Switzerland, Ire-
Planned Installed Previously Installed9
land, Spain, Italy, Luxembourg and India.
9 Cumulative capacity installed in previous years.
20
PURCHASING CARBON CREDITS10 CASE STUDY CARBON CREDITS FOR BIODIVERSITY
To complement our emissions reduction strategy, we also have an annual commitment to neutralize emis- By purchasing high-quality nature-based carbon credits to address the remainder of our operational GHG emissions, we can help
sions that we have not yet eliminated through direct improvements to our operations. This commitment restore the natural world and its rich biodiversity, while also benefting local communities.
includes Scope 1 (direct) GHG emissions from building operations and company-owned aircraft and vehi-
For example, in 2022, we purchased carbon credits from the Indus Delta Blue Carbon Project, a blue carbon project on the
cles, Scope 2 (indirect) GHG emissions from purchased electricity and Scope 3 (indirect) GHG emissions
south-east coast of Pakistan. This project is one of the largest mangrove forest restoration eforts in the world, and the frst
associated with business travel. This goal also provides an opportunity to help the development of the vol-
phase is expected to restore and protect approximately 555,000 acres of mangroves, which are among the world’s most diverse
untary carbon markets and support investment in climate solutions, in order to help accelerate the transi-
and vulnerable ecosystems. Coastal wetlands, dominated by mangroves and saltmarsh plants, are efective carbon sinks that
tion to a low-carbon economy. In 2022, we met our carbon-neutral goal for the third year in a row, using
also deliver numerous other environmental and community benefts. The project area provides important habitats to coastal fsh
carbon credits to help us achieve neutrality. We are committed to maintaining carbon neutral operations
and several globally endangered or threatened species, including the rare Indus river dolphins, the Indian pangolin and the fsh-
INTRODUCTION
each year going forward.
ing cat. These coastal wetlands also serve as a refuge for many migratory shorebirds, supporting wildlife conservation.
Our carbon credit portfolio is made up of credits from both nature-based and engineered removal proj-
The project is also expected to provide enhanced ecosystem services and economic opportunities to nearby communities. The
ENVIRONMENTAL
ects, including improved forest management, grassland restoration, blue carbon and biochar. By support-
dense vegetation and coastal fringe location of the project area act as a protective barrier, mitigating potential damage from
ing diferent kinds of carbon removal projects, we can help develop the broader market and scale emerg-
natural disturbances such as hurricanes and tsunamis. Proceeds from carbon sales and project activities are expected to be
Our Approach to Environmental
ing solutions. As we move forward, we aim to progressively shift our focus from shorter-durability, nature-
Sustainability directed to help provide access to safe and clean water, and help support sustainable job opportunities as people are hired to
based carbon credits toward long-term or permanent carbon removal, refecting our desire to address our
Scaling Green Solutions restore wetlands, plant trees and revegetate the area.
residual emissions with what we view as the highest-quality carbon credits available.
Meeting Needs Responsibly
Minimizing Our Operational Impact
IMPLEMENTING AN INTERNAL PRICE ON CARBON
SOCIAL
To support internal transparency and accountability, and accelerate progress toward our operational
sustainability targets, we began the process of implementing the Climate Impact Contribution (“CIC”),
GOVERNANCE
which puts a price on the operational GHG emissions generated by our business activities, creating a
pool of funds dedicated to support initiatives necessary to achieve our operational sustainability tar-
APPENDICES
gets. This mechanism is designed to allow leadership to gain greater visibility of the emissions associ-
ated with their organization’s activities as well as their fnancial contribution toward sustainability ini-
tiatives. We plan to continue to evaluate the CIC and gather insights from its implementation.
10 Carbon credits and the market for them are evolving rapidly. Although we endeavor to source high-quality carbon credits verifed by independent third parties, the ability to use carbon credits to fully and permanently "ofset" emissions or achieve carbon "neutrality" relies on certain assumptions and is subject to debate among experts.
21
Sustainable Buildings
As a fnancial services company, the bulk of our reported operational environmental impact stems from how we
design, build and operate our buildings. We therefore seek to take a holistic approach to enhancing the sustainability
of our real estate portfolio, with a particular focus on increasing energy and resource efciency; reducing emissions;
and creating healthy, productive spaces for our customers, clients and employees. Our priority initiatives currently
include the following:
Artifcial Intelligence building management: In an efort to increase the efciency of our ofce buildings, through the
end of 2022, we installed a smart building management software at over 5 million square feet of our real estate port-
folio. The software is designed to analyze historical and real-time data from occupancy monitoring devices, indoor air
INTRODUCTION
quality sensors, building electricity meters and distributed energy resources, and utilizes artifcial intelligence to opti-
mize heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems in real-time. This seeks to use the least amount of energy while
ENVIRONMENTAL
maximizing thermal comfort and indoor air quality for occupants.
Our Approach to Environmental New branch lighting plan: In 2022, we completed development of a new lighting standard that is intended to reduce
Sustainability
lighting-related power consumption for future retail branches by nearly 30% and, in turn, Scope 2 GHG emissions as
Scaling Green Solutions well as lifetime energy costs.
Meeting Needs Responsibly
Net-zero branch pilots: In 2022, we opened a Chase retail branch in Pico Rivera, California, that is piloting a net-zero
Minimizing Our Operational Impact carbon design. Built from the ground up, the new branch incorporates a full range of low-carbon technologies and
building techniques including a wood frame modular design, low-carbon concrete, enhanced insulation, rooftop solar
SOCIAL arrays, full electrifcation and reclaimed asphalt in the parking lots. The material choices for the pilot project reduced
embodied carbon by more than 10% when measured against our typical national branch design. Carbon credits will be
GOVERNANCE procured to address any emissions associated with the embodied carbon of the building that cannot be mitigated
through sustainable design. The branch is now undergoing an intensive energy performance analysis to meet third-
APPENDICES party standards for low-carbon design, while also providing insights to inform the design of future branches. In 2022,
we also launched pilots for fve additional net-zero branches. Our intention is to leverage lessons from these pilots in
The Firm’s new headquarters is expected to be Manhattan’s frst all-electric tower. Image courtesy of DBOX / Foster + Partners.
order to apply sustainable design principles to future branches.
Sustainable materials: As part of the above eforts, we continue to seek opportunities to deploy sustainable and
low-carbon construction materials, including carbon negative carpeting, eco-insulation, FSC-certifed wood, and low-
er-carbon concrete made with a 100% recycled post-consumer glass that can replace up to 50% of cement in con-
crete, creating a more durable, longer-lasting, and lower-carbon concrete. The frm has incorporated this lower-carbon
concrete into all of the foor slabs in our new headquarters building and is considering additional applications.
22
Sustainable Sourcing Resource Management Diverting waste from landfll: We strive to reduce our global waste stream through
a variety of activities. We continued implementing our Total Waste Management
We recognize that the environmental and social impact of our operations extends to Responsible resource management is an important part of our sustainability strategy, Program, which is designed to deliver a consistent waste minimization and recycling
our suppliers’ practices, which is why we continue to develop and formalize eforts helping us reduce our environmental impact while improving efciency and reducing strategy globally for our non-hazardous ofce waste streams and targets a 90%
to monitor and engage with suppliers concerning their sustainability performance. costs. We are focused on reducing our water and waste footprint, and appropriately waste diversion rate. As part of this efort, we replaced individual workstation bins
Our eforts included the following: managing the waste we generate. Recent highlights of these eforts include: with centralized waste stations for landfll, recycling and composting, where avail-
able. This centralized waste approach increases employee awareness of proper
Supplier Environmental Sustainability Guidelines: In 2023, we established new Conserving water: Our target is to reduce water use by 20% by 2030, compared to
waste disposal and therefore decreases contamination rates, and helps lower costs
Supplier Environmental Sustainability Guidelines, which are designed to educate our a 2017 baseline. Across many of our corporate ofces and branches, we have
of individual waste bin liners and custodial services. We have deployed over 5,000
suppliers as to how they can integrate positive environmental practices within their deployed a number of water efciency measures, including low-fow fxtures, aera-
centralized waste bins globally in ofce kitchens and cafes, communal desk areas,
own organizations and to set the foundation for further incorporating environmen- tors and touch-free faucets. To build on these eforts, we are planning to install
INTRODUCTION
and loading docks. We are also piloting AI-powered cameras and sensors to monitor
tal considerations into our procurement process. smart meters across our real estate portfolio that will allow us to collect more accu-
waste once it reaches the dumpster. This technology has the ability to detect dump-
rate and timely water use data. This will help us better monitor and control our
ENVIRONMENTAL Performance assessment: Throughout 2022, we invited more than 850 of our top
ster fullness, improving collection efciency, and levels of waste stream contamina-
water use, and to identify and prioritize further efciency opportunities. We are also
suppliers, representing approximately 80% of the previous year’s total supplier
tion. In addition to in-ofce waste, we are also focused on reducing waste from the
planning to move retail branches to a new landscaping standard that will use little
Our Approach to Environmental spend, to complete a third-party sustainability assessment, which evaluates prac-
construction and renovation of our buildings, requiring a minimum of 75% of proj-
Sustainability to no irrigation depending on the local climate. The standard also aims to leverage
tices on multiple dimensions including environment, ethics, labor and human rights,
ect waste be diverted from landflls, where local supply chains allow.
native species that promote biodiversity and local habitat creation.
Scaling Green Solutions procurement and GHG emissions. We intend to use the results of the assessments to
Improving lifecycle management of technology assets: We expanded our Portfolio
Meeting Needs Responsibly establish baselines and identify future impact reduction or improvement projects Reducing ofce waste: To help meet our goal of reducing ofce paper use by 90%
Lifecycle Management program to provide cradle-to-grave optimization of our tech-
with each supplier. by 2025, we have optimized our ofce printer feet by 41% compared to a 2017 base-
Minimizing Our Operational Impact
nology assets. The program targets reduction of electronic waste (“e-waste”), efec-
line by replacing older equipment, removing under-utilized printers and introducing
Advancing industry best practices: To strategically enhance engagement and
tive asset recovery and redeployment, and proactive decommissioning of unneeded
no-printing preferences for some business roles. To further reduce paper use, we
SOCIAL impact with suppliers across our industry, we spearheaded the creation of a fnan-
or unclaimed assets. As a result of these eforts, the Firm has prolonged the useful
are working to eliminate single-use paper cups from our ofces in the U.S. and U.K.
cial institution consortium within the Sustainable Procurement Leadership Council.
life of equipment and achieved millions of dollars in cost-avoidance. The program
We continue to reduce single-use plastics in our ofce pantries, cafes, and confer-
GOVERNANCE The new group provides a forum for our industry to share best practices, and work
also helped identify and decommission hundreds of unnecessary servers and other
ence centers. Since 2019, we have eliminated plastic bottles from cafes and pantries
on initiatives to build capacity and enhance sustainability performance of suppliers.
devices in our branches, reducing power consumption. To further our target of
in the U.S. and U.K.
APPENDICES
For more information on how we engage with our suppliers and our eforts to
diverting 100% of e-waste from landflls, we select vendors to dispose of our
improve supplier diversity, see pages 33 and 60.
e-waste responsibly. In 2022 alone, our e-waste program diverted over 650 metric
tons of solid waste, avoiding nearly 1,800 mtCO e of GHG emissions.
2
23
Social
Our Firm’s success is linked to the strength of the communities we serve and the talent of our people. We
utilize the power of our businesses, combined with philanthropic capital, data-driven insights and policy
expertise to help support a more inclusive and sustainable economy. At the core of these eforts is our
Racial Equity Commitment and our work to advance diversity, equity and inclusion ("DEI") within our orga-
nization. JPMorgan Chase also invests in our people through all phases of the employee life cycle and
seeks to foster an inclusive and supportive work environment.
JPMorgan Chase’s Racial Equity Commitment aims to help
close the racial wealth gap and advance economic inclusion for
underserved communities in the U.S. Pictured: Dallas, Texas
2022 Highlights
• Nearly $29 billion of progress, as of December 31, 2022, toward our fve-year Racial Equity Commitment.
• Up to $10 million in matching and other initiatives to support humanitarian relief eforts in Ukraine,
in addition to $1.5 million provided through employee donations, the largest giving campaign in the
Firm’s history.
• Over $412 million in philanthropic capital globally, of which over $325 million was in grant capital and
over $86 million in loan and equity capital.
24
Feature: Our Racial
Equity Commitment
We believe our business is stronger when our economy is more inclusive, which is why in 2020, JPMorgan Chase
announced its $30 billion Racial Equity Commitment to help close the racial wealth gap and advance economic inclusion
INTRODUCTION among Black, Hispanic, Latino and underserved customers and communities in the U.S. The commitment includes incre-
mental lending and equity investments11, as well as philanthropic capital, products and services. While the original com-
ENVIRONMENTAL mitment period extends through 2025, we intend to continue working to advance racial equity with the long-term in
mind, laying the groundwork, innovating our business practices, and advancing solutions to provide more equitable
SOCIAL access to fnancial opportunities for Black, Hispanic, Latino, and underserved customers and communities.
As of December 31, 2022, we are reporting nearly $29 billion12 of progress toward our fve-year Racial Equity Commit-
Feature: Our Racial Equity
ment, which focuses on the following key areas:
Commitment
• Increasing Homeownership
Inclusive Growth
• Expanding afordable rental housing and support for vital community institutions The Firm is striving to help close the racial wealth gap and advance economic inclusion through fnancial health and wealth creation workshops and community events across the
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
country. Pictured: Atlanta, Georgia
• Growing small businesses
Human Capital
• Spending more with Black, Hispanic and Latino suppliers The Racial Equity Commitment’s 2022 progress was largely driven by incentives for afordable rental housing preservation and
GOVERNANCE homeownership refnancing—areas where the Firm incentivized the preservation of afordable housing, while rents rose rapidly,
• Improving fnancial health and access to banking
and saved customers money on their mortgages, while rates were historically low. With that said, as rates continue to rise, our
• Investing in Minority Depository Institutions and Community Development Financial Institutions
APPENDICES incremental progress continues to be impacted, most notably in the areas of homeownership and small business. For instance,
• Providing Philanthropic Capital to advance an inclusive economic recovery and support Black, Hispanic, Latino and we have lost ground on progress of our refnancing commitment.
underserved communities
While we are pleased with achieving nearly $29 billion of progress, volatile market conditions, including rising interest rates,
• Accelerating investment in employees and building a more diverse and inclusive workforce. Please see the Diver- contributed to slower progress against our commitment and may continue to present challenges. For detailed information on
sity Equity & Inclusion section on page 38 for updates on our hiring goals. each commitment’s progress, please see our website.
11 Refects new products or investments since the October 2020 announcement or incremental dollars and/or units (annual results measured as progress against 2019 business results).
12 REC reported progress of $28.9 billion is refected in both dollars and units, as applicable in the Racial Equity Commitment Progress Update on our website.
25
Areas of Focus and Strategies EXPAND AFFORDABLE RENTAL HOUSING AND SUPPORT FOR VITAL IMPROVING FINANCIAL HEALTH AND ACCESS TO BANKING
COMMUNITY INSTITUTIONS
The Firm continues its eforts to improve the fnancial health and resiliency of our
Our Firm’s breadth of resources allows us to make an impact in several areas that
We continue to pursue innovative fnancing solutions and work with new public
customers and communities, with plans to open more branches—including Commu-
help to address the racial wealth gap and create economic opportunity for commu-
resources to support the development of afordable housing and vital community
nity Center branches in LMI communities, hire additional Community Managers, and
nities historically left behind. The following explores each of the Racial Equity Com-
institutions. These eforts help create and preserve housing for LMI individuals and
host more fnancial health workshops and community events to reach more people
mitment’s pillars and shares our strategic approaches.
families. The Firm makes data-driven policy recommendations aimed at preserving
across the country. We also continue to seek opportunities to innovate our products
and increasing availability and equitable access to afordable housing for renters.
to beneft customers. For instance, in 2022, we launched Early Direct Deposit, which
INCREASING HOMEOWNERSHIP
allows customers to receive their paychecks two days early. This feature is exclu-
By ofering owners and operators rate discounts, nearly all of 2021 borrowers partic-
We continue our eforts to advance equitable access to homeownership for Black, ipating in our Commercial Term Lending Afordable Housing Preservation Program15 sively for our Chase Secure Checking customers, a Bank On-certifed low-cost check-
INTRODUCTION
Hispanic and Latino households. In doing so, we can help stabilize and revitalize maintained designated afordable rent pricing and re-qualifed for a discounted loan. ing account with no overdraft fees.
communities across the country. Our commitment to increase homeownership with
At the onset of our Racial Equity Commitment, we announced a $400 million
ENVIRONMENTAL
Black, Hispanic, and Latino customers is inclusive of every income level because INVESTING IN MINORITY DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS AND
increase of Low Income Housing Tax Credit (“LIHTC”) investments. After meeting
homeownership inequity exists across the fnancial spectrum. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
that initial $400 million target, the Firm increased its commitment to an incremen-
SOCIAL
We execute on and enhance our six-pillar Community and Afordable Lending strategy, tal $400 million annually, totaling $2 billion in LIHTC investments over fve years.
Our Firm understands and appreciates the unique role that Minority Depository Insti-
with focus on investing in our people and partners as we continue to increase our pres- These investments leverage equity commitments to construct and rehabilitate
tutions (“MDIs”) and Community Development Financial Institutions (“CDFIs”) play in
Feature: Our Racial Equity
ence in the communities we serve, enhancing our products and programs to expand afordable rental housing. To see an example of how our work with LIHTC and New
Commitment our communities. Our support of these essential institutions helps them to maximize
access to credit, and participating in policy reform to drive more inclusive growth. Market Tax Credits is helping redevelop communities, see our Evermont Los Angeles
Inclusive Growth their impact and serve communities that have historically been underserved. Over
Bridge Housing Corp / Primestor Case Study on page 10.
Moreover, we advocate for change in our industry and innovate where we can. Addi- the last two years, the Firm has invested more than $100 million of equity in diverse-
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
tionally, we have more than 160 Community Home Lending Advisors13 with a special owned and -led MDIs and CDFIs. Each MDI and CDFI is onboarded as a client and con-
Human Capital
focus on serving home buyers in minority communities. We have established a Spe- GROWING SMALL BUSINESSES nected to the Firm’s expertise, network, and advisory support—including volunteers
cial Purpose Credit Program (“SPCP”) to ofer a $5,000 Chase Homebuyer Grant for from the Firm’s Advancing Black Pathways Fellows and Service Corps programs.
GOVERNANCE
As we support small businesses in majority Black, Hispanic and Latino communities,
customers purchasing a home in over 11,000 majority Black and Hispanic/Latino
we continue to review how the Firm evaluates credit applications, with the goal of
communities. We also expanded the Community Lending Program incentive14 to SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
APPENDICES
expanding access to credit and introducing new product oferings. In 2022, we
regional mortgage lenders that originate in Black and Hispanic/Latino communities
launched a SPCP for small businesses in historically underserved areas. By the end
We believe that diversifying our ecosystem of suppliers is good for our stakehold-
across all Chase markets.
of the year, we hired more than 40 local Senior Business Consultants who provide
ers—including the businesses we work with, the communities in which they live and
one-on-one coaching and host educational events, community workshops, and busi-
serve, and for our own frm. As part of our commitment, we are dedicated to the
ness training seminars to support minority entrepreneurs across 21 U.S. cities.
development and utilization of qualifed Black, Hispanic, and Latino businesses.
JPMorgan Chase has established a frst-of-its-kind supplier grant program to help
qualifed Black, Hispanic and Latino-owned businesses access key compliance mea-
sures that may be cost-prohibitive like cybersecurity, insurance bonding and other
infrastructure costs. For more information on how the Firm is supporting its diverse
suppliers, see page 33.
13 As of December 31, 2022.
14 The Chase Correspondent Community Lending Program is a Non-Delegated Agency program via Best Eforts Flow in targeted underserved markets. This program includes our standard Correspondent ofering and pricing incentives, reduced fees, expanded credit box and preferred underwriting status, with a dedicated program support team.
15 Borrowers qualify for the Preservation Program based on project documentation and afordability targets (>50% of the rental units are noted as afordable based on current rent levels of each unit and county area median income (“AMI”)). Borrowers in the Preservation Program beneft from a graduated interest rate discount to maintain rental
unit afordability and must re-qualify annually.
26
Racial Equity Commitment Program-To-Date Progress Through 2022 Program Highlights
Data provided below is through December 31, 2022. For further details on dollar and unit progress, eligibility criteria, and reporting methodology, see the detailed Racial Equity Commitment data
table on our website.
$18 billion $4 billion
Commitment Pillar In Units In Dollars ($M)
toward Aordable Housing for the construction and
EXPANDING AFFORDABLE RENTAL HOUSING AND SUPPORT FOR VITAL COMMUNITY INSTITUTIONS Preservation Program rehabilitation of
aordable rental housing
Through our Commercial Term Lending Afordable Housing Preservation Program, provide $10 billion to incentivize the preservation of 100,000 designated afordable housing rental units16 169,381 $18,295.8
INTRODUCTION
Expand Commercial Term Lending to government-subsidized afordable housing programs to help preserve an incremental 22,000 units of afordable housing 4,358 $439.8
Fund an incremental $1 billion of construction and rehabilitation of 5,000 afordable housing units for low- and moderate-income households 7,504 $3,884.2
ENVIRONMENTAL
Fund an incremental $1 billion of loans and 7,000 afordable rental units through development of Agency and Of-Balance Sheet Lending through government-sponsored enterprise partnerships 1,464 $155.7
Fund an incremental $500 million in New Market Tax Credits (“NMTC”) N/A $312.2
SOCIAL
Fund $500 million in long-term investments in Preservation Funds N/A $138.7
$1 billion 14,000
Increase Low Income Housing Tax Credit (“LIHTC”) investments by an incremental $2 billion17 N/A $1,179.6
committed in incremental incremental home loans
Feature: Our Racial Equity
INCREASING HOMEOWNERSHIP AMONG BLACK, LATINO, AND HISPANIC HOUSEHOLDS INCLUSIVE OF ALL INCOME LEVELS
Low Income Housing Tax refinanced for Black,
Commitment
Credits investments Hispanic and Latino
Originate an incremental 40,000 home loans worth $8 billion, over and above the Firm's 2019 baseline (2,673) $764.7
homeowners at all
Inclusive Growth
Refnance an incremental 20,000 home loans worth $4 billion, over and above the Firm's 2019 baseline 14,240 $3,352.6 household income levels
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
GROWING SMALL BUSINESSES
Human Capital Provide an incremental $2 billion and 15,000 in loans to businesses in majority-Black and Latino/Hispanic communities, over and above the Firm's 2019 baseline (3,164) $(1,175.9)
SPENDING MORE WITH BLACK, HISPANIC AND LATINO SUPPLIERS
GOVERNANCE
Spend an additional $750 million with Black, Hispanic and Latino suppliers N/A $556.0
IMPROVING FINANCIAL HEALTH AND ACCESS TO BANKING
406,000 146
APPENDICES
Help 1 million customers open low-cost checking accounts 406,495 N/A
net new low-cost community
Open 14 Community Center Branches in underserved communities 13 N/A checking accounts with managers hired
no overdraft fees
Hire 150 Community Managers 146 N/A
Open 100 branches in low- to moderate-income (“LMI”) communities 76 N/A
INVESTING IN MINORITY DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
Provide an incremental $300 million of fnancing to Community Development Financial Institutions (“CDFIs”) N/A $210.6
Invest $100 million in the form of capital and deposits to Black, Hispanic and Latino-owned or -led MDIs and CDFIs18 N/A $106.0
PHILANTHROPY
13 76
Provide $2 billion in philanthropic capital to advance an inclusive economic recovery and support Black, Hispanic, Latino and underserved communities N/A $709.9
Community Center branches opened in low-
branches opened to-moderate income areas
TOTAL $28,929.8
16 Borrowers (building owners or operators) in the Preservation Program beneft from a graduated interest rate discount, which facilitates their maintaining rental unit afordability. Afordability targets under the Preservation Program are tiered based on current rent levels of each
unit and county area median income.
17 Following the investment of $400 million in 2020, the Firm increased its LIHTC commitment to target an incremental $400 million annually, totaling $2 billion over fve years. This change increased the Firm’s total committed amount toward its Racial Equity Commitment. The
increase does not impact the Firm’s other stated commitments.
18 Includes one fnancial institution that provides products and services to MDIs and CDFIs to support Black, Hispanic and/or Latino communities. 27
Our Commitment in Action Accountability and Transparency in Meeting Our Commitment
We are holding ourselves accountable to achieving our Racial Equity Commitment. To that end, we have established a robust
THE ASBERRY AT BARRY FARM
reporting and governance process to track our commitments and will continue to publicly share our progress.
JPMorgan Chase provided a $32.3 million construction loan and $9.5 million of long-term fnancing toward the con- The Firm’s Community Impact Team is responsible for program-wide oversight and governance of the Racial Equity Commitment.
struction of The Asberry, a mixed-use building with 108 age-restricted afordable housing units at Barry Farm in Our lines of business, each of which is responsible for its commitment results and adherence to its governance framework, are
2022. Barry Farm is a historic community in Washington D.C., that was established in 1867 for formerly enslaved accountable to both their respective Chief Executive Ofcer ("CEO") and the Community Impact Team. The Community Impact
Black Americans to own land after the Civil War. The Asberry is expected to be completed in 2024 and represents a Team partners with market business leaders to deliver resources and activations at the local level. These market business lead-
redevelopment that will help a community thrive. ers include CEOs from each line of business and senior executives from applicable corporate functions. This is done in coordina-
tion with the Firm's Public Engagement team, which connects with external stakeholders, including civil rights organizations,
INTRODUCTION JPMorgan Chase’s loans to Barry Farm are an example of the incremental fnancing to support the construction
consumer policy groups, nonproft organizations, civic leaders, trade associations, and diverse chambers of commerce for
and rehabilitation of afordable housing across the United States.
opportunities to collaborate.
ENVIRONMENTAL
The Public Responsibility Committee of the JPMorgan Chase Board of Directors provides oversight of this work and is briefed on
A PHILADELPHIAN BECOMES A FAMILY’S FIRST HOMEOWNER
SOCIAL the Firm’s progress.
At an event in Philadelphia, a JPMorgan Chase Community Manager helped connect a retiring landlord and a Black In 2022, to reinforce the Firm’s commitment to transparency, JPMorgan Chase retained an independent accountant to perform
Feature: Our Racial Equity
frst-time homebuyer. an independent attestation examination of the reported progress toward the Racial Equity Commitment. The decision to retain
Commitment
an independent accountant was made following engagement with shareholders and was informed through the frm’s ongoing
With guidance from his JPMorgan Chase Community Home Lending Advisor, the buyer learned he qualifed for two
Inclusive Growth
engagement with external civil rights and economic justice advisors. The Public Responsibility Committee of the JPMC Board of
grants, a $15,000 grant from Neighborhood LIFT and the $5,000 homebuying grant, for purchasing in an under-
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Directors provided oversight of the attestation engagement. The attestation examination was performed in accordance with the
served community. With these grants, the homebuyer closed on the unit in December 2022, becoming the frst
Human Capital standards established by the American Institute of Certifed Public Accountants. Their report includes an unqualifed opinion that
homeowner in his family. The Firm is leaning on its resources—its presence in branches, its community-focused
management’s assertion regarding progress in disbursed and/or committed dollars and progress in units toward the Firm’s
workforce, its grants, and more—to expand access to afordable homeownership and help reduce the homeowner-
GOVERNANCE Racial Equity Commitment is fairly stated, in all material respects; please see the 2022 Racial Equity Commitment Audit Report.
ship gap for Black, Hispanic and Latino households.
The preparation for and completion of the independent third-party attestation examination has been a valuable process that will
APPENDICES
enhance future reporting. As we execute on our commitment, we will continue to report against our progress publicly.
ALPHA COMPANY MARKETING AND MEDIA LLC
JPMorgan Chase provides a range of development and collaboration opportunities for qualifed diverse businesses
from historically underrepresented groups. In 2022, JPMorgan Chase helped Alpha Company Marketing and Media
LLC, a bilingual digital marketing company, grow its business through its Chase minority-owned business mentorship
program. The Houston-based, Latino-owned company gained eight business certifcations and acceptance into
JPMorgan Chase’s Supplier Diversity Network. As a result of the Firm’s Mentorship Program, Alpha Company Market-
ing and Media LLC reported growth in their client portfolio that resulted in increased revenues.
28
Our Journey and The Road Ahead
The Firm’s commitment to community revitalization and underserved and low-income households did not begin with
the Racial Equity Commitment. Rather, the Racial Equity Commitment was born out of years of leveraging our resources
to uplift customers and communities.
These experiences include our eforts in Detroit following its bankruptcy, the implementation of our AdvancingCities
program across the globe, and the formation of our PolicyCenter to develop evidence-based policy solutions to expand
inclusive economic opportunity. Our history of advancing equity has positioned our Firm to execute the complex,
multi-faceted $30 billion commitment.
INTRODUCTION As our Firm progresses in its commitment, we have realized that this journey is ongoing and will not be limited to fve
years. Rather, our work over the past two years has served as a catalyst to realize even more opportunities to advance
ENVIRONMENTAL racial equity. Our commitment to closing the racial wealth gap will remain, no matter what headwinds and economic
uncertainties we face.
SOCIAL
We continue to see innovations born out of the Racial Equity Commitment. As announced in February 2021, our Empow-
ering Change program provides Minority Depository Institutions exclusive distribution rights to J.P. Morgan’s suite of
Feature: Our Racial Equity
institutional money market funds through the creation of the Empower share class. This approach provides these insti-
Commitment
tutions with a recurring revenue opportunity and amplifes their ability to deliver ongoing positive change in their com-
Inclusive Growth
munities. At the same time, corporate investors can support the socioeconomic goals of minority- and diverse-led
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
fnancial institutions. It is an innovation that helps support DEI goals of corporate investors and lifts those who have
Human Capital historically been left behind.
In two years, our Firm has nearly met its initial $30 billion commitment toward advancing racial equity. Yet, we are
GOVERNANCE
aware of the work that remains, both in meeting each of our individual commitments, and for our country as a whole.
For this reason, we are committed to continuing this work and measuring its outcomes to help advance lasting racial
APPENDICES
equity and make meaningful contributions to closing the racial wealth gap. By providing fnancial tools, products, and
services, the Firm aims to help close the racial wealth gap, consistent with our belief that our business is stronger when
our economy is more inclusive. Chase Community Branches such as this Little Havana location in Miami, Florida, help improve access to banking services.
29
Inclusive Growth
Our Firm believes that we are only as strong as the communi- HOW OUR FIRM IS MAKING AN IMPACT
ties we serve and the economies they support. That is why
INTRODUCTION JPMorgan Chase is helping build opportunities in neighbor- CASE STUDY SUPPORTING THE PEOPLE OF UKRAINE
hoods and communities across the U.S. and the globe. We Lending and investment capital
ENVIRONMENTAL understand we can play a role in helping to drive local econo- As the war in Ukraine continues, a growing number of people have been left without access to basic needs
mies, helping communities grow and building personal prosper- and millions of refugees and internally displaced individuals have fed their homes in Ukraine. To support
SOCIAL ity. This is particularly important during challenging times. As humanitarian relief eforts in Ukraine, JPMorgan Chase committed up to $10 million in philanthropic capi-
we navigate through economic instability, war, climate change Philanthropic capital tal in 2022, including more than $1.5 million in employee matching donations, the largest disaster giving
Feature: Our Racial Equity and the long-term efects of the pandemic, we continue to help campaign in the Firm’s history. Our commitment supports a number of organizations working to provide
Commitment build a more sustainable, inclusive economy. Our eforts are emergency food, housing and medical services to those in need, including working with select humanitar-
Inclusive Growth focused where we believe we can leverage our business and ian relief organizations such as International Medical Corps, International Rescue Committee, Polska Akcja
Policy expertise and advancement,
expertise to create meaningful impact, including through: Humanitarna, UNICEF and World Central Kitchen.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion led by JPMorgan Chase’s PolicyCenter
Human Capital • Building careers and skills As part of our commitment, we provided $5 million to support the Chamber of Commerce of the Polish Hotel
• Fueling business growth and entrepreneurship Industry as they worked to provide temporary shelter for over 1,400 refugees in Poland through access to
Data insights and analytics, led by
GOVERNANCE • Catalyzing community development hotel rooms, as well as information and guidance on access to other assistance including medical care, child-
the JPMorgan Chase Institute
• Strengthening fnancial health and wealth creation care and longer-term housing, in coordination with member hotels, nonprofts and local governments.
APPENDICES • Promoting environmental sustainability within our
The Firm’s support also reaches beyond our philanthropic eforts. We ofered 50 Ukrainian refugees the
communities Skills and talents of our employees opportunity to join a work and training program focused on upskilling people displaced by the war to work
We are bringing the reach and expertise of our Firm to take in areas including fnance, human resources and operations in our Warsaw ofce.
on these challenges, using the power of our businesses com-
JPMorgan Chase continues to monitor the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine to consider how we can best
bined with philanthropic capital, data-driven insights and pol-
deploy our resources to meet growing and changing needs in the region.
icy expertise. Underpinning and informing all these eforts is
our Firm’s commitment to DEI and sustainable development.
30
Building Careers and Skills HBCU Career Pathways Initiative: Since the initiative began in 2020, we have
committed nearly $7 million to the creation of high-quality career pathways to prepare
JPMorgan Chase is supporting job-seekers by equipping them with the tools and students at historically Black Colleges and Universities (“HBCUs”) for high-wage, in-
skills they need to grow, advance and be ready for the future of work. We do this by demand careers. The commitment has included over $3 million in philanthropic capital
supporting and developing certifcation programs, skills training and policy solutions provided directly to five HBCUs and over $3.5 million to the United Negro College Fund
that connect job seekers to well-paying and stable jobs at our Firm and in communi- to provide capacity building and long-term strategic planning support to eight HBCUs.
ties around the world, with a focus on young, minority and non-traditional job seek- Our HBCU Career Pathways Initiative is supporting the formation of co-op programs,
ers. In 2019, we made a $350 million, fve-year philanthropic commitment focused the hiring of success coaches to support students' career navigation, the expansion of
on creating economic mobility and career pathways for underserved populations. university-employer relationships, the creation of work-based learning and internship
opportunities for students, the development of high-quality data science
We are also applying insights from our work in the community to our own hiring, DEI
INTRODUCTION
programming, and the preparation of students for careers in financial services.
and employee development programs to create more pathways into and across our
Firm. This includes identifying certifcations, credentials and other training that will Support for Community Colleges and Non-Traditional Students: With open admis-
ENVIRONMENTAL
prepare employees for changes in technology and business, and allow them to com- sions policies and lower costs relative to other institutions, community colleges play
pete for new and in-demand roles in our Firm. an important role in helping to bridge the wealth gap and create pathways to eco-
SOCIAL
nomic mobility by providing economically and demographically diverse communities
2022 HIGHLIGHTS with access to education and career opportunities. In 2019, JPMorgan Chase com-
Feature: Our Racial Equity
Commitment mitted $125 million in philanthropic capital to strengthen the capacity of community
Mentoring and Work Experience for Young People: Through The Fellowship Initia-
colleges across the U.S. Additionally, the Firm continues to emphasize the value of
Inclusive Growth
tive (“TFI”), we engage young men of color in high school in academic and proj-
skills in addition to educational degrees, with more information on our skills-based
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
ect-based learning activities, college and career planning and leadership develop-
hiring on page 44. JPMorgan Chase is working to create career pathways to prepare students at HBCUs for high-wage, in demand careers.
Human Capital
Pictured: Dallas, Texas
ment opportunities, all with the goal of helping them successfully complete high
Career Readiness Programs: In 2020, JPMorgan Chase announced the Global Career
school and prepare for college and career success. In 2022, TFI served over 600 Fel-
Readiness Initiative, a $75 million, fve-year global initiative to expand access to turing, education, and business that are aligned with local labor market trends and
GOVERNANCE
lows across seven U.S. cities—New York City, Chicago, Los Angeles, Dallas, Houston,
economic opportunity for young underserved people by supporting pathways and employer demand. JPMorgan Chase also invests in career readiness initiatives out-
Oakland, and Washington D.C.—and since its inception in 2010, over 600 JPMorgan
policy solutions that better prepare them for the future of work. As part of this ini- side the U.S. In 2022, JPMorgan Chase launched four new career readiness initiatives
APPENDICES
Chase employees have volunteered and matched to be mentors with TFI Fellows to
tiative in the U.S., the Firm is providing $7 million over fve years, beginning in 2020, in India, Brazil, France and Italy. These initiatives aim to support broad systems
provide coaching, academic support and leadership development. In the U.K., our
to six U.S. cities—Boston, MA; Columbus, OH; Dallas, TX; Denver, CO; Indianapolis, IN; change by scaling innovative solutions and developing high-impact approaches to
Firm’s Aspiring Professionals Programme, run in collaboration with the Social Mobil-
and Nashville, TN, to foster collaboration, infrastructure building, and systems-level inform policy reforms. In 2022, the Firm also renewed its collaboration with the
ity Foundation, supports talented young people from low income backgrounds with
change between local school districts, higher education institutions, and business Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Directorate for Education
work experience, mentoring and skills sessions to equip them with skills to succeed
communities. As a result, each city is developing high-quality career pathways in and Skills to conduct analyses of efective and equitable career readiness policies
in their future careers. Since launching in 2010, over 800 young people have been
industries like healthcare, information technology, engineering, advanced manufac- and programs for students, and disseminate them globally with policy makers.
supported, 86% of which began full-time employment 15 months after graduation.
31
CASE STUDY PROVIDING A SECOND CHANCE GLOBAL CAREER READINESS
CASE STUDY
COMMITMENT IN FRANCE
The U.S. has more job openings than applicants, yet some qualifed candidates face obstacles to
In France, approximately 16% of young people ages 18 to 24
securing a good job: people with criminal records. Approximately one in three working-age adults
are not in employment20, education or training, suggesting
in the U.S. has a criminal record19, and as a result, face economic barriers including hiring dis-
that they will need alternative pathways to obtain the skills
crimination and lost job opportunities. JPMorgan Chase is giving people with criminal records a
and experience necessary to succeed in the labor market.
second chance by supporting their participation in the workforce, communities and local econo-
Across Île-de-France, there are more than 28,000 early school
mies. We have made changes in our own hiring and recruitment practices, along with advancing a
leavers21, with youth from disadvantaged backgrounds dispro-
policy agenda that reduces barriers to employment for people with criminal backgrounds.
portionately represented. School closures during the pan-
In 2022, the Firm expanded our Second Chance community-based hiring models in Detroit and
INTRODUCTION demic are estimated to have widened the educational attain-
Phoenix, with plans to continue expanding it to additional cities. These hiring models help reach
ment gap and increased the risk of dropouts amongst poorer
qualifed candidates, many with criminal records, who previously may not have considered the
ENVIRONMENTAL students, with unequal access to digital equipment, parental
Firm as a potential employer. Through the Second Chance Business Coalition, we continue to work
support, and/or suitable space to work. JPMorgan Chase is
with more than 45 cross-industry large-scale companies to expand second chance hiring and
SOCIAL supporting the nonproft, Article 1, through philanthropic cap-
advancement, including developing best practices and tools for employers. In 2022, 10% of new
ital for a program providing high-quality career guidance ser-
JPMorgan Chase hires in the U.S. were people with criminal backgrounds.
Feature: Our Racial Equity vices and tools for young people pursuing technical and voca-
Commitment Additionally, together with JPMorgan Chase’s Legal Pro Bono team, community-based legal ser-
tional education pathways in the department of Seine-Saint-
vices nonproft organizations and law frm pro bono partners, we hosted expungement clinics in
Inclusive Growth Denis and in the region Île-de-France. The program began in
Chicago, Columbus, and Wilmington with the aim of helping eligible individuals prepare the docu-
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 2022 and is aiming to help 2,500 youths with their progres-
ments needed for the criminal record expungement or sealing process. Very few individuals who
sion into higher education or employment by 2025.
Human Capital
are eligible to have their records sealed or expunged ever apply because the petition-based sys-
tem is costly, complex and time-consuming.
GOVERNANCE
The Firm has supported updating industry hiring rules set in Section 19 of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act. In 2022, the Fair Hiring in Banking Act was signed into law, creating opportunities
APPENDICES
for more people with records that ft within the Section 19 industry guidelines to join our work-
force, as well as other fnancial frms.
The Firm also supports Clean Slate legislation to automate the process of clearing or sealing eligi-
ble criminal records and open access to jobs in places such as Michigan, Delaware, Connecticut,
Virginia, and most recently Colorado—and continues to support eforts to advance measures in
New York, Illinois, Texas, Missouri, and Oregon.
The Firm announced its Racial Equity Commitment in 2022 to help
close the racial wealth gap and advance economic inclusion.
Pictured: Congress Heights in Washington, D.C.
19 Source: https://www.ncsl.org/civil-and-criminal-justice/criminal-record-clearing-the-terminology
20 Source: OECD (2022), Education at a Glance 2022: OECD Indicators: - France https://www.oecd-ilibrary.org/sites/e8e7ec93-en/index.html?itemId=/content/component/e8e7ec93-en
21 Source: Région Île-de-France. (n.d.). Rentrée 2020: la lutte contre le décrochage scolaire continue. [online] Available at: https://www.iledefrance.fr/rentree-2020-la-lutte-contre-le-decrochage-scolaire-continue#:~:text=En%20%C3%8Ele%2Dde%2DFrance%2C [Accessed 22 Feb. 2023].
32
Fueling Business Growth Supplier Diversity: We support the development and utilization of qualifed diverse
businesses from historically underrepresented groups, including companies owned and
and Entrepreneurship
operated by ethnic minorities, women, military veterans, people with disabilities and
members of the LGBTQ+ community. Our supplier diversity mission is comprised of
JPMorgan Chase is helping to address the discrepancy in access to main-
three pillars: (1) facilitating the growth and development of diverse businesses in our
stream debt or equity capital for underserved entrepreneurs and certain
supply chain network; (2) promoting equity and inclusion across our entire portfolio of
businesses, such as minority- and women-owned business; lack of access can
supply chain business partners; and (3) driving economic growth in the communities in
lead to barriers in establishing, growing and scaling their companies. The
which we do business. In 2022, our Firm spent approximately $2.1 billion on Tier 1 and
Firm is working to level the playing feld for these groups through products,
$800 million on Tier 2 diverse suppliers22, including $1.7 billion with minority-owned
programs, fnancing and policy recommendations aimed at expanding access
businesses and $1.1 billion with women-owned businesses. In 2022, JPMorgan Chase’s
to capital, networks and tools that are important for entrepreneurial success.
INTRODUCTION
top suppliers increased their own spend with diverse suppliers, generating over $6 bil-
lion in new diverse spending23. We continued to support diverse suppliers in key cities
2022 HIGHLIGHTS
ENVIRONMENTAL
across the U.S. in 2022, primarily by hosting targeted events focused on bringing local
Support for Small Business: Our Firm is proud to serve small businesses. minority business owners together with resources and contacts across the bank and in
SOCIAL
During 2022, JPMorgan Chase Business Banking provided $4.3 billion in loans communities in Chicago, Dallas, Houston, Los Angeles and New York. For more informa-
and lines of credit to small businesses, including $860.4 million to small busi- tion on our eforts to improve diversity standards and processes within our supply
Feature: Our Racial Equity
nesses in majority Black, Hispanic and Latino communities (which are a part chain, see page 60.
Commitment
of our Racial Equity Commitment). For example, we took nationwide action in
Inclusive Growth Our commitment to CDFIs and MDIs: CDFIs and MDIs provide vital fnancial services in
2022 through our Special Purpose Credit Program (“SPCP”), expanding credit
communities that are often underserved. Through small business loans, commercial
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
access for small businesses in historically underserved areas. We also sup- National Minority Supplier Development Council’s Annual Conference & Exchange , New Orleans, Louisiana.
fnancing, mortgages and more, these institutions supply capital to fuel economic
Human Capital
port minority entrepreneurs through coaching opportunities. Through 2022,
growth and, in the process, play an essential role in helping individuals in these com-
senior business consultants coached more than 3,000 Black, Hispanic and
munities build wealth. In order to do so, however, many CDFIs and MDIs need additional Small business policy agenda: We are advancing policy reforms that promote access
GOVERNANCE
Latino small businesses and hosted educational events, community work-
capital themselves. Through our Racial Equity Commitment, our Firm is working to to capital and advisory assistance for underserved entrepreneurs. In 2022, the
shops and business training seminars with over 115,000 participants across
strengthen minority-owned and diverse-led CDFIs and MDIs by providing access to capi- JPMorgan Chase PolicyCenter expanded on the Firm’s support for small business
APPENDICES
21 U.S. cities. In addition to these eforts, globally, hundreds of JPMorgan
tal, connections to institutional investors, policy advocacy, support for diverse-led com- participation in contracting by releasing a brief titled, “Lifting Barriers to Small Busi-
Chase employees provided direct mentorship to minority and female entre-
mercial projects and mentorship and training opportunities. This support includes the ness Access to Procurement”, which outlines our recommendations for policymakers
preneurs through the Firm’s Founders Forward program in 2022. From busi-
Firm’s Service Corps program, through which employee teams are matched with CDFIs to improve existing programs and enhance resources available to small businesses.
ness plans to revenue strategies, this program ofers support to entrepre-
and MDIs to leverage their business acumen to support organizational sustainability Additionally, we have convened private and public sector stakeholders to discuss how
neurs as they look to grow their businesses and serve their communities.
and increase community impact. By the end of 2022, we had invested more than $100 barriers in policy can be removed for small businesses who are looking to become
million of equity in 15 diverse-owned and -led CDFIs and MDIs that serve 96 communi- suppliers to large companies and government. We have also continued our advocacy
ties across 21 states and the District of Columbia. This capital is intended to help these on SBA program reforms and CDFI and MDI supports, some of which have been
institutions hire staf, invest in technology enhancement and expand into new markets. implemented, such as the extension of the Community Advantage program to 2024.
22 Tier 1: The amount of spend, or procurement dollars, that the Firm spends directly with third parties that provide goods and services that support its business operations. Tier 2: The amount of spend, or procurement dollars, that the Firm's suppliers spend with their Tier 1 suppliers.
23 Spend totals for Minority-owned businesses and Women-owned businesses include both Tier 1 and Tier 2 data. They represent the total population of each and are not considered unique totals.
33
CASE STUDY SUPPORTING FEMALE ENTREPRENEURSHIP WORLDWIDE
As part of JPMorgan Chase’s work to advance a more equitable economy, the Firm is helping to strengthen our local
INTRODUCTION
communities by addressing structural barriers to economic opportunity. In 2022, through our targeted philanthropic
commitments to local and regional nonproft organizations and employee engagement, we supported low and mid-
ENVIRONMENTAL
dle-income women, Black and ethnic minority individuals, and migrants globally to start or grow small businesses.
SOCIAL During December 2022 in Latin America, JPMorgan Chase committed $400,000 in philanthropic capital to Aliança
Empreendedora and $350,000 in philanthropic capital to Impact Hub São Paulo to help Black female microentre-
Feature: Our Racial Equity preneurs. Aliança Empreendedora leads a national network of hundreds of entrepreneur support organizations,
Commitment
and Impact Hub ofers its support to microentrepreneurs in dozens of municipalities across the country. This pilot
Inclusive Growth program has the potential to raise awareness and catalyze a change in how Black female microentrepreneurs from
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion underserved backgrounds are supported at scale over the long-term.
Human Capital
CASE STUDY THE SOUTHERN OPPORTUNITY AND RESILIENCE FUND
GOVERNANCE
Impact Finance and Advisory provided a $10 million loan to the Southern Opportunity and Resilience Fund (SOAR)
APPENDICES
in 2021, which was created to provide fexible, afordable capital and free advisory support to entrepreneurs in his-
torically underserved communities across 15 southern states and Washington D.C. Through the Firm’s support,
SOAR purchased loans throughout 2021 and 2022 originated by 11 participating CDFIs, allowing those CDFIs to
maintain and increase their lending activities to small businesses. These CDFIs ofered low interest loans up to
$105,000 to small businesses and nonproft organizations with less than 50 employees and less than $5 million in
gross revenue. Through December 30, 2022, SOAR purchased over 1,100 loans at an average loan size of approxi-
mately $55,000. Of these loans, 83% were made to minority- and/or women-owned business and nonprofts and
more than 55% were made in distressed or at-risk communities.24
JPMorgan Chase grant recipients are working to increase access to afordable, climate resilient housing in areas such as Inland Empire, California.
24 Based on the Distressed Communities Index or in CDFI Investment Areas.
34
Catalyzing Community Development Philanthropic and fexible capital for innovative housing solutions: As part of the
CASE STUDY SAN FRANCISCO HOUSING ACCELERATOR FUND
Racial Equity Commitment, the Firm made a fve-year, $400 million commitment to
Supporting community development is an important way to improve community improve household stability and housing afordability for Black, Hispanic and Latino Finding safe, afordable, and stable housing is one of the largest challenges fac-
well-being and expand economic opportunity. Housing and homeownership, in par- households. We have committed over $200 million through the end of 2022 through ing families living in high-cost metropolitan areas like California’s Bay Area.
ticular, are central pillars of community development because access to a stable, grants, loans and equity investments. This includes support for organizations JPMorgan Chase has taken a broad approach to support housing solutions that
afordable home is a leading determinant of income and wealth, health and overall focused on, among other things, eviction diversion models and foreclosure preven- ft the Bay Area’s unique needs, with a focus on production, preservation, protec-
quality of life. Yet for many U.S. households, especially Black, Hispanic and Latino tion support to stabilize renters and homeowners, preservation strategies to sup- tion, and innovation throughout the region. One notable efort was a $12 million
households, access to afordable housing is increasingly out of reach. Through lend- port small landlords, innovations in new construction to lower costs and increase low-cost loan, with an initial $6 million committed in 2019 and an additional $6
ing, equity investments and philanthropic capital; community partnerships; and supply, and specialized mortgage products and alternative ownership models to million committed in 2022, provided by the Firm’s Impact Finance and Advisory
data and policy insights, JPMorgan Chase is helping to build stronger communities, increase homeownership. For example, in 2022, we announced a $15 million com- team to The San Francisco Housing Accelerator Fund (“HAF”). HAF is a nonproft
INTRODUCTION
with a focus on homeownership and access to afordable housing, which is also a mitment to fve nonproft organizations working to test and scale innovative models CDFI established in 2017 to address key fnancing gaps and mitigate the housing
core focus of our $30 billion Racial Equity Commitment. to increase the supply of climate-resilient, energy-efcient afordable homes. afordability crisis in San Francisco and the wider Bay Area. HAF provides prede-
ENVIRONMENTAL
velopment, acquisition, and rehabilitation loans for small and large sites, includ-
Housing reforms policy agenda: The Firm’s housing market afordability policy
ing single-room occupancy, residential hotel properties, and vacant or underuti-
2022 HIGHLIGHTS
agenda seeks to support regulatory and policy changes aimed at addressing sys-
SOCIAL
lized land to be developed into afordable housing. As a lender to communi-
temic bias in housing and encourage more efective models for boosting access to
Homeownership: To help address the homeownership gap between White house- ty-based developers serving LMI populations, HAF has originated more than
and supply of afordable homes. JPMorgan Chase continues to engage with industry
Feature: Our Racial Equity
holds and Black, Hispanic and Latino households, the Firm is expanding access to $350 million in fnancing across 38 projects, resulting in nearly 1,700 residential
Commitment partners and regulators to fnd ways to address gaps in the residential appraisal
afordable homeownership through our home lending products and services, as well units and 30 commercial spaces being preserved or created, as of June 30, 2022.
Inclusive Growth process—including, among other things, lack of appraisal industry diversity and lack
as through innovative homebuyer readiness programs and fnancial education ser-
of understanding around the rights to and process for reconsideration of value—that
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
vices. During 2022, the Firm originated over 11,500 home purchase loans for Black,
have led to appraisal bias and equity issues in the valuation process. In 2022, our
CASE STUDY MIAMI AFFORDABILITY PROJECT
Human Capital Hispanic and Latino households across the economic spectrum, totaling approxi-
Firm committed $3 million to the Appraiser Diversity Initiative, a collaboration
mately $4 billion. For more information on how the Firm is expanding access to
JPMorgan Chase is supporting the University of Miami’s Ofce of Civic and Com-
between the Appraisal Institute, National Urban League, Fannie Mae and Freddie
GOVERNANCE afordable homeownership through our Community and Afordable Lending eforts,
munity Engagement to tackle two major challenges facing Miami-Dade County—
Mac aimed at attracting diverse entrants into the residential appraisal feld. To date,
please see our Racial Equity Commitment section.
the lack of afordable housing and efects of climate change. The Firm has pro-
the Firm’s commitment has resulted in more than 360 scholarships to diverse appli-
APPENDICES
Afordable rental housing: The Firm works to advance afordable housing solutions, vided a grant to develop and expand the Miami Afordability Project (“MAP”) tool,
cants. In 2022, we also continued our eforts to help protect economically vulnera-
bringing our industry expertise, a comprehensive set of fnancial tools and a strat- which is designed to investigate how climate consequences such as sea level rise,
ble families from losing their homes in heirs' property partition sales and tax lien
egy of combining our business and philanthropic eforts to create greater impact. As fooding and extreme heat are contributing to the displacement of residents in
sales through our support and advancement of the Uniform Partition of Heirs Prop-
part of our Racial Equity Commitment, we pledged to fnance the creation and pres- historically under-resourced neighborhoods. The MAP tool enables users to visu-
erty Act (“UPHPA”). UPHPA laws reform state property laws to provide fractional or
ervation of 100,000 afordable rental units over fve years through $14 billion in alize how increased fooding, rising seas and more powerful storm surges pro-
heirs property owners with basic due process protections. We supported advance-
new loans, equity investments and other eforts. In 2022, through the Afordable jected for the future would impact afordable housing across Miami-Dade—which
ment of Heirs Property legislation in California, Utah, Washington, Philadelphia, and
Housing Preservation Program, the Firm approved funding for $8.4 billion in loans already has one of the nation’s highest percentage of renters spending more than
in the District of Columbia.
to incentivize the preservation of approximately 78,000 afordable housing and half of their income on housing. By providing access to this type of information,
rental housing units across the U.S. neighborhoods throughout the county such as Opa Locka, Little River and Sweet-
water will have more detailed information on projected climate conditions and
resilience to climate impacts to support their afordable housing advocacy work.
35
Strengthening Financial Health including three additional branches in 2022. Community Center Branches ofer addi-
CASE STUDY REAFFIRMING OUR COMMITMENT TO HBCUS
tional free resources, such as skills training, small business pop-ups, and fnancial
and Wealth Creation
JPMorgan Chase is committed to help close the racial wealth gap and drive eco-
health seminars for communities that have lacked access to traditional banking.
nomic inclusion by supporting the educational and career outcomes of young
Additionally, we have hired a total of 146 Community Managers. We are also increas-
Improving economic opportunity starts by helping people achieve their fnancial
Black and other people of color from high school, through college, and into
ing marketing and outreach to customers who are currently underserved.
goals, cultivate fnancial resilience and ultimately build wealth. Access to relevant,
promising career pathways. Colleges and universities are preparing their stu-
useful and afordable fnancial services is a critical foundation for achieving this.
Tools to help our customers achieve their fnancial goals: Our Firm provides
dents for an ever-evolving labor market, including elevating the importance of
However, diverse and LMI individuals are less likely to have access to fnancial ser-
afordable and scalable products and services that help our customers strengthen
connecting credentials and work experiences to in-demand jobs of the future.
vices, the fnancial resilience to manage unexpected shocks and the fnancial
their fnancial health and meet long-term goals such as retirement savings, educa-
HBCUs play a vital role in creating pathways to opportunity in the U.S. and pre-
resources to meet long-term goals. We are leveraging our reach and expertise to
tion, homeownership and growing a small business. We are also helping to fll gaps
paring their students for those opportunities. Recognizing the importance of
expand access to banking, develop products that meet the needs of LMI consumers,
and improve the user experience for LMI customers striving to improve their fnan-
INTRODUCTION
deepening our relationship with these institutions, JPMorgan Chase reafrmed
deploy grants to support fnancial health, and provide fnancial coaching to support
cial health. In 2022, the Firm’s Impact Finance and Advisory team invested in Propel,
its support of HBCUs in 2022 through an expanded fve-year, $30 million com-
fnancial resiliency.
a technology platform for low-income Americans that enables users to view their
ENVIRONMENTAL
mitment. This commitment takes a strategic approach to help meet the individ-
government benefts, access discounts for everyday items and utilize a debit card.
ual needs of HBCUs and students. This commitment complements the work of
2022 HIGHLIGHTS Propel currently serves more than 5 million users a month by helping them check
SOCIAL
the Firm’s Advancing Black Pathways Center of Excellence, an initiative to chart
their Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (“SNAP”) balances in real time.
clearer pathways toward economic success and empowerment within the Black
Access to Banking Services: As part of our Racial Equity Commitment (see page 25),
Feature: Our Racial Equity Policy solutions: JPMorgan Chase is working to advance policy that expands access
community (see page 41 for more details). As part of the commitment in 2022,
we pledged to help one million consumers open low-cost checking or savings
Commitment
to banking, improves cash fow management, develops and strengthens access to
the Firm is continuing its commitment of $1 million annually for fve years to the
accounts over fve years through expanded awareness of our Chase Secure Bank-
Inclusive Growth
credit, and builds savings and wealth. We support policies that protect consumers
Student Financial Hardship Fund to help students buy books, pay a security
ingSM product. Chase Secure BankingSM accounts have no overdraft fees and provide
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion while enabling the fexibility to design innovative credit and liquidity solutions.
deposit or medical bill, address short-term food insecurity or meet other needs.
users with the benefts of being a Chase customer, like access to thousands of fee-
JPMorgan Chase participates in the Roundtable for Economic Access and Change
Human Capital
free ATMs, free money orders and cashier’s checks, Chase’s mobile app and support
(Project REACh), which brings together leaders from the banking industry, national
from bankers in person or by phone. In 2022, we helped customers open more than CASE STUDY INDIA FINANCIAL INCLUSION LAB
civil rights organizations, business and technology to reduce specifc barriers to
GOVERNANCE
170,000 net new low-cost checking accounts with no overdraft fees and enhanced
fnancial inclusion. We are working across sectors to explore alternative credit Along with the Michael & Susan Dell Foundation, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foun-
the Chase Secure BankingSM product by introducing Early Direct Deposit to expedite
assessment methods that responsibly expand access to mainstream credit for dation, the MetLife Foundation and Omidyar Network, the Firm is providing
APPENDICES
customer access to cash by up to two days. Since its launch in 2019, we have made
underserved borrowers. We also support policy that will enable structural changes philanthropic capital to the Financial Inclusion Lab in India, an initiative aimed
Chase Secure BankingSM available to 1.5 million accounts to help people access main-
to public assistance programs that promote economic stability for LMI consumers at improving the fnancial health of India’s underserved LMI population, by
stream banking. Our Chase bank branches are also a key part of our strategy to
and put people on a path to fnancial resilience and wealth-building. Across all these bringing early-stage inclusive fntech startups to scale. Despite making signif-
expand access to banking services. As of December 2022, we had opened an addi-
areas, we are sharing our Firm’s insights, data and experience about the unique cant progress in fnancial inclusion, India’s population continues to face barriers
tional 29 new branches in LMI communities, many within Black, Hispanic and Latino
challenges and solutions that meet the needs of LMI communities. in accessing and using fnancial services. Since launching in 2018, the Financial
communities. Since 2019, we have opened a total 15 of Community Center Branches,
Inclusion Lab’s eforts have included providing expertise to develop prototypes,
mentoring, business development assistance and other support to startups. As
of December 31, 2022, the Lab has reported supporting 50 early-stage startups.
Cumulatively, according to the Financial Inclusion Lab’s self-reporting, these
startups have served over 30 million individuals and raised over $80 million in
funding following their participation in the Lab.
36
Promoting Environmental Sustainability
Advancing sustainability is not only about helping the environment, it is also about improving the communities we
serve. Persistent changes in global climate patterns and associated extreme weather events present risks to customers,
communities and clients. Risks like these threaten personal safety and can cause costly damage to properties, house-
holds, and businesses. We believe in the power of communities, governments and business to implement the low-car-
bon energy transition as an important part of inclusive economic growth. JPMorgan Chase is pursuing projects that
include helping individuals and communities build climate resilience in housing and urban spaces, fostering an inclusive
approach to climate and energy innovation and small businesses, and equipping diverse populations to acquire the
training and skills needed to access and thrive in future job opportunities. Our commitment to racial equity and inclu-
INTRODUCTION
sive growth are important themes in each of the highlighted areas below.
The Firm supports nonprofts working to test and scale innovative models to increase the supply of energy efcient homes. Pictured: Rancho Cucamonga, California
ENVIRONMENTAL
2022 HIGHLIGHTS
SOCIAL
Building community resilience to the efects of climate change: Strategic philanthropy is an important way we sup-
CASE STUDY BUILDING SKILLS FOR UNDERSERVED PEOPLE IN MADRID TO ACCESS GREEN JOBS
port organizations and communities that are advancing climate resilience across the globe. The Firm supports entities
Feature: Our Racial Equity like the Atlantic Council’s Adrienne Arsht-Rockefeller Foundation Resilience Center and their launch of the Cool Capital The energy transition can create new jobs for communities, but work is needed to connect job seekers with opportunities
Commitment
Stack, an initiative to mobilize capital for projects that protect people from climate-driven extreme heat, particularly and to ensure that individuals have the skills needed to succeed in them. In Madrid, one of our grantees, Fundación Konecta,
Inclusive Growth
the most vulnerable communities, in 12 cities around the world. Additionally, our support for the American Council for works with young people from underserved backgrounds to prepare them for these emerging job opportunities. Fundación
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion an Energy Efcient Economy is designed to enable the organization to provide technical assistance to governments and Konecta trains young people to excel in career pathways in renewable energy, infrastructure, waste management, construc-
Human Capital NGOs for advancing energy efciency investments in afordable housing. And at the neighborhood level, we support tion, and water management, and provides job placement support to connect them with concrete opportunities. They are
community-based organizations like Northeast Houston Redevelopment Council in building green infrastructure, like planning to train 200 participants during the 2-year program, launched in 2022, to fnd employment in the green economy.
GOVERNANCE community gardens and rainwater catchment systems, and ofering disaster preparedness education.
Supporting innovation at the intersection of sustainable and afordable housing: In October 2022, JPMorgan Chase
CASE STUDY TRAINING THE NEXT GENERATION OF PRAGMATIC ENERGY LEADERS
APPENDICES
announced a commitment of $15 million in philanthropic capital to fve organizations, as part of our $400 million fve-
year commitment to improve housing afordability and stability for households of color. The grants are focused on help- Market forces, technological advances, and policy changes are bringing about a transformation of the energy landscape.
ing to scale innovative climate resilient afordable housing models within communities in Rio Grande Valley, TX; Bufalo, Energy sector leaders have identifed the need to learn new skills and integrate new solutions into the existing energy sys-
NY; Washington D.C.; Miami-Dade County, FL; and Inland Empire, CA. tem to confront these challenges and chart a course to a low-carbon future. JPMorgan Chase supported Energy Leadership
Institute’s EnGen executive leadership development program, which is designed to educate and engage mid- to senior-level
leaders from all sectors of the energy industry to drive innovation and technological advancements toward net-zero 2050
goals. The 2023 cohort includes participants from varied backgrounds including oil and gas, renewable energy, academia,
fnance, utility and the nonproft sector.
37
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
At JPMorgan Chase, we believe that if our teams are more diverse, we will generate better ideas and out-
comes, enjoy a stronger corporate culture and outperform our competitors. That starts, frst and foremost,
INTRODUCTION with building and fostering an inclusive work environment where our employees are respected, trusted and
encouraged to bring their whole selves to work. It also means actively working to incorporate DEI consider-
ENVIRONMENTAL ations into how we hire, develop and support our employees; design and deliver our products and services;
leverage our purchasing power; invest in our communities; engage on public policy issues; and more.
SOCIAL
We have made progress over the past few years in creating a more diverse and inclusive business, and
continue to increase our representation among gender and race. We have also taken a number of steps to
Feature: Our Racial Equity
build the infrastructure for our Firm to deliver on our commitment to DEI. This includes developing and
Commitment
implementing a global DEI strategic framework with clear objectives, metrics, controls and accountabili-
Inclusive Growth
ties. We have strengthened our DEI function and formalized the ways in which it works to advance prog-
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
ress within our lines of business and serve customers, clients and communities. We are managing and exe-
Human Capital cuting on our priorities because we know that DEI is an important part of our Firm’s ability to be success-
ful in the long term.
GOVERNANCE
We know there is more work to do, and we are committed to both continuing that work and to being trans-
parent with our stakeholders about our progress.
APPENDICES
Driving Progress Within Our Own Workforce
We recognize that our commitment to advance a diverse, equitable and inclusive world starts with how we
put that vision into practice inside our own company. We continue to incorporate diversity into hiring,
training, developing and retaining our employees, and we remain focused on fostering an inclusive culture
that respects and champions diverse perspectives.
JPMorgan Chase DEI executives participate at the Firm's 2022 Leadership Day, New York, New York.
38
2022 Workforce Composition
In connection with its diversity initiatives, the Firm periodically requests that its employees and Board members self-identify based on specifed diversity categories. The following table presents PROMOTIONAL DATA
information on self-identifcations as of December 31, 2022. Information on race/ethnicity of employees is categorized based on Equal Employment Opportunity (“EEO”) classifcations and is pre-
sented for U.S. employees who self-identifed, and information on gender is presented for global employees who self-identifed. Information on race/ethnicity and gender for members of the Oper-
ating Committee and the Board of Directors refects all such members. Information on LGBTQ+ and veteran statuses is based on U.S. employees, and all members of the Operating Committee and
the Board of Directors. Information on disability status is based on all U.S. employees and all members of the Operating Committee. GLOBAL
PROMOTIONS37,38
GLOBAL GENDER DATA29 U.S. RACE/ETHNICITY DATA27
39% 61%
Women Men
INTRODUCTION BOARD OF DIRECTORS26 Other28 BOARD OF DIRECTORS26
Black 3%
Women 36% White 91%
14%
ENVIRONMENTAL Men 64% Hispanic 0%
Asian 0%
Black 9%
SOCIAL
TOTAL Men OPERATING COMMITTEE Asian TOTAL White Other28 0% U.S.
EMPLOYEES 51% Women 39% 18% EMPLOYEES 44% PROMOTIONS34,35
Feature: Our Racial Equity Men 61%
OPERATING COMMITTEE
47% 53%
Commitment Women
White 83%
49%
Inclusive Growth Ethnic36 White
Hispanic 11%
SENIOR LEVEL EMPLOYEES25 Hispanic
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 27% 21% Asian 6%
Women
Black 0%
Human Capital Men 73%
Other28 0%
ADDITIONAL DATA
GOVERNANCE
CAMPUS & INTERNSHIP CLASS41 CAMPUS & INTERNSHIP CLASS39 SENIOR LEVEL EMPLOYEES25 h
t
APPENDICES
Wom Me en
n
4 57 3%
%
EthW nh icit 4e
0
35%
65%
HisW pah nit ie
c 6%
75% LGBTQ+30
Mili vt
ea tr ey rans31
Peo
dipl se
a
biw li ities32
Asian 12%
Black 5%
TOTAL
Other28 2% 4% 3% 4%
EMPLOYEES
SENIOR LEVEL
3% 2% 3%
EMPLOYEES25
25 Senior level employees represents employees with the titles of Managing Director and above. 32 Presented as a percentage of total U.S.-based employees, total U.S.-based senior level employees, all members of the
26 Excludes Alicia Boler Davis, who was elected to the Firm’s Board of Directors, efective March 20, 2023. Operating Committee, and all members of the Board of Directors, respectively. OPERATING 6% 0% 0%
33 The Firm did not request members of the Board of Directors to self-identify disability status. COMMITTEE
27 Based on EEO metrics. Presented as a percentage of the respective populations who self-identifed race/ethnicity, which was 96% and 95%
of the Firm’s total U.S.-based employees and U.S.-based senior level employees, respectively, and all members of the Operating Committee 34 Based on EEO metrics. Presented as a percentage of the respective U.S.-based populations who self-identifed race/ethnicity
and the Board of Directors. Information for the Operating Committee include one member who is based outside of the U.S. BOARD OF
35 Represents employees with the titles of Vice President and above. 0% 9% 0%33
28 Other includes American Indian or Alaskan Native, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacifc Islander, and two or more races/ethnicities. DIRECTORS26
36 Ethnic is defned as all EEO classifcations other than White.
29 Presented as a percentage of the respective populations who self-identifed gender, which was 98% of the Firm’s total global employees
37 Presented as a percentage of the respective global populations who self-identifed gender.
and 99% of the Firm’s global senior level employees, and all members of the Operating Committee and the Board of Directors.
38 Represents employees with the titles of Vice President and above.
30 Presented as a percentage of total U.S.-based employees, total U.S.-based senior level employees, all members of the Operating
Committee, and all members of the Board of Directors, respectively. 39 Based on EEO metrics. Presented as a percentage of the respective U.S.-based populations who self-identifed race/ethnicity.
31 Presented as a percentage of total U.S.-based employees, total U.S.-based senior level employees, all members of the Operating 40 Ethnic is defned as all EEO classifcations other than White.
Committee, and all members of the Board of Directors, respectively. 41 Presented as a percentage of the respective global populations who self-identifed gender.
39
Culture of Respect, Equity and Inclusion Accountability Framework
Across the Firm, we continually work to create and reinforce a culture of Executing on our DEI commitments requires promoting accountability across
INTRODUCTION
respect, equity and inclusion, in which our employees are empowered to be the Firm. Our Accountability Framework, which we continue to enhance over
their true selves. We do so by creating forums for employee engagement, initia- time since its launch in 2020, is used to evaluate senior leaders, including Oper-
ENVIRONMENTAL
tives to advance inclusion and elevate diverse perspectives, and education and ating Committee members, on behaviors, practices and progress toward goals
training programs designed to identify ways that all of our employees can con- related to the Firm’s DEI priorities, and to incorporate that into year-end perfor-
SOCIAL
tribute to an inclusive culture. mance and compensation assessments.
Feature: Our Racial Equity
Our Business Resource Groups ("BRGs") are an important part of how we do
Commitment DEI Centers of Excellence
this. These BRGs are inclusive groups that enable employees to share ideas,
Inclusive Growth
grow professionally and connect to colleagues who have similar interests. Rec-
Our Firm has established DEI Centers of Excellence to take a unifed and inter-
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion ognizing the intersectionality of the diferent groups represented by our BRGs,
sectional approach to delivering impact for employees, clients, customers and
Human Capital we are taking steps to promote and facilitate cross-BRG collaboration. See page
the communities we serve. The Centers of Excellence play an important role in DEI and employee development programs help create career pathways into and across the Firm. Pictured: Chicago, Illinois
47 for the list of JPMorgan Chase BRGs.
supporting the Firm’s commitments to advance racial equity and create lasting
GOVERNANCE
Our Asian, Black, Hispanic and LGBTQ+ Executive Forums, which bring together
impact both internally and externally, leading our global strategies related to
the senior leaders of these communities to act as ambassadors and thought CASE STUDY INCREASING LGBTQ+ SELF-ID
target populations and contributing to progress toward our Racial Equity Com-
APPENDICES
leaders for Firmwide initiatives, are another way we support and foster DEI
mitment. The Centers of Excellence also complement the role of the BRGs to
The Firm experienced an increase in the number of employees self-identifying
within our Firm.
strengthen our internal culture of respect, equity and inclusion and raise the
as LGBTQ+ by 35% year-over-year in 2022, following 50% year-over-year growth
Our Equal Opportunity, Anti-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment Statement visibility of the communities they represent.
in 2021. Self-ID data, including sexual orientation and gender identity, allows
sets forth our policies and expectations for our employees. All employees
In addition, the Centers of Excellence amplify the work of the lines of business the Firm to identify opportunities to develop targeted initiatives to improve the
(including both full-time and part-time employees) are required to complete
to deliver inclusive products, services and advice for clients and customers. workplace for all employees, including those from the LGBTQ+ community. The
anti-harassment awareness training. In addition, in 2022, our employees were
They also work with a wide array of local and national organizations in the com- Firm’s LGBTQ+ Executive Forum, a consortium of senior leaders who self-iden-
required to complete Firmwide diversity and inclusion training programs,
munities we serve, leveraging the Firm’s business expertise and philanthropic tify as LGBTQ+ and serve as advocates for the LGBTQ+ community, now includes
including You Belong Here, Culture of Respect/Culture & Conduct, and Journey
resources to help advance racial equity and economic empowerment. over 450 Managing Directors and Executive Directors.
to Inclusive Teams for managers.
40
OUR SEVEN CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE ARE:
Advancing Black Pathways (“ABP”): focuses on strengthening the economic foundation of Black communities around
the world. It seeks to address historical barriers to economic growth in Black communities through investments and
programs focused on advancing career opportunities for Black talent, expanding and supporting Black-owned busi-
nesses, and improving fnancial health in Black communities.
Advancing Hispanics & Latinos (“AHL”): works on promoting the growth and success of Hispanic and Latino communi-
ties. Their eforts are focused on career opportunities, business growth and entrepreneurship, fnancial health and
community development.
Military & Veterans Afairs: honors those who have served and supports their long-term personal success and fnancial
INTRODUCTION
confdence. Their eforts are focused on attracting, retaining and developing diverse veteran talent; supporting veter-
an-owned businesses and entrepreneurs; increasing the fnancial health of veterans and military families; and support-
ENVIRONMENTAL
Ofce of Asian & Pacifc Islander Afairs comes together for the Diwali Celebration, Plano, Texas .
ing top veteran service organizations.
SOCIAL Ofce of Asian & Pacifc Islander Afairs: leads the execution of global programs and initiatives for the Asian and
Pacifc Islander (“API”) community, driving opportunity and progress for employees, customers and clients through
Feature: Our Racial Equity investment, cultural understanding and collaboration.
Commitment
Ofce of Disability Inclusion (“ODI”): leads strategy and initiatives aimed at advancing careers while helping the Firm
Inclusive Growth
aspire to be a bank of choice for people with disabilities. ODI’s focus areas include driving workplace inclusion, fnancial
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
health, community relationships, and business growth for small businesses and entrepreneurs with disabilities.
Human Capital
Ofce of LGBTQ+ Afairs: focuses on advancing careers and a culture of inclusion, supporting LGBTQ+ owned busi-
nesses, providing fnancial health awareness and education, and driving progress on equity and inclusion for the
GOVERNANCE
LGBTQ+ community globally.
Women on the Move (“WOTM”): provides women inside and outside of the Firm with opportunities to succeed in their
APPENDICES
professional and personal lives. Their eforts are focused on expanding women-run businesses, improving women's
fnancial health, empowering women's career growth, and supporting women and girls in our communities.
The Firm honors the Military and Veterans community through nonproft collaborations and events. The New York City Pride Parade brings together members of the
Pictured: Chase Fieldhouse, Wilmington, Delaware Firm’s Ofce of LGBTQ+ Afairs.
41
CASE STUDY WOMEN ON THE MOVE - IN ACTION
In 2021, the Firm and Techstars launched the inaugural cohort of the Founder Catalyst program in the U.S., which
provides pre-accelerator startup education and mentorship to early stage founders. With women founders receiv-
ing less than 2%42 of available venture capital in the U.S., the Founder Catalyst program aims to address this gap
by providing the tools, resources and connections needed to support women entrepreneurs in taking their busi-
nesses to the next level. The Firm has now sponsored over 80 women founders across four U.S. cities—Atlanta in
2021, and Washington D.C., Miami and Oakland in 2022—and looks forward to continuing the momentum of the pro-
gram and founders’ success into 2023. As of year-end 2022, 11 founder Catalyst alumni from our programs have
been accepted into Techstars accelerator.
INTRODUCTION
ENVIRONMENTAL CASE STUDY ADVANCING BLACK WEALTH TOUR
In 2022, the Firm launched the Advancing Black Wealth Tour with events spanning three cities designed to provide
JPMorgan Chase strives to support the Military Veterans community by helping to provide access to employment. Pictured: Washington, D.C.
SOCIAL
fnancial health education, wealth building seminars, and other vital fnancial insights to Black communities. Spear-
headed by Advancing Black Pathways, the tour featured Black business leaders and entrepreneurs who engaged
Feature: Our Racial Equity
CASE STUDY SUPPORTING VETERANS
Commitment more than 500 attendees collectively in Los Angeles, New Orleans, and Philadelphia, through interactive work-
shops on fnancial wellness, the real estate market, homeownership, entrepreneurship and wealth generation.
Inclusive Growth
In 2011, along with 10 other companies, JPMorgan Chase co-founded the Veteran Jobs Mission (“VJM”), a
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion coalition committed to hiring 100,000 veterans by 2020. Since its founding, more than 300 member com-
panies representing various industries across the U.S have reported over 880,000 veteran hires. In 2022,
Human Capital
CASE STUDY STONEWALL NATIONAL MONUMENT VISITOR CENTER SPONSORSHIP
the VJM increased its goal and is working toward two million veteran hires and 200,000 military spouse
JPMorgan Chase is a founding supporter of the Stonewall National Monument Visitor Center in New York City. The hires over the next decade. JPMorgan Chase alone has hired more than 18,000 veterans since 2011 and
GOVERNANCE
Stonewall National Monument, where the Visitor Center will reside, aims to celebrate and advance the legacy of the currently employs approximately 3,000 military spouses.
Stonewall uprising of 1969 that helped to spark the LGBTQ+ rights movement. This site was designated as the frst-
APPENDICES
Also, as part of our commitment to the personal and professional development of service members, the
ever monument dedicated to LGBTQ+ equality by the National Park Service. When the Visitor Center opens in 2024,
Firm is dedicated to providing job placement opportunities through its Military Pathways Rotational Pro-
it will feature exhibitions and programs dedicated to the history of LGBTQ+ equality. JPMorgan Chase serves as an
grams. There are three programs operating under the Pathways umbrella: the Military Pathways Rotational
ongoing advisor on programming and exhibitions to be featured.
Program, The Military Pathways Direct Hire Program, and the Pathways DOD SkillBridge Corporate Fellow-
ship Program. All three programs provide personal and professional development trainings, a formal men-
torship program, programmatic support to participating managers and program members, and robust net-
working opportunities. In 2022, the Direct Hire Program welcomed and developed over 330 recently transi-
tioned veterans and military spouses, and 82% of the frst SkillBridge cohort have accepted full-time roles.
42 Percentage refers to companies with all female-founders, as shown on page 31 of the Q4 PitchBook-NVCA Venture Monitor Report.
42
Human Capital
At JPMorgan Chase, our people are a key driver of our success in serving customers, clients and communities. It is
through their ingenuity, excellence and integrity that we are able to build a prosperous business. As we navigate the
INTRODUCTION ongoing challenges of a post-COVID 19 pandemic world and compete for the best talent in the marketplace, we are
committed to fostering a work environment in which our people are supported, feel like they belong, and are able to
ENVIRONMENTAL make an impact through their work. Our work environment is an important component of our human capital strategy.
It focuses on investing in experiences across the employee life-cycle by attracting and retaining skilled talent,
SOCIAL employee engagement, and supporting employees and their families in various life stages through our competitive
JPMorgan Chase strives to attract and retain skilled and diverse talent, with over 290,000 employees around the world. Pictured: Jersey City, New Jersey
total rewards portfolio.
Feature: Our Racial Equity
Commitment
2022 EARLY CAREER RECRUITMENT PROGRAM HIGHLIGHTS43
Attracting and Retaining Skilled, Diverse Talent
Inclusive Growth
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion We strive to attract and recruit the best talent for all roles across the Firm in order to best serve our clients and cus- Approximately 4,600 Approximately 5,000 48%
Human Capital tomers. Our goal is to maintain a diverse and inclusive workforce representing all aspects of diversity, including gen-
global summer interns, of which
der, ethnicity, military service, LGBTQ+ status and disabilities, refective of the communities in which we operate. We global full-time hires joined our Analyst of 2022 global summer intern
approximately 72% received and
and Associate hiring programs class identifed as women
are focused on expanding talent pools through numerous programs and partnerships. When hiring new employees, we
GOVERNANCE accepted returning ofers
expect managers to consider a slate of candidates who bring a wide range of perspectives, experiences, and skill sets.
APPENDICES
Approximately 1,200 Approximately 200 Approximately 350
EARLY CAREER TALENT
We believe in supporting students and early career talent as they embark on their professional careers and grow into Emerging Talent Software
hires through all Emerging Talent hires through the Emerging Talent Engineer Program hires recruited
future leaders. We support the development of new talent through our formal Analyst and Associate hiring programs,
programs Apprenticeship programs from educational pipelines outside
as well as through our Emerging Talent Programs, which aim to attract a wider range of talent either pre-college or
of a traditional degree path
without a university degree. By attracting a wider range of talent through these programs, we are able to introduce
talent to the fnancial sector who may not typically have the opportunity to experience our industry, explore the possi-
bility of a long-term career at the Firm, and support their development of life and professional skills for success in the
workplace. By engaging with a broader and more diverse talent pool, we are able to extend opportunities beyond the
traditional places where we historically looked for talent and seek to have a workforce that is more representative of
the communities in which we serve.
43 Information on EEO race/ethnicity categories, gender, LGBTQ+, veteran status and disability status is based on self-identifcation and self-disclosure. Unless otherwise indicated, information on EEO race/ethnicity is presented as a percentage of the respective U.S.-based population who self-identifed race/ethnicity and information on
gender is presented as a percentage of the respective global population who self-identifed gender; information on LGBTQ+, veteran status and disability status is presented as a percentage of the respective total U.S.-based population.
43
CASE STUDY YEAR UP PROGRAM CASE STUDY DETROIT VIRTUAL CALL CENTER
Year Up is a nonproft workforce development organization that is dedicated to closing the opportunity divide by Building on the work of our Racial Equity Commitment and goal to provide high-quality careers in the communities we oper-
connecting young adults ages 18–29 with employer partners in need of career-ready talent. The Firm has worked ate, we worked with Detroit at Work to stand up a virtual call center in Detroit, Michigan. This virtual work approach has
with Year Up since 2007. Since then, we have hosted over 2,000 interns, approximately 340 in 2022 alone, in 17 dif- allowed us to access a new pool of talent. In addition to creating local jobs and longer-term career opportunities, we incor-
ferent cities throughout the United States. The Firm’s work with Year Up has evolved to primarily focus on building porated additional training methods focused on fnancial services education and microlearning opportunities. This efort has
a diverse entry-level talent pipeline to support business and industry needs. The interns receive six months of led to approximately 75 hires in 2022, and we are planning to develop a second site in 2023.
training at Year Up to gain professional skills and then have a six month internship at JPMorgan Chase. On average
the Firm is hiring over 65% of Year Up interns into permanent roles at the end of the internship.
INTRODUCTION
CASE STUDY EMERGING TALENT SOFTWARE ENGINEERS PROGRAM EXPERIENCED TALENT
ENVIRONMENTAL
The Emerging Talent Software Engineers program welcomed approximately 350 entry-level software engineers in We continue to fnd new ways of building more inclusive talent pipelines through diferent channels and industries with an
SOCIAL
the US in 2022 that obtained their core technology skills from various educational pathways. This is a skills-frst emphasis on the diversity of skills. We also strive to provide those from disadvantaged socioeconomic backgrounds or have been
model where talent is assessed on the same core technology and interpersonal skills that we look for in all entry- dislocated due to world events access to opportunities.
Feature: Our Racial Equity
level software engineers. Once welcomed to the frm, they are provided an orientation, multi-week technology
Commitment
training and an ongoing two year program support structure with mentorship, networking and ongoing education
2022 EXPERIENCED TALENT HIRING HIGHLIGHTS44
Inclusive Growth
opportunities, as well as career advancement once the program concludes.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Approximately 75% Approximately 10%
Human Capital
CASE STUDY REENTRY PROGRAM
of jobs posted for experienced hires did not require a bachelor’s
of our new hires in the U.S. have criminal records
GOVERNANCE
degree, focusing on skills over educational degrees
At JPMorgan Chase, we recognize that rewarding careers do not always follow a conventional path. We value the diver-
sity, fresh perspective and wealth of experience that returning professionals can bring. The ReEntry Program ofers
APPENDICES
experienced professionals, who are currently on an extended career break of at least two years, the support and Approximately 30% More than 1,500
resources needed to relaunch their careers. This 15-week paid fellowship program consists of professional skills work-
shops and on-the-job training, coupled with coaching and developmental experiences to help fellows prepare for a long- U.S. military hires in 2022, as part of an overall 18,000 military
of external hires for technology-focused positions were women
hires since 2011
term career. Our goal is to place high performing participants who successfully complete the program into full-time
positions within the frm. In 2022, there were over 100 participants, with 85% receiving an ofer for full-time employ-
ment. Since 2013, there have been more than 400 hires in our ReEntry Program across 30 cities in eight countries.
44 Information on EEO race/ethnicity categories, gender, LGBTQ+, veteran status and disability status is based on self-identifcation and self-disclosure. Unless otherwise indicated, information on EEO race/ethnicity is presented as a percentage of the respective U.S.-based population who self-identifed race/ethnicity and information on gender is
presented as a percentage of the respective global population who self-identifed gender; information on LGBTQ+, veteran status and disability status is presented as a percentage of the respective total U.S.-based population.
44
Investing in Employee Development
Helping our employees advance their skills and professional development is important to our human capital strategy.
We invest in our employees’ development through a robust suite of training, leadership development, upskilling and
reskilling programs, mentorship initiatives, and performance evaluations.
TRAINING
We seek to train our employees with the skills needed for today and tomorrow. We prepared our new hire employees for
their roles with approximately 34 hours of learning on average over their frst 90 days, and tenured employees take an
INTRODUCTION
average of approximately 10 hours of voluntary training annually. Employees consumed training in a variety of ways. Over
60% of training was self-paced, and almost 35% was via virtual classroom. The remainder was facilitated in a traditional
ENVIRONMENTAL
classroom setting. Overall, in 2022, employees completed over 9.7 million courses and over 7.9 million hours of training.
Leadership Day training, New York, New York is one example of how the Firm helps employees advance their skills and professional development.
Employees Firmwide are required to complete training on topics such as culture and conduct, anti-money laundering,
SOCIAL
privacy and data protection, cybersecurity and anti-corruption. They also have an opportunity to enhance their skills
through training across a range of professional, business, digital and technology topics. CASE STUDY AFGHAN MENTORING PROGRAM
Feature: Our Racial Equity
Commitment
Following the evacuation of Kabul in August 2021, hundreds of Afghans who had supported the U.K. and coalition Armed
UPSKILLING AND RESKILLING
Inclusive Growth
Forces were resettled to the U.K. under the Government led Operation New Hope. The Firm’s Ofce of Military and Veterans
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Afairs has been working with the U.K.’s Ministry of Defence and associated partners to ofer U.K.-based Afghan’s employ-
Upskilling and reskilling our existing employees—who already know our culture and are committed to our company—is an
ability mentoring. 27 employees have been paired with Afghan’s and have supported them in fnding opportunities in the
Human Capital efective and efcient way to have the talent we need to thrive now and into the future. Just as importantly, it is one of
U.K. employment market. One of the mentees joined the Firm’s Military Transition Program in February 2023.
the best ways we can advance our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion. For example, many of our Firm’s front-
GOVERNANCE line and entry-level employees, who largely identify as women and diverse, are most likely to be afected by technologi-
cal disruption. By taking proactive steps to create meaningful and accessible opportunities for career mobility, we can
LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT
APPENDICES mitigate the risk of losing legacy talent, and continue our eforts toward a more diverse and representative workforce.
Leadership Edge seeks to develop and inspire world-class managers and executives to drive a culture of inclusion, empowerment
To help employees understand the skills they need to advance their careers at the Firm, we ofer programs and training
and growth, so employees can reach their full potential and deliver value for our Firm. In 2022, Leadership Edge launched a
to help employees develop their own learning journey to support career growth and development. Approximately
refreshed curriculum focused on eight manager capabilities which defne what it is to be a manager at the Firm. The capabilities
90,000 employees have leveraged the Firm’s internal Capabilities Model that provides learning recommendations for
include building teams; driving performance; prioritizing diversity, equity and inclusion; and guiding careers. During the year,
upskilling and reskilling.
approximately 14,400 individual managers and executives participated in Leadership Edge initiatives, engaging through both
We further support employee development with enhanced education benefts, ofering funding for bachelors, masters
instructor-led programs and digital, self-paced content.
and certifcation programs to eligible employees. In the U.S., we ofer a catalog of over 500 bachelors, masters, and
In 2022, we also continued to maintain a focus on our talent management and succession planning process. The human
certifcation programs, including 18 fully funded programs. The programs support employees in acquiring skills for the
resources team actively engages with senior leaders to discuss key talent, internal succession and the development of our
roles they are in today and prepare employees to take on new opportunities at the Firm. Of the more than 9,000
leadership pipeline.
employees who enrolled in our education benefts in 2022, 78% are associate level or below, 50% identify as women,
62% identify as ethnically diverse and 48% of participants have experienced career mobility during 2022.
45
EXECUTIVE SPONSORSHIP FOR SENIOR WOMEN LEADERS IN LATIN AMERICA
CASE STUDY
AND CANADA
Executive Director (“ED”) Sponsorship is designed for ED woman talent working at the Firm in Latin America and
Canada. The program is meant to create an environment where female ED talent have exposure to senior manage-
ment and opportunities to further develop skills in personal brand, self-promotion, networking and more, helping
participants expand their breadth and depth of contribution and value in the organization, with sponsorship as a
key component. Since the program’s launch in 2018, we have had 100% retention of program participants and
more than half of the participants have achieved promotion to Managing Director.
INTRODUCTION
PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS
ENVIRONMENTAL
We use an annual Firmwide performance review process to help employees grow and to evaluate how they support our
culture, business success, client/customer needs, and DEI initiatives. Employees are assessed on both results (“what”)
SOCIAL
and behaviors (“how”) on four Firmwide Performance Dimensions and expectations for their level: Business Results; Cli-
ent/Customer/ Stakeholder; Teamwork and Leadership; and Risks, Controls, and Conduct.
Feature: Our Racial Equity
Commitment
Fostering Employee Engagement and Satisfaction
Inclusive Growth
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Providing a frst-class employee experience is important to our human capital strategy. This includes engaging our
Human Capital
employees in strengthening our culture and business, providing allyship for our diverse employee populations, and lis-
tening and responding to employee experiences and ideas.
GOVERNANCE
We also support employees’ drive to help strengthen their communities by facilitating skills-based volunteering oppor-
Employees gather at one of the Commercial Banking team’s volunteer opportunities, Los Angeles, California.
tunities. The Firm provides one day of paid time of for volunteer and employee engagement activities from Firm-spon-
APPENDICES
sored events to outside activities that are meaningful to our employees. We also provide paid time of to vote in any
national, state or municipal election to support our employee’s civic engagement.
The results of our annual Employee Opinion Survey, which are reviewed by senior leadership for potential program
improvements, had an 87% participation rate in 2022.
46
SUPPORT AND ALLYSHIP FOR DIVERSE EMPLOYEE POPULATIONS EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERISM
BRGs are one way we engage and support our employees in helping us build a Through a suite of skills-based volunteering programs serving nonprofts, small Inclusive of skills-based volunteerism, our employees engaged in local volunteerism
diverse and equitable culture in which everyone feels welcome (see page 40). We business entrepreneurs, and young people, we support our employees’ desire to outside of the workplace through GoodWorks, an employee-led volunteerism pro-
have 10 BRGs with employee members across 57 countries, and more than half of help their communities and further our philanthropic mission, while providing gram. In 2022, our employees committed approximately 398,000 hours of time to
our employees are a member of at least one BRG. The BRGs complement the Cen- opportunities for them to apply and expand their skills. causes they are passionate about, including fnancial literacy programming, packing
ters of Excellence (page 40) to strengthen our internal culture of respect, equity of fortifed meals and medical kits, upcycling furniture, providing disaster relief
In 2022, our programs designed for nonproft organizations—Service Corps, Board
and inclusion, and raise the visibility of the communities they represent. through satellite mapping and clothing aid, and much more.
Service, and Force for Good—engaged more than 4,200 employees globally to
Our BRGs include: address specifc organizational challenges and opportunities facing our community
partners. As a frm, we recognize that serving on a nonproft board is one of the
INTRODUCTION • Access Ability: Maximizing the contributions of employees afected by disabili-
most signifcant commitments our employees make. Since 2018, our Board Service
ties, long-term illness or caregiving responsibilities.
program has successfully placed approximately 400 employees on nonproft boards
ENVIRONMENTAL
• Adelante: Empowering Hispanic and Latino employees to identify and pursue around the world. In addition, our Board Match program has provided fnancial sup-
opportunities for career development and community involvement. port to nonprofts with qualifying employees serving on the board.
SOCIAL
• AsPIRE: Enhancing the professional development and leadership opportunities Another of our social innovation and skill-based volunteerism programs is Force for
of employees of Asian and Pacifc-Islander heritage. Good, which connects teams of JPMorgan Chase technology and data employees to
Feature: Our Racial Equity
Commitment build scalable and sustainable tech-based solutions for nonprofts around the world.
• BOLD: Providing employees, specifcally those of African descent, with an empow-
Through this program, we empower our employees to use their technology skills to
Inclusive Growth
ering environment that focuses on professional and personal development.
make a positive impact on communities and help build the next generation of tech-
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
• NEXTGEN: Engaging early career professionals to network, build relationships nology talent. In 2022, nearly 1,300 JPMorgan Chase employees built tech-based
Human Capital
across all business levels and groups, and promote career development. solutions for more than 150 nonprofts across fve global regions as part of Force
for Good, impacting more than one million constituents and addressing issues
GOVERNANCE • PRIDE: Engaging and supporting Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender employ-
including hunger, access to education, lack of shelter, animal welfare, climate
ees, as well as Allies and management, in promoting an inclusive environment.
Employees gather during the Firm’s Seventh Annual Employee Appreciation Week, New York, New York.
change and gender rights.
APPENDICES
• Sage: Encouraging and remaining committed to personal and professional
The Firm's commitment to skills-based volunteerism and service is also exemplifed
development, while sharing valuable information.
by the Legal Department's global pro bono program. Regional networks of Legal CASE STUDY EMPLOYEE APPRECIATION WEEK
• VETS: Identifying and advocating for opportunities that will keep the Firm as an Department employees organize and mobilize colleagues to participate in both
In 2022, we held our seventh annual Employee Appreciation Week,
industry leader while deepening its commitment to veteran families. in-person and virtual events focused on immigration, criminal justice, employment
which comprised of a series of special speakers, volunteering events,
opportunities, education, housing and human services, among others. Additionally,
• WOTM: Providing a collaborative forum and access to tools that support the suc- and fun and wellness events. The Firm held over 1,000 local events
the Legal Department's unique Fellowship program provides one member of the
cessful retention, development and advancement of women at all levels of the Firm. across 220 ofces globally.
department per year with the opportunity to volunteer for 3–6 months with a non-
• Working Families Network: Promoting knowledge sharing and providing net- proft or legal services provider to further support our communities in a more mean-
working opportunities to support employees with work and family integration. ingful and targeted way—while still continuing on as a full-time employee of the Firm.
47
Supporting and Rewarding Our People we take action to address it. We are proud of the overall diversity of our work-
force. However, we also know that women and ethnically diverse employees still
JPMorgan Chase provides market-competitive compensation and benefts programs are not represented in as many senior management positions as are men and
to our employees. The Firm’s compensation philosophy includes guiding principles White employees. We are taking a variety of actions focused on making progress
that drive compensation-related decisions across all levels of the Firm. We believe toward our goals in the areas of hiring, retaining, developing and advancing
our compensation philosophy promotes an equitable and well-governed approach to women and ethnically diverse employees, especially at more senior levels.
compensation, which includes pay-for-performance practices that attract and retain
top talent in a competitive market, is responsive to and aligned with shareholders’
FINANCIAL HEALTH PROGRAMS
expectations and reinforces our culture and Business Principles, including the inte-
gration of risk, controls and conduct considerations. The Firm’s commitment to We believe that fnancial health is an important part of people’s overall well-be-
INTRODUCTION
diversity, equity and inclusion for all employees includes compensation review pro- ing, and we ofer a wide range of benefts and programs to help employees build
cesses that seek to ensure that the Firm’s employees are paid fairly and competi- a fnancially secure future. We ofer a myriad of fnancial well-being resources,
ENVIRONMENTAL
tively for the work they do. education sessions, a Financial Wellness Assessment and unlimited one-on-one
250,000 participants in 15 locations around the world join the J.P.Morgan Corporate Challenge. Pictured: London, U.K.
fnancial coaching with Certifed Financial Planners (“CFPs®”).
We continue to increase wages for our full- and part-time U.S. hourly paid employ-
SOCIAL
ees. As of December 2022, we raised minimum base pay for U.S. overtime-eligible
HEALTH PROGRAMS
Supporting Employees and Their
employees to between $20 and $25 per hour, depending on location. This is in addi-
Feature: Our Racial Equity
Commitment tion to the benefts package the Firm ofers that is valued, on average, at approxi- Families Across Life Stages We ofer health care benefts for employees and their families. In 2022, we covered
mately $16,000 per employee for this population.
Inclusive Growth approximately $1.4 billion in medical costs for employees and their families.
At JPMorgan Chase, we support our people and provide them with comprehensive
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion We also encourage our employees to focus on their well-being and make healthy
PAY EQUITY health care programs and well-being benefts. That is why we are continually
Human Capital choices a priority. For example, we ofer biometric wellness screening and online
investing in and exploring ways to improve health outcomes and strengthen our
wellness assessments for employees and their covered spouses/domestic partners.
We are committed to fair compensation for our employees. We conduct periodic pay
beneft oferings. JPMorgan Chase ofers an extensive benefts and wellness pack-
GOVERNANCE In 2022, approximately 70% of enrolled employees and over 60% of enrolled
equity reviews that include employees at all levels within the Firm. In 2022, taking
age to employees and their families, including healthcare coverage, retirement
spouses/domestic partners completed both of these assessments. Additionally, we
into account factors such as an employee's role, tenure, seniority and geography, in
benefts, life and disability insurance, onsite health and wellness centers,
APPENDICES have onsite Health and Wellness Centers in 24 U.S. locations and 34 onsite health
aggregate, those who self-identifed as women globally were paid 99% of what men
employee assistance programs, competitive vacation and leave policies, backup
clinics across our other global locations.
were paid. In 2022, in the U.S., employees who self-identifed as other than White
child care arrangements, tuition reimbursement programs, counseling and
under EEO Commission classifcations were paid, as a group, 100% of what employ- We are also focused on supporting our employees’ mental health. We are building a
resources related to mental health, and fnancial coaching. We direct a greater
ees who self-identifed as White were paid—meaning there were no statistically sig- workplace that increases awareness of mental health, educates employees and pro-
portion of our benefts spend toward lower-wage earners in the form of lower
nifcant diferences in pay as between the two groups, taking into account factors vides support when people need it. All employees have access to confdential coun-
payroll contributions and lower deductibles in the Medical Plan and a $750 special
such as an employee’s role, tenure, seniority and geography. Pay equity reviews seling and support through our Employee Assistance Program.
award in 2022 to employees earning less than $60,000. In addition, we continue
give us important insights, but they are just a starting point. If we identify individu-
to make enhancements to our Medical Plan focused on afordability and access to In 2022, we received the 2022 Best Employers: Excellence in Health & Well-being
als with compensation that is less than expected, we dig deeper. Where appropriate,
health care services and prescription medication for all. Award from the Business Group on Health for demonstrating our strong commit-
ment to advancing the well-being of our employees through comprehensive, innova-
tive benefts and initiatives.
48
SUPPORTING FAMILIES CASE STUDY ENHANCED FAMILY PLANNING AND LGBTQ+ BENEFITS FOR OUR PEOPLE
Supporting working families is an important element of how we support our employees, including providing time away JPMorgan Chase is committed to ofering comprehensive benefts and policies which cover the unique needs of our employ-
from work for when people need it. The Firm provides all U.S.-based employees with paid sick leave each year, up to a cap ees. In 2022, we expanded covered benefts ofered under our U.S. Medical Plan to support health outcomes for LGBTQ+
of 96 hours depending on local laws. We also provide most full-time and part-time employees three to fve weeks of paid employees and family members. New and enhanced benefts include: 1) a dedicated LGBTQ+ health concierge service to help
vacation annually. We continue to ofer employees eight hours of paid time annually to volunteer in their communities. employees with identifying in-network, LGBTQ+ afrming providers, navigating gender afrming care, fnding resources and
support groups and more; 2) enhanced transgender benefts to better support employees and covered dependents from the
In 2023, the Firm is enhancing paid time of for employees in the U.S. to handle personal and family needs. We are
gender expansive community with accessing a broader set of gender afrming services and procedures; and 3) family build-
expanding bereavement paid time of for loss of a spouse/domestic partner or child. We have introduced four weeks
ing benefts to increase fexibility in our employee’s journeys of considering when to start a family.
of critical caregivers paid time of in the U.S. to care for a seriously ill parent, child, or spouse/domestic partner and
enhanced parental leave globally for all parents who have a new baby or adopt to a minimum of 16 weeks—eliminating
INTRODUCTION
having to identify between primary and non-primary parental leaves.
We also provide family-building assistance to help employees with the high costs of adoption, surrogacy and fertility
ENVIRONMENTAL
expenses, including up to $10,000 per child in eligible adoption expenses, up to a $30,000 lifetime maximum for sur-
rogacy and $40,000 lifetime maximum for eligible fertility expenses.
SOCIAL
Feature: Our Racial Equity
IMPROVING EMPLOYER-SPONSORED HEALTH CARE
Commitment
Inclusive Growth We launched Morgan Health in 2021 to help innovate and improve the quality, equity and afordability of employ-
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion er-sponsored health care and address the rising costs of the U.S. health care system. To do so, Morgan Health is
investing $250 million of JPMorgan Chase & Co. capital to scale promising companies focused on driving greater
Human Capital
accountability, outcomes and value in health care. Through the end of 2022, Morgan Health has deployed $105 million
in four early-stage companies; Vera Whole Health, Embold Health, Centivo and LetsGetChecked. Morgan Health
GOVERNANCE
aspires to be a model for other employers in driving scalable, impactful and value-based employee health care solu-
tions through thought leadership.
APPENDICES
Morgan Health is also bringing greater accountability to health care by supporting models designed to improve employ-
ees’ health outcomes, reduce costs and fll gaps in the equity of care. One approach is to deploy new models for our
employees based on relationships built with local health care providers. As part of an innovative new collaboration with
one of our portfolio companies, Vera Whole Health, and in collaboration with Central Ohio Primary Care, in 2022 JPMor-
gan Chase introduced three new onsite advanced primary care centers across the company’s Columbus ofces (Polaris,
Easton and Brooksedge), as well as two new near-site care centers (Dublin, Westerville), ofering a full suite of compre-
hensive in-person and virtual health and wellness services for JPMorgan Chase employees and their covered dependents.
The Firm supports working families by providing paid time of for critical caregivers in the U.S. and enhanced parental leave globally. Pictured: Dallas, Texas
49
Governance
We are committed to setting high standards in our business activities and with our stakeholders. Our gov-
ernance structures are designed to promote accountability, transparency and ethical behavior consistent
with our corporate standards and Business Principles. We regularly evaluate and enhance our governance
structures, processes and controls, as appropriate.
The Firm’s governance structures
help to monitor progress toward 50
key commitments and targets.
Corporate Governance & ESG Oversight
Our corporate governance practices help us serve the inter- Oversight and Management of ESG
ests of stakeholders, including customers, clients, employees,
INTRODUCTION shareholders and communities. The Firm believes that contin- Responsibility for oversight and management of ESG is defned at multiple levels within the organization.
ued success rests on adherence to its Business Principles,
BOARD OF DIRECTORS SENIOR MANAGEMENT
ENVIRONMENTAL which focus on how we strengthen, safeguard and grow our
company over time. These principles apply consistently across
The Board is responsible for oversight of the business and The Board oversees management directly and through its fve Our management structure is designed to encourage leader-
SOCIAL LOBs and geographies where we operate.
afairs of the Firm on behalf of shareholders. It is also respon- standing committees: ship that is consistent with our corporate standards. We man-
We strive to leverage the Firm’s robust governance structures sible for setting the cultural “tone at the top”. Its core areas of age our Firm on a LOB basis, while also maintaining corporate
• Public Responsibility Committee
GOVERNANCE
to foster sound management and a culture of accountability oversight include strategy, executive performance and talent functions and appropriate governance of our subsidiaries.
• Compensation & Management Development Committee
on ESG matters. JPMorgan Chase has set up governance management, fnancial performance and condition, risk man-
Our Firm’s most senior management body is the Operating Com-
• Risk Committee
Corporate Governance &
structures to monitor progress toward key commitments and agement and internal control framework and ESG matters.
mittee (“OC”), which is responsible for developing and imple-
ESG Oversight • Audit Committee
targets, including processes and controls for data disclosure
JPMorgan Chase seeks director candidates who uphold the menting corporate strategy and managing operations. The OC is
Stakeholder Engagement • Corporate Governance & Nominating Committee
and verifcation. We aim for transparency and accountability
highest standards, are committed to the Firm’s values and are composed of our Chief Executive Ofcer (“CEO”), Chief Risk Of-
Political Engagement and by reporting progress against key fnancing commitments and Each committee operates pursuant to a written charter. These
strong independent stewards of the long-term interests of cer (“CRO”), Chief Financial Ofcer (“CFO”), General Counsel,
Public Policy
operational targets annually. charters, and the Firm’s Corporate Governance Principles
shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and communi- CEOs of each of the LOBs and other senior executives.
Managing Environmental and
guide the Board’s governance and oversight functions. Each
ties in which we work. The Board considers its composition
Social Risks Senior management—including the OC and leaders within each
of the Board’s standing committees oversees ESG-related
and needs holistically, determining the diversity of experi-
Human Rights of our lines of business—is responsible for driving strategy
matters within its scope of responsibility. Our annual Proxy
ence, background and perspective required to efectively
and execution on ESG matters across the Firm.
Data Privacy & Cybersecurity Statement includes information about the membership and
oversee the Firm, including its present and future strategy.
Business Ethics responsibilities of these committees. The CRO, the Head of Human Resources, the Global Head of
The Board looks for candidates with a diversity of experience,
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, the Global Head of Corporate
perspectives and viewpoints, as well as diversity with respect The Board may consider ESG related matters in full Board dis-
Responsibility, the Global Head of Sustainability and other
APPENDICES
to gender, race, ethnicity and nationality. The Corporate Gov- cussions and committee discussions. In addition, the director
senior leaders provide periodic updates on ESG initiatives to
ernance and Nominating Committee oversees the ongoing education program may include ESG issues. In 2022, board dis-
the OC and Board of Directors.
evaluation of candidates for Board membership and the can- cussions and education topics included sustainability, climate
didate nomination process. risk management, ESG-related reporting, cybersecurity and DEI.
51
ESG eforts are also spearheaded by several teams across the Firm, with some examples including:
The Ofce of the Secretary is responsible for partnership with senior management, control groups, LOBs and corpo-
rate groups to promote efective governance of the Firm. It works closely with the Board of Directors on ESG matters,
including responding to shareholder proposals.
The Ofce of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion is responsible for leading the development and implementation of the Firm’s
strategy to enhance DEI within the Firm and support underserved communities. This includes advancing programs and
initiatives that incorporate a diversity lens into how the Firm develops products and services, serves clients, helps com-
munities and supports employees.
The Corporate Responsibility team is responsible for designing, implementing and evaluating community and philan-
INTRODUCTION
thropic programs that aim to open new pathways to economic opportunity for individuals, provide actionable insight to
civic and community leaders, and protect the environment. It is composed of Government Relations, Public Engage-
ENVIRONMENTAL
ment, Corporate Sustainability, Global Philanthropy and Research and Policy teams. The Corporate Sustainability team
is responsible for providing advice across the Firm and its LOBs on its approach to managing ESG matters, including
SOCIAL
supporting the development of sustainability- and climate-focused business strategies and fnancing opportunities,
engaging with stakeholders and policy-makers, and facilitating external ESG- and Climate-related reporting.
GOVERNANCE
The ESG Investor Relations team is responsible for engaging with the investor community on the Firm’s ESG strategy,
disclosures and performance, and then providing strategic intelligence and advice to senior management and the Board
Corporate Governance &
ESG Oversight on investor views.
Stakeholder Engagement The Chief Administrative Ofce (“CAO”) provides multiple global services that support the day-to-day operations of
Political Engagement and the Firm’s businesses. The CAO includes the Operational Sustainability team, responsible for the Firm’s carbon man-
Public Policy
agement strategy and for coordinating the implementation of operational sustainability eforts across the corporate
Managing Environmental and functions; the Global Real Estate team, responsible for the deployment of onsite renewable energy, implementation of
Social Risks
energy efciency and water use minimization measures; and the Supplier Sustainability Team, responsible for provid-
Human Rights ing oversight of the Firm’s supply chain with respect to ESG matters, including on environmental sustainability matters.
Employees participating in the Asian Leadership Forum, New York, New York.
Data Privacy & Cybersecurity
The Independent Risk Management function establishes the Firm’s risk management frameworks. It also reviews and
Business Ethics challenges risks identifed by the LOBs and Corporate. The Global Environmental and Social Risk Management team
establishes the Firm’s policies, standards, and processes for certain E&S risks that outline the approach for consistent
APPENDICES identifcation, escalation and management of transactions and activities that may present certain increase in such risks.
The Climate Risk team’s responsibilities include establishing the Firm’s framework and strategy for managing climate
risk, setting climate risk policies, standards and processes and establishing our climate risk data strategy.
52
Stakeholder Stakeholder Group How We Engage
Customers and Clients • We engage regularly with our customers in our branches and through our website and social media platforms. We
Engagement
take pride in providing inclusive interaction. For example, we have multi-lingual staf in many of our branches and
We are helping support our small business and consumer
are investing in sign language interpreters at key locations—e.g., near Gallaudet University in Washington D.C. We
fnance customers meet their fnancial needs, as well as our
also seek customer feedback via online and in-branch surveys, with the aim of improving customer interaction and
corporate and institutional clients. We regularly solicit and
experience, and have a conduct hotline through which our customers can anonymously raise concerns and report
respond to customer and client feedback about our products,
misconduct. We also engage with our clients through one-on-one meetings, roundtables and conferences.
services and organization as a whole, and endeavor to build
Our Firm has a range of stakeholders, including customers
long-lasting relationships based on trust and mutual respect. • We listen and respond to the needs of our customers and clients by ofering products and services that emphasize
and clients, shareholders, employees, communities, regula-
social and environmental responsibility, including lending for afordable housing and electric vehicles, and sup-
INTRODUCTION tors and policymakers, suppliers, and research analysts. We
porting minority-owned businesses through fnancial literacy coaching.
engage with these stakeholders throughout the year to obtain
ENVIRONMENTAL insight into their needs and perspectives, and to gather feed- Employees • We engage with our employees through surveys, including our global Employee Opinion Survey and Exit Surveys; town
back on our strategy and performance, including as they
hall and small group meetings; focus groups; blogs, articles and newsletters; online feedback tools; and other forums.
Our people are at the heart of JPMorgan Chase and are vital
SOCIAL relate to ESG matters.
to our success. We work to understand our employees’ evolv- • Engagement surveys are conducted periodically and allow us to identify areas of strength and opportunities for
Responsibility for engaging with stakeholder groups is widely
ing needs and perspectives. improvement to promote continued employee satisfaction and retention.
GOVERNANCE
shared across our Firm’s lines of business and corporate func-
Communities • We are engaging with external stakeholders in a variety of forums. Through our longstanding Chase Advisory Panel
tions, and we engage through numerous channels. The insight
program, we facilitate regular conversations among senior JPMorgan Chase executives and consumer policy groups,
Corporate Governance & We are committed to considering diverse perspectives,
we gain from our engagement with key stakeholders is con-
ESG Oversight nonproft organizations, civic leaders, trade associations and diverse chambers of commerce, many of which are
particularly those of the communities we serve, in the
sidered when developing the Firm’s business strategies, prod-
sources of information and ideas about how the Firm can promote racial equity through our products, services and
Stakeholder Engagement Firm’s decisions.
ucts and services and policies and procedures.
approaches. Community Engagement furthers local and national engagement and two-way dialogue with stakeholders.
Political Engagement and
We also recognize stakeholders’ interest in timely information
In 2022, Community Engagement held 50 Chase Advisory Panels, listening sessions and other convenings with over 120
Public Policy
concerning our ESG-related strategies and activities. We plan
community stakeholders to share frmwide updates and solicit feedback on products, services and approaches.
Managing Environmental and
to continue to provide information through a number of chan-
Social Risks
Investors • We communicate with investors through our quarterly earnings materials, Annual Report and Proxy Statement,
nels, including our Annual Report and Proxy Statement, ESG-
Human Rights Securities and Exchange Commission flings, press releases and the Firm’s website. In addition, we engage with
We engage shareholders and fxed-income investors on
and climate-related reporting, regulatory flings, our website,
Data Privacy & Cybersecurity shareholders through quarterly earnings calls, investor meetings and conferences, annual general meetings and
important topics including corporate governance, shareholder
press releases, direct conversations with stakeholders, and
other forums. We conduct a semiannual shareholder outreach program focused on topics that include, but are not
Business Ethics rights, executive compensation and ESG-related matters.
various other reports and presentations. We intend to use
limited to, executive compensation, corporate governance, shareholder rights, and other ESG-related matters such
SASB’s, GRI’s and TCFD’s guidelines to inform the develop-
as climate change and DEI. During these engagements, management shares information, addresses questions, and
APPENDICES
ment of our ESG and climate-related disclosures. We are also
solicits shareholders’ perspectives and feedback. Directors participate in these meetings as appropriate. Following
closely monitoring regulatory developments related to man-
each shareholder outreach program, shareholders’ areas of focus and feedback are shared with the Board.
datory ESG- and climate-related reporting requirements in
• We also engage in dialogue with equity and fxed income investors throughout the year. These engagements provide
several jurisdictions around the world.
us with useful feedback, which we consider when developing the Firm’s processes, practices and strategic direction.
• In 2022, as part of our semi-annual shareholder outreach program, we solicited feedback through approximately 172
engagements with 118 shareholders, representing approximately 49% of the Firm’s outstanding common stock.45,46
45 Based on Nasdaq IRI data and representing ownership of common shares outstanding as of 09/30/2022.
46 For the period January 19, 2020 to March 9, 2023.
53
Stakeholder Group How We Engage STRENGTHENING OUR SUSTAINABILITY
COMMITMENTS THROUGH EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Regulators and Policymakers • We engage with policymakers on a range of issues, including banking, fnancial services, cybersecurity, workforce
We encourage our employees to think about how they can live
development, small business, tax, trade and inclusive economic growth, among others. We engage with regulators
We strive to maintain an open, ongoing dialogue with our
more sustainably. Our GoGreen teams are a global network of
as necessary to conduct business and provide commentary on proposed changes to relevant regulations afecting
global supervisory regulators and other policymakers. We
employee-led action groups that work to foster a community of
our business. For more information on the Firm’s political engagement, see page 55.
believe that responsible corporate citizenship demands a
informed, engaged and inspired employees who contribute to our
strong commitment to a healthy and informed democracy
sustainability culture. The mission of the GoGreen teams is to
through civic and community involvement.
increase employee awareness of sustainability initiatives at JPMor-
ESG Raters • We engage in open, transparent dialogue with rating agencies in order to better understand their methodologies gan Chase—including our sustainability commitments and what the
INTRODUCTION and scoring, correct discrepancies and provide feedback. Our Corporate Sustainability and Investor Relations Firm is doing to meet them—and ofer employees opportunities to
We recognize that our clients, shareholders and other stake-
teams manage our relationships with ESG rating agencies and lead our eforts to identify and implement enhance- engage in sustainable activities at work, at home and in their com-
holders are interested in our performance on a range of ESG
ENVIRONMENTAL ments to policies, procedures and practices that can improve our ESG performance and address any known issues. munities. During 2022, the global GoGreen program expanded to
matters. We regularly engage with ESG raters to provide
nearly 50 teams, an over 55% increase year-over-year, engaging
them with information relevant to the Firm. • We also spend time and resources to educate relevant internal stakeholders about ESG ratings so they are pre-
SOCIAL more than 13,000 members, a three-fold increase year-over-year.
pared to respond to questions from clients about the subject.
In 2022, our employees were ofered the opportunity to engage in
Suppliers • We interact with our key suppliers on a frequent basis through various channels, including regular business
GOVERNANCE
sustainability activities around the globe. Highlights of our
reviews, ad hoc meetings, phone, town halls, and email. We are committed to holding our suppliers to high stan-
We engage in dialogue with our key suppliers on topics includ-
GoGreen program eforts include:
dards of business conduct and integrity, and we work together to make a positive impact in the communities
Corporate Governance & ing our ability to operate efciently and efectively, deliver
ESG Oversight where we do business. • Participating in Earth Hour, going dark for one hour in our
products and services that meet our clients’ and customers’
homes and within more than 30 JPMorgan Chase buildings.
Stakeholder Engagement needs, manage risk and controls and drive sustainability,
diversity, equity and inclusion throughout our supply chain. • Hosting events around the globe in recognition of World Earth
Political Engagement and
Public Policy Day, World Environment Day and COP27.
Research Analysts • We provide information to members of the investment community, including portfolio managers, fnancial and ESG
Managing Environmental and
analysts and stewardship teams, through regulatory flings, quarterly earning materials, reports, presentations, • Collaborating with local community organizations to host
We strive to meet the information needs of members of the
Social Risks
conferences and publications on our website. In addition, we respond to surveys and specifc information requests, beach and riverbank clean-ups, wildlife habitat enhancement
investment community, including portfolio managers, fnan-
Human Rights
and engage with portfolio managers, analysts and stewardship teams through throughout the year. activities, tree planting and litter clearing.
cial and ESG analysts, and stewardship teams.
Data Privacy & Cybersecurity
• Helping employees discover ways to live sustainably through
Business Ethics
onsite events such as electric bicycle demonstrations, per-
sonal e-waste disposal days, reusable giveaways to reduce
APPENDICES
single-use plastics, and carbon footprint reduction challenges.
• Sponsoring learning sessions with sustainability experts on
topics such as making sustainable food choices, composting
and gardening at home, recycling and waste management,
and establishing a corporate beekeeping program to provide
safe pollinator habitats for honeybees.
54
Political Engagement
and Public Policy
JPMorgan Chase believes that responsible corporate citizenship demands a strong commitment to a healthy and
informed democracy through civic and community involvement. Our business is subject to extensive laws and regula-
tions, and changes to such laws can signifcantly afect how we operate, our revenues and the costs we incur. Because
INTRODUCTION
of the impact public policy can have on our businesses, employees, communities and customers, we engage with poli-
cymakers holding a range of views on a range of issues—including banking, fnancial services, cybersecurity, workforce
ENVIRONMENTAL
development, small business, tax, trade and inclusive economic growth, among others—to advance and protect the
long-term interests of the Firm.
SOCIAL
The Firm’s political engagement and public policy activities are managed by Global Government Relations. This organi-
GOVERNANCE
zation and leadership helps us focus the Firm’s political engagement eforts on those public policy issues most relevant
to the long-term interests of the Firm overall and to our clients and shareholders.
Corporate Governance &
The Firm belongs to a number of trade associations and ESG-related initiatives that advocate on and help address
ESG Oversight
major public policy issues of importance to the Firm and the communities we serve. The Firm’s participation as a mem-
Stakeholder Engagement
ber of these associations and initiatives comes with the understanding that we may not always align with all their posi-
Political Engagement and
tions or those of its other members. We are committed to independent decision-making at the Firm and providing
Public Policy
appropriate feedback on the eforts by these associations, including where there is misalignment between the Firm’s
Managing Environmental and
ESG objectives and trade associations positions or activities.
Social Risks
The Public Responsibility Committee of our Board of Directors provides oversight of our positions and practices on pub-
Human Rights
lic responsibility matters, including signifcant policies and practices regarding political contributions, major lobbying
Data Privacy & Cybersecurity
priorities and principal trade association memberships that relate to the Firm's public policy objectives.
Business Ethics
Because of our policies and practices, we received a “Trendsetter” ranking in 2022, with an overall score of 97.1%, scor-
ing in the top 20 of Fortune 500 companies for political disclosure and accountability by the CPA-Zicklin Index of Corpo-
APPENDICES
rate Political Disclosure and Accountability.
The Firm discloses on its website contributions made by the Firm's political action committees, contributions of corpo-
rate funds made in connection with ballot initiatives and information about our governance and oversight practices.
The Firm engages on public policy issues of importance to the business and the communities we serve. Pictured: Community Branch, Little Havana, Miami, Florida
55
Managing Environmental Human Rights
and Social Risks
JPMorgan Chase’s overall objective is to manage its business, and the associated risks, in a manner that balances serv- JPMorgan Chase supports fundamental principles of human rights across all our lines of business and in each region of
ing the interests of our clients, customers and investors, and protecting the safety and soundness of the Firm. The the world where we have a presence. We recognize that modern slavery issues, such as forced labor, child labor and
INTRODUCTION world today faces environmental and social challenges, such as climate change, biodiversity and ecosystem loss, and human trafcking, are a signifcant global challenge. We believe it is the role of government and the business commu-
human rights issues. If not adequately addressed these challenges could create risks for society and businesses. nity in every country to protect human rights. We also believe that our Firm has a role to play in promoting respect for
ENVIRONMENTAL human rights. It is our policy not to provide lending, capital markets or advisory services to clients if there is evidence
Please see page 70 for more information on how we manage E&S Risk in certain sectors, activities, and locations.
of forced or child labor, human trafcking or slavery.
For more information on the Firm’s overall approach to risk management, including Climate Risk, see our Form 10-K
SOCIAL
Our respect for the protection and preservation of human rights is guided by the principles set forth in the United
and 2022 Climate Report.
Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Further, we acknowledge the United Nations Guiding Principles on Busi-
GOVERNANCE
ness and Human Rights as the recognized framework for corporations to protect and respect human rights in their own
GUIDING E&S PRINCIPLES
operations and through their business relationships. For more information on how we manage human rights and mod-
Corporate Governance &
Where relevant, JPMorgan Chase may consider a range of internationally recognized principles to inform the Firm’s ern slavery-related risks in our operations, business activities of our clients and customers and in our supply chain,
ESG Oversight
approach in managing certain E&S risks. These include: please refer to our FY2021 Modern Slavery Statement.
Stakeholder Engagement
• Equator Principles
Political Engagement and
Public Policy • International Finance Corporation Performance Standards, including Performance Standard 7 on Indigenous
Peoples, and World Bank Environmental, Health & Safety Guidelines
Managing Environmental and
Social Risks
• Relevant International Capital Markets Association / Loan Market Association principles such as the Green Bond
Human Rights
Principles, Sustainability Linked Loan Principles, Social / Sustainable / Sustainability Linked Bond Principles, etc.
Data Privacy & Cybersecurity
• Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures
Business Ethics
• Taskforce on Nature-Related Financial Disclosures
• United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights
APPENDICES
• United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights
56
Data Privacy & Cybersecurity
As digital solutions play an ever-larger role in fnancial services and the economy as Data protection and privacy are key components of our global data risk manage- We have established processes and procedures to report and respond to suspected
a whole, the risk of cyber-attacks and other threats to information security contin- ment program. That program focuses on execution of the compliance and opera- or actual data privacy incidents that may compromise the confdentiality, integrity
INTRODUCTION ues to evolve and grow. In addition, the individuals with whom the Firm interacts tional risk oversight of data management and privacy governance, controls, and or availability of personal information and provide our employees the ability to
expect that our data practices are safe and lawful. Data privacy and cybersecurity remediation activities in the Firm. The Firm’s privacy framework outlines roles and make reports through our internal systems. Our centralized process requires escala-
ENVIRONMENTAL therefore remain top priorities for our Firm. At the same time, greater reliance on responsibilities, sets policies and standards, directs advisory requests, and provides tion to a dedicated incident response team for severity assessment, mitigation, root
remote work given our hybrid working model has only further underscored the protocols for monitoring, reporting, and escalation of key privacy risks and issues. cause analysis and corrective action.
SOCIAL importance of safe digital solutions and data practices. The program reports periodically to our management, including our OC and Board
In accordance with the Firm's policies, we notify individuals and our regulators of
of Directors. Our multi-stakeholder approach to oversight and governance is embed-
data incidents.
GOVERNANCE ded in our three lines of defense and supported by dedicated data and privacy
Data Privacy
JPMorgan Chase regularly engages with lawmakers and civil society on policy issues
teams around the world. We provide regular training and awareness to our work-
related to data protection and privacy, including the development and moderniza-
Corporate Governance & force, not only on core privacy obligations and how to meet them, but also on
As a global fnancial institution, our Firm collects, processes, uses, shares and dis-
tion of U.S. federal and state privacy laws. We will continue to support policy that
ESG Oversight
emerging risks, trends and new developments.
positions all manner of personal and fnancial information every day, and we have
protects people and their personal information, promotes organizational account-
Stakeholder Engagement
processes designed to manage that data in accordance with the laws, rules and reg- Information on how we collect, process, use, share and disposition personal infor-
ability and enables benefcial data-driven innovation.
Political Engagement and ulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate. We take a multi-faceted approach mation, as well as rights that individuals may have with respect to their personal
Public Policy
to addressing privacy and data protection risks, including maintaining and evolving information and how to exercise them, is available on our websites and upon
Managing Environmental and
our internal controls, establishing policies covering all stages of the data lifecycle request through multiple channels. In addition to traditional privacy notices, we
Social Risks
and deploying appropriate technology. often publish related materials such as frequently asked questions and tips for
Human Rights
keeping personal fnancial information safe.
Our Firmwide internal policy on personal information applies globally to our legal
Data Privacy & Cybersecurity
entities, as well as third parties that handle personal information on our behalf. We have a wide range of technological, administrative, organizational and physical
Business Ethics
The policy sets forth minimum requirements, including that personal information is security measures designed to safeguard the confdentiality, integrity and availabil-
processed for defned purposes. The policy also specifes the use of privacy by ity of personal information. Our Code of Conduct and related policies include spe-
APPENDICES
design principles, designed to ensure that privacy is taken into account throughout cifc guidelines on how employees should protect the confdential information of
the data lifecycle. those we have relationships with, including consumers, employees, service provid-
ers, commercial businesses or government bodies.
57
Cybersecurity
JPMorgan Chase experiences numerous cyber-attacks on its computer systems, The Global Cybersecurity and Technology Controls ("CTC") organization, working Cyber-attacks are a threat not just to our Firm, but also to our clients and the global
software, networks and other technology assets on a daily basis from various with each of our lines of business and corporate functions, identifes technology and fnancial system. We have increased our eforts to educate shareholders and cus-
actors, including groups acting on behalf of hostile countries, cyber-criminals, cybersecurity risks and is responsible for the controls to manage these threats. CTC tomers about the importance of disciplined cyber hygiene and protecting them-
“hacktivists” (i.e., individuals or groups that use technology to promote a political assesses changes in global threats and monitors our operations to detect and selves against fraud.
agenda or social change) and others. respond to them. We also conduct periodic internal assessments to identify vulnera-
We also contribute to eforts to build and maintain systemic resiliency. We are a
bilities, upgrade opportunities and new defense layers. Our cybersecurity incident
As threats to cybersecurity grow in size and sophistication, protecting our Firm, cus- member of the Financial Services Information Sharing & Analysis Center, an intelli-
response plan is designed to allow us to react to attempted breaches, coordinate
tomers and vendors while enabling innovation is an important, evolving priority. gence-sharing cooperative for the fnancial services industry. Its more than 22,000
our response with law enforcement and notify customers, when applicable.
When we enter new businesses and adopt new technologies, these risks and chal- users in more than 75 countries share best practices and exercises to better secure
INTRODUCTION
lenges multiply. This is why we devote signifcant, diverse resources to cybersecu- The CTC organization’s eforts are overseen by management at multiple levels, the sector for the beneft of the public and the resiliency and integrity of fnancial
rity. Our eforts are designed to stop malicious actors from infltrating our computer including technology management, greater Firmwide management and the Firm’s institutions. Our Firm also helped create the Analysis and Resilience Center for Sys-
ENVIRONMENTAL
systems to destroy data, obtain confdential information, disrupt service, engage in OC. The Board is updated periodically on our Information Security Program and any temic Risk, an industry-funded nonproft organization designed to mitigate systemic
“ransomware” or cause other damage. For example, through the CB, we provide cli- recommended changes, cybersecurity policies and practices, and ongoing eforts to risk to the nation’s critical energy and fnancial infrastructure.
SOCIAL
ents with resources and educational content to help them fght and prevent fraud improve security, as well as on our eforts regarding signifcant cybersecurity events.
JPMorgan Chase also participates in public-private partnerships and, over the
losses, such as a client ransomware guide and business email compromise toolkit.
GOVERNANCE In addition to internal capabilities, we leverage external resources to strengthen course of 2022, was engaged on policy issues related to operational collaboration,
To help safeguard the confdentiality, integrity and availability of our infrastructure, our defenses. Our cybersecurity controls, governance and practices are based on including incident notifcation, software bill of materials, zero trust and evolving
Corporate Governance & resources and information, we maintain a robust Information Security Program. It recognized industry best practices47. We also have adopted the Financial Sector U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology ("NIST") standards. We will con-
ESG Oversight
establishes policies and procedures to prevent, detect and respond to cyber-at- Profle from the Cyber Risk Institute, which provides the framework by which these tinue to support policy that protects the global fnancial system as a whole, as well
Stakeholder Engagement tacks. Since our employees serve as the frst line of defense, we educate, train and various best practices are aligned with and integrated into our technology and as improving the nation’s cybersecurity.
Political Engagement and test our employees on how to identify potential cybersecurity risks, protect the cybersecurity standards. These standards meet the requirements of more than 150
Public Policy
Firm’s resources and information, and report any unusual activity or incidents. regulators worldwide and are periodically updated. We also engage third parties to
Managing Environmental and Employees are required to complete cybersecurity training and complete quarterly independently evaluate our capabilities and identify areas for improvement. Exter-
Social Risks
Firmwide phishing tests. nal auditors periodically review our IT programs and processes, and regulators
Human Rights periodically inspect and review our program in the countries where we operate. We
We also require certain third-party vendors to comply with minimum security and con-
Data Privacy & Cybersecurity also discuss cybersecurity risks with law enforcement, government ofcials, peer
trol standards, our Supplier Code of Conduct, and all applicable laws and regulations.
groups and trade associations.
Business Ethics
APPENDICES
47 Industry best practices include; ISACA COBIT, ISO 27000 standards, FFIEC guidance, the Information Security Forum Standard for Good Practice, NIST SP800-53 and BSIMIM.
58
Business Ethics
We strive to be accountable, straightforward and honest in our dealings with cus- Employees are required to raise concerns about misconduct and report any poten-
tomers, employees, suppliers, shareholders and other stakeholders. Our Code of tial or actual violations of the Code of Conduct, other Firm policies or any applicable
INTRODUCTION Conduct, Business Principles and other internal policies and procedures are law or regulation. Employees, directors, suppliers and customers can report known
designed to promote a culture of respect that allows every employee to feel safe at or suspected violations to our Conduct Hotline via phone, online or mobile device.
ENVIRONMENTAL work and empowered to speak up if they have concerns about unethical behavior. The Hotline is anonymous, except in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions where anonymous
reporting is prohibited. It is operated by a third-party service provider and is acces-
SOCIAL sible 24/7 worldwide, with translation services available.
Code of Conduct
The Code of Conduct prohibits intimidation or retaliation against anyone who raises
GOVERNANCE Our Code of Conduct highlights the personal responsibility of every employee to an issue in good faith or assists with an investigation. Reporting obligations to the
operate with the highest standards of integrity, transparency and ethical conduct. It company do not prevent employees from reporting to the government or regulators
Corporate Governance &
emphasizes the importance of avoiding real and perceived conficts of interest, pro- conduct that they believe violates the law. It is our policy to promptly review all
ESG Oversight
tecting confdential information and maintaining a workplace that is free from potential violations and take action as appropriate. Under our policy, confdentiality
Stakeholder Engagement
threats, intimidation, and physical harm. will be maintained to the extent possible consistent with investigations.
Political Engagement and
Employees must complete Code training shortly after their start date, and each year Ethics and culture are key focus areas of our Board of Directors. The Board’s Com-
Public Policy
employees must afrm their compliance with the Code. In general, consultants, pensation & Management Development Committee is responsible for overseeing the
Managing Environmental and
agents and contract or temporary workers are expected to comply with the underly- governance framework that underpins our Firmwide culture of ethics and receives
Social Risks
ing principles of the Code. An additional Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals regular updates from management, including regarding certain material risk and
Human Rights
applies to the CEO, CFO and other fnance, accounting, corporate treasury, tax and control issues where misconduct is the root cause. This committee holds a periodic
Data Privacy & Cybersecurity
investor relations roles. joint session with the Risk Committee, in which directors are briefed by senior man-
Business Ethics
agement on conduct-related matters. The Audit Committee periodically receives
We reinforce these expectations through various channels, including senior leaders’
reports on the Code of Conduct program and assists the Board in providing over-
communications with employees, town-hall meetings and culture- and conduct-re-
APPENDICES
sight of compliance with the Firm’s ethical standards, policies, plans and proce-
lated questions in our employee surveys. In addition, Acting with Integrity is one cri-
dures, and with laws and regulations.
terion used to evaluate employees during their annual reviews.
JPMorgan Chase employees are expected to operate with the highest standards of integrity, transparency, and ethical conduct.
59
Financial Crimes and Anti-Corruption Fair Lending and Banking Practices Supply Chain and Responsible Sourcing
Our Firm has a principle of zero tolerance for bribery and corruption. Our global JPMorgan Chase seeks to treat all individuals fairly and equitably in the conduct of We expect our suppliers to demonstrate high standards of business conduct and
Anti-Corruption Policy prohibits ofering or giving anything of value to—and solicit- its lending businesses and in all jurisdictions where it conducts business. This is part integrity. Through our Supplier Code of Conduct, we set out our Business Principles
ing or accepting anything of value from—anyone for a corrupt purpose, such as of our mission of providing quality fnancial services to existing and prospective cus- that we expect our suppliers to adhere to, such as operational excellence, fairness,
improper payments or benefts to government ofcials or private parties for a busi- tomers in accordance with all applicable laws. In the United States, those fair lend- and environmental and social responsibility.
ness advantage. The program includes a governance structure managed by anti-cor- ing laws include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act, as well
Our suppliers respond to annual targeted surveys through which we assess how well
ruption professionals with senior management oversight, training and awareness as other state and local laws. These laws require, among other things, the equitable
they manage issues such as labor practices, human rights, environmental manage-
activities and monitoring and testing for compliance. Employees are required to treatment of all credit applicants without regard to race, sex (including gender, gen-
ment, and occupational health and safety. We believe that the efective manage-
complete anti-corruption training. der identity and sexual orientation), color, national origin, religion, age, marital sta-
ment of these issues, including adherence to applicable laws and regulations,
INTRODUCTION
tus, disability, familial status, the fact that all or part of the applicant’s income
We are also committed to participating in international eforts to combat money reduces potential risk to both JPMorgan Chase and our suppliers. In 2022, we
derives from public assistance programs or to the fact that the applicant has in
laundering, sanctions evasions and the funding of terrorist activities. We have enhanced our supplier DEI standards and clarifed requirements for suppliers. The
ENVIRONMENTAL
good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act. The expec-
implemented a risk-based, global Anti-Money Laundering Compliance & Sanctions DEI practices of our suppliers are assessed and monitored.
tation around fair treatment of our current and potential customers extends to
Program designed to comply with anti-money laundering and sanctions laws and
SOCIAL We have set up a Supply Network collective comprised of supplier-management
every aspect of a credit transaction, including not only how we review credit
regulations in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where we operate. We are also part of
stakeholders across the Firm, including vendor management, sourcing and procure-
requests, but also our advertising, handling of pre-application inquiries, loan dis-
the Wolfsberg Group, an association of banks which seeks to develop frameworks
GOVERNANCE ment, and fnance and business management, which aims to promote community,
bursements, and ongoing servicing of the loan.
and guidance for the management of fnancial crime risks, including the founda-
connectivity and collaboration as ways to improve JPMorgan Chase's supply chain.
tional Wolfsberg Anti-Money Laundering Principles for Private Banking.
Corporate Governance &
The Firm leverages its relationships with its key suppliers to promote increased spend-
ESG Oversight Responsible Marketing
ing with underrepresented businesses and provides them with guidance in building
Stakeholder Engagement
their own supplier diversity programs; 85% of the suppliers enrolled in the Firm’s sup-
We believe it is important to be clear and transparent in our advertising and market-
Political Engagement and
plier diversity mentorship program launched new supplier diversity programs in 2022.
ing. The Firm seeks to comply with applicable laws and regulations on responsible
Public Policy
For more information on our eforts to improve supplier diversity, see page 33.
and fair marketing practices. Our sales employees are expected to communicate with
Managing Environmental and
Social Risks customers in a clear, truthful and complete manner and to provide them with rele-
vant information to make an informed decision. Our lines of business are required to
Human Rights
have an established procedure for reviewing all new and revised marketing materi-
Data Privacy & Cybersecurity
als, terms and conditions, disclaimers and other customer communications.
Business Ethics
APPENDICES
60
Appendices
61
Employees and community partners come together
for the JPMorgan Chase Bus Tour, Dallas, Texas.
List of Acronyms
ABP Advancing Black Pathways - DEI Center of Excellence EEO Equal Employment Opportunity NDPE No Deforestation, No Peat and No Exploitation
AHL Advancing Hispanics & Latinos - DEI Center of Excellence ESG Environmental, Social and Governance NGO Non-Governmental Organization
INTRODUCTION AI Artifcial Intelligence EV Electric Vehicle NMTC New Market Tax Credit
AMI Area Median Income e-waste Electronic waste NZE Net Zero by 2050 Scenario
API Asian & Pacifc Islander FMCG Fast moving consumer goods OC Operating Committee
ENVIRONMENTAL
AWM Asset & Wealth Management FSC Forest Stewardship Council ODI Ofce of Disability Inclusion - DEI Center of Excellence
BRGs Business Resource Groups GHG Greenhouse Gas PEFC Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certifcation
SOCIAL
CAF Carbon Assessment Framework GMSC Global Markets Sustainability Center PPAs Power Purchase Agreements
CAO Chief Administrative Ofcer GREC Greenbacker Renewable Energy Corporation RECs Renewable Energy Certifcates
GOVERNANCE
CB Commercial Banking GRI Global Reporting Initiative RSPO Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil
CCB Consumer & Community Banking GSS Green, Social and Sustainable (Bonds) SASB Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
APPENDICES
CCT Center for Carbon Transition HAF San Francisco Housing Accelerator Fund SDGs United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
CDFI Community Development Financial Institutions HBCUs Historically Black Colleges and Universities SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
List of Acronyms
CEO Chief Executive Ofcer IEA International Energy Agency SFI Sustainable Forestry Initiative
Global Reporting Initiative Index
CFC National Rural Utilities Cooperative Finance Corporation IPO Initial Public Ofering SOAR Southern Opportunity and Resilience Fund
Sustainability Accounting
CFO Chief Financial Ofcer JPM DFI J.P. Morgan Development Finance Institution SPCP Special Purpose Credit Program
Standards Board Index
CIB Corporate & Investment Bank JPMAM J.P. Morgan Asset Management TCFD Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures
Prohibited Activities and Sensitive
CIC Climate Impact Contribution JRE Japan Renewable Energy Corporation TFI The Fellowship Initiative
Sectors Activities and Locations
CIO Chief Investment Ofce LIHTC Low Income Housing Tax Credit TNC The Nature Conservancy
CMDC Compensation & Management Development Committee LMI Low-to-Moderate Income TNFD Task Force on Nature-Related Financial Disclosures
CO Carbon Dioxide LOB Line of Business U.K. United Kingdom
2
CRO Chief Risk Ofcer M&A Merger and Acquisition U.S. United States
DEI Diversity, Equity & Inclusion MAP Miami Afordability Project UPHPA Uniform Partition of Heirs Property Act
DFSA Development Finance Structuring Agent MDIs Minority Depository Institutions WEO World Energy Outlook
E&S Environmental and Social mtCO e Metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent WOTM Women on the Move - DEI Center of Excellence
2
EACs Energy Attribute Certifcates MW Megawatt
62
Global Reporting Indicator Disclosure Title Source Indicator Disclosure Title Source
GRI 2: GENERAL DISCLOSURES (2021) 2-10 Nomination and selection of the
2023 Proxy Statement (p. 20–21)
Initiative Index highest governance body
2-1 Organizational details 2022 Form 10-K (p. 1, 33)
2-11 Chair of the highest governance
2023 Proxy Statement (p. 3, 5, 22–23)
2022 ESG Report (p. 3–4)
body
Who We Are
2-12 Role of the highest governance 2022 Form 10-K (p. 81–84)
2-2 Entities included in the organiza- 2022 Form 10-K (p. 1) body in overseeing the manage-
2022 ESG Report (p. 51)
We identifed the following GRI topics as related to our key ESG topics: economic tion’s sustainability reporting ment of impacts
2022 ESG Report (p. 3–4)
2023 Proxy Statement (p. 28–31)
performance, indirect economic impacts, anti-corruption, anti-competitive behavior,
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and
INTRODUCTION energy, water and efuents, emissions, biodiversity, employment, training and edu- 2022 ESG Report (p. 4) 2-13 Delegation of responsibility for
2022 ESG Report (p. 14–16, 40–42, 47,
contact point
cation, diversity and equal opportunity, human rights assessment, local communi- Note: Reporting frequency is annually, and aligns to the managing impacts 51–52, 56)
Firm’s fnancial reporting period.
ENVIRONMENTAL ties, public policy, product portfolio, audit, active ownership, marketing and label-
Contact points: 2-14 Role of the highest governance Note: Our Corporate Sustainability team, which is led by
ing, customer privacy and socioeconomic compliance. the Global Head of Sustainability who reports to the Global
body in sustainability reporting
Head of Corporate Responsibility, oversees the develop-
Sustainability
SOCIAL ment of our sustainability reporting.
The index below includes GRI indicators that are relevant to our business. Unless
Investor Relations
otherwise noted, all data and descriptions apply to our entire Firm and are as of or 2-15 Conficts of interest
Code of Conduct
GOVERNANCE 2-4 Restatements of information
for the year ended December 31, 2022. 2022 ESG Report (p. 8, footnote 1 1)
Corporate Governance Principles
2-5 External assurance Note: We did not seek external assurance for the contents 2023 Proxy Statement (p. 13–18, 34–35)
APPENDICES
of this report.
Source Key
2-16 Communication of critical Corporate Governance Principles
2-6 Activities, value chain, and other
2022 ESG Report (p. 3, 25–27, 33–37) concerns
List of Acronyms
business relationships
2022 Form 10-K 2022 ESG Report 2022 Form 10-K (p. 33, 44, 61–80)
Global Reporting Initiative Index 2-17 Collective knowledge of the
2023 Proxy Statement (p. 27)
Suppliers
2022 Climate Report Human Rights Statement highest governance body
Sustainability Accounting
Who We Are
Standards Board Index
Code of Conduct Modern Slavery Act Statement 2-18 Evaluation of the performance of 2023 Proxy Statement (p. 27)
Note: JPMorgan Chase does business with over 19,000
the highest governance body
Prohibited Activities and Sensitive
suppliers globally across a wide range of product/service
Code of Ethics for Finance Professionals 2023 Proxy Statement
Sectors Activities and Locations categories. Our third-party vendor spend is spread across
categories such as real estate, professional services, tech- 2-19 Remuneration policies
2023 Proxy Statement (p. 32–80)
Corporate Governance Principles Weblinks nology, marketing, document production, printing, ship-
ping and travel, among others.
2-20 Process to determine
Environmental Data 2023 Proxy Statement (p. 32–80)
2-7 Employees 2022 ESG Report (p. 39) remuneration
2022 Form 10-K (p. 2)
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio
2023 Proxy Statement (p. 78)
2-9 Governance structure and Corporate Governance Principles
2-22 Statement on sustainable devel-
2022 ESG Report (p. 2)
composition
2022 ESG Report (p. 51) opment strategy
2023 Proxy Statement (p. 5, 10, 12–19,
24–26)
63
Indicator Disclosure Title Source Indicator Disclosure Title Source Indicator Disclosure Title Source
2-23 Policy commitments 2-28 Membership associations GRI 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS (2016)
Code of Conduct 2022 ESG Report (p. 12–14, 58, 60)
Code of Ethics for Finance Professionals External memberships and commitments
3-3 Management approach
2022 ESG Report (p. 24–29, 30–37)
Business Principles
2-29 Approach to stakeholder 2022 ESG Report (p. 53–54) Impact
Human Rights engagement
203-1 Infrastructure investments and
2022 ESG Report (p. 24–29, 30–37)
2-24 Embedding policy commitments Code of Conduct 2-30 Collective bargaining Note: JPMorgan Chase supports employee rights and services supported
seeks to adhere to local laws regarding the freedom of Impact
agreements
Code of Ethics for Finance Professionals association and collective employee action. We also have
relationships with trade unions and work councils in the
Business Principles regions where we operate as well as through many of our 203-2 Signifcant indirect economic 2022 ESG Report (p. 24–29, 30–37)
vendors. Most JPMorgan Chase employees are not covered
impacts
INTRODUCTION 2022 ESG Report (p. 51–52, 56, 59) by collective bargaining agreements and no U.S.- based Impact
employees are subject to collective bargaining agree-
ments. JPMorgan Chase’s Code of Conduct sets forth the
Human Rights
Firm’s expectations for each employee. The Code of Con- GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION (2016)
duct provides the principles that govern employee conduct
ENVIRONMENTAL
with clients, customers, shareholders and one another, as
2-25 Processes to remediate negative
Code of Conduct
well as with the markets and communities in which JPMor- 3-3 Management approach
Code of Conduct
impacts gan Chase does business. Employees are encouraged to
Corporate Governance Principles raise any concerns through multiple channels identifed in
SOCIAL
Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals
the Code of Conduct.
2022 ESG Report (p. 51–56, 59, 70–71)
Corporate Governance Principles
Human Rights GRI 3: MATERIAL TOPICS (2021)
GOVERNANCE
2022 ESG Report (p. 59–60)
Modern Slavery Act Statement
3-1 Process to determine material
2022 ESG Report (p. 5)
205-2 Communication and training
2022 ESG Report (p. 59–60)
APPENDICES topics
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice Code of Conduct about anti-corruption policies
and raising concerns and procedures Note: Employees are required to complete anti-corruption
3-2 List of material topics 2022 ESG Report (p. 5, 65) training.
List of Acronyms
2-27 Compliance with laws and 2022 Form 10-K (Note 30 p. 283–286).
Global Reporting Initiative Index 3-3 Management approach Note: Management of material topics is included in the rel- 205-3 Confrmed incidents of corrup- 2022 Form 10-K (Note 30 p. 283–286)
regulations
evant topical standards below. tion and actions taken
Note on the Firm’s legal proceedings: As of December 31,
Refer to the note on the Firm’s legal proceedings (GRI indi-
Sustainability Accounting 2022, the Firm and its subsidiaries and afliates are defen-
cator 2–27).
dants or respondents in numerous legal proceedings, GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE (2016)
Standards Board Index
including private, civil litigations, government investiga-
tions or regulatory enforcement matters. The litigations
GRI 206: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR (2016)
Prohibited Activities and Sensitive range from individual actions involving a single plaintif to 3-3 Management approach
2022 ESG Report (p. 24–29, 30–37)
class action lawsuits with potentially millions of class mem-
Sectors Activities and Locations
bers. Investigations and regulatory enforcement matters
Impact 3-3 Management approach Code of Conduct
involve both formal and informal proceedings, by both
governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations.
These legal proceedings are at varying stages of adjudica- 2022 ESG Report (p. 59–60)
201-1 Direct economic value generated
tion, arbitration or investigation, and involve each of the 2022 ESG Report (p. 24–29, 30–37)
Firm’s lines of business and several geographies and a and distributed
wide variety of claims (including common law tort and con- 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competi- 2022 Form 10-K (Note 30 p. 283–286)
tract claims and statutory antitrust, securities and con- tive behavior, anti-trust, and
sumer protection claims), some of which present novel 201-2 Financial implications and other 2022 Form 10-K (p. 8, 9, 13, 14, 25, 28) Refer to the note on the Firm’s legal proceedings (GRI indi-
monopoly practices
legal theories. For further discussion, please refer to risks and opportunities due to cator 2–27).
JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s publicly fled disclosures, including 2022 ESG Report (p. 12–16)
its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly climate change
Reports on Form 10-Q fled with the U.S. Securities and
2022 Climate Report (p. 45–52).
Exchange Commission (available at: https://jpmorgancha-
seco.gcs-web.com/fnancial-information/sec-flings).
201-3 Defned beneft plan obligations 2022 Form 10-K (p. 212–214)
and other retirement plans
64
Indicator Disclosure Title Source Indicator Disclosure Title Source Indicator Disclosure Title Source
GRI 302: ENERGY 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION
2022 ESG Report (p. 18–21)
emissions
Environmental Data
3-3 Management approach 3-3 Management approach
2022 ESG Report (p. 18–21) 2022 ESG Report (p. 38–49, 57–59)
305-4 GHG emissions intensity
2022 ESG Report (p. 18–21)
302-1 Energy consumption within the 404-2 Programs for upgrading
2022 ESG Report (p. 18–21) 2022 ESG Report (p. 31–32, 45–46)
organization Environmental Data employee skills and transition
Environmental Data
assistance programs
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
2022 ESG Report (p. 18–21)
302-4 Reduction of energy
2022 ESG Report (p. 18–21)
404-3 Percentage of employees receiv-
2022 ESG Report (p. 45)
consumption Environmental Data
ing regular performance and
Environmental Data
career development reviews
INTRODUCTION GRI 306: WASTE (2020)
GRI 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS (2018)
GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
3-3 Management approach
2022 ESG Report (p. 22–23)
ENVIRONMENTAL 3-3 Management approach 2022 ESG Report (p. 22–23)
3-3 Management approach
Code of Conduct
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal
2022 ESG Report (p. 22–23)
303-3 Water withdrawal by source
2022 ESG Report (p. 22–23) 2022 ESG Report (p. 38–42)
SOCIAL
Environmental Data
Environmental Data Diversity and Inclusion
GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE (2016)
GOVERNANCE
GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY (2016) 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies 2022 Form 10-K (p. 2)
and employees
307-1 Non-compliance with environ- 2022 Form 10-K (Note 30 p. 283–286). 2022 ESG Report (p. 38–42)
3-3 Management approach
2022 ESG Report (p. 12, 22–23, 70–71)
APPENDICES mental laws and regulations
Refer to the note on the Firm’s legal proceedings (GRI indi- 2023 Proxy Statement (p. 12)
cator 2–27).
304-2 Signifcant impacts of activities,
2022 ESG Report (p. 12, 22–23, 70–71) Diversity and Inclusion
List of Acronyms products, and services on
GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT (2016)
biodiversity
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remu-
Global Reporting Initiative Index 2022 ESG Report (p. 48)
neration of women to men
3-3 Management approach
2022 ESG Report (p. 43–49)
GRI 305: EMISSIONS (2016)
Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board Index Careers GRI 406: NON-DISCRIMINATION (2016)
3-3 Management approach
2022 ESG Report (p. 18–21)
Prohibited Activities and Sensitive
401-2 Benefts provided to full-time
2022 ESG Report (p. 48–49) 3-3 Management approach
Code of Conduct
Sectors Activities and Locations
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions employees that are not provided to
2022 ESG Report (p. 18–21)
2022 ESG Report (p. 38–42, 59)
temporary or part-time employees
Environmental Data
Human Rights
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 2022 ESG Report (p. 18–21) Diversity and Inclusion
emissions
Environmental Data
GRI 409: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR (2016)
3-3 Management approach
Human Rights
2022 ESG Report (p. 70–71)
65
Indicator Disclosure Title Source Indicator Disclosure Title Source Indicator Disclosure Title Source
GRI 412: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT (2016) FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR SUPPLEMENT (2008) GRI 417: MARKETING AND LABELING (2016)
Product Portfolio
3-3 Management approach 3-3 Management approach
2022 ESG Report (p. 56, 70–71) 2022 ESG Report (p. 60)
3-3 Management approach
2022 ESG Report (p. 6–10, 12–17, 30–49,
Human Rights Note: Fair and transparent communications is an import-
70–71) ant marketing communications topic for JPMorgan Chase,
Modern Slavery Act Statement which we discuss on page 60 of our ESG report.
Human Rights
Supplier Code of Conduct
GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY (2016)
Impact
412-3 Signifcant investment agreements
2022 ESG Report (p. 52, 56, 70–71)
3-3 Management approach
FS1 Policies with specifc environ- Code of Conduct
and contracts that include human 2022 ESG Report (p.56, 59–60, 70–71)
Human Rights
mental and social components
rights clauses or that underwent
INTRODUCTION 2022 ESG Report (p. 57)
human rights screening Modern Slavery Act Statement applied to business lines
Chase — Security Center
FS7 Monetary value of products and
ENVIRONMENTAL 2022 ESG Report (p. 6–10, 30–49) J.P. Morgan—Privacy Policy
services designed to deliver spe-
GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES (2016) Impact
cifc social beneft 418-1 Substantiated complaints con- Note: It is JPMorgan Chase’s policy to follow U.S. and
SOCIAL global laws regarding reporting breaches of customer
cerning breaches of customer pri-
3-3 Management approach data, including notices to individuals, regulators and other
Code of Conduct
FS8 Monetary value of products and
2022 ESG Report (p. 6–10, 13–17) vacy and losses of customer data entities. In addition, JPMorgan Chase provides information
services designed to deliver spe- regarding risks related to cybersecurity in its SEC flings.
2022 ESG Report (p. 6–10, 30–49, 70–71)
GOVERNANCE
cifc environmental beneft
Impact GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE (2016)
Audit
APPENDICES
413-1 Operations with local community
2022 ESG Report (p. 6–10, 30–49, 53–54) 3-3 Management approach
Code of Conduct
3-3 Management approach
2022 ESG Report (p. 56, 70–71)
engagement, impact assess-
2022 ESG Report (p. 51–52)
ments, and development
List of Acronyms
FS-Audit Coverage and frequency of audits
programs 2022 ESG Report (p. 56, 70–71)
Global Reporting Initiative Index to assess implementation of envi- 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and 2022 Form 10-K (Note 30 p. 283–286)
ronmental and social policies and regulations in the social and eco-
FS14 Initiatives to improve access to
2022 ESG Report (p. 6–10, 25–29, 40–42,
Sustainability Accounting Refer to the note on the Firm’s legal proceedings (GRI indi-
risk assessment procedures nomic area
fnancial services for disadvan- 44–49) cator 2–27).
Standards Board Index
taged people
Active Ownership
Impact
Prohibited Activities and Sensitive
Sectors Activities and Locations Voting policy(ies) applied to envi- Proxy Information
GRI 415: PUBLIC POLICY (2016)
ronmental or social issues for
shares over which the reporting
3-3 Management approach
2022 ESG Report (p. 55)
organization holds the right to
vote shares or advises on voting
Political Engagement and Public Policy
Statement
415-1 Political contributions Political Engagement and Public Policy
Statement
66
Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board Index
The index below includes disclosures related to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (“SASB”) sector stan- Metric Code Metric Source
dards that are relevant to our business: Asset Management & Custody Activities; Commercial Banks; Consumer Finance;
TOPICS IN MULTIPLE SECTOR STANDARDS
INTRODUCTION Investment Banking & Brokerage; and Mortgage Finance. Unless otherwise noted, all data and descriptions apply to our
TOPIC: BUSINESS ETHICS
entire Firm and are as of or for the year ended December 31, 2022. For additional information about the Firm’s fnancial
ENVIRONMENTAL performance, please refer to the Firm’s quarterly earnings materials as well as quarterly and annual reports on Form FN-AC-270a.2 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of 2022 Form 10–K (Note 30 p. 283–286)
legal proceedings associated with:
10-Q and Form 10-K, respectively. FN-AC-510a.1
Note on the Firm’s legal proceedings: JPMorgan Chase & Co. and/or its sub-
• Marketing and communication of fnancial sidiaries (collectively, the "frm") are defendants or putative defendants in
SOCIAL FN-CB-510a.1
numerous legal proceedings, including private civil litigations and regulatory/
product-related information to new and
government investigations. The litigations range from individual actions
FN-CF-220a.2 returning customers involving a single plaintif to class action lawsuits with potentially millions of
Source Key
class members and cover a wide range of issues. Investigations involve both
GOVERNANCE FN-CF-270a.5 • Fraud, insider trading, anti-trust, anti-compet- formal and informal proceedings, by both governmental agencies and
itive behavior, market manipulation, malprac- self-regulatory organizations. These legal proceedings are at varying stages
FN-IB-510a.1 of adjudication, arbitration or investigation, and involve each of the frm's
2022 Form 10-K 2022 ESG Report tice or other related fnancial industry laws or lines of business and geographies and a wide variety of claims (including com-
APPENDICES
FN-IB-510b.3 regulations mon law tort and contract claims and statutory antitrust, securities and con-
sumer protection claims), some of which present novel legal theories. Based
Code of Conduct 2023 Proxy Statement • Customer privacy
FN-MF-270a.3 on current knowledge, the frm believes it has asserted meritorious defenses
• Selling and servicing of products to the claims asserted against it in its currently outstanding legal proceed-
List of Acronyms
Code of Ethics for Finance Professionals Weblinks FN-MF-270b.2 ings, intends to defend itself vigorously in all such matters. For further discus-
• Professional integrity, including duty of care
sion, please refer to JPMorgan Chase & Co.'s publicly fled disclosures, includ-
Global Reporting Initiative Index • Communications to customers or remunera- ing its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on
Corporate Governance Principles Form 10-Q fled with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (available
tion of loan originators
at: https://jpmorganchaseco.gcs-web.com/fnancial-information/sec-flings).
Sustainability Accounting
• Discriminatory mortgage lending
Standards Board Index
Prohibited Activities and Sensitive FN-AC-510a.2 Description of whistleblower policies and Code of Conduct
Sectors Activities and Locations procedures
FN-CB-510a.2
2022 ESG Report (p. 59)
FN-IB-510a.2
TOPIC: DATA SECURITY
FN-CB-230a.2 Description of approach to identifying and 2022 Form 10-K (p. 7, 143–144)
addressing data security risks
FN-CF-230a.3 2022 ESG Report (p. 57–58)
67
Metric Code Metric Source Metric Code Metric Source
TOPIC: EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
COMMERCIAL BANKS
FN-AC-330a.1 Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group rep-
2022 ESG Report (p. 39)
TOPIC: FINANCIAL INCLUSION & CAPACITY BUILDING
resentation for (1) executive management, (2)
FN-IB-330a.1
non-executive management, (3) professionals and FN-CB-240a.1 (1) Number and (2) amount of loans outstanding 2022 Form 10-K (p. 48)
(4) all other employees qualifed to programs designed to promote small
2022 ESG Report (p. 33–34)
business and community development
TOPIC: SYSTEMIC RISK MANAGEMENT
FN-CB-240a.4 Number of participants in fnancial literacy
FN-CB-550a.1 Global Systemically Important Bank (G-SIB) score, 2022 Form 10-K (p. 90) 2022 ESG Report (p. 36)
initiatives for unbanked, underbanked or
by category
FN-IB-550a.1 Banking Organization Systemic Risk Report (FR Y-15)
underserved customers
INTRODUCTION
FN-CB-550a.2 Description of approach to incorporation of 2022 Form 10-K (p. 86–96) TOPIC: INCORPORATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE FACTORS IN CREDIT ANALYSIS
results of mandatory and voluntary stress tests
FN-IB-550a.2 FN-CB-410a.1 Commercial and industrial credit exposure, 2022 Form 10-K (p. 192–193)
into capital adequacy planning, long-term corpo-
ENVIRONMENTAL by industry
rate strategy and other business activities
FN-CB-410a.2 Description of approach to incorporation of
2022 ESG Report (p. 13–16, 51–52, 56)
SOCIAL ASSET MANAGEMENT & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES
environmental, social and governance (ESG)
Carbon CompassSM methodology
factors in credit analysis
TOPIC: TRANSPARENT INFORMATION & FAIR ADVICE FOR CUSTOMERS
GOVERNANCE
FN-AC-270a.3 Description of approach to informing customers 2022 ESG Report (p. 6–10, 13–16) FN-CB-000.B (1) Number and (2) value of loans by segment: (a) 2022 Form 10-K (Note 12 p. 225–241)
about products and services personal, (b) small business and (c) corporate
Client Service
APPENDICES
Business Principles CONSUMER FINANCE
TOPIC: INCORPORATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE FACTORS IN INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT & ADVISORY
List of Acronyms TOPIC: SELLING PRACTICES
FN-AC-410a.1 Amount of assets under management, by asset
Global Reporting Initiative Index 2022 ESG Report (p. 6–10, 13–16) FN-CF-270a.1 Percentage of total remuneration for covered Code of Conduct
class, that employ (1) integration of environmen-
employees that is variable and linked to the
Asset Management Sustainable Investing
Sustainability Accounting Corporate Governance Principles (Section 5.4)
tal, social, and governance (ESG) issues, (2) sus-
amount of products and services sold
Standards Board Index
tainability themed investing and (3) screening
2023 Proxy Statement (p. 36, 41)
Prohibited Activities and Sensitive
FN-AC-410a.2 Description of approach to incorporation of envi-
2022 ESG Report (p. 6–10, 13–16) INVESTMENT BANKING & BROKERAGE
Sectors Activities and Locations
ronmental, social and governance (ESG) factors in
Asset Management Investment Stewardship
investment and/or wealth management processes TOPIC: INCORPORATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE FACTORS IN INVESTMENT BANKING & BROKERAGE ACTIVITIES
and strategies Wealth Management Sustainable Investing
FN-IB-410a.2 (1) Number and (2) total value of investments and
2022 ESG Report (p. 13–16, 51–52, 56)
loans incorporating integration of environmental,
FN-AC-410a.3 Description of proxy voting and investee engage- Proxy Information
social and governance (ESG) factors, by industry
ment policies and procedures
TOPIC: ACTIVITY METRICS FN-IB-410a.3 Description of approach to incorporation of envi- 2022 ESG Report (p. 13–16, 51–52, 56)
ronmental, social and governance (ESG) factors in
FN-AC-000.A (1) Total registered and (2) total unregistered 2022 Form 10-K (p. 78) investment banking and brokerage activities Carbon CompassSM methodology
assets under management (AUM)
FN-AC-000.B Total assets under custody and supervision 2022 Form 10-K (p. 78)
68
Metric Code Metric Source
TOPIC: PROFESSIONAL INTEGRITY
FN-IB-510b.4 Description of approach to ensuring professional
Code of Conduct
integrity, including duty of care
Code of Ethics for Finance Professionals
2022 ESG Report (p. 59–60)
Confict of Interest Policy
TOPIC: EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES & RISK TAKING
FN-IB-550b.3 Discussion of policies around supervision, control 2022 Form 10-K (p. 81–84, 148, Note 2 167–187)
and validation of traders’ pricing of Level 3 assets
2023 Proxy Statement (p. 41)
INTRODUCTION
and liabilities
MORTGAGE FINANCE
ENVIRONMENTAL
TOPIC: DISCRIMINATORY LENDING
SOCIAL FN-MF-270b.1 (1) Number, (2) value and (3) weighted average 2022 Form 10-K (Note 12, p. 225–241)
Loan-to-Value (LTV) ratio of mortgages issued to
(a) minority and (b) all other borrowers, by FICO
GOVERNANCE
scores above and below 660
FN-MF-270b.3 Description of policies and procedures for ensur- Fair Lending Overview
APPENDICES
ing nondiscriminatory mortgage origination
TOPIC: ACTIVITY METRICS
List of Acronyms
FN-MF-000.A (1) Number and (2) value of mortgages originated 2022 Form 10-K (p. 66, footnote e)
Global Reporting Initiative Index
by category: (a) residential and (b) commercial
Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board Index
Prohibited Activities and Sensitive
Sectors Activities and Locations
69
Prohibited Activities and Sensitive Sectors Activities and Locations
The following lists of prohibited activities and sensitive sectors, activities and locations are non-exhaustive and relate to the environment and human rights, including modern slavery and child labor. We prohibit other sectors and activities and/or subject
them to escalation for enhanced review.
INTRODUCTION
The information provided in this appendix refects JPMorgan Chase’s approach to certain clients and transactions as at April 19, 2023, and is subject to change without notice. We do not undertake to update any of such information.
ENVIRONMENTAL
PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES
SOCIAL
The following section outlines activities we prohibited:
• Modern Slavery and Child Labor: We will not provide fnancial services to clients where there is evidence of forced • Coal-fred power generation:
GOVERNANCE
labor, harmful child labor, human trafcking or modern slavery.
• Prohibition on fnancing of new coal-fred power plants: We will not provide project fnancing or other forms of
APPENDICES • World Heritage Sites: We will not provide project fnancing or other forms of asset-specifc fnancing where the asset-specifc fnancing where the proceeds will be used to develop a greenfeld coal-fred power plant or the
proceeds will be used to develop within UNESCO World Heritage sites, unless there is prior consensus from both expansion and/or refnancing of an existing coal-fred power plant. Coal-fred power plants utilizing carbon
List of Acronyms the host government authorities and UNESCO that such operations will not adversely afect the Outstanding Uni- capture and sequestration technology will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Global Reporting Initiative Index versal Value of the site.
• The Arctic48: We will not provide project fnance or other forms of asset-specifc fnancing where the proceeds will
Sustainability Accounting • Coal Mining: be used for new upstream, midstream or downstream greenfeld oil and gas development in the Arctic, including
Standards Board Index
the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge.
• Prohibition on development of greenfeld coal mines: We will not provide project fnancing or other forms of
Prohibited Activities and Sensitive
asset-specifc fnancing where the proceeds will be used to develop a greenfeld coal mine or expansion of an • Illegal logging: We will not provide fnancial services to clients where there is evidence of illegal logging.
Sectors Activities and Locations
existing coal mine.
• Illegal wildlife trafcking: We will not provide fnancial services to clients where there is evidence of illegal wildlife
• Prohibition on fnancing for coal mining clients: We will not provide fnancial services to clients deriving the trafcking.
majority of their revenues from the extraction of coal. By the end of 2024, we will also phase out our remain-
• Uncontrolled fre: We will not provide fnancial services to clients where there is evidence of intentional burning of
ing credit exposure to such clients.
tropical rainforest and/or peatlands for agricultural purposes.
• Prohibition on fnancing to clients involved in mountaintop mining: We will not provide fnancial services to
coal mining clients involved in mountaintop mining.
48 For prohibitions, JPMorgan Chase utilizes a defnition based on a 10°C July Isotherm boundary, meaning the area does not experience temperatures above 10° C.
70
SENSITIVE SECTORS, ACTIVITIES AND LOCATIONS REQUIRING ENHANCED REVIEW
The following are examples of sectors, activities and locations we consider sensitive or in need of enhanced review to • Soy: Non-U.S. clients involved in production, refning or trading of soy.50
INTRODUCTION
facilitate a comprehensive understanding of the transaction and associated risks.
• Growers/producers (non-U.S.): We require Roundtable on Responsible Soy (“RTRS”) certifcation.
ENVIRONMENTAL • Oil Sands: Clients involved in oil sands.
• Processors/traders (purchasing non-U.S. soy): We expect sustainable sourcing policies in place and a RTRS
• Coal Mining: Clients involved in coal mining. chain of custody certifcation.
SOCIAL
• Coal-fred Power Generation: Clients with operations involving coal fred power. • Forestry and logging: Clients involved in forestry and logging.
• Large Hydroelectric Power Generation: Clients involved in hydroelectric power (>20MW plants). • Growers/producers: We require Forest Stewardship Council (“FSC”) certifcation or equivalent (e.g., Sus-
GOVERNANCE
tainable Forestry Initiative (“SFI”), or Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certifcation (“PEFC”)).
• Agriculture:
APPENDICES • Pellets pulp and paper: We expect adoption of a sustainable sourcing policy and chain of custody
• Palm oil: Clients involved in production, refning or trading of palm oil.49
certifcation.
• Growers/producers (plantations and mills): We require Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (“RSPO”) mem-
List of Acronyms
• Cattle: Non-U.S. clients involved in the rearing of cattle or processing of beef products.
bership and their adoption of a No Deforestation, No Peat and No Exploitation (“NDPE”) Policy. We require
Global Reporting Initiative Index
RSPO certifcation or a time bound plan to achieve certifcation within a reasonable timeframe. • Cocoa: Clients involved in the production, processing or trading of cocoa products.51
Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board Index • Refneries: We require RSPO membership and the adoption of a NDPE Policy, along with a RSPO certifca- • Locations:
tion or a time bound plan to achieve certifcation within a reasonable timeframe. We also require a chain
Prohibited Activities and Sensitive • The Arctic52
Sectors Activities and Locations of custody certifcation.
• UNESCO World Heritage Sites, UNESCO Man and the Biosphere Reserves, and Ramsar Sites
• Traders: We expect RSPO membership, along with a sustainable sourcing policy that includes a target to
• Legally protected areas, e.g. a national park
achieve 100% RSPO certifed sourcing, and a RSPO chain of custody certifcation.
• Habitats of biodiversity importance53
49 Does not include fast moving consumer goods (“FMCG”) manufacturers and retailers selling products containing palm oil.
50 Does not include FMCG manufacturers or retailers selling products containing soy.
51 Does not include FMCG manufacturers and retailers selling products containing cocoa.
52 For the broader Arctic region, JPMorgan Chase utilizes the defnition according to the Arctic Monitoring and Assessment Programme.
53 May include habitats with signifcant importance to certain species (e.g., threatened, endemic, or restricted-range species); and/or certain ecosystems (e.g., highly threatened, unique or support globally signifcant concentrations of migratory or congregatory species).
71
Contact Us
To contact Sustainability, email sustainability.jpmc@jpmchase.com.
To contact Investor Relations, email JPMCinvestorrelations@jpmchase.com.
Information about J.P. Morgan’s capabilities can be found at jpmorgan.com and about Chase’s capabilities at chase.com.
Information about JPMorgan Chase & Co. is available at jpmorganchase.com.
“JPMorgan Chase,” “J.P. Morgan,” “Chase,” the Octagon symbol and other words or symbols in this report that identify
JPMorgan Chase services are service marks of JPMorgan Chase & Co. Other words or symbols in this report that iden-
tify other parties’ goods or services may be trademarks or service marks of those other parties.
DISCLAIMERS
The information provided in this report refects JPMorgan Chase’s approach to ESG as at the date of this report and is subject to change without notice. We do not undertake to update any of such information in this report. Any references to “sustainable investing”, “sustainable
investments”, “ESG” or similar terms in this report are intended as references to the internally defned criteria of the Firm or our businesses only, as applicable, and not to any jurisdiction-specifc regulatory defnition.
Our approach to inclusion of disclosures in this report is informed by the Global Reporting Initiative ("GRI") and relevant Sector Standards, and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board ("SASB") reporting standards and is diferent from disclosures included in mandatory
regulatory reporting, including under Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) regulations. While this report describes events, including potential future events, that may be signifcant, any signifcance does not necessarily equate to the level of materiality of disclosures
required under U.S. federal securities laws. This report is not intended to, nor can it be relied on, to create legal relations, rights or obligations.
This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to, among other things, our goals, commitments, targets, aspirations, approaches, and objectives, and are based on the current
beliefs and expectations of JPMorgan Chase’s management and are subject to signifcant risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond JPMorgan Chase’s control. Expected results or actions may difer from the anticipated goals, approaches, and targets set forth in the for-
ward-looking statements. Factors that could cause JPMorgan Chase’s actual results to difer materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include the necessity of technological advancements, the evolution of consumer behavior, the need for thoughtful cli-
mate polices, the potential impact of legal and regulatory obligations, and the challenge of balancing our commitment to short-term targets with the need to facilitate an orderly and just transition and energy security. Additional factors can be found in JPMorgan Chase’s Annual
Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K fled with the SEC. Those reports are available on JPMorgan Chase’s website (https://jpmorganchaseco.gcs-web.com/ir/sec-other-flings/overview) and on the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission’s website (https://www.sec.gov/). JPMorgan Chase does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements.
This report does not include all applicable terms or issues and is not intended as an ofer or solicitation for the purchase or sale of any fnancial instrument or as an ofcial confrmation of any transaction or a recommendation for any investment product or strategy. Any and all
transactions (including potential transactions) presented herein are for illustration purposes only. This material does not and should not be deemed to constitute an advertisement or marketing of the Firm’s products and/or services or an advertisement to the public.
No reports, documents or websites that are cited or referred to in this document shall be deemed to form part of this report. Information contained in this report has been obtained from sources, including those publicly available, believed to be reliable, but no representation or
warranty is made by JPMorgan Chase as to the quality, completeness, accuracy, ftness for a particular purpose or non-infringement of such information. Sources of third-party information referred to herein retain all rights with respect to such data and use of such data by
JPMorgan Chase herein shall not be deemed to grant a license to any third party. The use of any third-party trademarks or brand names is for informational purposes only and does not imply an endorsement by JPMorgan Chase or that such trademark owner has authorized
JPMorgan Chase to promote its products or services.
