Healthy
Lives
Mission
2023 Report
Table of
contents
2
Introduction
Message Nurture healthy people Maintain healthy practice
We believe that nurturing healthy people begins with our teams and the We promote our culture of integrity, ethics, and transparency to build
from our CEO,
actions we take every day to foster an inclusive, equitable, and diverse trust and create meaningful, long-term value. Our Values guide how we
Thibaut Mongon workplace culture. Bringing together different points of view helps us to treat our people, innovate, conduct business, and design products. Our
better understand the needs of our consumers and leads to better ideas, Code of Conduct inspires us to adhere to the highest ethical standards
On behalf of the Kenvue Leadership solutions, and, ultimately, outcomes. Our brands are also committed in everything we do.
Team and the approximately 22,000 to innovation that reflects the diversity of our consumers and their
We are proud of our progress and focused on advancing our Healthy
Kenvuers around the world, I am proud needs – some examples include Neutrogena® Purescreen+™ Mineral
Lives Mission. Already in 2024, our approximately 22,000 Kenvuers are
to share our inaugural Healthy Lives UV Tint Face Liquid Sunscreen and Johnson’s® Blackinho Poderoso
channeling the momentum built last year and using their talent,
Mission Report. for children’s curly hair, both created to address the specific needs
passion, and resources to continue building lasting positive change for
of diverse consumers. Kenvue Cares, our social impact platform, is
At Kenvue, we realize the extraordinary people, communities, and the planet we call home.
committed to creating meaningful, long-term value for our communities
power of everyday care. We recognize
through volunteerism, humanitarian aid, and brand purpose programs. Many thanks to our team members, investors, consumers, customers, and
that human health is inseparably
suppliers for your support and commitment to our shared aspirations.
linked to environmental health and
Enrich a healthy planet
our commitment to everyday care We Are Kenvue.
Aligned with our understanding of the interconnectedness of human
extends to the planet we call home.
and environmental health, we are committed to enriching a healthy
As we established Kenvue as an
planet by advancing sustainability across our operations – from
independent company, we also established our Healthy Lives Mission—
product and packaging design to material sourcing, manufacturing, and
our Environmental, Social and Governance strategy. Every day, we
transportation. We have committed to setting greenhouse gas (GHG)
deploy our science, operations, team members and beloved brands to
emission reduction targets in line with the Science Based Targets
Thibaut Mongon
advance our Healthy Lives Mission focused on nurturing healthy people,
initiative (SBTi) Net-Zero Standard and are taking action to decarbonize
Chief Executive Officer
enriching a healthy planet and maintaining healthy practice.
our operations and value chain.
In this inaugural Healthy Lives Mission Report, we outline our
We are also making progress on reducing our use of virgin plastic in
management of our Company’s most significant impacts, risks,
product packaging by designing for the circular economy with new
and opportunities within our three pillars; communicate our goals
refillable formats, including Neutrogena® Hydro Boost refill pods, and
and commitments to hold ourselves accountable for demonstrating
packaging that is recycling ready, such as Aveeno® bottles made with
progress; and share how we put everyday care into action in 2023 to
50% recycled plastic and pumps that can be recycled in many markets.
advance the well-being of both people and our planet.
3
Introduction
Our Purpose Our Values
Realize the extraordinary
power of everyday care
We put people first We care fiercely
We stand for what’s right, even when it’s We’re driven to win for those we serve; and
hard. Our work impacts consumers and when we care fiercely for them and one
colleagues, communities, and generations, another, we can deliver the best possible care.
in daily rituals and in the moments that
Together, we create an inclusive place where
matter most.
we can bring our whole selves. Our committed
This incredible responsibility means every collaboration fuels our relentless external
decision and action we take is guided by competitive drive—because the stronger
integrity and quality. Because when we our bonds are, the stronger our brands and
put people first, performance will follow. Company are, too.
We earn trust with science We solve with courage
From best practices to best-in-class products, We see and solve for unheard needs.
we learn, test, partner, and optimize. Then With empathy, we unearth extraordinary
we move fast to bring real solutions into breakthroughs in everyday care, and with
communities, homes and hands. courage and conviction, we bring them to life.
With leading science and knowledge, we We boldly pursue more innovative ways of
educate and empower—so that when people working, pioneer solutions that improve lives,
need us, they can rely on our brands. We’ve and create products that create categories—
earned their trust for more than a century, then improve them again and again.
and we work diligently to earn it every day.
4
Introduction
About Kenvue Our company: year at a glance
With $15.4 billion in net sales in fiscal year 2023, which covered the period
of January 2 through December 31, Kenvue is the world’s largest pure-play Our business Our workforce
consumer health company by revenue and holds a unique position at the
intersection of healthcare and consumer goods. By combining the power of
135+ $15.4B1 >165 ~1.2B ~22,000 50%
science with meaningful human insights and a digital-first capabilities, we
Women
empower consumers to live healthier lives every day. Year history Net sales Countries where Consumers Employees2
we have a presence 53%
Formerly operating as the Consumer Health segment of Johnson &
Of managers and above3 are women
Johnson, on May 4, 2023, we began trading on the New York Stock $4.6B $6.5B Sales by region1
Exchange under the ticker symbol “KVUE” in connection with our initial 36%
Essential Health Self Care
public offering (IPO). Our name Kenvue (pronounced ken·view) is inspired
Of our U.S. managers and above3
22%
by two powerful ideas: “ken,” meaning “knowledge,” an English word are ethnically diverse4
49%
primarily used in Scotland, and “vue,” referencing insight. On August 23, EMEA
NA
2023, we completed our separation from Johnson & Johnson, marking our 27
Net sales 20%
first day as a fully independent, publicly traded company. by segment1 Owned and operated
APAC
manufacturing sites5
9%
We seek to deliver sustainable profitable growth through delivering
science-backed innovative products, solutions and experiences centered LATAM 85%
around consumer health. With a presence in more than 165 countries
$4.4B Employee inclusion
worldwide and an over 135-year legacy, we are a global leader at the index score6
Skin Health & Beauty
intersection of healthcare and consumer goods.
We operate our business through three reportable business segments:
15 Priority brands
1)Self Care, 2) Skin Health & Beauty, and 3) Essential Health. Our
Our environmental & social performance
differentiated portfolio comprises a range of products that include Self Care Skin Health & Beauty Essential Health
iconic brands and widely recognized household names such as Tylenol®,
Neutrogena®, Listerine®, Johnson’s®, BAND-AID® Brand Adhesive
$31.7 MM 26%
Bandages, Aveeno®, Zyrtec®, and Nicorette®. This broad portfolio allows
Reduction in scope 1+2 GHG
In humanitarian aid7
us to provide holistic consumer health solutions to our consumers across emissions8,9,10 versus baseline (2020)
a spectrum of product categories and hold leading positions across
21%
numerous large and attractive categories globally. These comprehensive
Reduction in virgin plastic11
solutions are backed by science and several of our brands have a long versus baseline year (2020)
history of recommendations by healthcare professionals, which further
94%
reinforces our consumers’ confidence in our brands.
Of our paper and wood fiber
certified12 or verified recycled13
Our brand portfolio has global scale across four regions—1) North America
65%
(NA), 2) Asia Pacific (APAC), 3) Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA),
and 4) Latin America (LATAM)—and is well balanced geographically with Of our electricity is from
renewable sources8,14,15
approximately half of our net sales generated outside North America in 2023.
5
Introduction
About this report our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Amended and Our full Board is ultimately responsible for oversight of our ESG
Restated Bylaws, and Committee charters, provide a holistic framework impacts, risks, and opportunities and ensuring our ESG priorities and
This 2023 Healthy Lives Mission Report outlines our ESG strategy, for the Board’s oversight and corporate governance practices. commitments are integrated into our long-term strategy. On an annual
goals, and commitments and details our progress in 2023 related to key The Board oversees management and provides advice, counsel and basis, the full Board receives an in-depth update on our Company’s ESG
ESG and sustainability topics. The data in this report, unless otherwise oversight on the development and execution of our corporate strategies. strategy, which we call our Healthy Lives Mission (HLM). After each
indicated, relates to the calendar year ending December 31, 2023, and Our Board is composed of global leaders from various fields and regularly scheduled Committee meeting, the Committees report to the
includes information on Kenvue-owned and/or -operated industries, with a diverse range of experience, skills, and perspectives full Board with updates on their areas of designated ESG oversight
manufacturing facilities, research and development centers, and that provide the collective expertise, diversity, and independence responsibilities, which are further outlined under “Board Committee
administrative sites globally, and the products and brands we market. necessary for sound governance. Oversight of ESG & Sustainability Matters.”
Throughout the report, we guide readers to additional sources of
The Board has 11 members, seven of whom are independent under the Additionally, we have established a cross-functional ESG Steering
information on our corporate website and others. Website references
rules of the New York Stock Exchange, including an independent chair of Committee (ESG Steer Co.), which is composed of functional subject
are provided for convenience only. The content on the referenced
the board. The Board has three key committees: the Audit Committee, matter experts and leaders across our organization that meet regularly
websites is not incorporated into this report, nor does it constitute a
Compensation & Human Capital Committee, and Nominating, to help us effectively execute our ESG priorities. The ESG Steer Co.
part of this report, and we assume no liability for any third-party
Governance & Sustainability Committee. Written charters for these tracks our key initiatives and reports our progress quarterly to the
content contained on the referenced websites. Our reporting is guided
Committees, together with corporate governance and organizational Kenvue Leadership Team. Twice per year, we share our progress with the
by key voluntary sustainability reporting frameworks including the
documents, are available on kenvue.com. Nominating, Governance, & Sustainability Committee. Read more about
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards,
the ESG Steer Co. in “Operationalizing the Kenvue ESG strategy” below.
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Household and
Personal Products Standard, and the Task Force on Climate-Related
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. Independent third- Kenvue Board of Directors
party limited assurance was conducted by Environmental Resources
· Oversees our ESG impacts, risks, and opportunities and ensures our ESG priorities and commitments are integrated into our Company’s long-term strategy
Management (ERM) Certification Verification Services (CVS) for
· Annually receives in-depth update on the Company’s HLM
certain data included in this report and can be found on kenvue.com. · Receives a report from each Committee with updates on such Committee’s areas of designed ESG oversight responsibilities, as outlined below, after each regularly
scheduled Committee meeting
This report should be read in conjunction with our most recent Annual
Report on Form 10-K, our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Board Committee Oversight of ESG & Sustainability Matters
and other filings made with the SEC.
Audit Committee Compensation & Human Capital Committee Nominating, Governance &
Sustainability Committee
· Oversees financial management, accounting, · Reviews key talent metrics for our overall
and reporting processes and practices, including workforce, including metrics related to Diversity, · Reviews the implementation and effectiveness
with respect to ESG-related disclosures in our Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) of policies and programs in the area of
ESG & sustainability
Company’s periodic filings with the SEC sustainability, including environmental strategy
· Oversees compensation of non-employee directors
· Oversees the quality and adequacy of internal and executive officers · Reviews the progress of sustainability goals and
governance
accounting controls and procedures objectives, trends in enforcement and industry
· Oversees the design and management of various
practices, and discusses any significant reports
· Discusses with management the processes used pension, long-term incentive, savings, health, and
or public statements relating to sustainability or
to assess and manage exposure to financial risk benefit plans that cover Kenvuers
Board of Directors Oversight of ESG ESG matters, including this report
and monitoring risks related to tax and treasury
Our Board of Directors (Board) is deeply committed to strong corporate · Oversees compliance with applicable laws,
regulations, and Kenvue policies and risk
governance and robust independent oversight, which it believes are
management programs related to product
essential to driving sustained shareholder value. To that end, our Board safety, product quality, environmental
regulations, privacy, and cybersecurity
has adopted our Principles of Corporate Governance that, together with
6
Healthy Lives Mission
Healthy Lives Mission: Healthy planet goals
& commitments
everyday care in action
Climate change
At Kenvue, our impact is made through moments of care—the daily
· Kenvue commits to reduce absolute scope
care we offer consumers through our portfolio of iconic brands and
1 and 2 GHG emissions8,9,10 42% by 203017
the actions we take to protect our environment. In October 2023, we from a 2020 base year
· Kenvue commits that 75% of its suppliers
launched an update of our HLM which includes public ESG goals
by emissions covering purchased goods and
and commitments intended to position our brands as healthy choices
services and upstream transportation and
for both people and the planet and to better manage ESG-related distribution will have science-based targets
by 202817
impacts, risks, and opportunities. Our HLM is our call for everyday care
· Set long-term net zero emission targets,
in action and is supported by three pillars: nurture Healthy People,
informed by the SBTi Net Zero Standard18
enrich a Healthy Planet, and maintain Healthy Practice. Within these
· 100% renewable electricity14 for our
Healthy people goals operations8 by 203015,17 Healthy practice goals
three pillars, we are focused on nine priority areas for which we have
& commitments & commitments
established goals and commitments to hold ourselves accountable and
Plastics
demonstrate progress.
Sustainable product innovation
Diversity, equity & inclusion
· 100% recyclable19 or refillable20 packaging21
75% of new product development,26 using
Through everyday care in action—amplified by ~22,000 caring Kenvuers · Strengthen the representation of women at by 202517
scientific principles,27 will have an improved
all management levels3 to reflect the markets
and backed by the resources of a global company—we aim to build lasting · 25% reduction of virgin plastic11 in packaging21
environmental performance28 by 203017
in which we operate
by 202517 from a 2020 base year
positive change for people, communities, and the planet we call home.
· Strengthen ethnic representation4 within
· 50% reduction of virgin plastic11 in packaging21
our U.S. workforce at all management levels3 by 203017 from a 2020 base year Product transparency
to reflect the markets in which we operate
Provide greater product transparency,
Our Healthy Lives Mission Priorities · Pay all Kenvuers16 equitably based on beginning with our ingredients
Biodiversity, land & forest
role, experience, market competitiveness
and performance · Kenvue is committed to zero deforestation
and to ensuring the paper-based packaging
· Achieve a company-wide Inclusion Index
we purchase directly originates from low-
Score6 in the top quartile
risk sources.22 Specifically, we aim to achieve
100% certified12 or verified recycled13 paper
and wood fiber packaging23 by 202517
Nurture Enrich a Maintain
Public health
healthy people healthy planet healthy practice · Maintain 100% Roundtable on Sustainable
· Advance community health and well-being
Palm Oil (RSPO) certification for the
· Diversity, equity · Climate change · Sustainable product through a culture of caring and encouraging
palm-based ingredients we purchase24
& inclusion · Plastics innovation employee volunteer service
through a combination of RSPO certified
· Workforce health, · Biodiversity, · Product transparency · Help restore the dignity of everyday care for physical supply chains and RSPO Book &
safety & well-being land & forest · Human rights vulnerable and displaced people around the world Claim credits25
· Public health · Create positive environmental and social · Purchase24 at least 75% of our volumes
impacts through brand purpose programs led from RSPO physical supply chains25 by 202517
by Kenvue’s top brands and 100% by 203017
7
Healthy Lives Mission
Operationalizing the Functional subject matter experts further support project execution
by partnering with the Global ESG & Sustainability team to share
Kenvue ESG strategy
best practices across brands and sites, collecting data, and reporting
agreed-upon metrics.
To develop our ESG strategy and to ensure its successful
operationalization, the ESG Steer Co., led by the Global Head of ESG & Aligned with best practices in executional excellence, the ESG Steer
Sustainability, was established in April 2023 in anticipation of our IPO. Co. established strategic alignment with the Board and the Kenvue
The committee convened monthly in 2023 to develop the ESG strategy, Leadership Team (KLT) on our Company’s ESG priorities, ensured role
goals, and commitments. Beginning in 2024, the cross-functional group clarity and accountability, and developed performance management
meets quarterly to support the operationalization of the HLM program. systems that support our commitment to continuous improvement.
To ensure broad organizational alignment, our HLM commitments are
The ESG Steering Committee:
embedded in our Company’s objectives and key results (OKRs).
· Identifies and manages inter-dependencies across workstreams.
· Ensures resources are allocated and committed to advance projects.
Determining ESG
· Contributes to project deliverables by providing guidance
and information.
double materiality
· Enables rapid and effective escalation.
· Supports workstream leads and keeps current on projects
As a newly established independent company, Kenvue has the unique
and initiatives.
opportunity to begin our reporting journey aligned with evolving
· Serves as subject matter experts for annual HLM Report content review.
stakeholder expectations. Kenvue finalized an enterprise-wide
· Advocates for and implements changes necessary to achieve HLM double materiality assessment (DMA), aligned with the Corporate
goals and commitments.
Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD) and the draft European
Working groups assigned to each of our Healthy People, Healthy Planet, Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS), in 2023. The assessment
and Healthy Practice pillars are driven by a pillar lead and project manager. leveraged input parameters including internal and external stakeholder
engagement, as well as primary and secondary research and
Pillar leads strive to operationalize our strategy by:
documentation, to identify ESG impacts, risks, and opportunities
· Developing detailed roadmaps for each material topic, tracking
(IROs) associated with key sustainability topics. Kenvue HLM Reports
resource investment, and ensuring availability and accuracy of data.
will align with CSRD beginning in 2025.
· Reviewing topic performance scorecards and managing
inter-dependencies across workstreams. The DMA deemed nine topics to be material from an impact materiality
· Prioritizing projects to ensure that proper resources are allocated to perspective, and an overlapping four topics from a financial risk/
achieve goals.
opportunity materiality perspective. These topics informed our ESG
· Identifying roadblocks, technology, data, or capability gaps that need reporting, strategy and risk assessment. To read more about the
to be addressed to advance progress.
Kenvue double materiality assessment, visit kenvue.com.
· Developing and sharing best practice approaches across brands,
regions, and sites.
8
Healthy Lives Mission
In this report, our use of the terms “material,” “materiality,” and other
Double materiality assessment process overview
similar terms is consistent with that of GRI, SASB, TCFD, and other
Kenvue followed the methodology outlined below to complete a double materiality assessment in alignment with CSRD.
standards referenced in this report, or refers to topics that reflect our
significant ESG impacts or that substantially influence the assessments
01 Discovery 02 Stakeholder 03 Topic List 04 Impact 05 Financial 06 Prioritization 07 Assurance
Input & Source Finalization Materiality Materiality & Validation Documentation and decisions of a diverse set of stakeholders. We are not using these
Evaluation Assessment Assessment
terms as they are used under the securities or other laws of the United
Inputs · Internal & · Internal & · Initial list · Evidence · Evidence of risks · Materiality · Inputs, outputs, States or as these terms are used in the context of financial statements
external written external of ESG topics of impacts & opportunities thresholds objectives,
and financial reporting.
source review interviews · Stakeholder from Phase 2 from Phase 2 · Full scored processes, and
· Peer benchmark · Value chain input from · Impact · Enterprise Risk IRO register assumptions
impact mapping Phase 2 materiality Management for Phases 1-6
workshop assessment Financial
· Internal & methodology materiality
Kenvue’s Material from a Material from an
external surveys · IRO workshops assessment
material topics financial perspective impact perspective
· Written methodology
source review · IRO workshops
Biodiversity,
land & forests
Objective Understand Gather insights Refine and finalize Identify, assess, Identify, assess, Prioritize topics and Develop Climate change
Kenvue’s current from internal the list of ESG and quantify and quantify IROs to determine documentation
state and and affected topics based Kenvue’s actual sustainability- which are most to describe the
Diversity, equity
external context to external on stakeholder or potential, related risks and material from both DMA process
& inclusion
build an initial list of stakeholders to feedback from positive or opportunities that a financial and for assurance
potentially material gather evidence of Phase 2. negative impacts have or may have impact materiality purposes.
topics relevant to actual and potential on people and financial effects perspective. Human &
Kenvue’s business IROs across the the environment. on Kenvue. Validate results labor rights
and sustainability value chain. with Kenvue leaders.
context.
Plastics
Product
Outputs Initial list of Evidence of IROs Final list of Scored register Scored register Prioritized and Process transparency
ESG topics ESG topics of impacts of risks & validated IROs documentation
opportunities material from both
Public health
a financial and
impact materiality
perspective
Sustainable product
innovation
Workforce health,
safety & well-being
9
Nurture
healthy
people
We aim to advance the well-being of the
communities in which we operate and
equip them with innovative products and
actionable information to make healthier
decisions every day.
Our work is to put the power of everyday care into the hands of consumers
around the world. We do this by raising the standard of personal care and tackling
preventable diseases through our products and resources, and empowering people with
the tools to make healthier choices for themselves, their loved ones, and the planet.
We start with our team and take action every day to foster an inclusive, equitable,
and diverse workplace culture and create a sense of belonging for all. Nurturing
healthy people goes beyond our products and the moments of everyday care.
Throughout the world, our teams use their talent, passion, and resources to create
meaningful impact in their communities through volunteer service and humanitarian
aid to help restore the dignity of everyday care.
10
Nurture healthy people
Diversity, equity & inclusion A workforce that reflects our world
Healthy people goals & commitments
We champion diversity and take meaningful actions so that our
Kenvue is a global company operating in more than 165 countries
workforce is representative of the markets in which we operate, with
with ~22,000 diverse and dedicated team members who contribute
a focus on strengthening the representation of women globally and Diversity, equity & inclusion
to Our Purpose every day. We believe that our commitment to DEI
diverse ethnicities in the United States at all management levels. We · Strengthen the representation of women at all management levels3 to reflect
drives collaboration and strengthens our ability to compete effectively. the markets in which we operate
believe in the tremendous business and societal value of promoting a
Recognizing the importance of innovation in our industry to meet the · Strengthen ethnic representation4 within our U.S. workforce at all management
richly diverse workforce, and our talent practices seek to provide equal
levels3 to reflect the markets in which we operate
evolving needs of our consumers, we remain focused on having the right
opportunities for development and growth.
· Pay all Kenvuers16 equitably based on role, experience, market competitiveness,
capabilities and a workforce that is reflective of the customers and
and performance
consumers we serve.
· Achieve a company-wide Inclusion Index Score6 in the top quartile
As of December 31, 2023, our global workforce was approximately 50%
male and 50% female, and 36% of our U.S. employees identified as
racial or ethnic minorities. The Kenvue Leadership Team is globally Talent recruitment and retention
diverse, currently represented by nine different nationalities, and 54% Our Global Talent Access team applies the best inclusive hiring
of the Kenvue Leadership Team are women. practices to ensure both diversity of slates and diversity of interview
panels. In 2023, we empowered the Talent Access Team with both tools
and resources to help us identify, attract, hire, and onboard the most
Highlights on progress
qualified talent pool that also reflects the markets in which we operate.
Goals & commitments This year, our DEI team will partner with the Talent Access Team to build
a diverse talent pool for current and future openings at entry to mid-
Manager Director Vice President
Total
level level level and above level manager roles and business-critical senior leader roles.
Global workforce
representation 50% 54% 50% 46% In 2023, we launched a referral campaign within Kenvue to attract,
of women
identify, assess, and hire top talent. We provided new Kenvuers with a
U.S. workforce
differentiated and inclusive onboarding experience and an overview of
representation of
36% 36% 36% 34%
racial or ethnic the employee resource groups we call the Kenvuer Impact Network.
minorities4
We offer compensation and benefit programs designed to reward and
recognize superior performance and support our growth and talent
We believe that bringing diverse backgrounds and perspectives
strategies. These programs are aligned with company and individual
together helps us drive innovation and deliver solutions that exceed
performance to attract, develop, and retain top talent in a highly
consumer expectations and create long-term value. Our Code of
competitive environment.
Conduct specifically articulates our responsibility to create an inclusive
We also offer competitive employee benefits packages to meet the
environment and to respect the dignity and diversity of all people.
needs of our diverse and global workforce, which vary by country and
Our DEI approach is based on three strategic pillars: Workforce,
typically include retirement savings plans, core and supplemental life
Workplace, and Marketplace. These pillars are designed to accelerate
insurance, medical and dental insurance, health savings accounts,
how we provide health and well-being solutions to Kenvuers, customers,
well-being reimbursement programs, adoption assistance, fertility
and consumers in the markets in which we operate.
benefits, and parental leave.
11
Nurture healthy people
Breaking down barriers and building equity leaders with tools, resources, and insights to assess their leadership
We strive to cultivate an environment where innovation and gender effectiveness and deploy a people leadership learning series designed to
equality flourish. With the goal of encouraging more women to elevate the leadership capabilities of our people leaders to help unleash
pursue their dreams of a career in manufacturing and to ensure they performance and impact.
have the opportunity and are appropriately rewarded, the Women in
Ongoing listening is key to creating a Kenvue workplace where people
Manufacturing (WiM) program was piloted in Brazil at Kenvue Sao Jose
can learn, grow, and be their authentic selves. We regularly conduct
Campos manufacturing plant in 2023. With programmatic elements
surveys that gauge employee sentiment in areas like strategic
that include job rotations, self-knowledge and learning journeys,
alignment, execution, inclusion, effectiveness of our people leaders, and
mentoring sessions, career purpose and executive presence workshops,
career development.
and technical trainings, ten women participated in the first year of
the pilot which was focused on program shaping and execution. Going To that end, we launched our first Engage Survey in September of 2023
forward, the WiM program will be operated through Women at Kenvue, to gain more insights on employee engagement, inclusion, people leader
which is part of the Kenvuer Impact Network. In 2024, the program effectiveness, and how we are living our Kenvue Values. The survey was
will be expanded to include Kenvue manufacturing and operations in available in 17 languages, and all regular, full-time team members who
Argentina and Colombia with a focus on training women in key have been at Kenvue more than 90 days were invited to participate.
positions including forklift operator, electrician, and maintenance, More than 18,800 Kenvuers completed the survey, a 92% global
among others. response rate.
To date, Kenvue has successfully filled manufacturing and maintenance
81%
of Kenvuers view working at Kenvue favorably
positions with women from the group. The WiM program reinforces our
company’s ongoing commitment to building an inclusive and equitable
85%
of Kenvuers are favorable on the Inclusion Index
work environment, celebrating diversity, and leveraging the unique
contributions of each employee.
Employee engagement
84%
of Kenvuers feel supported by their people leaders
We believe that an engaged workforce is more likely to deliver higher
A workplace where everyone belongs
levels of performance and further differentiates us in the marketplace.
We promote an open, inclusive, and respectful culture that allows each The results speak to the progress we are making in building a culture
We believe that open and honest communication among all team
Kenvuer to maximize their contributions to our work, our Company, and where team members feel motivated, included, and proud to be at
members creates a collaborative and inclusive work environment.
the communities in which we operate. Kenvue. Three key measured areas aligned to our 2023 objectives:
In 2023, we defined clear expectations for our people leaders through engagement (the level of enthusiasm and dedication we feel towards
The Kenvue Promise
our Kenvue Promise and embedded these expected behaviors in Kenvue), inclusion (a strong sense of belonging at Kenvue), and people
Our employee value proposition, the Kenvue Promise, answers why
our people leader OKRs. We also equipped people leaders with a leader effectiveness (developing trust and demonstrating respect)—all
team members want to work here and why they want to stay here. Four
High Performing and Highly Engaged Teams toolkit to support them of which are key drivers of business impact and scored higher than the
distinct elements make it unique to Kenvue: Meaning, Belonging,
in building high-performing and highly engaged teams. Last year, industry average on the majority of benchmarked questions. Scores
Growth, and Rewards. And it’s very simple. We want all Kenvuers: we established the foundation for our people leader learning and on key items like feeling like they belong at Kenvue, being treated with
· To find meaning in their work and how they can impact Our Purpose. development curriculum, which includes core DEI content (empathy, respect at work, and trusting their people leader put us in the top
· To feel part of Kenvue and that they belong here. trust, cultural competency, psychological safety) and prepares our decile of the industry on these items.
· To feel that the work they do and the people they get to work with people leaders to transition to our new performance philosophy,
allow them to grow and contribute to our Company’s growth. As known as Performance at Kenvue. Going forward, we will equip people
Kenvue grows, we all grow, and this is the best place to do that.
· To be rewarded for their business impact.
12
Nurture healthy people
A commitment to pay equity Kenvuer Impact Network Global Kenvuer Impact Networks
As part of our commitment to pay all Kenvuers fair and equitable Our Kenvuer Impact Network consists of 11 voluntary, employee-led
compensation, we diligently monitor our compensation practices. resource groups plus five Regional Impact Networks designed to foster an
We reward team members based on both their individual and overall inclusive workplace, enhance engagement, and bring together colleagues
business performance, which promotes outstanding performance across the global organization. The Kenvuer Impact Network organizes
and contributions by our people. We track pay reporting and pay learning and development opportunities that elevate important issues and
transparency requirements around the world and ensure that we are encourage open, honest conversations. They also inspire and facilitate
complying with pay fairness and transparency regulations in every positive change in our company culture and operations. Aligned with our
location in which we operate. DEI strategic pillars, the Kenvuer Impact Network:
· Provides access to global talent through partnerships with diverse
organizations, a referral program, and recruitment efforts that help
build a workforce that represents the markets in which we operate
and the communities in which we live.
· Fosters and nurtures belonging by playing an active role in supporting
the onboarding of new hires, establishing mentorships, and creating
engaging events that recognize and celebrate the diversity of our
organization throughout the year.
· Represents the diverse communities we serve by providing our brands
with insights to innovate and bring our brands closer to consumer needs.
· Provides leadership and development opportunities for Kenvuers.
Black at Kenvue
Brazil’s Black Awareness Month celebrates Afro-Brazilian culture, the
Regional Kenvuer Impact Networks
fight against racism, and the achievements of the Black community. The
message of 2023 for Black at Kenvue Brazil was “Blackness as Power
and Intersectionality.” The organization celebrated the Black community
throughout the month by recognizing Blackness as not a single
experience, but an intersection of identities, including race, gender,
sexual orientation, and social class.
13
Nurture healthy people
Listerine®, Aveeno®, Tylenol® and Zyrtec®. CIIM™ scores are measures
of aggregate Cultural Relevance Attribute performance and are
measured on a scale of 0 to 200, with 0 being offensive/not relevant, 100
being the point of neutrality/indifference, and 200 being highly culturally
relevant. Nearly all the advertising tested scored in the first quartile
(Best-In-Culture) or second quartile (Good Cultural Relevancy) across
all audience segments for cultural relevance and DEI copy testing.
CIIM™ is a new metric that identifies the impact and effectiveness
of cultural insights in ads and programming and how these have
the potential to lift brands' trust, loyalty, and sales. The teams are
evaluating how to institutionalize AIMM CIIM™ testing within our media
capabilities going forward.
Neutrogena® Purescreen+™ Mineral UV Tint Face Liquid Sunscreen
Most mineral sunscreens have a major problem: they leave behind a white
cast on many skin tones. The white cast is caused by the titanium dioxide
and zinc oxide used in mineral sunscreens, which physically block
dangerous sun rays before they have a chance to touch your skin. And
it’s even more noticeable on darker skin tones. When it comes to sun
protection, dark skin consumers' most common complaint is that the
mineral-based sunscreen leaves their skin looking chalky.
Knowing that the American Academy of Dermatology warns that people
A marketplace that serves all people
with dark skin tones, of any race or ethnicity, are still susceptible to sun
Our brands are committed to developing products, experiences, and
damage such as sunburn, hyperpigmentation, skin cancer, and premature
innovations that reflect the diversity of our global consumers and
aging, Kenvue researchers set out to create a mineral sunscreen that
their health and well-being needs. Our global Consumer Insights
appeared invisible on all skin tones. Finding a solution took a diverse
organization has expanded research into race and ethnicity, deepened
14-person group of Kenvue researchers of various ethnicities and skin tones.
our understanding of unconscious bias through supplemental training,
and advanced our understanding of inclusive, human-centered design The Neutrogena® Purescreen+™ Mineral UV Tint Face Liquid Sunscreen
and communications through third-party collaborations. In December, range was designed to be inclusive of all skin tones with four flexible
Kenvue collaborated with the Alliance for Inclusive and Multicultural shades. The broad-spectrum SPF 30 helps protect against signs
Marketing (AIMM) to implement Cultural Insights Impact Measure™ (CIIM) of sun-induced skin aging including: wrinkles, dark spots, fine lines,
testing in the U.S. across eight ads of our top brands: Neutrogena®, and discoloration.
14
Nurture healthy people
Aveeno® SkinVisibility SkinVisibility includes a dedicated one-stop digital hub with resources
Aveeno® is continuing its program, SkinVisibility, to address the for people of color which includes:
underdiagnosis, care, and treatment of sensitive skin conditions on
· A quiz to help people with eczema identify telltale symptoms of eczema.
skin of color. Originally launched during Eczema Awareness Month in
· A community feedback loop driven by personal testimonials on the
2021, the campaign seeks to drive equitable access to educational tools,
road to identifying and treating eczema.
resources, and products for eczema diagnosis and care on skin of color.
· A holistic lifestyle guide for prevention & management.
Eczema is the second most frequent skin disease in skin of color and · Information on the power of oats in an eczema regimen, highlighting
the Aveeno® Eczema Therapy product portfolio.
is one of the most common skin disorders seen in infants and children
overall. Often, however, eczema can be misdiagnosed or improperly treated When launched, the SkinVisibility program sought to help 100,000
in skin of color, as it presents differently in skin tones with more melanin. Eczema Warriors, those who are battling the skin condition, and each
year we expand upon our mission. In 2023, the Aveeno® program
brought together a roster of dermatologists, skin health advocates,
and celebrities to drive conversation around eczema’s disproportionate
impact on the Black community. The program also helped 200,000
Black women and women of color have access to culturally sensitive
healthcare providers and receive resources on treating eczema-
prone skin. In 2023, the program has achieved 300+ million media
impressions, 1.2 million social media impressions and the Eczema
Equality video has reached more than 1.1 million viewers.
Johnson's® Blackinho Poderoso
Before launching Johnson’s® Blackinho Poderoso line in Brazil in 2023,
the team conducted research to understand the meaning of care and
the relationship between Black children’s hair and self-esteem. The
research revealed that 87% of caregivers interviewed want their child
to take pride in their natural hair, and 85% affirm that childhood is a
crucial time for learning to love their hair and themselves.
When asked, 81% of respondents agreed that hair is a fundamental part
of a child's beauty and identity, and they understand that caring for the
hair is a way to value their Blackness.
The result was the development of Johnson’s® Blackinho Poderoso
line—a complete and exclusive line for curly hair, enriched with coconut
oil, offering 10 benefits including cleansing, detangling, hydrating,
treating, and defining the hair. The new Blackinho Poderoso line is
already available throughout Brazil.
15
Nurture healthy people
Public health increasingly volatile and climate-impacted world and is rooted in
Healthy people goals & commitments
restoring the dignity of everyday care for those affected by disaster.
Nurturing healthy people goes beyond our products and their role in This is part of how we live Our Purpose every day to take actions, both
moments of everyday care. Kenvue Cares, our social impact platform, is big and small, that add up to meaningful impact for people in the best
Public health
committed to creating meaningful, long-term value for our communities and worst of times.
· Advance community health and well-being through a culture of caring and
through volunteerism, humanitarian aid, and brand purpose programs. encouraging employee volunteer service
We supported various relief efforts throughout 2023 through monetary
Together, Kenvuers use their talent, passion, and resources to nurture · Help restore the dignity of everyday care for vulnerable and displaced
and in-kind product donations, including: people around the world
healthy people, enrich a healthy planet, and ultimately build positive
· Create positive environmental and social impacts through brand purpose
change for communities around the world.
Maui wildfire relief support
programs led by Kenvue's top brands
· Pledged $250,000 USD to Direct Relief, a non-profit organization
Caring for our communities
helping with care and recovery efforts following Maui wildfires.
Kenvue aims to create a culture of caring by developing a ritual of
· Working with Feeding America/Maui Foodbank and our retail
volunteerism where we can have the greatest impact as a global leader
customers, we mobilized the donation of personal care products and
in personal health and wellness.
over-the-counter (OTC) medicines.
Throughout the world, Kenvuers use their talent, time, passion, and
Earthquake survivor support in Turkey and Syria
resources to create meaningful impact in their communities through
· Worked with partners on the ground – Direct Relief, Bring Hope
volunteer service and humanitarian aid. As a part of this commitment
and the AHBAP Association – to ensure the shipments clear
and building on the many employee volunteer initiatives around the
customs and reach East Turkey for distribution.
world, we will launch the Kenvue Cares volunteer program across six
cities globally in 2024. We look forward to sharing more about our Earthquake survivor support in Morocco
Kenvue Cares pilot program rollout in our next report. · Donated $100,000 USD to the Moroccan Red Crescent to provide
help to support recovery efforts.
· Worked with our local distributor to empower nonprofit La Banque
Highlights on progress
Alimentaire to mobilize hygiene product donations.
Goals & commitments
Canada wildfire survivor support
Value7 of in-kind Value of cash
contributions contributions · Donated $50,000 CAD to the Canadian Red Cross 2023 Wildfire Fund.
· Worked with Food Banks Canada to mobilize the donation of personal
Help restore the dignity of
everyday care for vulnerable and $31.0 MM $0.7 MM care products.
displaced people around the world
Hygiene kits donation
· We made a $178,000 USD donation to Heart to Heart International, a
Our Purpose in action healthcare charitable organization, to develop 25,000 Kenvue Hygiene
In 2023, over 300 million people29 were displaced by geopolitical Kits, inclusive of products like body wash, shampoo, and hand soap to
be used in emergency and relief settings. The first shipment of these
or extreme weather events and needed humanitarian assistance
hygiene kits was sent to support relief work in Ukraine.
or protection. Our approach to humanitarian aid is informed by an
16
Nurture healthy people
Leading meaningful action through our brands Also in 2023, o.b.® initiated a fundraising campaign with the German
Our Purpose is clear. We believe when people can count on care every day, Children and Youth Foundation (DKJS), in which the equivalent of 10 cents
it not only makes them well, but it also makes them whole—empowering per o.b.® pack sold went to the foundation's "we empower girls" program
them to engage more fully with the people, experiences, and world around to help girls develop professional skills independent of gender stereotypes.
them. We expand our efforts by creating positive social and environmental The campaign generated approximately $70,000 for the program.
impact through brand-led purpose programs.
The Whoa Collection
More than 12% of the U.S. population identifies as Black, however
studies show that fewer than 4% of dentists30 identify as such. At the
same time, there is a major disparity in oral health care access, with
a reported 40% of Black adults in the U.S. living with untreated dental
cavities.31 By improving Black representation and increasing the
percentage of practicing Black dentists, we can positively impact the
understanding, behaviors, and access around oral healthcare.
To do so, Listerine® has partnered with cultural agency Compound
to introduce The Whoa Collection, a collaboration designed to spark
conversation and, most importantly, drive awareness and help close the
diversity gap in dentistry within the Black community.
The partners worked with prominent Black artists and engaged
impactful culture curators to develop a limited-edition bottle design,
an original musical track, digital and social content, and endowment.
Smokefree Families
Kenvue, the maker of Nicorette®, launched the Smokefree Families
Further program activity is planned for 2024 to continue to drive
program in the U.K. with the aim of significantly reducing the number
awareness and ensure new parents and their support networks make
of babies born into—and children living in—households where someone
successful quit attempts and ensure a better start to life for all children.
smokes. Kenvue commissioned new research and launched a policy
Breaking taboos and empowering girls report in the U.K. Parliament and has developed a series of tools and Nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) included in WHO essential
Founded in Germany, o.b.® has been empowering women with innovative materials to support healthcare professionals with their conversations medicine list and pre-qualification list
and reliable menstrual cycle solutions for more than 70 years. The brand with expectant parents, smokers with young children, and their support In July 2023, following successful submissions from Kenvue, Nicotine
collaborated with the German Soccer Association’s (DFB) national networks, on their quit journey. Resources are made available to replacement therapy (NRT) Lozenge and Oral Spray were added to the
women’s team for the #LetsTalkPeriods campaign. The DFB partnership healthcare professionals, including a "Quitting together for a World Health Organization Model List of Essential Medicines. Further, in
featured an entire sports team of advocates talking openly to demystify smokefree home" guide, which outlines six practical steps families can April 2024, Nicorette® gum and patch were the first NRT products
the menstrual cycle, bring gynecological insights, and create a taboo-free take to quit smoking, and a series of educational videos offering added to the WHO’s pre-qualification list which assesses the quality,
society around the topic. guidance on how to support partners to quit for good. safety, and efficacy of medicinal products.
17
Nurture healthy people
Workforce health, Workplace safety The HOP skills pathway pilot included 17 individuals from Quality, EHS,
We have robust processes to identify potential safety risks associated and Operations Excellence who participated in a six-month active learning
safety & well-being
with workplace activities, and to develop measures and implement program with an external thought leader. In 2024, EHS will expand the
controls to mitigate possible exposure to hazards. We support team program to 82 employees across Operations, Facilities, EHS, and Quality.
As a global leader in personal health and wellness, investing in Kenvuer
members with general safety training and have implemented specific
health, safety, and well-being is foundational to Our Purpose and Values.
programs for those working in potentially high-risk environments.
This foundation fosters a culture where all colleagues are dedicated to
In 2023, our Quality, Health & Safety (QHS) team stood up our
ensuring safe and effective products, and to keeping each other safe,
Environmental Health & Safety (EHS) policy, internal Management
healthy, and supported physically, emotionally, and financially.
System, and saw the integration of EHS and Occupational Health into
a single function. The team also oversaw 74 Government Authority
inspections with zero critical findings, assessed our Company’s
regulatory compliance with more than 29,000 global EHS laws, and
led ISO 45001, an internationally recognized framework for managing
occupational health and safety risks, group and individual site
certification for our Pomezia, Helsingborg, and Shanghai sites.
In November, QHS hosted our first global Safety & Quality Week
with educational and interactive events, including opportunities for
Kenvuers around the world to submit proposals for quality and safety
improvements and participate in interactive and online challenges.
Safety & Quality Week was an opportunity for every Kenvuer to learn
more about what it means to live into our Safety & Quality commitment,
the many ways we keep each other safe, and how we ensure high-quality
products reach our consumers. More information about our position on
Quality, Safety & Compliance can be found on kenvue.com.
Human & Organizational Performance (HOP)
In 2023, aligned with leading-practice companies, our EHS team piloted
a Human and Organizational Performance (HOP) training program,
which provides a new way of looking at work, people, and the systems in
Keeping Kenvuers safe
which people get work done. HOP is a risk-based operating philosophy
Kenvue is committed to providing a work environment free of fear,
which recognizes that error is part of the human condition and that
intimidation, harassment, bullying, and violence. Launched in 2023,
an organization’s processes and systems greatly influence employee
our Keeping Kenvue Safe video was designed to help all Kenvuers
actions and choices, and consequently, their likelihood of success.
achieve situational awareness in all environments, know when to
Kenvue aims to integrate HOP into operating practices to amplify
report threats, concerns, or incidents, and reduce risks associated
the excellence that already exists, optimize systems, and reduce
with workplace violence.
constraints, to create conditions for success.
18
Nurture healthy people
Employee well-being Our benefits reflect one of our core values: We Put People First. While
Our Kenvue team is taking a holistic approach to employee well-being. actual benefits offered might vary in markets around the world, below
Our focus on nurturing total well-being is critical to developing workplace are some of the benefits we offer Kenvuers in the U.S., as well as in
resilience and our programs are designed to address Kenvuers’ physical, many other work locations worldwide:
emotional, and financial well-being.
· Paid time off – we know it’s important to take time away from work,
· Physical well-being: Our belief that daily care rituals have a profound so team members can be the best version of themselves.
cumulative impact on well-being informs our approach to team
· Flexible working arrangements – we capture the energy of in-person
member physical health. We reinforce healthy behaviors, enable
interactions and remote flexibility to perform at our best for our
access to care, and provide a safe workplace for our colleagues.
customers and our consumers.
· Emotional well-being: We help team members feel engaged and build · Health insurance – benefits include coverage for doctor visits,
resiliency through specialized emotional support resources, empowering
mental health care, and more.
them to be productive and connected at home and at work.
· Retirement savings program – designed to help our team meet their
· Financial well-being: We empower team members with knowledge future financial goals, including a 401(k) matching program.
and resources to manage finances and achieve financial security.
· Mental well-being resources – team members have access to an
Employee Assistance Program (EAP) to help them strike the right blend
Compensation, benefits, & well-being
between work and life, locate a mental health counselor, and more.
We offer compensation and benefit programs designed to attract,
· Global exercise reimbursement – team members are eligible for
develop, and retain top talent. We reward and recognize superior
a quarterly reimbursement for participating in the health and
performance, support our growth and talent strategy, and closely align
well-being activities of their choice.
Kenvuer compensation with company and individual performance, as
· Adoption, fertility, and surrogacy benefits – we offer assistance
well as attract, develop, and retain top talent in a highly competitive
with fertility treatments, adoption, and surrogacy.
environment. We aim to provide base pay that is competitive for an
· Global parental leave – paid leave is available to all colleagues
employee’s position, skill level, experience, and geographic location. In
– maternal, paternal, adoptive, surrogacy-assisted, or foster parents
addition to base pay, we seek to motivate and reward team members at – and can be taken during the first year of a new child’s arrival into their
certain job levels with annual cash incentives and long-term incentive family.
awards. Additionally, we conduct periodic benchmarking analyses
Our benefits reflect one of our
to help ensure our compensation programs remain competitive and
regularly assess internal pay equity. core values: We put people first
As part of our holistic approach to employee well-being, our
comprehensive benefits package is designed to keep Kenvuers happy We work hard to create an environment where Kenvuers feel a strong
and healthy—physically, emotionally, and financially. sense of belonging, feel empowered to care for their health and well-
being and that of their families, feel like they can grow and have fulfilling
careers, and feel recognized and valued for their contributions.
19
Enrich a
healthy
planet
We strive to enrich a healthy planet
by making responsible and renewable
choices to help safeguard the earth’s
health and resources while managing
the impacts we create.
Human health is inseparably linked to environmental health and, as the world’s largest
pure-play consumer health company by revenue, our commitment to everyday care extends
to the planet we call home. We’re advancing sustainability across our operations – from
product and packaging design to material sourcing, manufacturing, and transportation.
We’re acting on climate change by reducing our GHG emissions and increasing our use of
renewable energy in our operations and across our value chain to support a healthier planet.
We follow a circular approach: looking at the impact our products have across our global
value chain throughout their lifecycle, and considering everything from where our materials
are sourced to their end of life.
Across our portfolio, we innovate with sustainability in mind: increased the use of recycled
and renewable plastic, designed packaging for recyclability, and introduced refillable
product options within our Essential Health and Skin Health & Beauty segments. We are
also equally committed to sustainable sourcing, from promoting zero deforestation to
prioritizing the use of materials that originate from trusted sources.
20
Enrich a healthy planet
Climate change
Healthy planet goals & commitments
Climate change is one of the most significant challenges of our time
and is transforming businesses around the world. While climate
Climate change
change poses significant risks it also poses new growth opportunities · Kenvue commits to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions8,9,10
42% by 203017 from a 2020 base year
for companies in the transition to a net-zero future. At Kenvue, we’re
· Kenvue commits that 75% of its suppliers by emissions covering purchased
taking action on climate change by reducing our GHG emissions and
goods and services and upstream transportation and distribution will have
increasing our use of renewable energy in our operations and across science-based targets by 202817
our value chain. At the end of 2023, we began an assessment of our · Set long-term net-zero emissions targets, informed by the SBTi
Net-Zero Standard18
potential and actual climate change-related impacts as well as the
· 100% renewable electricity14 for our operations8 by 203015,17
physical and transition risks and opportunities posed to us by climate
change, using the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
(TCFD) framework. We are working to develop strategies to manage the
impacts, risks, and opportunities identified and expect to publish our Science-based targets
TCFD findings and disclose through CDP, formerly known as the Carbon
We have committed to setting near-term and long-term company-wide
Disclosure Project, in 2024.
GHG emission reduction targets in line with the SBTi Net-Zero Standard
and our near-term targets have been validated by SBTi. The SBTi
defines and promotes best practices in science-based target setting
Highlights on progress
and independently assesses and approves companies’ targets. Aligned
Goals & commitments with SBTi and the latest climate science from the United Nations (U.N.)
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), our goals and
% change
2020 2021 2022 2023 commitments provide us with clearly defined targets to reduce GHG
vs. baseline
emissions in line with limiting global temperature rise to 1.5°C, aligned
with the Paris Agreement goals.
Total Absolute
GHG Emissions8,9,10 210,673 206,567 185,916 156,529 25.7%
(Scope 1+2) (MT CO e) As part of our near-term targets, we’re working to reduce our absolute
2
Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions 42% by 2030 from a 2020 baseline
Scope 1 Absolute
through investments in renewable energy, energy efficiency, better
GHG Emissions8,9,10 73,841 73,062 71,982 62,919 14.8%
(MT CO e) fugitive emissions management, and fleet decarbonization projects.
2
Scope 2 Absolute Our company’s largest Scope 1 and 2 emissions are from electric power,
GHG Emissions8,9,10 136,832 133,505 113,934 93,610 31.6%
followed by natural gas. Emissions from electric power represented 60%
(MT CO e)
2
of our Scope 2 emissions, with the next largest source being natural
gas and ancillary fuels from facilities, representing 35%. The remaining
Scope 1 and 2 emissions are from fleet (3%), and fugitive emissions (3%).
21
Enrich a healthy planet
Renewable electricity Renewable electricity sources
Renewable electricity sources cover approximately 65% of our
cover approximately 65% of our
electricity usage. We’ve built 18 onsite systems in 12 countries. All are
electricity usage
fully operational, including five that came online in 2023. We have
also executed nine contracts for offsite renewable electricity
procurement in the form of virtual power purchase agreements
Collaborating to reduce Scope 3 emissions
(VPPAs) in North America and Europe; direct power purchase
Like most consumer goods manufacturing companies, emissions
agreements (PPAs) in Brazil, Argentina, and India; and green retail
directly within our control only amount to approximately 5% of the total
contracts in Colombia, Malaysia, and China.
emissions associated with our value chain. Our Company’s Upstream
Scope 3 categories are the largest emissions source and represent
Highlights on progress about 90% of our total emissions. The most significant emission sources
are from Purchased Goods & Services (71%) (all emissions related to our
Goals & commitments
direct and indirect spend) and Upstream Transportation & Distribution
2023 (15%) (moving raw materials and product). Our Downstream Scope
Total Kenvue renewable electricity14
3 categories represent only about 5% of total emissions, and include
total MWhs % Renewable
product-related emissions (shipping products to customers and
NA 90,610 62.8% consumers, consumer use of products, and the impact of product
disposal- either recycling products or throwing them away without
EMEA 75,908 81.1% recovery).
To advance our transition toward net zero, we must support our value
LATAM 75,175 100%
chain partners in setting and achieving their own ambitious science-based
climate goals. Our supplier engagement program allows us to customize
APAC 22,146 24.2%
the way we engage with our value chain partners based on their climate
maturity, carbon footprint and long-term decarbonization strategies.
In accordance with SBTi, we are targeting Kenvue suppliers that
In the APAC region, seven out of 10 Kenvue manufacturing sites rely on
represent 75% of our Scope 3 emissions to set science-based targets by
renewable electricity sources. Bangkok, Thailand is home to the largest
year-end 2028. If our supplier engagement program is successful, 75%
digitally integrated solar panel installation in our network. Equivalent
of our suppliers by emissions covering Category 1, Purchased Goods &
to three U.S. football fields, the rooftop installation provides 13% of the
Services (C1), and Category 4, Upstream Transportation & Distribution
plant’s electricity requirements and reduces CO e emissions by nearly
2
(C4), will have science-based targets by the end of 2028. Together,
3,000 metric tons annually.
these suppliers cover 75% of our total Scope 3 emissions.
22
Enrich a healthy planet
5%
Highlights on progress
Direct Operations
Goals & commitments Scope 1 & 2
4% 5%
Upstream Downstream Scope 3
2022 2023
Scope 3 All Other
All Other
% of our suppliers by emissions
covering Category 1: Purchased
15%
goods & services32 and Category
19% 21%
4: Upstream transportation Upstream
& distribution,33 that have Scope 3
science-based targets by 202817
C4 Upstream
71%
transport
Scope 1, 2 and 3
Upstream Scope 3
emissions
C1 Purchased
goods & services
Driving the Fourth Industrial Revolution
The Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR) is an era of disruptive innovation
that is shaping the future of manufacturing. The World Economic
Forum, in collaboration with McKinsey, has recognized Kenvue with two
new designations in 2023 as part of their Global Lighthouse Network,
a prestigious community of leading manufacturers at the forefront
of accelerating the adoption of 4IR technologies in their respective
industries worldwide. In line with our HLM, the Global Lighthouse 3%
5%
Network showcases opportunities for Fourth Industrial Revolution C12 End-of-Life Other Scope 3
of sold products C2 Capital goods
technologies to positively impact people and the planet.
(0.6%)
Our Shanghai Value Chain was named a Global Lighthouse for C5 Waste generated
in operations (0.1%)
implementing more than 25 4IR innovations, including big data analytics
16%
C6 Business travel
for social media, machine learning, additive manufacturing, and digital
C4 Upstream (0.8%)
twins—a concept that allows for a digital model of a physical product. transport & Scope 3 C7 Employee
This resulted in a 50% reduction in new product introduction lead times, distribution emissions commuting (1.0%)
C8 Upstream leased
a 1.3-times improvement in production forecast accuracy and 99.8% on-
assets (0.2%)
2%
time-in-full deliveries within 48 hours. C9 Downstream
C3 Fuel
transportation
Building on its original Lighthouse designation in 2022, our Bangkok, & energy
& distribution (0.5%)
- related
Thailand site has achieved the status of Global Sustainability C11 Use of sold
activities
products (0.02%)
Lighthouse for their use of 4IR technologies toward more sustainable
C15 Investments
resource management. 74% (0.02%)
C1 Purchased
goods & services
23
Enrich a healthy planet
Plastics
Healthy planet goals & commitments
Kenvue is identifying ways to support the transition from a linear economic
model (take, make, use, dispose) toward a circular economic model where Plastics
packaging materials are kept in circulation through recycling or reuse, · 100% recyclable19 or refillable20 packaging21 by 202517
which helps reduce the amount of packaging material that is not recovered. · 25% reduction of virgin plastic11 in packaging21 by 202517 from a 2020 base year
We understand that a systems approach, including upstream solutions for · 50% reduction of virgin plastic11 in packaging21 by 203017 from a 2020 base year
high-performing packaging materials and design (such as the elimination
of problematic or unnecessary packaging) as well as downstream solutions
of waste recovery and recycling infrastructure, are required to address
these challenges.
At Kenvue, we follow a circular design approach, looking at the impact our
products have on every aspect of our global value chain throughout their
lifecycle and considering everything from where our materials are sourced
to their end of life.
We innovate with sustainability in mind and through eco-design, material
optimization, refill and reuse, format standardization, and inclusion of
recycled content, to reduce our dependence on virgin plastics. Innovative
packaging that uses less, refills more or recycles easily, aligned with
principles of the circular economy, has widely informed our approach.
Highlights on progress
Goals & commitments
2021 2022 2023
100% recyclable19 or refillable20
72.8% 71.1% 71.4%
packaging21 by 202517
25% reduction of virgin plastic11
in packaging21 by 202517 and 50% 1% 9.6% 21.1%
by 203017 from a 2020 base year
24
Enrich a healthy planet
Partnering to accelerate progress progress toward increasing the circularity of packaging. The nine rules Innovating to replace: Aveeno® bottles use 50% recycled plastic,
Partnerships are critical to helping us scale change and increase the focus on removing problematic packaging, reducing the amount of replacing plastic from virgin sources, and are recyclable (excluding
circularity of packaging globally. As a signatory to the Global Plastics packaging used, and designing packaging for recyclability. labels). The lotion bottles now also have a pump that can be recycled in
Commitment, our virgin plastics reduction strategy is aligned with many markets.
We are also an investor in Closed Loop Partners’ Infrastructure Group,
circular economy principles set forth by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation
which provides below-market rate loans to finance projects that build Innovating to refill & reuse: Designed for reuse, Neutrogena® Hydro
(EMF). We signed the EMF Global Plastics Commitment in 2020,
out circular economy infrastructure in the United States. These projects Boost refill pods help reduce plastic waste by 89% when a consumer
which is the basis for our 2025 virgin plastic reduction, recyclable,
include waste collection, enabling technology, end manufacturing, refills the packaging with a pod instead of buying a new jar.
and refillable packaging goals. In addition to serving as an important
processing, and sortation. The Infrastructure Group is funded by
Innovating to recover: Aligned with the principles of the circular
thought leader on the circular economy, EMF has motivated leading
the world’s largest retailers, corporate foundations, technology, and
economy, Listerine® is rolling out updated packaging around the globe,
consumer goods companies to eliminate problematic and unnecessary
consumer goods companies.
designed to be recycle-ready by using washable adhesive for its labels
plastic packaging through reduction and innovation.
and by introducing a clear cap that is more easily recycled in many
Designing for the circular economy
As a member of the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) Plastic Waste local municipal waste sorting facilities.
Innovating to reduce: Le Petit Marseillais® optimized packaging design
Coalition of Action, our design process is aligned with the CGF Golden
that reduces the overall material use, and includes 30% recycled plastic
Design Rules, which are a set of voluntary, independent, and time-bound
content in the bottle.
commitments for the design of plastic packaging, created to accelerate
25
Enrich a healthy planet
Biodiversity, land & forest
Healthy planet goals & commitments
Forests are a vital resource, critical to the health of all people, plants,
and animals that inhabit our planet. They provide us with oxygen, food, Biodiversity, land & forest
and medicine—including those made by Kenvue. They also sustain · Kenvue is committed to zero deforestation and to ensuring the
paper-based packaging we purchase directly originates from low-risk
ecosystem services such as water purification, and the mitigation of
sources.22 Specifically, we aim to achieve 100% certified12 or verified
natural hazards like droughts, floods, and landslides. Today, forests recycled13 paper and wood fiber packaging23 by 202517
cover approximately 30% of the earth’s land area; approximately 300 · Maintain 100% Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) certification
for the palm-based ingredients we purchase24 through a combination of
million people worldwide live in forests; and 1.6 billion people depend
RSPO certified physical supply chains and RSPO Book & Claim credits25
on forests for their livelihoods.34
· Purchase24 at least 75% of our volumes from RSPO physical supply
chains25 by 202517 and 100% by 203017
Forests also play an important role in mitigating climate change.
When forests are cut, burned, or otherwise removed they no longer
act as a carbon sink, but instead emit carbon, which contributes to
changes in climate patterns.
Responsible wood-fiber sourcing
While Kenvue does not own or manage forests, we do purchase paper
and wood-fiber products and recognize that we can play a role in
Highlights on progress
supporting responsible forestry through our sourcing of these materials.
Goals & commitments
Our position on Responsible Wood-Fiber Sourcing and annual progress
2023 outlines the actions our Kenvue team is taking to support the supply
chain transformations necessary to protect the environment and the
MTs %
people in the paper and wood-fiber supply chains.
Total Kenvue volume of paper and wood fiber sourced 84,718 --
Kenvue strives to work with suppliers that share a common set of
values, comply with all applicable laws and regulations, and adhere to
Total volume of certified12 or verified recycled13
79,728 94% our expectations for supplier business conduct, human rights and labor
paper and wood fiber packaging23
practices, workplace safety, and environmental stewardship.
Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®) certified35
43,123 51%
paper/wood fiber We have implemented specific sourcing requirements for the wood-fiber
product suppliers from which we buy directly. We expect these suppliers to:
Programme for the Endorsement of Forest
13,660 16%
Certification (PEFC) certified36 paper/wood fiber · Provide supply chain transparency and traceability.
· Respect human rights in their own operations and business
Verified recycled13 paper/wood fiber 22,945 27% relationships.
· Partner and collaborate to effect positive industry change.
Total volume of paper and wood fiber packaging · Work to reduce the GHG emissions and pollutant emissions
4,990 6%
not certified or verified recycled
associated with their supply chains.
26
Enrich a healthy planet
We expect our suppliers to meet these sourcing requirements and to
ensure the sources of the paper and wood-fiber products they supply to
Kenvue are:
· Harvested and traded in compliance with all national and local laws
and international labor standards.
· Harvested in a manner that respects human rights and traditional
rights, including a commitment to secure the UN-recognized right to
Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) for activities that may affect
the rights, land, resources and livelihoods of Indigenous peoples and
local communities.
· Harvested in a manner that protects high-conservation value forests.
Not harvested from an area that is being converted to plantation or
non-forest use.
· Not developed on peatland.
· Not from areas cleared of natural forest after December 31, 2020.
Our sourcing principles apply to all paper and wood-fiber products
that we purchase directly, and we verify compliance with our sourcing
principles for 100% of our direct spend on cartons, corrugates, and
leaflets. Given the challenges of traceability of wood fiber sources,
Kenvue works with trusted partners to provide us with the third-
party verification and expertise necessary to improve supply chain
transparency. Our due diligence process includes an additional focus on
suppliers located in regions with a heightened risk for deforestation.
Responsible palm oil sourcing We do not own or manage palm oil plantations and, consequently,
From commitment to reality Because of its versatility and efficiency, palm oil is the most widely used are multiple links in the supply chain away from the original source of
Kenvue LATAM is the first region to achieve our goal of sourcing 100% vegetable oil in the world and is a common ingredient and feedstock to palm oil and palm kernel oil. However, we share other stakeholders’
certified (Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®) or Programme for the ingredients in packaged foods, biofuels, and personal care products. concerns about the negative effect palm oil sourcing may have on
Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) chain of custody standard) Palm oil plantations have expanded in recent decades to meet growing the environment and people, and we recognize that we can play a
or verified recycled wood fiber packaging, ensuring that all cartons and global demand, raising stakeholder concerns about links between palm role in supporting responsible palm oil production through enhanced
cardboard used in our products manufactured internally or purchased oil cultivation and deforestation, and the associated negative impacts on traceability and sourcing of these ingredients.
externally come from sources with responsible forest management or biodiversity, people, and local communities.
Our Responsible Palm Oil Sourcing Position and annual progress
from recycled sources.
We primarily buy palm oil derivatives, meaning that our upstream updates outline the actions our Kenvue team is taking to support
Every year, Kenvue LATAM purchases around 13,000 metric tons suppliers may use a very small amount of palm oil and palm kernel oil the supply chain transformations that are necessary to protect the
of certified wood fiber packaging as part of our efforts to uphold to manufacture the oleochemical we purchase. Kenvue purchases less environment and the people who work in the palm oil supply chain.
this commitment. than 0.1% of the global annual production of palm oil.37
27
Enrich a healthy planet
We expect our suppliers to ensure the sources of palm oil are from: Kenvue also participates with fellow ASD members in dynamic mapping
and monitoring for deforestation in areas of Southeast Asia linked to
· A legal source, which meets the principles and criteria of the RSPO,
our palm oil derivatives supply chain by leveraging the Nusantara Atlas
or where a recognized equivalent certification has been implemented.
satellite monitoring platform.
· A plantation that meets the High Carbon Stock (HCS) Approach
methodology (including High Conservation Value [HCV] and FPIC).
Action for Sustainable Derivatives (ASD)
· A supplier that ensures the protection of peatlands, HCV areas and HCS
Through collaborations, organizations can drive change in the
forest.
palm oil supply chain. ASD is a collaborative initiative that brings
· A supplier that does not use burning to clear land for either development
together companies in the cosmetics, home and personal care, and
or replanting.
oleochemicals industries to collectively tackle supply chain issues
· A supplier that does not use forced, bonded or child labor.
around palm oil and palm kernel oil derivatives.
· A supplier that respects the rights of all workers and local communities,
including migrant workers, women workers, and those on temporary As a member, Kenvue supports ASD’s mission to achieve a palm
contracts or in the informal economy.
derivatives supply chain that upholds NDPE principles, respects human
· A supplier that respects and includes smallholders in its supply chain. rights, and supports local livelihoods.
· Areas that have not been cleared of natural forest since December 31, 2020.
We monitor supplier and producer conformance to our responsible palm
Highlights on progress
oil sourcing principles using a wide range of partners and technologies,
Goals & commitments
relying on independent third-party verification methods where available.
If we identify an instance of nonconforming with a producer that is within
2023
our supply chain, we take action based on the nature and severity of the
MTs %
violation, and the amount of leverage we may have to correct the behavior.
Total Kenvue volume of palm oil-based
30,600 100%
To ensure that our palm derivatives suppliers are compliant with ingredients purchased24
our Responsible Palm Oil Sourcing Position and principles of No
Volumes of palm oil-based ingredients
Deforestation, No Peat, and No Exploitation (NDPE), we assess our purchased through RSPO physical supply chains25
or covered by RSPO Book & Claim credits41
suppliers using the Sustainable Palm Index, an industry tool that rates
the commitments, action plans, and achievements of our palm suppliers
Identity Preserved38 0 0%
and identifies areas for improvement. Additionally, through our
Action for Sustainable Derivatives (ASD) membership and partnership
Segregated39 0 0%
with the Earthworm Foundation, Kenvue participates in a shared
grievance dashboard to monitor, review, and investigate grievances in Mass Balance40 9,200 30%
the palm oil supply chain.
Book & Claim credits41 21,400 70%
28
Enrich a healthy planet
Waste Through this project, Kenvue aims to improve existing landfill diversion
programs expand reuse, recycling, and waste reduction, and develop
In addition to designing our products for the circular economy, our roadmaps for each of our sites to achieve zero manufacturing waste.
Kenvue team is also committed to responsibly managing waste
generated in the processing, production, and transportation of our Kenvue plants strive for zero-waste
products. Aligned with waste management hierarchy, and an eye Our manufacturing site in Lititz, Pennsylvania is leading the way on
toward resource optimization, we work to prevent and minimize waste waste management in North America and was recently recognized by
generated and divert waste from landfill through reuse, reclamation, GreenCircle® for becoming a Zero Waste to Landfill facility.
redesign, recycling, composting, and waste-to-energy approaches.
In 2023, Kenvue Thailand earned the GOLD level of Total Resources Use
The ambition of zero manufacturing waste requires the participation and Efficiency certification for Zero Waste, from the Green Business
of every facet of a business, from product design, manufacturing Certification Inc. GOLD status requires a site to meet stringent criteria,
processes, logistics, and supply chain decisions to waste management demonstrate a high level of commitment to zero-waste principles, and
and recycling considerations. Supply chain processes play a pivotal offer proven execution performance upstream and downstream. This
role in realizing waste reduction targets through sustainable product includes implementing effective end-to-end waste reduction strategies,
management and recycling practices. Inspired by circular economy maximizing recycling, and composting efforts, and diverting a significant
thinking, closed-loop systems, and the recognition that better materials amount of waste from landfills and incineration.
management and less waste leads to significant cost savings, in
Pharmaceuticals & personal care products in the
2023 we embarked on the development of a total waste management
program. Focused on our newly defined Kenvue manufacturing network, environment
we intend to set zero waste goals for all manufacturing locations. Pharmaceuticals and personal care products (PCPs) can enter
the environment through several different pathways. The source of
most active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs)42 detected in aquatic
ecosystems is normal patient and consumer use and excretion
following the use of medicines taken to address medical conditions,
while the source of PCP ingredients entering the environment is from
washing off products from the body during cleansing activities.
Our sector is pursuing a variety of preventative measures that can be
taken to minimize these associated risks, including designing more
sustainable products that are benign and biodegradable, rightsizing
pack sizes, redistributing unused pharmaceuticals, educating
health care professionals and the public, and facilitating partnerships
between environmental and healthcare scientists.
29
Enrich a healthy planet
Our products Our supply chain
Aligned with our commitments, we take proactive steps to assess and Beyond our walls, we work with suppliers, healthcare providers, and
address OTC pharmaceuticals and PCPs in the environment as part of consumers to help mitigate concentrations of APIs in the environment.
our ambition to create products that support the health and well-being Aligned with our Supplier Code of Conduct, Kenvue suppliers are
of both people and our planet. expected to operate in a sustainable and environmentally responsible
manner. We verify supplier environmental performance through on-site
To achieve this, we follow the science to understand and effectively
audits, including EcoVadis supplier scans of our suppliers’ operations
manage the environmental risks associated with our products by:
and wastewater management programs, to ensure compliance.
· Assessing all APIs and ingredients used in our products to
To further support responsible supply chain management, Kenvue is a
understand any possible impacts on the environment, and conducting
comprehensive environmental risk assessments (ERAs) on APIs on a member of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) and aims
targeted basis.
to align with their Principles for Responsible Supply Chain
· Leveraging our Sustainable Innovation Profiler (SIP), to make sure that Management, focused on responsible business practice: ethics, labor,
our products meet our standards to minimize environmental impacts.
health and safety, environment, and management systems.
· Considering Green Chemistry Principles, a framework developed
by Paul Anastas and John Warner for making a greener chemical, Our consumers
process, or product in the design of PCP formulations and formulating Consumers’ and patients’ use are the sources that contribute most
with raw materials that are more sustainable, benign, and
to pharmaceutical, or PCP residues detected in the environment.
biodegradable.
Kenvue works in collaboration with industry and governments
· Supporting scientific research and collaborations to fill knowledge
to improve medicine disposal programs and related consumer
gaps to understand and mitigate the risks of OTC pharmaceuticals
education through participation in the MyOldMeds initiative in the
and PCPs in the environment, including two recent studies on
U.S. and MEDSDISPOSAL in the EU. We are also a member of the
sunscreen environmental exposure assessment.
Pharmaceutical Product Stewardship Working Group, the largest
Our operations
extended producer responsibility organization in the United States
While waste from the manufacture of OTC pharmaceuticals and
dedicated to the proper collection and disposal of unused and/or expired
PCPs contributes to a small proportion of the pharmaceuticals and
medicines and used sharps.
PCPs found in the environment globally, it is the area where Kenvue
We often partner with industry peers to drive progress on these issues.
can have the greatest direct impact. We assess and address OTC
We contribute to the European-based Inter Associations Initiative
pharmaceuticals and PCPs in the environment by:
Pharmaceuticals in the Environment Task Force, which created the
· Actively managing the environmental risks resulting from our
Eco-Pharmaco-Stewardship framework to address PCPs in the
manufacturing processes.
environment. This includes an approach to extended environmental risk
· Monitoring wastewater and providing secondary wastewater
assessments (ERA) for pharmaceuticals. For more information on this
treatment, at a minimum, for our manufacturing plants.
effort, visit the Association of the European Self-Care Industry website.
30
Maintain
healthy
practice
We promote our culture of integrity,
ethics, and transparency to build
trust and create meaningful, long-term
value for all our stakeholders.
The Kenvue Purpose—realize the extraordinary power of everyday care—guides how we
treat our people, innovate, conduct business, and design our products. We are committed
to continually earning a place for our products in consumers’ hearts and homes, and we
do this by delivering products that support healthy people and a healthy planet.
We aim to foster a culture where all colleagues are dedicated to ensuring safe and
effective products and to keeping our team members safe and healthy. This commitment
is critical to generational consumer trust. Our brands are often introduced to people
by someone who cares deeply about them. We strive to build consumer trust through
enhanced product and ingredient transparency and science-based innovation.
Science has always been at the core of how we provide care, and we believe it’s also the
key to creating a more sustainable company. At Kenvue, science-backed innovation that
improves the environmental performance of our products can also increase our relevancy
with consumers and credibility with healthcare professionals.
31
Maintain healthy practice
Healthy Practice is about how we achieve results, which is as important as
Healthy practice goals & commitments
the results themselves. In line with our Kenvue Values, we are committed
to building trust through science with our consumers, customers, and
partners by holding ourselves to the highest ethical standards in everything
Sustainable product innovation
that we do. We operate with openness, maintain business and workplace
75% of new product development,26 using scientific principles,27 will have an
integrity, and contribute to the well-being of the communities in which improved environmental performance28 by 203017
we operate.
At Kenvue, we believe human rights, which are the fundamental rights,
freedoms, and standards of treatment belonging to all human beings,
We will advance sustainable product design by:
must be respected and that business, in addition to government, has an
· Deploying our new SIP tool to evaluate and improve the
important role in ensuring those rights.
environmental footprint of our products.
· Creating Brand Sustainability roadmaps to identify hotspots
Sustainable
and equip brands to act on their sustainability priorities.
product innovation · Developing and training teams on sustainable product
claims requirements.
Science-backed innovation and scientific insights are core to our · Establishing governance mechanisms to ensure that the
SIP tool is embedded in the new product and lifecycle stage
product development process and enable us to successfully introduce
gate development processes.
new products that meet the dynamic and diverse health and well-being
· Tracking and reporting on progress.
needs of the global consumer marketplace. With the use of new robust
· Collaborating in industry programs that aim to advance product
measurement tools, we aim to manage the impacts of our products across
sustainability and standardize measurement approaches.
our global value chain and throughout the lifecycle of our products. We
will measure progress toward our Sustainable Product Innovation goal As we deploy the tools and training to progress this work, we plan to
within the Healthy Practices pillar. A new internal Kenvue assessment programmatically assess design decisions, enhance product and ingredient
tool, Sustainable Innovation Profiler (SIP), will assess how new products resiliency, enable transparency, identify levers to decarbonize our products,
deliver against our HLM commitments, seeking to future-proof products by and optimize the overall environmental profile of our products.
promoting the adoption of sustainable ingredients and packaging materials.
Sustainable design & development
Sustainable products require intentional design. We are committed
to improving the environmental performance of our new product
development—including improvements to existing products, extensions
of current product lines, and new-to-market products—using scientific
design principles.
32
Maintain healthy practice
What gets measured following categories: product formulations that are free of dangerous Neutrogena® Hydro Boost Hyaluronic Acid Water Gel offers a refillable
Our Kenvue team has evolved our patented Global Aquatic Ingredient chemicals, commitments to reduce animal testing, and the product's pod which fits perfectly in our Neutrogena® Hydro Boost Hyaluronic
Assessment™ (GAIA) to encompass holistic sustainability criteria. Our impact on health and the environment. Acid Water Gel jar and reduces plastic waste by 89% vs. buying a new
SIP tool follows International Organization of Standardization methods jar each time.
Le Petit Marseillais® has been certified by COSMOS eco-certification
for lifecycle assessments and:
for organic and natural cosmetics. All the products marketed with the
Product stewardship
· Aligns with the European Commission’s Product Environmental Ecocert logo, issued by COSMOS, have been verified from composition
Our foundational commitment to providing effective, compliant, and
Footprint and EcoBeautyScore (EBS).
to processing and packaging. With 30 years of experience in the auditing
safe consumer products is underpinned by our product stewardship and
· Enables us to understand distribution of impact across product lifecycle.
and certification of organic products in France and in over 130 other
social responsibilities. Our aim is to make decisions that will be right for
· Identifies opportunities to reduce the carbon footprint of products countries, Ecocert provides consumers with transparent information on
our consumers and for the planet.
and packaging without shifting the burden to other environmental
product ingredients.
impact factors.
Our internal Kenvue ingredient and materials policy ensures we carefully
· Implements an internal methodology to measure the resiliency of Breakthrough products with less waste
select ingredients, materials, and product packaging components. We
a formulation to a dynamic external environment. Neutrogena® Gentle Foaming Cleanser is made of only seven ingredients
continuously monitor emerging science, regulations on the horizon, and
· Calculates a formulation’s GAIA score with a focus on ingredient and is free from fragrances, parabens, phthalates, alcohols, mineral
sustainability requirements to meet shifting consumer and customer
environmental persistence.
oil, and soap. Just take one powder concentrate and add tap water to
expectations. By combining our robust ingredient policy with greater
· Flags ingredients on our restricted substances list (RSL) and create a full-sized, luxurious foam cleanser. The reusable bottle and
transparency, we will continue to build trust in our brands and products.
emerging substances of concern.
pump weigh 94% less than our other full-size cleansers.
· Encourages use of ingredients and packaging materials from
renewable sources.
In addition to formulation optimization, the SIP tool will also enable our
packaging engineers to make more informed decisions on packaging
materials that are aligned with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s
principles for recyclability and reducing the use of virgin plastics.
In 2023, we trained a superuser community and began piloting our SIP
tool, assessing key product archetypes to identify our hot spots and
areas for improvement.
Meeting rigorous eco standards
Johnson’s® Baby and Aveeno® Baby products have been certified by UL
ECOLOGO® for reduced environmental impact. UL ECOLOGO® certified
products are verified for reduced environmental impact and their
standards set metrics for a wide variety of criteria in some or all the
33
Maintain healthy practice
Product transparency
Healthy practice goals & commitments
Transparency is the bedrock of trust for most consumers, who
increasingly want to know more about the products they and their
Product transparency
families consume and use, from food and beverages to personal care
Provide greater product transparency, beginning with our ingredients
products to OTC medicines. According to 2021’s SmartLabel Consumer
Insights Survey, 79% of consumers agree that they are more loyal to
brands that provide more in-depth information about products beyond
Similar to our SIP tool, EBS considers 16 environmental impacts, including
what they can find on the label.43 Product transparency at Kenvue aims
carbon, water scarcity and water pollution. The aggregated product score
to provide consumers with a deeper understanding of our products,
of these environmental impacts enables consumers to compare products
with the intention of engaging and empowering them to make the best
within a category to make informed purchasing decisions. In addition to
choices for themselves and their loved ones. By providing compelling,
establishing a common system for environmental impact assessments of
easily understood, and readily accessible information on the benefit
cosmetic products, EBS will also provide a common scoring mechanism
and function of specific ingredients, certifications, fragrances, source
and harmonized consumer-facing communications scheme.
material origins, type of packaging materials used, and recyclability,
our brands strive to deliver the transparency consumers have come to
Neutrogena® Glossary of Ingredients
expect. Leveraging digital platforms and technologies to expand product
The Neutrogena® Glossary of Ingredients presents another avenue for
information, our brands are embracing sustainability and reflecting
Kenvue to give consumers visibility into how we formulate our products.
evolving consumer values in line with ‘modern mandatories’.
Through a dedicated website, consumers can read simple definitions of
the ingredients found in Neutrogena® products, offering them the facts
Building trust through transparency
they need to make informed decisions for their skin health.
Kenvue is a member of the EBS Consortium, an international, voluntary
initiative of more than 70 cosmetic industry stakeholders, which aims Johnson’s® Baby product transparency
to develop an environmental impact assessment and scoring system Johnson’s® Baby website is another example of our commitment to
for cosmetic products. The Consortium was created to enable consumers full product transparency. In developing the site, we focused on what
to make more informed and sustainable choices about the products parents wanted and needed, leveraging iterative, dynamic consumer
they use and address growing expectations from stakeholders for feedback to guide our decisions.
enhanced transparency.
Johnson’s® Baby piloted a digital transparency tool and enabled us
We have actively engaged in the design and development of the EBS to learn more about consumer interests and behaviors in a digital
environmental assessment and scoring system for cosmetic products. communications ecosystem. As a result of the website, consumer research
The system follows internationally accepted guidelines for conducting showed a significant increase across all key brand metrics and attributes
standardized lifecycle assessments from cradle to grave for the entire including sentiment, credibility, fit, authenticity, honesty, and sustainability.
product and assesses the impacts of both raw and packaging materials.
34
Maintain healthy practice
Product quality & safety and local government regulations, industry standards, and our internal
policies. In addition, our sourcing and quality assessment teams assess
Our commitment to quality, safety, and compliance is fundamental to our raw material suppliers and contract manufacturers and aim to only
Kenvue. In addition to complying with applicable regulations around the work with vendors that meet our safety and quality standards.
world, our aim is to meet the high expectations of our customers, and
Product development
consumers, earning their trust by developing high-quality, innovative
Beyond design, our products also undergo further development and testing,
products that are safe, efficacious, and widely accessible. By focusing
which helps ensure ingredients are used in the right proportions and any
on quality and safety throughout a product's lifecycle, from the early
potential issues are addressed before formula finalization. Laboratory-
stages of research and development, delivery to customers through
simulated and home-use tests are also used in the development process to
product use, and to the product's end of life, we strive to meet our
also assess the product experience with actual users.
responsibility to put people first.
We strive to achieve end-to-end quality excellence and safety across all Qualification & testing
stages of a product lifecycle through our quality and safety Appropriate controls are in place to ensure the final product meets
management approach. More information about our position on quality, its intended specifications. These controls aim to enable consistency
safety, and compliance can be found here. and include things like the qualification of equipment and instruments
used to manufacture products, validation of processes, and in-process
Product quality & safety process monitoring to ensure performance meets expectations. Additionally,
testing requirements for each product are in place to provide effective
Quality & safety risk management
upstream measures.
Risk management requirements are part of our Kenvue Quality System
Principles. They require that quality and safety risks throughout the
Upholding global standards
product lifecycle be identified, assessed, mitigated, and minimized. We
The safety of our consumers and people overall is our first and greatest
are committed to monitoring the safety and quality of our products and
responsibility. Technical teams conduct safety evaluations on our
have systems and risk-minimization strategies in place.
products before we bring them to the marketplace to ensure they
To achieve the product quality and safety expected by our consumers and comply with applicable regulatory requirements wherever we do
required by international standards, we aim to adhere to this process: business. We work with regulatory agencies worldwide, including but not
limited to, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the European
Product design
Medicines Agency, the World Health Organization, and Health Canada,
We endeavor to build quality and safety into our products from the very
to ensure our products meet the highest standards of safety.
start. Our product design informs the ingredients we use and involves
input from our scientific and medical experts to ensure the final
We strive to achieve end-to-end
product will meet our global standards.
quality excellence and safety across
Ingredient selection
all stages of the product lifecycle
All ingredients are carefully selected and tested and must pass safety
and quality requirements. Our objective is to ensure that the quality,
purity, and manufacturing of our products meet international, national,
35
Maintain healthy practice
the effectiveness of our quality systems. Kenvue representatives
and third parties perform audits of company suppliers and external
manufacturers to evaluate compliance with our quality agreements and
the regulations under which they operate. We monitor product safety
information and provide timely reporting of relevant information to
authorities in accordance with regulations.
In addition to our monitoring programs, product quality and safety
oversight is maintained through appropriate governance. Our safety and
quality management system (QMS) requires Kenvue management to
review the quality and safety system performance, and to provide
oversight for improvements where necessary.
The ISO 9000 family consists of the world's best-known standard for
QMS, including ISO 9001, along with a set of supporting standards
on quality management, all published by ISO/TC 176 and its
subcommittees. Five of our sites have individual ISO 9001 certifications
including Pomezia, Italy; Eastern Cape, South Africa; Bangkok, Thailand;
Beijing, China; and Sézanne, France.
Position on animal testing
As a global consumer health company, Kenvue has a broad portfolio
of everyday care brands that our consumers rely on to meet their daily
health and well-being needs. Above all, safety is our top priority in the
development and testing of our diverse and innovative products. We
understand that animal testing is a concern of vital importance to many,
and we work to minimize the use of animals while also complying with
Quality compliance monitoring
specific and varied regulations around the world.
Our Kenvue team has established an independent audit approach
to ensure our facilities and external manufacturing sites operate in We do not conduct animal testing in the research or development of our
compliance with our requirements, as well as global and local health cosmetic products unless required to do so to meet regulatory
authority requirements. Our Quality Audit Program applies to all Kenvue requirements. We believe our cosmetic products can be validated as
facilities that develop, manufacture, store, or distribute products. It also safe and effective without compromising animal welfare and have
applies to suppliers and external manufacturers that provide materials, voluntarily made the conscious choice to only advance cosmetic product
products, and services to Kenvue. Through this Quality Audit Program, innovation that meets our own safety requirements without the need for
we continuously monitor, assess, and identify opportunities to improve animal testing.
36
Maintain healthy practice
Some countries still require animal testing data to meet their own
regulatory requirements for cosmetic products. As part of our ongoing
commitment over the last 30 years, we continue to advance and seek
the validation of non-animal testing methods and support efforts to
eliminate the testing of cosmetic products or ingredients on animals
globally, including appropriate legislative bans.
When it comes to medicines, medical devices and other regulated
health products, animal testing is more routinely required by regulatory
authorities to demonstrate safety and/or to validate efficacy for
regulatory purposes.
We prioritize the use of non-animal testing methods, including in vitro
and computer modeling. Our internal Kenvue Scientific Committee
reviews and approves all instances of animal testing where Kenvue is
required to do so to meet regulatory requirements.
When tests on animals are required, we only work with reputable
partners who adhere to strict animal welfare standards on care,
welfare, and treatment. We are committed to the ethical treatment
of animals used in audited, accredited external laboratories following
best practices for animal care.
Counterfeit
At Kenvue, our Global Brand Protection team works to safeguard
the everyday care rituals of people around the world from the risks
of counterfeit, diversion, and product tampering. Consistent with our
Values of putting people first, our focus is on the protection of our end
consumer. The illegal counterfeiting of our products is antithetical to
our Values, and we take such matters seriously.
We regularly conduct thorough investigations and partner with
appropriate legal and regulatory authorities to take action when
counterfeit products come to our attention. Counterfeit goods may
contain unsafe ingredients and may have environmental repercussions
and human rights violations associated with their production, which is
why Kenvue takes measures to address illegal counterfeit goods.
37
Maintain healthy practice
Human rights and We have high standards for how
people should be treated, and we
ethical supply chain
expect the same from the companies
At Kenvue, we believe that human rights, which are the fundamental
we do business with around the world
rights, freedoms, and standards of treatment belonging to all human
beings, must be respected and that business, in addition to government,
Enterprise-wide human rights impact assessment
has an important role in ensuring those rights. This includes:
At the end of 2023, Kenvue initiated an enterprise-wide human rights
· Respecting the dignity of fair and safe work.
impact assessment. As part of this effort, we recognize that we must
· Following the principles of internationally recognized human conduct appropriate due diligence to ensure we are protecting the rights
rights standards, including the International Bill of Human Rights,
of individuals around the world in our value chain. This work will help
the International Labour Party Organization’s Declaration on
us understand the potential adverse effects of our business activities
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the U.N. Guiding
on the human rights of rights-holders such as workers and community
Principles on Business and Human Rights.
members. Ultimately, this Human Rights Impact Assessment will help
· Doing our due diligence through policies, processes, training, and
us identify, assess, and address salient human rights impacts and
management systems to identify and address human rights-
inform our overall strategy.
related risks.
Business for Social Responsibility (BSR)
Working with trade associations and industry coalitions, we believe we
Human Rights Working Group
can promote the respect of human rights and encourage and support
Kenvue is a member of BSR's Human Rights Working Group, a
our suppliers and other business partners in their efforts to meet
collaborative initiative that supports companies across industries
internationally recognized human rights standards.
in implementing the U.N. Guiding Principles on Business and Human
We have high standards for how people should be treated, and we expect Rights. The Working Group provides a forum to highlight emerging human
the same from the companies we do business with around the world. rights topics and opportunities for companies to share best practices that
Our commitment to respecting and promoting human rights applies inform our approach to human rights due diligence. We also leverage our
to Kenvue locations, operating companies, and business operations engagement in this group to access the tools, frameworks and resources
worldwide. We recognize that human rights due diligence is a continuous that help us advance our human rights practice.
process, and we have policies, processes, training, and management
systems in place to identify and address human rights-related risks.
In our commitment to the dignity of fair and safe work, and aligned with
modern slavery disclosure regulations in Australia, California, Canada,
Norway and the United Kingdom, Kenvue publishes a Global Modern
Slavery Statement outlining the steps we take to identify, assess,
address, and prevent modern slavery and human trafficking in our
operations and supply chain.
38
Maintain healthy practice
Kenvue Supplier Code of Conduct Healthy people
We are committed to working with those who align with and reflect Our We expect our suppliers to uphold the same high standards for the
Values and principles, support our HLM and uphold high standards for protection of human rights. Our due diligence processes include
responsible sourcing and corporate citizenship. In line with our Values, assessing and managing human rights risks across our supplier
we are committed to doing business with suppliers who uphold the base, and monitoring supplier compliance with labor, employment,
same high standards of integrity, ethics, and responsible business environmental, and business ethics standards. In support of these
practices that we do, including complying with applicable laws and standards and protocols, we may ask suppliers to share relevant
regulations, in the countries in which we, and our suppliers, operate. information to comply with our own legal and regulatory obligations.
We apply the Kenvue Supplier Code of Conduct as part of our HLM and Healthy planet
our commitment to protecting human rights. We are committed to continuously improving our sustainability efforts
through our brands, products, packaging, and operations, and delivering
on current requirements that reflect the values of today’s consumers,
and we know that we cannot achieve this without the partnership
of our suppliers. Accordingly, suppliers are expected to operate in a
sustainable and environmentally responsible manner, as set forth in the
principles below, including continually working to reduce and mitigate the
environmental impacts of their operations, including the decarbonization of
their own value chains, aligned with our Scope 3 goals.
Healthy practice
We are committed to building trust with our stakeholders by holding
ourselves accountable to high ethical standards. Our Values of putting
people first and earning the trust of our customers and consumers
extend to our suppliers, who are expected to uphold fair business
practices, to act in full compliance with applicable laws and regulations,
and to meet our Company’s requirements as set out below.
AIM-Progress
Kenvue is a member of AIM-Progress, a global forum of leading fast
moving consumer goods companies and common suppliers sponsored by
the Association des Industries de Marque (AIM), the European Brands
Association. The purpose of AIM-Progress is to promote responsible supply
chain and sourcing practices covering labor and human rights, capability-
building, and mutual recognition of social compliance audits.
39
Maintain healthy practice
Supplier risk assessments, audit, & environmental performance, and business ethics. We select suppliers for
compliance program social audits based on an overall risk assessment using EcoVadis labor and
business ethics scores and considering geographic and industry risk.
We maintain controls to uphold human rights and minimize our
environmental impacts throughout our supply chain. We verify supplier
ESG audit & compliance program
ESG performance through a comprehensive approach that leverages
Kenvue maintains global operations and works with a vast supplier base.
both internal subject matter experts as well as external organizations
We manage a highly complex network of supplier relationships that are
such as EcoVadis, a third-party provider that helps identify supplier
critical to business success. We must maintain a rigorous system of
environmental and social compliance risk, assess, and understand
supplier selection, engagement, education, assessment, and auditing to
supplier performance, and coordinate and track supplier improvement
ensure supply base integrity and meet stakeholder requirements.
plans. In some cases, we may require an audit of new supplier
candidates before awarding business, depending on that candidate’s We recognize that to create impact at scale, we must continue to
risk profile. Our program includes two main forms of supplier audits: move beyond monitoring compliance to proactively engaging with our
EHS audits and ESG audits.
suppliers and supporting wider industry efforts to improve transparency
and share best practices. To this end, we are currently enhancing our
EHS audits
Sustainable Sourcing Program, which will help us strategically engage
We leverage the audit protocol based on our “Responsible External
with our suppliers to advance the management of ESG impacts and
Supply Chain” EHS Standard and in some cases using the standard
opportunities throughout our supply base.
developed by the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) to
conduct EHS audits of our high-priority suppliers. Most of our supplier
We manage a highly complex network
EHS audits are conducted by our EHS team, leveraging our internal EHS
of supplier relationships that are
expertise and on-the-ground presence in various geographic regions. In
some cases, third-party firms conduct EHS audits on behalf of Kenvue critical to business success
or Kenvue utilizes PSCI Audit reports shared by suppliers. We select
suppliers for EHS audits during our due diligence process and based
In addition to monitoring for compliance, we assess and categorize
on an overall risk assessment using factors including EcoVadis scores,
supplier non-conformance. We communicate findings and share our
types of goods and services provided, and geographical location. In
expectations with the audited supplier for a documented plan of time-
2023, 55 EHS audits were completed including EHS audits conducted
bound corrective actions and demonstrated improvement. When critical
during supplier due diligence.
findings are identified during an audit, we expect timely action to
address the issue. We aim to maintain long-term, strategic relationships
ESG audits
with suppliers and prefer to work with them to resolve audit findings
ESG audits are conducted according to the SEDEX Members Ethical
and drive continuous improvements in standards. If significant non-
Trade Audit (SMETA) 4-pillar guidelines by an accredited external firm
conformance with our standards cannot be sufficiently resolved, we may
on behalf of Kenvue. A SMETA 4-pillar audit includes an assessment of
withdraw business from that supplier or decline to start business with a
labor standards, health and safety, management systems, human rights,
potential new supplier candidate.
recruitment, entitlement to work, subcontracting and homeworking,
40
Maintain healthy practice
We provide the following forms of support for post-audit Ethics & compliance
supplier improvement:
Our success as Kenvue is based on each employee, regardless of
· Follow-up technical visits that include expert training and best
location or position, living Our Purpose. Everyday care is the Kenvue
practice sharing.
North Star, guiding how we treat our people, innovate, conduct business,
· Business reviews with direct coaching and guidance.
and deploy our products.
· Supplier conferences, webinars and other resources.
Collaborating within the industry to raise the bar for all, we actively Employee Code of Conduct
participate in industry forums and workshops on supply chain issues
Our Values are instilled through the Kenvue Code of Conduct. This
that aim to advance supply chain sustainability, human rights, and
foundational document sets forth the principles and policies to which we
transparency by addressing systemic issues that no one company can
commit ourselves every day. Our commitment to doing the right thing
solve alone.
and upholding these expectations guides our success and strengthens
our reputation.
The Code of Conduct applies to all Kenvuers as well as consultants
and third-party contractors engaged by Kenvue to act on our behalf,
regardless of where we work or the type of work we do, providing clear
expectations of ethical business conduct and behavior. As a good global
citizen, we seek to comply with the laws and regulations of the countries
in which we operate. Every company representative is expected to know,
understand, and act in accordance with the Code of Conduct, company
policies, and the laws that govern our activities.
Code of Conduct training
To familiarize all Kenvuers with the Code of Conduct, we created interactive
training courses in nine languages to reinforce Our Purpose to realize the
extraordinary power of everyday care with our customers, consumers, and
fellow Kenvuers. For people without access to computers, including in our
manufacturing sites, we held instructor-led training classes with offline
materials. In 2023, 97% of non-manufacturing team members completed
the Code of Conduct training.
In line with our Values, we are committed to building trust with our
consumers, customers, and business partners by holding ourselves
accountable to the highest ethical standards in everything that we do.
It is not only the right thing to do, but it is critical to ensure our long-term
success as a company.
41
Maintain healthy practice
Kenvue Integrity Line Tax policy
At Kenvue, we believe acting ethically is everyone’s responsibility. The Our Company’s tax policy statement sets forth the guiding principles for
Kenvue Integrity Line is managed by a third-party – NAVEX – to offer a governance of tax matters, compliance, planning, and relationships with
confidential method to report concerns. Anonymous reports are allowed, government authorities and other stakeholders. Approved by the Audit
where local law permits. We value input and encourage use of this system Committee of our Board, this policy applies to all Kenvue subsidiaries
to report any issues or concerns, or to submit any confidential questions. and employees.
Kenvue will not tolerate threats or acts of retaliation against individuals
Compliance, controls and governance
who, in good faith, provide information regarding actual or potential
All Kenvue income, property and indirect taxes are overseen by our
misconduct in connection with reports of actual or potential misconduct.
Global Head of Tax, who reports to the Chief Financial Officer. Tax
affairs are managed by a global network of qualified and trained tax
Speak up policy
professionals, supported by professional services firms, who work
Kenvue encourages open and candid discussions and grants all team
closely with our business.
members free and unfettered access to ask questions and report
concerns. In keeping with this commitment, the Kenvue Speak up policy We ensure oversight and governance of tax matters through rigorous
and procedure offers guidance to Kenvuers about the responsibility internal review and approval procedures by the appropriate members
to “speak up” and the process for doing so whenever anyone becomes of our tax leadership and Global Audit and Assurance, with oversight by
aware of potential misconduct. the Audit Committee of the Board.
Tax planning and risk
Kenvue encourages open and
Our global tax organization partners with our business leaders to
candid discussions
provide tax planning that aligns with our business operations, enhances
value and manages tax risks. Our tax planning is informed and driven by
The timely reporting of breaches or deviations from Kenvue policies how our business operates and grows and we do not create tax haven
or applicable legislation helps us to reinforce our compliance culture resident entities for use in our operations.
and protect the Company from legal or reputational risks. Making
Transparency and our relationship with external stakeholders
a commitment to report these situations is part of our culture of
We value transparency and cooperation with tax authorities and are
transparency, commitment, and empowerment.
committed to engaging with the tax authorities in all countries in which
Reporting channels are extensive, including the Integrity Line, one’s
we operate in a professional, courteous, honest, and collaborative
supervisor, the areas of Legal & Compliance, Global Audit & Assurance,
manner regarding all tax matters. In the event a tax authority disagrees
the Triage Committee, and other resources. Examples of issues that
with our views on the appropriate tax treatment of a given item, we work
one might report include corruption or bribery, violations of the Code
constructively to try to resolve the issue timely through appropriate
of Conduct, or situations that put the Company at reputational risk,
methods of dispute resolution. We seek to be a valued partner to
among others.
governments and advocate for tax legislation that provides clarity,
fairness, and encourages innovation and growth.
42
Appendix
Document footnotes 14 Renewable energy source is an energy source that is capable of being replenished in a short time 31 Source: https://www.cdc.gov/oralhealth/oral_health_disparities/index.htm
through ecological cycles or agricultural processes (e.g., biomass, geothermal, hydro, solar, wind).
32 C1 includes emissions from all upstream impacts (cradle to gate) from Kenvue's supply chain
Renewable electricity targets are achieved through a combination of actions, including on-site
related to goods (such as external manufacturing, chemicals, packaging) and services
solar, virtual power purchase agreements (VPPAs), direct power purchase agreements (PPAs),
(media, marketing, research services). This also includes Forest, Land, and Agriculture
1 Results for the fiscal twelve months ended December 31, 2023, as reported in Kenvue’s Annual energy attribute certificates (EACs), also known as renewable electricity certificates (RECs), and
(FLAG) emissions from cotton, palm oil, and timber. Emissions were calculated using company
Report on Form 10-K released on March 1, 2024. green retail contracts.
spend in the report year paired with appropriate economic input/out (IO) emissions factor the
2 Employees are defined as individuals working full-time or part-time, excluding fixed-term 15 Inventory and reporting are aligned with RE100 technical criteria and supplemented Supply Chain Greenhouse Gas Emissions Factors v1.2 NAICS-6.
employees, interns, and co-op employees. Contingent workers, contractors, subcontractors, and by CDP.
33 C4 includes emissions from air, rail, road, and marine transportation, and storage of products
individuals on long-term disability are also excluded.
16 All Kenvuers irrespective of gender, race, ethnicity, or any other characteristic protected by law. produced in the reporting year. This can be between an organization’s tier 1 suppliers and its
3 All management levels include manager, director, vice president and above.
own operations, or for all inbound or outbound logistics purchased by the reporting organization
17 We aim to meet the goal by end of fiscal year and publish the year after.
4 Asian, Black/African American, Hispanic/Latino, Other Ethnic Racial Diversity; 2+ more races, from a third-party. Reporting includes all inbound and outbound third-party logistics and
18 According to SBTi Net-Zero Standard, long-term targets must have a target year of 2050 or
warehousing paid for by Kenvue.
NH/PI, AI/AN (Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, American Indian or Alaska Native). Workforce
sooner.
composition metrics are derived from data collected in connection with EEO-1 reporting. 34 Source: https://www.worldwildlife.org/threats/deforestation
19 Recyclable, also defined as recycle-ready, is when packaging is designed for collection, sorting,
5 Kenvue-owned facilities used for manufacturing, where Kenvue has operational control. 35 Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®) certified paper/wood fiber is made from responsibly sourced
and recycling using end-of-life processes, but where collection, sorting, and recycling
wood fiber.
6 Inclusion index is scored as % favorable responses using the 5 pt Likert scale of “Strongly Agree infrastructure may not yet be in place for the packaging to actually be recycled. Best practices of
–Agree – Neither Agree nor Disagree-Disagree-Strongly Disagree” across 12 questions: Senior "designing for recyclability" guidance for plastic-based packaging include the Association of 36 Programme of the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) certified paper/wood fiber,
Leadership is committed to building a diverse workforce; Senior Leadership champions an Plastics Recyclers in the United States. Note: "Designed for recycling," "designed for recyclability," including Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) is made from responsibly sourced wood fiber.
inclusive work environment where each employee is considered an individual; Sufficient effort and "recycle ready" are also used interchangeably and reflect the same meaning.
37 Source: https://ipad.fas.usda.gov/cropexplorer/cropview/commodityView.
is made to get the opinions and thinking of people who work here; There is equal opportunity
20 Kenvue defines refillable or reusable packaging as packaging that is designed for either the aspx?cropid=4243000&sel_year=2021&rankby=Production
for people to have a successful career at Kenvue, regardless of their differences or background;
business or the consumer to put the same type of purchased product back into the original
Diverse perspectives are valued at Kenvue; In my workgroup, it feels safe to take social risks 38 Identity preserved is from a single identifiable certified source that is kept separately from
packaging, is designed to be returnable and/or refillable, and accomplishes a minimum number of
(e.g. suggesting ideas, asking questions, making mistakes); I trust my people leader; My people ordinary palm oil throughout the supply chain.
reuses by being part of a system that enables reuse.
leader holds people accountable for demonstrating inclusive behaviors (e.g. ensuring all voices
39 Segregated is from different certified sources that is kept separate from ordinary palm oil
are heard, being respectful); My people leader values team members’ perspectives even when 21 Packaging for direct purchases, may not include all externally manufactured products. Total weight of
throughout the supply chain.
those perspectives are different from their own; I believe diversity and inclusion are important for plastic packaging is calculated utilizing 2024 Business Plan volume and is not trued up to actual sales.
Kenvue’s success; I am treated with respect at work; I feel like I belong at Kenvue. Manual adjustments of <10% were made to 2024 Business Plan volume based on SME judgment to 40 Mass balance is from certified sources that are mixed with ordinary palm oil throughout the supply
remove materials not assumed to contain plastics. chain.
7 The methodology to calculate product donations was a combination of Fair Market Value (FMV),
list price, and/or retail recommended value. 22 Low-risk source is defined as material that is either: 1) Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®) or 41 Manufacturers and retailers can buy RSPO Credits and RSPO Independent Smallholder Credits
Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) certified, 2) post-consumer from RSPO-certified growers, crushers, and independent smallholders. By purchasing RSPO
8 Applies to all Kenvue-owned facilities where Kenvue has operational control, regardless of building
recycled content, 3) traced back to country of harvest and assigned a low-risk categorization Credits, buyers encourage the production of Certified Sustainable Palm Oil. https://rspo.org/as-
type; all leased facilities used for manufacturing and/or research and development; and leased,
at country level using Preferred by Nature's Timber Sourcing Hub, or 4) demonstrates other an-organisation/rspo-credits/
non-manufacturing and/or non-research and development facilities where the facility is greater
approved methods of verifying low risk. 42 Source: Environmental safety aspects of personal care products—A European perspective - Tolls -
than 50,000 square feet and where Kenvue has operational control. The 2020 baseline and all
subsequent reporting years include all facilities aligned to Kenvue’s structure upon separation 23 Volumes include direct purchases of primary and secondary packaging and leaflets. Volumes do 2009 - Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry - Wiley Online Library
from Johnson & Johnson in 2023 and do not include any operational or organizational exclusions. not include the packaging materials sourced in some externally manufactured products. 43 Source: SmartLabel Consumer Insights Survey, July 2021
Scope 1 are greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions that Kenvue directly generates – e.g., running boilers
24 Includes palm oil-based ingredients directly procured by Kenvue; does not include palm oil-based
and vehicles using fossil fuels. Fleet emissions are reported as CO and do not include other
2 ingredients in some externally manufactured products.
greenhouse gas emissions. Scope 2 are GHG emissions that Kenvue indirectly generates – from
25 Physical supply chain refers to palm oil supply that is sourced from certified plantations under
electricity or energy purchased for heating and cooling buildings.
the Mass Balance, Segregated, or Identity Preserved certifications. More information on RSPO-
9 The inventory was compiled in accordance with the World Resources Institute (WRI)/
certified supply chains can be found here: https://rspo.org/as-an-organisation/certification/
World Business Council for Sustainable Development(WBCSD) (GHG) Protocol – A
supply-chains/.
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition 2013) including the
26 New product development includes improvement of existing products, or new products in each
amendment to this protocol, GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance (2015).
calendar year.
10 The target boundary includes land-related emissions and removals from bioenergy feedstocks.
27 Scientific principles are defined across four pillars – carbon footprint, green chemistry, sustainable
11 Virgin plastic means newly manufactured resin produced from petrochemical feedstock used
packaging, and product environmental footprint.
as the raw material for the manufacture of plastic products and which has never been used or
processed before. 28 Improved environmental performance is defined as improvement in one or more of the four pillars,
with no regression compared to the baseline product, measured using Kenvue’s Sustainable
12 Certification schemes accepted by Kenvue include FSC® or PEFC chain of custody standard, only
Innovation Profiler (SIP).
when FSC® is not available.
29 Source: Global Humanitarian Overview 2023 [EN/AR/ES/FR] - World | ReliefWeb
13 Recycled includes both post-consumer and post-industrial recycled content; Verification of
recycled content is conducted by an external third-party (for example, Preferred by Nature). The 30 Source: https://jada.ada.org/article/S0002-8177(22)00733-4/fulltext?dgcid=PromoSpots_
information provided herein includes data from suppliers. While we strive to ensure the accuracy ADAorg_ADANews_FebruaryJADA
and completeness of this data, we recognize there may be limitations to its accuracy or
comprehensiveness.
43
Appendix
CAUTIONARY NOTE ON
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This report contains “forward-looking statements” as defined in the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including forward-looking
statements related to the Healthy Lives Mission and its related goals and
commitments. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use
of words such as “plans,” “expects,” “will,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” and
other words of similar meaning. The reader is cautioned not to rely on
these forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current
expectations of future events. If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate
or known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results
could vary materially from the expectations and projections of Kenvue
Inc. and our affiliates. A list and descriptions of risks, uncertainties, and
other factors can be found in our filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC), including the Kenvue Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, and subsequent Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q and other filings, available at www.kenvue.com or
on request from Kenvue. Kenvue and our affiliates undertake no obligation
to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or developments or otherwise.
44
Appendix
Alignment with UN Sustainable Development Goals
Kenvue recognizes the importance of the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the UN Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs) which require broad participation and the leadership of government, civil society and business
to address the most significant and urgent challenges facing our world. Kenvue has ESG priorities and strategies that are
aligned with several of the UN SDGs as highlighted below.
Nurture healthy people Enrich a healthy planet Maintain healthy practice
Fostering an inclusive, equitable and diverse workplace Taking action on climate change Designing for sustainable product innovation
Ensuring workforce health, safety and well-being Reducing plastic waste Providing product transparency
Advancing community health and well-being Protecting biodiversity, land and forests Respecting human rights
Our partnerships and collaborations with third parties enable us to build capabilities and advance our Healthy Lives Mission. This includes our trade associations, other membership organizations , our suppliers, customers, nongovernmental organizations/civil society, multi-lateral organizations and other voluntary coalitions. 45
Appendix
Healthy people Employee engagement
Figures for Healthy People tables cover our global workforce including Total employees1 by regions* 2023 Employee Engagement, Engage Survey 2023
manufacturing workers and temporary and seasonal employees for
the year ending, December 31, unless otherwise specified. North America (NA) 25% Number of languages available 17
Workforce composition
Europe, Middle East, Egypt, and Africa (EMEA) 28% Number of countries administered 59
Global workforce1,* 2023
Latin America (LATAM) 18% Response rate (among all active employees)1 92%
Total number of employees2 ~22,000
Asia and Pacific (APAC) 29% Engagement Score2 81%
% of workforce that are manufacturing3 employees2 24%
1 Employees are defined as individuals working full-time or part-time, excluding fixed-term employees, interns, and co-op employees.
Contingent workers, contractors, subcontractors, and individuals on long-term disability are also excluded. Inclusion Index Score3 85%
* Data has been assured by ERM-CVS.
% of workforce that are part-time4 employees2 1%
1 Full-time team members who have been at Kenvue more than 90 days were invited to participate.
2 Engagement Score is calculated as % favorable responses using the 5-point Likert scale of “Strongly Agree – Agree – Neither Agree
1 The data covers our global workforce including manufacturing workers and temporary and seasonal employees. Employees1 by age in %* 2023 nor Disagree-Disagree-Strongly Disagree” across all 64 questions included in the Engage Survey, grouped together under Overall
Favorability category.
2 Employees are defined as individuals working full-time or part-time, excluding fixed-term employees, interns, and co-op employees.
3 Inclusion index is scored as % favorable responses using the 5 pt Likert scale of “Strongly Agree – Agree – Neither Agree nor Disagree-
Contingent workers, contractors, subcontractors, and individuals on long-term disability are also excluded.
Disagree-Strongly Disagree” across 12 questions: Senior Leadership is committed to building a diverse workforce; Senior Leadership
3 Manufacturing employees are defined as non-supervisory personnel, who are engaged in functions such as production, production Under 30 14% champions an inclusive work environment where each employee is considered an individual; Sufficient effort is made to get the opinions and
maintenance, quality control inspections, materials management distribution, and warehousing. thinking of people who work here; There is equal opportunity for people to have a successful career at Kenvue, regardless of their differences
or background; Diverse perspectives are valued at Kenvue; In my workgroup, it feels safe to take social risks (e.g. suggesting ideas, asking
4 Part-time employees are defined in the US as employees currently on the payroll who have a continual and regularly scheduled
questions, making mistakes); I trust my people leader; My people leader holds people accountable for demonstrating inclusive behaviors
workweek of 20 hours or more, but less than 35 hours. Non-US employees report following each country’s regulations regarding
(e.g. ensuring all voices are heard, being respectful); My people leader values team members’ perspectives even when those perspectives
temporary part-time status.
are different from their own; I believe diversity and inclusion are important for Kenvue’s success; I am treated with respect at work; I feel like
30-50 68%
* Data has been assured by ERM-CVS. I belong at Kenvue.
51+ 18%
Employees1 by gender in %* 2023
1 Employees are defined as individuals working full-time or part-time, excluding fixed-term employees, interns, and co-op employees.
Women 50% Contingent workers, contractors, subcontractors, and individuals on long-term disability are also excluded.
* Data has been assured by ERM-CVS.
Men 50%
Undeclared 0%
1 Employees are defined as individuals working full-time or part-time, excluding fixed-term employees, interns, and co-op employees.
Contingent workers, contractors, subcontractors, and individuals on long-term disability are also excluded.
* Data has been assured by ERM-CVS.
46
Appendix
Diversity, equity & inclusion Workforce health, safety & well-being Public health
Global representation of women
2023 Employee safety 2023 Humanitarian aid 2023
by management level1 in %*
Manager 54% Lost Workday Case Rate1 0.12 Value of in-kind contributions1 $31.0 MM
Director 50% Total Recordable Incident Rate2 0.40 Value of cash contributions $0.7 MM
1 The methodology to calculate product donations was a combination of Fair Market Value (FMV), list price, and/or retail recommended value.
Vice President and above 46% Number of fatalities — employees3 0
1 All management levels include manager, director, vice president and above.
Number of fatalities — contractors 0
* Data has been assured by ERM-CVS.
1 “Lost days” are calendar days counted beginning the day after an incident has taken place.
Representation of race/ethnicity1 by 2 Also known as Total Recordable Incident Rate, TRIR is the number of recordable incidents per 100 full-time workers.
2023
management level2 in the U.S. in %* 3 Employees are defined as individuals working full-time or part-time, excluding fixed-term employees, interns, and co-op employees.
Contingent workers, contractors, subcontractors, and individuals on long-term disability are also excluded.
Vice President
Race/Ethnicity Manager Director
and above
White 64% 63% 66%
Asian 18% 17% 12%
Black/African American 8% 9% 8%
Hispanic/Latino 8% 8% 11%
2 or more races 2% 2% 2%
Native Hawaiian or Pacific
Islander, American Indian 0% 1% 0%
or Alaska Native
Declined to answer 0% 1% 0%
1 U.S. Employee only. Workforce composition metrics are derived from data as collected in connection with EEO-1 reporting. Due to rounding,
percentages may not sum.
2 All management levels include manager, director, vice president and above.
* Data has been assured by ERM-CVS.
47
Appendix
Healthy planet
Purchased energy use by type Renewable
2020 2021 2022 2023*
(MWh) electricity1 2020 2021 2022 2023*
by region2
Figures for Healthy Planet tables are expressed for the calendar year
Total Kenvue purchased energy1 806,901 795,173 784,847 723,138
beginning January 1 through December 31 for each year reported, unless MWh % MWh % MWh % MWh %
otherwise specified.
Total Kenvue
Electricity purchased from grid 441,644 427,317 423,230 385,188
renewable 130,183 29.3% 109,950 25.5% 186,421 43.3% 263,839 65.2%
Climate change
electricity3
Natural gas 284,951 277,003 266,846 218,704
North America
94,861 58.7% 73,930 49.0% 88,165 59.5% 90,610 62.8%
Energy consumption1 2020 2021 2022 2023* (NA)
Europe, Middle
Diesel fuel 44,396 51,847 44,461 50,819
Total energy consumption (MWh) 809,290 797,551 786,542 728,469 East, Egypt,
35,104 33.8% 33,770 33.3% 912,03 87.2% 75,908 81.1%
and Africa
(EMEA)
Direct heating/district cooling 15,528 21,208 19,763 18,520
% of energy from renewable
18.8% 17.4% 27.3% 39.9%
sources2 Latin America
0 0.0% 337 0.4% 514 0.7% 75,175 100%
(LATAM)
Steam 3,068 3,058 5,882 17,556
% of energy from non-renewable
81.2% 82.6% 72.7% 60.1%
sources2 Asia and
218 0.2% 1,914 2.0% 65,39 6.6% 22,146 24.2%
Pacific (APAC)
1 Applies to all Kenvue-owned facilities where Kenvue has operational control, regardless of building type; all leased facilities used for Propane 1,513 819 1,829 1,347
manufacturing and/or research and development; and leased, non-manufacturing and/or non-research and development facilities where
1 Renewable energy source is an energy source that is capable of being replenished in a short time through ecological cycles or agricultural
the facility is greater than 50,000 square feet and where Kenvue has operational control. The 2020 baseline and all subsequent
processes (e.g., biomass, geothermal, hydro, solar, wind). Renewable electricity targets are achieved through a combination of actions,
reporting years include all facilities aligned to Kenvue’s structure upon separation from Johnson & Johnson in 2023 and do not include
including on-site solar, virtual power purchase agreements (VPPAs), direct power purchase agreements (PPAs), energy attribute
any operational or organizational exclusions.
certificates (EACs), also known as renewable electricity certificates (RECs), and green retail contracts.
Kerosene 5,129 2,323 4,714 3,899
2 Renewable and non-renewable energy sources are defined in GRI 302: Energy 2016; a renewable energy source is an energy source that
2 Inventory and reporting are aligned with RE100 technical criteria and supplemented by CDP.
is capable of being replenished in a short time through ecological cycles or agricultural processes (e.g., biomass, geothermal, hydro, solar,
wind) and a non-renewable energy source is an energy source that cannot be replenished, reproduced, grown or generated in a short time 3 Applies to all Kenvue-owned facilities where Kenvue has operational control, regardless of building type; all leased facilities used for
period through ecological cycles or agricultural processes (e.g., coal, fuels distilled from petroleum or crude oil, fuels extracted from natural manufacturing and/or research and development; and leased, non-manufacturing and/or non-research and development facilities where
gas processing and petroleum refining; natural gas). the facility is greater than 50,000 square feet and where Kenvue has operational control. The 2020 baseline and all subsequent
Fuel oil 3,686 2,538 4,541 2,415 reporting years include all facilities aligned to Kenvue’s structure upon separation from Johnson & Johnson in 2023 and do not include
* Data has been assured by ERM-CVS.
any operational or organizational exclusions.
* Data has been assured by ERM-CVS.
Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) 4 2 0 0
Co-generation/tri-generation 0 0 0 9,815
Biogas 6,821 7,452 8,414 8,206
Solar PV 162 1,605 5,165 6,614
Petrol 0 0 1 53
1 Applies to all Kenvue-owned facilities where Kenvue has operational control, regardless of building type; all leased facilities used for
manufacturing and/or research and development; and leased, non-manufacturing and/or non-research and development facilities where
the facility is greater than 50,000 square feet and where Kenvue has operational control. The 2020 baseline and all subsequent
reporting years include all facilities aligned to Kenvue’s structure upon separation from Johnson & Johnson in 2023 and do not include
any operational or organizational exclusions.
* Data has been assured by ERM-CVS.
48
Appendix
3 Scope 3 data limited assurance provided by ERM-CVS includes all Scope 3 categories except C1: Purchased goods and services – Forest
Scope 1 GHG emissions1,2 Scope 3 GHG emissions, by source1,*
Land and Agriculture (FLAG) emissions (494,307 MT COe) and C15: Investments (551 MT COe).
20204,* 2021 2022 2023* 2022 2023 2 2
(MTs CO e) (MTs CO e)
2 2 4 C1 includes emissions from all upstream impacts (cradle to gate) from Kenvue's supply chain related to goods (such as external
manufacturing, chemicals, packaging) and services (media, marketing, research services). This also includes Forest, Land and
Agriculture (FLAG) emissions from cotton, palm oil, and timber. Emissions were calculated using company spend in the report year
Kenvue Scope 1 GHG emissions3 73,841 73,062 71,982 62,919 Total Kenvue Scope 3 GHG emissions2,3 3,652,178 3,410,360 paired with appropriate economic input/out (IO) emissions factor the Supply Chain Greenhouse Gas Emissions Factors v1.2 NAICS-6.
5 C2 includes emissions from all upstream impacts (cradle to gate) for categories designated as capital goods under Kenvue's financial
accounting (capital equipment, construction, and facility services). Emissions were calculated using Company spend in the report year
paired with appropriate economic input/out (IO) emissions factor the Supply Chain Greenhouse Gas Emissions Factors v1.2 NAICS-6.
1 Applies to all Kenvue-owned facilities where Kenvue has operational control, regardless of building type; all leased facilities used for Category 1: Purchased goods 6 C3 includes upstream emissions associated with the production of fuels, electricity, steam, chilled water, and district heat consumed by
2,644,220 2,519,417
manufacturing and/or research and development; and leased, non-manufacturing and/or non-research and development facilities where and services4 Kenvue. This includes well-to-tank (WTT)—GHG emissions from the production, transportation, transformation and distribution of the fuel
the facility is greater than 50,000 square feet and where Kenvue has operational control. The 2020 baseline and all subsequent used to power vehicles, transmission and distribution (T&D)—GHG emissions associated with distributing electricity from a utility to the
reporting years include all facilities aligned to Kenvue’s structure upon separation from Johnson & Johnson in 2023 and do not include end user, and WTT and T&D loss—upstream GHG emissions associated with the production, transportation, transformation and
any operational or organizational exclusions. distribution of the fuel used to power electricity that is lost in the transmission and distribution process. Emissions were calculated using
2 The target boundary includes land-related emissions and removals from bioenergy feedstocks. IEA loss factors for electricity and DEFRA WTT emission factors for fuels and electricity.
Category 2: Capital goods5 18,063 21,474
3 The inventory was compiled in accordance with the World Resources Institute (WRI) / World Business Coucil for Sustainable Development 7 C4 includes emissions from air, rail, road, and marine transportation, and storage of products produced in the reporting year. This can
(WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol - A Corporate Account and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition 2013) including the be between an organization’s tier 1 suppliers and its own operations, or for all inbound or outbound logistics purchased by the reporting
amendment to this protocol, GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance (2015). Scope 1 emission factors are sourced from a variety of reputable organization from a third-party. Reporting includes all inbound and outbound third-party logistics and warehousing paid for by Kenvue.
public sources which includes emission factors for fuel sources which are multiplied by the associated global warming potential (GWP) and 8 C5 includes emissions from waste generated in Kenvue-owned facilities where Kenvue has operational control, used for manufacturing
Category 3: Fuel-and-energy-
added together to determine the total COe. Scope 1 emissions are defined as from sources that are owned or controlled by Kenvue and
2 71,127 64,867 and/or research and development. Emissions were calculated for both non-hazardous and hazardous waste using DEFRA's emissions
occur on-site within its operational boundaries. Fleet emissions are reported as CO 2 and do not include other greenhouse gas emissions. related activities6 factors for waste.
4 2020 represents Kenvue’s baseline year toward which GHG emissions reductions will be measured. Consistent with the GHG Protocol, 9 C6 includes emissions from the transportation of employees for business-related activities, including air, rail, and automobile travel
a recalculation shall be performed if any significant qualitative or quantitative change is made to the data, inventory boundary and/or
including well-to-wheel (WTW) emissions (emissions produced throughout a fuel’s entire lifecycle, from its production to its use). Hotel
methods; ‘Significant’ is defined as a structural change such as merger or acquisition or a data error over 5%. Category 4: Upstream stays are considered optional for reporting to the SBTi and are not reported. Travel related emissions from reimbursements were
* Data has been assured by ERM-CVS. transportation and distribution7 696,046 549,345 excluded. Data reported in 2023 reflects an adjustment to the methodology using DEFRA’s emissions factors for air travel.
10 C7 includes emissions from the transportation of employees for business-related activities, including air, rail, and automobile travel
including well-to-wheel emissions and was calculated based on employee home and office locations and average work from home as well as
commuting behaviors.
Scope 2 GHG emissions1,2,3 Category 5: Waste generated
2020* 2021 2022 2023*
2,314 2,063 11 C8 includes emissions from upstream leased assets and was calculated for sites that do not meet the criteria of Kenvue's Scope 1 and
(MTs CO e)
2 in operations8 2 emissions: Kenvue-owned facilities where Kenvue has operational control, regardless of building type; all leased facilities used
for manufacturing and/or research and development; and leased, non-manufacturing and/or non-research and development
Kenvue Location-based Scope 2 facilities where the facility is greater than 50,000 square feet.
158,307 146,693 154,554 146,245
GHG emissions 12 C9 includes emissions from the transportation and distribution of sold products. This only includes emissions from after the point of sale
Category 6: Business travel9 23,514 25,901
when transportation of the product is not paid for by Kenvue. In general, most of the outbound transportation from Kenvue's operations
to customers is paid for by Kenvue and reported in C4. Upon transfer of goods to Kenvue's customers, products are distributed/stored
downstream from retailers’ warehouses to their retail locations and reported in C9 and was calculated using activity-based data using
Kenvue Market-based Scope 2 DEFRA emissions factors.
136,832 133,505 113,934 93,610
GHG emissions 13 C11 and C12 include direct emissions from the use of sold products and the end-of-life treatment of sold products was calculated using
Category 7: Employee commuting10 28,208 34,692
sales volumes for all Kenvue products combined with lifecycle assessment (LCA) models where sales volumes could be obtained; where
they could not be obtained, sales revenues and average unit prices were used to estimate volumes. Due to the size of our product portfolio,
LCAs were not performed for every Kenvue product, so products were placed into LCA categories, and a representative product LCA
1 Applies to all Kenvue-owned facilities where Kenvue has operational control, regardless of building type; all leased facilities used for
was applied.
manufacturing and/or research and development; and leased, non-manufacturing and/or non-research and development facilities where
the facility is greater than 50,000 square feet and where Kenvue has operational control. The 2020 baseline and all subsequent Category 8: Upstream leased assets11 4,745 5,958 14 C15 includes emissions for some investments that were previously included in Johnson & Johnson's Venture Investing (JJDC). Kenvue only
reporting years include all facilities aligned to Kenvue’s structure upon separation from Johnson & Johnson in 2023 and do not include reports the scope 1 & 2 of these investments in line with Greenhouse Gas Protocol guidance on C15.
any operational or organizational exclusions.
* Data has been assured by ERM-CVS.
2 The target boundary includes land-related emissions and removals from bioenergy feedstocks.
3 The inventory was compiled in accordance with the World Resources Institute (WRI) / World Business Council for Sustainable Development Category 9: Downstream
18,082 18,406
(WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol - A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition 2013) including the
transportation and distribution12
amendment to this protocol, GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance (2015). Scope 1 emission factors are sourced from a variety of reputable Scope 3 SBT supplier engagement 2022 2023
public sources which includes emission factors for fuel sources which are multiplied by the associated global warming potential (GWP) and
added together to determine the total COe. Scope 1 emissions are defined as from sources that are owned or controlled by Kenvue and
2
occur on-site within its operational boundaries.
% of Kenvue's suppliers by emissions
Category 11: Use of sold products13 1,129 817
* Data has been assured by ERM-CVS.
covering Category 1: Purchased goods
and services1 and Category 4: Upstream 19% 21%
Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions1,2,3
(MTs CO e) 2020* 2021 2022 2023* Category 12: End-of-life treatment transportation and distribution,2 that
2 143,995 166,869
of sold products13 have science-based targets
Total Kenvue Scope 1 + 2 Market-
210,673 206,567 185,916 156,529
based GHG emissions 1 C1 includes emissions from all upstream impacts (cradle to gate) from Kenvue's supply chain related to goods (such as external
manufacturing, chemicals, packaging) and services (media, marketing, research services). This also includes Forest, Land and
Category 15: Investments14 735 551
Agriculture (FLAG) emissions from cotton, palm oil, and timber. Emissions were calculated using company spend in the report year
paired with appropriate economic input/out (IO) emissions factor the Supply Chain Greenhouse Gas Emissions Factors v1.2 NAICS-6.
Total annual reduction of Scope
- 1.9% 11.8% 25.7% 2 C4 includes emissions from air, rail, road, and marine transportation, and storage of products produced in the reporting year. This can
1 + 2 GHG emissions (%) 1 The inventory was compiled in accordance with the World Resources Institute (WRI) / World Business Council for Sustainable Development be between an organization’s tier 1 suppliers and its own operations, or for all inbound or outbound logistics purchased by the reporting
(WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol - A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition 2013) including the organization from a third-party. Reporting includes all inbound and outbound third-party logistics and warehousing paid for by Kenvue.
amendment to this protocol, GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance (2015). Scope 3 are defined as indirect emissions (not included in scope 2)
1 Applies to all Kenvue-owned facilities where Kenvue has operational control, regardless of building type; all leased facilities used for that occur in the value chain of the reporting company, including both upstream and downstream emissions and are aligned with The
manufacturing and/or research and development; and leased, non-manufacturing and/or non-research and development facilities where World Business Council on Sustainable Development (WBCSD) defined 15 scope 3 categories in the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3)
the facility is greater than 50,000 square feet and where Kenvue has operational control. The 2020 baseline and all subsequent Accounting and Reporting Standard.
reporting years include all facilities aligned to Kenvue’s structure upon separation from Johnson & Johnson in 2023 and do not include 2 Emissions from C10: Processing of sold products, C13: Downstream leased assets, and C14: Franchises and investments are not applicable
any operational or organizational exclusions. to Kenvue.
2 The target boundary includes land-related emissions and removals from bioenergy feedstocks.
3 The inventory was compiled in accordance with the World Resources Institute (WRI) / World Business Council for Sustainable Development
(WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol - A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition 2013) including the
amendment to this protocol, GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance (2015). Fleet emissions are reported as CO and do not include other
2
greenhouse gas emissions.
* Data has been assured by ERM-CVS.
49
Appendix
Plastics Biodiversity, land & forest Palm oil
Plastic packaging 2021 2022 2023 Paper/wood1 fiber sourcing 2023 Palm oil sourcing 2023
MTs % of Total MTs % of Total
Total weight of plastic packaging1 (MTs) 125,000 117,000 105,000
Total Kenvue volume of paper and wood fiber Total Kenvue volume of palm oil-based ingredients
84,718 - 30,600 100%
% of plastic packaging1 made from recycled2 sourced purchased1
1% 4.4% 6.9%
and/or renewable materials
Volumes of palm oil-based ingredients purchased
Total volume of certified1 or verified recycled2
79,728 94% through RSPO physical supply chains2 or covered
% of plastic packaging1 that is recyclable2 paper and wood fiber packaging3
72.8% 71.1% 71.4% by RSPO Book & Claim credits6
or refillable3
FSC® certified4 paper/wood fiber 43,123 51% Identity Preserved3 0 0%
Total reduction of virgin plastics4 in
1% 9.6% 21.1%
packaging1 weight (%)
PEFC certified5 paper/wood fiber 13,660 16% Segregated4 0 0%
1 Packaging for direct purchases, may not include all externally manufactured products. Total weight of plastics packaging is calculated utilizing
2024 Business Plan volume and is not trued up to actual sales. Manual adjustments of <10% were made to 2024 Business Plan volume based
on SME judgment to remove materials not assumed to contain plastics.
2 Recyclable, also defined as recycle-ready, is when packaging is designed for collection, sorting, and recycling using end-of-life processes,
but where collection, sorting and recycling infrastructure may not yet be in place for the packaging to actually be recycled. Best practices of Verified recycled2 paper/wood fiber 22,945 27% Mass Balance5 9,200 30%
"designing for recyclability" guidance for plastic-based packaging include the Association of Plastics Recyclers in the United States. Note:
"Designed for recycling," "designed for recyclability," and "recycle ready" are also used interchangeably and reflect the same meaning.
3 Kenvue defines refillable or reusable packaging as packaging that is designed for either the business or the consumer to put the same type
of purchased product back into the original packaging, is designed to be returnable and/or refillable, and accomplishes a minimum number of Total volume of paper and wood fiber packaging
reuses by being part of a system that enables reuse. 4,990 6% Book & Claim credits6 21,400 70%
not certified or verified recycled
4 Virgin plastic means newly manufactured resin produced from petrochemical feedstock used as the raw material for the manufacture of
plastic products and which has never been used or processed before.
1 Certification schemes accepted by Kenvue include FSC® or PEFC chain of custody standard, only when FSC® is not available. 1 Includes palm oil-based ingredients directly procured by Kenvue; does not include palm oil-based ingredients in some externally
2 Recycled includes both post-consumer and post-industrial recycled content; Verification of recycled content is conducted by an external third- manufactured products.
Waste
party (for example, Preferred by Nature). The information provided herein includes data from suppliers. While we strive to ensure the accuracy 2 Physical supply chain refers to palm oil supply that is sourced from certified plantations under the Mass Balance, Segregated, or Identity
and completeness of this data, we recognize there may be limitations to its accuracy or comprehensiveness. Preserved certifications. More information on RSPO-certified supply chains can be found here: https://rspo.org/as-an-organisation/
certification/supply-chains/
3 Volumes include direct purchases of primary and secondary packaging and leaflets. Volumes do not include the packaging materials sourced
Waste generated & diverted in some externally manufactured products. 3 Identity preserved is from a single identifiable certified source that is kept separately from ordinary palm oil throughout the supply chain.
2023
from disposal1 4 Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®) certified paper/wood fiber is made from responsibly sourced wood fiber. 4 Segregated is from different certified sources that is kept separate from ordinary palm oil throughout the supply chain.
5 Programme of the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) certified paper/wood fiber, including Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI) is 5 Mass balance is from certified sources that are mixed with ordinary palm oil throughout the supply chain.
made from responsibly sourced wood fiber.
Total waste generated (hazardous 6 Manufacturers and retailers can buy RSPO Credits and RSPO Independent Smallholder Credits from RSPO-certified growers, crushers, and
59,830 independent smallholders. By purchasing RSPO Credits, buyers encourage the production of Certified Sustainable Palm Oil. https://rspo.org/
and non-hazardous MTs)
as-an-organisation/rspo-credits/
Hazardous waste (%)1 8.8%
Non-hazardous waste (%)2 91.2%
Total waste diverted3 from disposal (MTs) 46,173
% of total waste diverted3 from disposal 77.1%
1 Includes waste generated from Kenvue-owned and operated facilities used for manufacturing.
2 Hazardous waste includes biological waste.
3 Diverted is defined as recycled, reused or used for waste to energy.
50
Appendix
Healthy practice Board of Directors Product quality & consumer safety
Figures for Healthy Practice tables are expressed for the calendar year Composition of Board of Directors1 2023 Product quality indicators 2023
beginning January 1 through December 31 for each year reported, unless
Number of regulatory inspections of Kenvue sites1
otherwise specified. Number of Directors 11 125
by worldwide health authorities
Ethics & compliance % of regulatory inspections that resulted in
Number of Independent Directors 7 83%
zero observations
Supply base overview 2023
Percentage of Independent Directors 64% Number of FDA inspections of Kenvue sites 4
Number of Kenvue suppliers 13,672
1 Board composition as of April 10, 2024.
% of FDA inspections that resulted in zero observations 75%
Number of Kenvue direct suppliers 1,951
Diversity in Board of Directors1 2023
Average number of observations per FDA inspection 1.25
Number of Kenvue indirect suppliers 11,721 Women 36%
Number of independent audits of Kenvue sites to ensure
43
compliance with Kenvue Quality Policy & Standards
Total Kenvue supplier spend (billions)1 $8.8 Ethnic/racial2 diversity 45%
Number of FDA warning letters issued 0
1 Represents spend we have control over / addressable spend, defined as products and services that procurement teams can negotiate with 1 Board composition as of April 10, 2024.
suppliers to meet business goals. Values have been rounded. Due to rounding, the numbers presented do not add up to the totals provided,
2 Asian, Black/African American, Hispanic/Latino, Other Ethnic Racial Diversity; 2+ more races, NH/PI, AI/AN (Native Hawaiian or
and percentages may not reflect the absolute figures. 1 Applies to all Kenvue-owned manufacturing facilities.
Pacific Islander, American Indian or Alaska Native). Workforce composition metrics are derived from data collected in connection with
EEO-1 reporting.
Supplier engagement1 2023 Employee training
% of Kenvue total suppliers with EcoVadis
4%
assessments completed Kenvue Code of Conduct (COC) training 2023
% of Kenvue direct suppliers with EcoVadis Percentage of active employees1 who completed online
19% 97%
assessments completed COC training
1 Excludes manufacturing employees. Manufacturing employees are defined as non-supervisory personnel who are engaged in such
% of Kenvue indirect suppliers with EcoVadis
2% functions such as production, production maintenance, quality control inspections, materials management distribution, and warehousing.
assessments completed Non-computerized training for manufacturing employees planned to ensure understanding of COC.
1 Supplier EcoVadis assessments are reported as of March 22, 2024.
51
Appendix
Financials Quality, environmental, health & safety
Financial results1 (millions) 2023 EHS compliance & certifications 2023
Number of Kenvue-owned and operated manufacturing
Net sales $15,444 27
facilities1
Number of Kenvue manufacturing and R&D sites certified
Net income $1,664 29
to ISO 140012,3
1 Results for the fiscal twelve months ended December 31, 2023, as reported in Kenvue’s Annual Report on Form 10-K % of Kenvue manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO
released on March 1, 2024. 100%
140013,4
Net sales by business segment1 (millions) 2023 Number of Kenvue manufacturing and R&D sites certified
3
to ISO 450012,5
Self Care2 $6,451
% of Kenvue manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO
10.3%
450014,5
Skin Health & Beauty3 $4,378
Number of Kenvue sites certified to ISO 90016 5
Essential Health4 $4,615
Number of environmental non-compliances7 8
1 Segment net sales for the fiscal twelve months ended December 31, 2023 as reported in Kenvue’s Annual Report on Form 10-K released on
March 1, 2024.
2 Self Care product categories include: Pain Care; Cough, Cold, and Allergy; and Other Self Care (Digestive Health; Smoking Cessation; Eye Care; and Fines paid for environmental non-compliances (USD)8 $600.00
Other). Major brands in the segment include Tylenol®, Motrin®, Benadryl®, Nicorette®, Zyrtec®, Zarbee’s®, ORSLTM, Rhinocort®, and Calpol®.
3 Skin Health & Beauty product categories include: Face and Body Care; and Hair, Sun, and Other. Major brands in the segment include
Neutrogena®, Aveeno®, Dr.Ci:Labo®, OGX®, Le Petit Marseillais®, Lubriderm®, and Rogaine®.
1 Kenvue-owned facilities used for manufacturing, where Kenvue has operational control.
4 Essential Health product categories include: Oral Care; Baby Care; and Other Essential Health (Women’s Health; Wound Care; and Other).
2 Certified to ISO 14001 or ISO 45001 means the site has received an external certification that is valid as of December 31, 2023.
Major brands in the segment include Listerine®, Johnson’s®, BAND-AID® Brand Adhesive Bandages, Stayfree®, o.b.® tampons, Carefree®, and
Desitin® Diaper Rash. 3 ISO 14001 is the organization’s international standard for environmental management systems.
4 The total manufacturing and R&D sites excludes small R&D and manufacturing sites (defined as less than 50 employees.)
5 ISO 45001 is an international standard that specifies requirements for occupational health and safety management systems
6 ISO 9001 is an international standard that gives requirements for an organization’s quality management systems.
7 Environmental non-compliances represent instances of non-compliance with environmental regulatory requirements or laws that were either
1) self-reported to authorities in the reporting year or 2) identified by authorities and the non-compliance occurred in the reporting year.
The authorities include regional, national, state/country/province and local/city regulatory agencies.
8 Fines paid for environmental non-compliances include those paid in the reporting year.
52
Appendix
Kenvue 2023 Healthy Lives Mission Report
SASB Index: Household & Personal Products Standard
Disclosure Topic and Accounting Metrics Location/Response
Water Management
(1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed, percentage of each in regions with High or
CG-HP-140a.1 Aligned with our double materiality assessment (DMA) water was determined not to be material to our business.
Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
CG-HP-140a.2 Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies and practices to mitigate those risks Aligned with our double materiality assessment (DMA) water was determined not to be material to our business.
Product Environmental, Health, & Safety Performance
CG-HP-250a.1 Revenue from products that contain REACH substances of very high concern (SVHC) Kenvue does not disclose this data.
CG-HP-250a.2 Revenue from products that contain substances on the California DTSC Candidate Chemicals List Kenvue does not disclose this data.
Product quality and safety, p. 35-37
CG-HP-250a.3 Discussion of process to identify and manage emerging materials and chemicals of concern Position on impact of pharmaceuticals and personal care products in the environment
Position on quality, safety and compliance
CG-HP-250a.4 Revenue from products designed with green chemistry principles Kenvue does not disclose this data.
Packaging Lifecycle Management
(1) Total weight of packaging, (2) percentage made from recycled and/or renewable materials, Plastics, p. 24
CG-HP-410a.1
and (3) percentage that is recyclable, reusable, and/or compostable Data tables, p. 50 (Plastic packaging)
Plastics, p. 24-25
CG-HP-410a.2 Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental impact of packaging throughout its lifecycle
Waste, p. 29-30
Environmental & Social Impacts of Palm Oil Supply Chain
Amount of palm oil sourced, percentage certified through the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) Palm oil, p. 27-28
CG-HP-430a.1
supply chains as (a) Identity Preserved, (b) Segregated, (c) Mass Balance, or (d) Book & Claim Data tables, p. 50 (Palm oil sourcing)
Activity Metrics
CG-HP-000.A Units of products sold, total weight of products sold Kenvue does not disclose this data.
CG-HP-000.B Number of manufacturing facilities Data tables, p. 52 (EHS compliance & certifications)
53
Appendix
Kenvue 2023 Healthy Lives Mission Report
GRI Index
Kenvue has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period January 1, 2023 to December 31, 2023 with reference to the GRI Standards.
GRI Standards
GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location/Response
General Disclosures
Kenvue Inc. is a publicly traded corporation.
2-1: Organizational details The location of our headquarters is 199 Grandview Road, Skillman, NJ 08558.
The countries of our operations are listed in our Form 10-K, Exhibit 21.
About this report, p. 6
2-2: Entities included in the organization’s ESG Reporting
Form 10-K, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Description of the Company and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
About this report, p. 6
Kenvue intends to publish the Healthy Lives Mission Report annually.
Kenvue's fiscal year (FY) ends on the Sunday nearest to the end of the month of December. FY23 occurred between January 1, 2023 and
2-3: Reporting period, frequency, and contact point
December 31, 2023. Kenvue's financial and ESG reporting periods are aligned.
Kenvue's 2023 Healthy Lives Mission Report was published on June 25, 2024.
For questions about the report or reported information, please contact: sustainability@kenvue.com
2-4: Restatements of information There are no restatements of information as this is Kenvue's inaugural report.
Kenvue's Chief Sustainability Officer led the process of seeking external assurance.
2-5: External assurance
Limited Assurance Statement 2023
GRI 2:
General Disclosures 2021
About Kenvue, p. 5
2-6: Activities, value chain, and other business relationships Form 10-K, Item 1. Business
Form 10-K, Item 1. Business; Item 1A. Risk Factors
Data tables, p. 46 (Global workforce)
2-7: Employees Data tables, p. 46 (Total employees by regions)
Data tables, p. 46 (Employees by gender)
2-8: Workers who are not employees Kenvue does not disclose this information.
ESG & sustainability governance, p. 6
Principles of Corporate Governance, p. 5
2-9: Governance structure and composition Proxy Statement, p. 12-18, 20-23,
Proxy Statement, p. 20, 22-23, 27-28
Governance
Principles of Corporate Governance, p. 4-5, 13
2-10: Nomination and selection of the highest governance body
Proxy Statement, p. 11
54
Appendix
GRI Standards
GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location/Response
General Disclosures (continued)
2-11: Chair of the highest governance body The Chair of the Board of Directors is not a senior executive.
ESG & sustainability governance, p. 6
2-12: Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of impacts Proxy Statement, p. 26-28
Principles of Corporate Governance
ESG & sustainability governance, p. 6
2-13: Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Operationalizing the Kenvue ESG strategy, p. 8
Principles of Corporate Governance
The Nominating, Governance & Sustainability Committee of the Kenvue Board of Directors reviews the progress of sustainability goals and
2-14: Role of the highest governance body in ESG Reporting objectives, trends in enforcement and industry practices, and discusses any significant reports or public statements relating to sustainability
or ESG matters, including this report.
Principles of Corporate Governance, p. 2
2-15: Conflicts of interest Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers, p. 1-2
Proxy Statement, p. 11, 23
Principles of Corporate Governance, p. 5
2-16: Communication of critical concerns
Proxy Statement, p. 29
GRI 2: Principles of Corporate Governance, p. 6-7
2-17: Collective knowledge of the highest governance body
General Disclosures 2021 Proxy Statement, p. 28
Principles of Corporate Governance, p. 6
2-18: Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body
Proxy Statement, p. 24
2-19: Remuneration policies Proxy Statement, p. 35-73
Principles of Corporate Governance, p. 4
2-20: Process to determine remuneration
Proxy Statement, p. 35-73
2-21: Annual total compensation ratio Kenvue does not disclose this information.
2-22: Statement on sustainable development strategy Message from our CEO, p. 3
Ethics & compliance, p. 41-42
2-23: Policy commitments Code of Conduct
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers
Ethics & compliance, p. 41-42
2-24: Embedding policy commitments
Code of Conduct
55
Appendix
GRI Standards
GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location/Response
General Disclosures (continued)
Kenvue Integrity Line
2-25: Processes to remediate negative impacts
Palm oil, p. 28
Ethics & compliance, p. 41-42
Code of Conduct, p. 7-9
2-26: Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns
Kenvue Integrity Line
Palm oil, p. 28
2-27: Compliance with laws and regulations Data Tables, p. 52 (EHS compliance & certifications)
Kenvue participates in the following industry and membership associations, amongst others:
AIM-Progress
Business for Social Responsibility
GRI 2:
Consumer Goods Forum
General Disclosures 2021
Ellen MacArthur Foundation Global Commitments
Intellectual Property Owners Association
2-28: Membership associations
International Anti-Counterfeiting Coalition
International Trademark Association
Pharmaceutical Trademarks Group
Self Care Federation
Sustainable Brands
WWF Climate Business Network
Determining ESG double materiality, p. 8-9
2-29: Approach to stakeholder engagement
Double Materiality Assessment 2023
2-30: Collective bargaining agreements Kenvue does not disclose this information.
Material Topics
Determining ESG double materiality, p. 8-9
3-1: Process to determine material topics
Double Materiality Assessment 2023
GRI 3:
Material Topics 2021
Determining ESG double materiality, p. 8-9
3-2: List of material topics
Double Materiality Assessment 2023
56
Appendix
GRI Standards
GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location/Response
Diversity, equity & inclusion
GRI 3:
3-3: Management of material topic Diversity, equity & inclusion, p. 11-15
Material Topics 2021
Data tables, p. 51 (Diversity in Board of Directors)
Data tables, p. 46 (Employees by gender in %)
GRI 405: Diversity and
405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees Data tables, p. 46 (Employees by age in %)
Equal Opportunity 2016
Data tables, p. 47 (Global representation of women by management level in %)
Data tables, p. 47 (Representation of race/ethnicity by management level in the U.S. in %)
Public health
GRI 3: Material Topics 3-3: Management of material topic Public health, p. 16-17
– Humanitarian Aid Data tables, p. 47 (Humanitarian aid)
Workforce health, safety & well-being
GRI 3: Material Topics 3-3: Management of material topic Workforce health, safety & well-being, p. 18-19
403-1: Occupational health and safety management system Workforce health, safety & well-being, p. 18-19
403-2: Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Workforce health, safety & well-being, p. 18-19
403-3: Occupational health services Workforce health, safety & well-being, p. 18-19
403-4: Worker participation, consultation, and communication on
Workforce health, safety & well-being, p. 18-19
occupational health and safety
403-5: Worker training on occupational health and safety Workforce health, safety & well-being, p. 18-19
GRI 403:
Occupational Health
and Safety 2018
403-6: Promotion of worker health Workforce health, safety & well-being, p. 18-19
403-7: Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts
Workforce health, safety & well-being, p. 18-19
directly linked by business relationships
403-8: Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system Workforce health, safety & well-being, p. 18-19
403-9: Work-related injuries Data tables, p. 47 (Employee safety)
403-10: Work-related ill health Data tables, p. 47 (Employee safety)
57
Appendix
GRI Standards
GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location/Response
Climate change
GRI 3: Material Topics 3-3: Management of material topic Climate change, p. 21-23
Data tables, p. 48 (Energy consumption)
302-1: Energy consumption within the organization Data tables, p. 48 (Purchased energy by use type)
Data tables, p. 48 (Renewable electricity by region)
GRI 302: Energy 2016
302-4: Reduction of energy consumption Data tables, p. 48 (Energy consumption)
302-5: Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Data tables, p. 48 (Purchased energy by use type)
305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Data tables, p. 49 (Scope 1 GHG emissions)
305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Data tables, p. 49 (Scope 2 GHG emissions)
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Data tables, p. 49 (Scope 3 GHG emissions, by source)
305-5: Reduction of GHG emissions Data tables, p. 49 (Scope 1 + 2 GHG emissions)
Plastics
GRI 3: Material Topics 3-3: Management of material topic Plastics, p. 24-25
GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1: Materials used by weight or volume Data tables, p. 50 (Plastic packaging)
Biodiversity, land & forest
GRI 3: Material Topics 3-3: Management of material topic Biodiversity, land & forest, p. 26-28
Biodiversity, land & forest, p. 26-28
Position on responsible palm oil sourcing
GRI 101: Biodiversity 2024 101-1 Policies to halt and reverse biodiversity loss
Position on responsible wood fiber sourcing
Position on sustainable sourcing
Waste
GRI 3: Material Topics 3-3: Management of material topic Waste, p. 29-30
306-1: Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts Waste, p. 29-30
Waste, p. 29-30
306-2: Management of significant waste-related impacts
Position on impact of pharmaceuticals and personal care products in the environment
GRI 306: Waste 2020
306-3: Waste generated Data tables, p. 50 (Waste generated & diverted from disposal)
306-4: Waste diverted from disposal Data tables, p. 50 (Waste generated & diverted from disposal)
58
Appendix
GRI Standards
GRI Standard GRI Disclosure Location/Response
Sustainable product innovation
GRI 3: Material Topics 3-3: Management of material topic Sustainable product innovation, p. 32-33
Product transparency
GRI 3: Material Topics 3-3: Management of material topic Product transparency, p. 34
Product quality & safety
Product quality & safety, p. 35-37
GRI 3: Material Topics 3-3: Management of material topic
Position on quality, safety and compliance
Human rights
GRI 3: Material Topics 3-3: Management of material topic Human rights, p. 38-41
Data tables, p. 51 (Kenvue Code of Conduct (COC) training)
— Kenvue Code of Conduct (COC) Training
Human rights considerations are covered in Kenvue's Code of Conduct.
Ethics & compliance
GRI 3: Material Topics 3-3: Management of material topic Ethics & compliance, p. 41-42
GRI 205: Data tables, p. 51 (Kenvue Code of Conduct (COC) training)
205-2: Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures
Anti-corruption 2016 Kenvue's Code of Conduct covers our stance on anti-corruption.
GRI 308:
Data tables, p. 51 (Supplier engagement)
Supplier Environmental 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken
Position on sustainable sourcing
Assessment 2016
Data tables, p. 51 (Supplier engagement)
Global modern slavery statement 2023
GRI 414: Supplier Social
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Position on human rights
Assessment 2017
Position on sustainable sourcing
Supplier Code of Conduct
59
www.kenvue.com
sustainability@kenvue.com
