2023 Corporate Responsibility Report
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
TABLE OF CONTENTS
03 A LETTER FROM OUR CEO AND CHIEF CORPORATE AFFAIRS OFFICER
04 OVERVIEW 35 PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES
05 Corporate Responsibility 36 Progress & Highlights
06 2023 Goals & Progress 37 Strategy
38 Employee Development, Engagement & Well-Being
07 ENVIRONMENT
39 Diversity & Inclusion
08 Progress & Highlights 41 Workplace Health & Safety
09 Strategy 42 Community Engagement
10 Climate Action
13 Water Use & Stewardship 44 GOVERNANCE
15 Packaging & Circular Economy 45 Strategy
47 Ethical Business Practices
19 SUPPLY CHAIN
48 ESG Materiality & Stakeholder Engagement
20 Progress & Highlights
21 Strategy 50 ABOUT THIS REPORT
23 Responsible Sourcing 51 Glossary
25 Nature 53 Endnotes
27 Livelihoods
54 APPENDIX
28 HEALTH & WELL-BEING 54 Data Summary
29 Progress & Highlights 60 Goal Methodology
30 Strategy 64 GRI Index
31 Choice 71 SASB Standards
32 Access 75 TCFD
33 Transparency & Marketing
34 Product Quality & Safety
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 2
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
A LETTER FROM OUR CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
AND CHIEF CORPORATE AFFAIRS OFFICER
Drink Well. Do Good. For years, these words have defined our approach to corporate Health and well-being — We advanced our work to offer consumers more balanced
responsibility for environmental and social issues. Recently, we decided to elevate beverage choices, with 59% of our product portfolio providing positive hydration.
our aspiration to Drink Well and Do Good to be our company purpose as part of our We also expanded distribution of our better-for-you offerings in new and varied
evolved strategic framework. This framework provides a blueprint to guide how we markets, including Chicago where we additionally collaborated with local community
direct our time, attention and resources - and the values we practice while pursuing partners and a regional grocery chain to host a food and beverage drive, sponsor a
our goals. It is grounded in our culture and driven by the incredible people of Keurig fitness event and provide samples of our better-for-you products in-store.
Dr Pepper (KDP).
People and culture — We activated our multi-year community impact partnership
As a leader in the beverage industry, we have the opportunity and the responsibility with the Red Cross and created many opportunities for our employees and
to enhance every beverage occasion from dawn to dusk, aspiring to create a positive customers to participate in blood drives, contribute to food drives and support
impact on the lives we touch and the places where we operate. This includes our emergency relief efforts through donations and volunteer efforts. We also continued
consumers, our employees, everyone with whom we do business and, importantly, to cultivate a culture of top beverage talent with a challenger mindset and furthered
the communities and environment all around us. our diversity and inclusion goals. Of note, our female representation of Director+
roles reached 32% in 2023, versus our baseline of 26% in 2020.
Our purpose supports an impactful, multi-year agenda against which we
continuously measure and report our progress, as you’ll read about in these pages. It’s an exciting time at KDP — a time of real progress and great possibility. With our
Here are a few of the highlights of our efforts in 2023 to advance our sixteen public elevated company purpose guiding us, an evolved strategic framework defining our
goals for corporate responsibility: next steps and our employees’ collective desire to make a positive impact with every
drink, we are poised to build upon our progress and learnings of the past year. We
Environmental impact — We made significant progress toward our 2030 climate cannot wait to see what Team KDP can achieve together in the years ahead.
targets, including a 21% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions and a 12% reduction
in Scope 3 emissions in select categories since 2018. We also continued to support
a circular economy, achieving a 15% virgin plastic reduction across our packaging
portfolio since 2019. This fall, we’ll begin testing K-Rounds, our innovative plastic and TIM COFER MONIQUE OXENDER
aluminum-free coffee pods, to be used in our new Keurig Alta brewer. Chief Corporate
Chief Executive Officer
Affairs Officer
Sustainable supply chains — We supported regenerative agriculture and
conservation practices on more than 43,000 acres of land, which contributed to
building supply chain and climate resiliency. We also continued to deliver on our
responsible sourcing commitment and, in 2023, we responsibly sourced 100% of
our coffee and cocoa.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 3
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
OVERVIEW
OUR COMPANY
KDP is a leading beverage company in North America, with a
portfolio of more than 125 owned, licensed and partner brands STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK
and powerful distribution capabilities to provide a beverage for
every need, anytime, anywhere. Driven by a purpose to Drink Well.
Do Good., our approximately 28,000 employees aim to enhance OUR PURPOSE OUR VISION
the experience of every beverage occasion and to make a positive
impact for people, communities and the planet. Drink Well. Do Good. A beverage for every need, anytime, anywhere
North American Category Leadership1
OUR STRATEGIES
#1 single-serve coffee
Champion Shape our Amplify our Generate Dynamically
brewing systems in the consumer-obsessed now and next route to market fuel for allocate
U.S. and Canada 125+ brand building beverage portfolio advantage growth capital
Owned, Licensed
#1 flavored carbonated
and Partner Brands
soft drinks in the U.S. and OUR CULTURE
Canada; #2 in Mexico
~28,000
Top beverage talent with a challenger mindset
#2 premium waters in the Employees
U.S.; #1 mineral water in Team First // Deliver Big // Think Bold // Be Fearless and Fair
Mexico 30
Manufacturing
#2 shelf-stable premium
Locations
ready-to-drink teas in the U.S.
150+
#1 apple juice in the U.S.;
#1 tomato seafood cocktail Principal
in Canada and Mexico Warehouses/ 2023 AWARDS & RECOGNITION
Distribution Centers
#1 mixers in the U.S.; #1 low
alcohol cocktail in Canada
CDP Score: A- on Climate CDP Supplier Engagement Leader:
Canada’s Top 100 Employers
and A- on Water A on Climate Change
$1.9B
International
Human Rights Campaign
Mexico Center of Philanthropy
Forbes America’s Best Foundation Equality 100 Winner:
(ESR)’s Best Socially
Employers for Women Leader in LGBTQ+
Responsible Companies
Workplace Inclusion
$14.8B
$4.1B $8.8B
TOTAL NET
U.S. Coffee SALES U.S. Refreshment Newsweek America’s Most TIME World’s Best Companies USA Today America’s
Beverages Responsible Companies Climate Leaders
22002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt 44
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY
Our ambition is to ensure our beverages make a positive
impact with every drink. We focus on our greatest
opportunities for impact in the environment, our supply
chain, as well as for health and well-being, people and
communities. We are committed to transparency of
corporate responsibility strategies, programs, progress
a CAn od
N
rp
g
o
o
I
rv
N
ae tr eTn ra
E
en sc
G
pe o.
R nsA ibiT litE
y
isD
su
eA
s
P arP
e
fR unO daA mC enH
tally
Re Ms ap r ao k nn e ss t pi ib anl rge e & n c
yProd &u c St a Q feu ta ylity WC H eo e ln la -s Bltu ehm
i
n&e gr
RH igu hm tsan
Tr
i
i a
In
n
n
t
t p
2e
e o
0g
r sc
2r
io
ta 4int
v
ae
n e
nd
e o
dc.
ut
W
be t
ecde
o
y
nc omeo
ns
en
ds
t
,i
i
o
nn
wf
u
a
ete
n h
a
ot
e
rto
ehw
s
e
woe
rr
oe
. k
rt kih
n
ine
o
g
i nn tet oe ar mrs ee aac xt
ic
mio ren
iza
ea
t
n
e
d
Empl Ho ey
Sae
l
afe
t eh W,
t
ely
l
-& Being
LiS
v
eu
lp i hp ol oy
d
C
sh
ai n
our integrated approach to advance our corporate
r r t
a
oe e o pns l pa
d
ep i rt co
i
ae nsn td ti is en osi rb no t ci shc oli i et anay
n
ngl s
e
da rt a
c
nr atpda
e
ch t rdee i oc ng
s
s,v
y
sy wi s. r oo teB
ue
ny a rmm ra ve sd e
a
cn wd lurti ien ea ta g hl
c
t ii hm nm in
a
Kge p ina Da o s –c Pvu t e
’
usr sre
l
tlf am io mpre p atn ih tnt ee gf
l
o
y
r Diversity & Inclusion C o n s e r v aA
t io
ng r ic u lt uR
r e
&e g e n e r a
t iv
e
helping to build resiliency and delivering on our
a am
s
db eit mio on
n
t so
t
rm ata ek de ina tp ho is si t reiv pe
o
i rm t.pact with every drink E
n
gC
o
m
sible
ng
a
gm
on rci
eu pu
Throughout this report, we showcase
m
e
nn
it y
Res So
t
the interconnectedness of our work.
Look out for this icon for more &
Read more in
Abex oa um
t
tp hle iss Ro ef
p
t oh ris
t:
i n
G
lp or sa sc at ric ye ‣. P u blA
i
cd v
Po oc la
i
cc
yy &
Wat Ster
e
U ws ae
r
dship
G & o EC v to e hr r ip n co a sr na ct ee Cli Am cta it oe n
Biodiversity C Ecir oc nu ola mr y
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 5
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
2023 GOALS & PROGRESS
For detail on methodologies and boundaries for our goals, see our Goal Methodology Table. For 2023, we have obtained limited third-party assurance of certain sustainability
performance metrics by ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS). The assured data points are flagged in the Data Summary and Sustainability Accounting Standards
Board (SASB) Standards, located in the Appendix of this report.
2021 2022 2023
Year Goal
Actual Actual Actual
2024 Engage bottlers and select suppliers representing 50% of Scope 3 emissions to set a science-based target 36% 44% 46%
2025 Obtain 100% of electricity from renewable sources 62% 74% 83%
2025 Improve our water use efficiency by 20% 7% 7% 5%
2025 Convert 100% of packaging to be recyclable or compostable* 95% 94% 95%
2025 Use 30% post-consumer recycled content across our packaging portfolio 24% 24% 27%
2025 Use 25% post-consumer recycled content in our plastic packaging 11% 18% 17%
ENVIRONMENT
2025 Achieve a 20% virgin plastic reduction across our plastic packaging portfolio 6% 11% 15%
2025 Send zero waste to landfill across our operations 92% 92% 93%
2030 Reduce Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 30% 9% 13% 21%
2030 Reduce Scope 3 emissions in select categories by 15% 3% 5% 12%
Partner with our highest water-risk operating communities to replenish 100% of water used in our beverages
2030 49% 55% 55%
in those communities
Responsibly source our brewers and priority inputs
Ongoing Responsibly source our coffee** 100% 100% 100%
SUPPLY CHAIN
Responsibly source our cocoa*** 81% 100% 100%
2030 Support regenerative agriculture and conservation on 250,000 acres of land N/A 11,296 43,435
HEALTH &
2025 Provide positive hydration in 60% of our products 56% 57% 59%
WELL-BEING
2025 Increase female representation in Director+ positions by 25% to 33% of the total 28% 31% 32%
PEOPLE &
COMMUNITIES
2025 Increase people of color representation in Director+ positions by 25% to 21% of the total 17% 18% 19%
*Updated to include the addition of plastic packaging that are categorized as “recyclable with detrimental qualities” per the Association of Plastic Recyclers (APR).
**During 2021 and 2022, a small amount of coffee was received as conventional (0.38% and 0.36%, respectively) due to COVID-19 impacts, supplier error or shipping delays. In 2023, 0.002% of coffee (a single shipment)
was received as conventional per a customer requirement.
***2021 was our final transition year, with 19% of cocoa purchased as conventional. At the end of 2021, all cocoa contracted going forward was 100% responsibly sourced through verification or third-party certification
programs. This metric is updated from our 2022 Corporate Responsibility Report to reflect the percentage of responsibly sourced cocoa received during the year ended December 31, 2021.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 6
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
Environment
We are committed to reducing our environmental impacts and restoring resources in
support of a regenerative and circular economy. We partner to accelerate and amplify
our efforts, supporting climate resilience within our value chain.
STRATEGY • CLIMATE ACTION • WATER USE & STEWARDSHIP • PACKAGING & CIRCULAR ECONOMY
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 77
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
ONGOING CHALLENGES
• Maintaining business growth while
Progress & Highlights mitigating and adapting to climate change
challenges, such as operational disruptions
and material shortages
• Navigating the evolving policy and
regulatory landscape for compliance
and reporting
BY 2024 2023 ACTUAL
• Mapping a feasible glidepath to fleet
decarbonization at scale in the U.S.,
Engage bottlers and select suppliers representing 50% of Scope 3 emissions to given the lack of required technology,
46%
set a science-based target policy and infrastructure
• Balancing progress toward our goal for
water use efficiency while enhancing and
evolving our strict product quality and
BY 2025 2023 ACTUAL
ingredient water standards
• Managing the inconsistency and
Obtain 100% of electricity from renewable sources 83%
underdevelopment of recycling and
refillable packaging infrastructure, including
Improve our water use efficiency by 20% 5% the availability of post-consumer recycled
(PCR) materials, alongside fragmented
state and federal policies
Convert 100% of packaging to be recyclable or compostable 95%
FUTURE OPPORTUNITIES
Use 30% post-consumer recycled content across our packaging portfolio 27%
• Continuing to reduce resource use while
increasing climate resiliency measures
Use 25% post-consumer recycled content in our plastic packaging 17%
• Exploring new technology and electric
heavy-duty trucks in support of fleet
Achieve a 20% virgin plastic reduction across our plastic packaging portfolio 15%
decarbonization
• Investing in water replenishment projects
Send zero waste to landfill across our operations 93%
and deploying innovative and efficient
water treatment infrastructure to enhance
the benefits of water stewardship and work
BY 2030 2023 ACTUAL toward maximizing water efficiency
• Accelerating the rollout of innovative
packaging and reuse solutions that reduce
Reduce Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 30% 21%
virgin plastic use or increase the value and
availability of recycled materials
Reduce Scope 3 emissions in select categories by 15% 12%
• Collaborating to secure federal packaging
collection policy or other national-level
Partner with our highest water-risk operating communities to replenish 100% of mechanisms that harmonize efforts to build
55%
water used in our beverages in those communities a circular economy
‣
Read more in About this Report: Glossary
‣
Read more in Appendix: Goal Methodology
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 8
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
STRATEGY
At KDP, our environmental sustainability strategy focuses on the areas of climate, water and packaging in an effort to
reduce environmental impact, help to mitigate climate change risks and to build climate resiliency. OUR PATH TO 2030
We assess climate change risks most important
Our efforts include pursuing energy efficiency in our operations and products and working to decarbonize portions
to our business via a climate scenario analysis,
of our fleet and manufacturing operations through renewable and low carbon energy sources and technologies. In
a fleet operations assessment and periodic
addition, we engage with key value chain partners as we work to advance joint climate goals. Our interconnected
evaluations of our water risk in our operations
efforts and collaborations in biodiversity, deforestation, packaging, regenerative agriculture, conservation and water are
and within our supply chain. This helps us to
fundamental to positively impact our climate journey.
identify opportunities and implement measures
for the communities and regions in which we
We focus our water stewardship approach on water efficiency in our operations, water replenishment in our highest
operate. More detail can be found in our CDP
water-risk areas and water use within our value chain. We are also committed to supporting the reuse, recycling,
Climate Disclosure and CDP Water Disclosure.
repurposing and composting of our products and packaging in support of a more circular economy.
Core to our approach is the use of credible standards, disclosures and intentionally designed roadmaps to goals based
on the tools and technologies available to us today. Addressing climate change and driving the transition to a circular 2020-2025
economy is complex and requires scalable systems changes. Therefore, both individual and company responsibility and • Engage bottlers and select suppliers
collective action are critical to advancing effective and efficient policy solutions, investing in infrastructure modernization representing 50% of Scope 3 emissions
and engaging consumers to act in more sustainable ways. To help make this happen, we partner with organizations, to set a Science-Based Target (SBT)
including state/provincial and municipal government leaders, recyclers, nonprofit organizations (NGOs), industry peers
• Obtain 100% electricity from
and suppliers.
renewable sources
MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2025-2030
• Reduce Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 30%
KDP’s cross-functional teams across all geographies, including Procurement, Packaging Innovation, Supply Chain,
• Reduce Scope 3 emissions in select
Environmental Health & Safety (EHS), Engineering and Sustainability, work to meet our established environmental goals
categories by 15%
across our supply chain, operations and products.
• Encourage our value chain partners to
Our Environmental Policy, Climate Policy, Water Policy, Supplier Code of Conduct and Human Rights Position Statement set and make progress toward SBTs and
govern how we assess and work to mitigate risks associated with climate change and water. We also identify near-term transition to low carbon energy
and long-term strategies to address environmental-related risks to our business as noted in our CDP Climate Disclosure,
• Scale regenerative agriculture solutions
CDP Water Disclosure and our Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
across the value chain
Specific to sustainable packaging, we leverage third-party design standards and guidelines, such as the APR Design®
Guide for Plastics Recyclability to inform our packaging’s compatibility with recycling against industry accepted 2030+
criteria. We track and measure the impact of our efforts by reporting them through organizations including the Global
• Scale decarbonization of our fleet,
Commitment, led by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation (EMF) in collaboration with the UN Environment Programme,
including heavy-duty trucks, to electric
U.S. Plastics Pact, Canada Plastics Pact and WWF’s ReSource: Plastic.
and low carbon fuels, as infrastructure
and technology allows
We also work with regulatory agencies to meet and report on various packaging compliance regulations in place across
North America, such as Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) programs, Deposit Return Systems (DRS) and minimum • Explore sustainable, low carbon fuels for
recycled content requirements in place in certain jurisdictions. our manufacturing operations
• Scale low carbon packaging solutions
‣
Read more in Governance: Ethical Business Practices across brand portfolio
‣
Read more in About this Report: Glossary • Accelerate path to Net Positive Water
‣ Impact2 aspiration by investing in
Read more in Corporate Responsibility Topics A-Z
watershed health
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 9
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
CLIMATE ACTION
We are working to reduce resource use and to part to reduction of our Scope 1 and 2 emissions which
increase resiliency measures to account for a changing in 2023 totaled 21%, compared to 13% the year prior.
environment. Our current 2030 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) We also reduced emissions from our selected Scope
emissions-reduction targets, validated by the Science- 3 categories by 12% from the 2018 baseline, versus
Based Target initiative (SBTi) are aligned to levels 5% in 2022. This decrease was driven in part by the
required to meet the Paris Agreement climate change improvement in the energy efficiency of our Keurig
goal of limiting global warming to well below 2°C3. Our brewers. KDP continues to engage with our suppliers
future ambitions will be informed by evolving standards, and bottlers to encourage them to set their own SBTs.
such as SBTi’s Forest, Land and Agriculture (FLAG) At the end of 2023, suppliers and bottlers representing
Guidance4 and the GHG Protocol’s Land Sector and 46% of our Scope 3 emissions have set SBTs.
Removals Guidance5. ‣
Read more in About this Report: Glossary
In 2023, we made progress toward our climate targets Read more in Appendix: Data Summary ‣
by increasing the electricity obtained from renewable ‣
Read more in Appendix: Goal Methodology
sources to 83%. This is an increase from 74% in 2022.
This continued transition to renewables contributes in
GHG EMISSIONS BY CATEGORY
96% Scope 3 emissions accounted for more than 96% of KDP’s 2023 GHG emissions.
5%
9%
11%
28%
15%
SCOPE 1 & 2
40% 48% SCOPE 3
EMISSIONS*
EMISSIONS* PUBLIC POLICY SUPPORT
KDP knows that governments play an essential
role in addressing climate change. We join
19% other corporate leaders in acknowledging the
Fleet Fuels 25% important role we have in establishing and
Natural Gas maintaining open dialogue with governments
Electricity in support of healthy economies, substantial
Third-party Manufacturing Logistics reductions in GHG emissions and robust
Ingredients Other** adaptation measures. We support the creation
Packaging Use of Products of incentives to expedite investments in clean
energy and transportation projects, along with
initiatives to streamline permitting processes
*% of GHG Emissions by Category may not sum to 100% due to rounding. for the faster deployment of clean energy and
**Ingredients and packaging are included in purchased goods and services; logistics includes upstream and downstream enhanced grid resiliency.
transportation and distribution; Other includes employee commuting, business travel, upstream energy-related activities,
capital goods, professional services, etc. A more detailed breakdown of Scope 3 emissions can be found in the Data Summary.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 10
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
FLEET DECARBONIZATION
The KDP-operated fleet is 48% of our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, and
as a beverage company, it is critical that we transport heavy loads of
products on a timely and regular schedule to serve our customers and
consumers. We are committed to fleet optimization in the near- and
mid-term, addressing our existing reduction goals while we plan, invest
and collaborate to deliver a long-term strategy.
ELECTRIC FLEET EXPANSION
In 2023, Van Houtte Coffee Services (VHCS), a subsidiary of KDP,
purchased and deployed 18 electric vehicles across four Canadian
provinces. At year-end 2023, our electric vehicle representation within
our Canadian fleet totaled more than 8%, which is a 1.2% reduction in
Scope 1 emissions for KDP Canada. There are additional advantages
to expanding our electric fleet, including lower maintenance and
operating costs and greater comfort in winter since the vehicles have
a programming feature to be warmed for departure time. Moreover, in
British Columbia, electric vehicles are given preference on expressways
via a fast lane during peak traffic hours. In 2024, VHCS has added an
additional 13 electric vehicles to its fleet, bringing the total to 31.
‣
Read more in About this Report: Glossary
‣
Read more in Appendix: Data Summary
ENERGY EFFICIENCY & LOW CARBON ENERGY IN OUR OPERATIONS
RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY ENERGY OPTIMIZATION RENEWABLE THERMAL CERTIFICATION ALIGNED
PURCHASES EVENTS COLLABORATIVE TO ISO 14001
We increased our renewable We held energy optimization We joined the Renewable Three of our manufacturing sites in
electricity purchases by more events at 21 plants to identify Thermal Collaborative (RTC), a Mexico and one in Ireland obtained
than 80,000 Megawatt-hours energy and GHG emissions savings coalition of manufacturers, state ISO 14001 certification by adhering
(MWhs), resulting in 83% of our and to create cultures of energy and local governments and to the internationally recognized
electricity needs being sourced from management. These efforts suppliers that are committed to standard for environmental
renewable sources. resulted in over 700 metric tons of scaling renewable heating and management6.
avoided GHG emissions, a small cooling at their facilities and
but important step toward raising cutting carbon emissions.
energy use awareness.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 11
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
CLIMATE ACTION IN OUR VALUE CHAIN
KDP’s environmental sustainability efforts in the interconnected areas of biodiversity, deforestation, packaging,
regenerative agriculture, conservation and water can offer many benefits, including the potential for increased
biodiversity of native species, improved soil health, habitat protection, enhanced watersheds and reduced GHG
emissions. These initiatives can ultimately lead to long-term benefits that are critical to helping to sustain healthy
ecosystems and strengthen climate resilience.
SMARTWAY PROGRAM
KDP’s participation in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Smartway program helps us to advance measurement
and improve freight transportation efficiencies.
SUPPLIER ENGAGEMENT
KDP was named a Supplier Engagement Leader by the CDP, a designation reserved for the top 25% of companies
assessed for supplier engagement on climate change.
SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY PILOT
An initiative in collaboration with ECOTIERRA in which we voluntarily purchase carbon credits with the goal to finance
conservation efforts, extend harvest cycles and support biodiversity enhancement and community empowerment in
Quebec’s Hereford Community forest. In 2023, KDP Canada purchased nearly 3,000 carbon credits, which is equivalent
to the total of emissions from VHCS mobile, coffee roasting, employee commuting and remote working combined7.
STAKEHOLDER ROUNDTABLE
KDP hosted an in-person roundtable, convening a select group of external climate experts to advise KDP and discuss
critical impact areas related to our climate action strategy. The dialogue identified shared priorities and future
opportunities on topics such as the decarbonization of transport, logistics and manufacturing as well as regenerative
agriculture. The engagement opened salient discourse and highlighted the areas in which we can have the greatest
impact in the climate space as KDP and while working collaboratively with others.
BUILDING CLIMATE RESILIENCE
RISKS OPPORTUNITIES
We assess climate change risks most important to our business
so that we can identify opportunities and implement measures
• Changing weather patterns have the • Advance regenerative agriculture
that help build climate resiliency for our business and the
potential to disrupt ingredient supply chains practices for climate sensitive crops
communities and regions in which we operate.
• Heat stress and drought may impact the • Invest in watershed health to improve
‣ water availability in the communities in which availability, access and quality
Read more in Environment: Water Use & Stewardship
we operate
‣ • Explore fleet electrification and low
Read more in Supply Chain: Nature
• Carbon taxes may influence the way we make carbon technologies for manufacturing
Read more in About this Report: Glossary ‣ and distribute our products
• Deploy energy efficient infrastructure and
Read more in Appendix: TCFD ‣ • Changes to climate may pose a risk to critical utilities powered from renewable sources
infrastructure and utilities
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 12
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
WATER USE & STEWARDSHIP
Water is the primary ingredient in our products and used across our operations. It is also a shared resource that is critical
to the health of communities and ecosystems where we live and work. KDP believes we have a unique opportunity to help
address local and global water challenges. We do this in our own operations by finding ways to use water more efficiently
and helping to replenish the water we use, particularly in areas that are more prone to water challenges like water
scarcity, water stress, flooding and drought.
WATER EFFICIENCY
KDP has a goal to improve our water use efficiency in our beverage bottling and concentrate facilities by 20%
by 2025. At these sites, we focus on best practices for water use measurement and management through
continuous improvement activities and infrastructure investments. In 2023, our water use ratio was 1.85 in
our total cold beverage manufacturing plant network. This reflects a 5% improvement from our 2017 baseline
and is an approximate 2% decline in efficiency compared to our 2022 performance. Although we made
significant improvements at key sites, our network performance has been challenged by changing operational
demands and increasing requirements related to water standards. In 2023, and continuing into the future,
we will be investing in water treatment technology with the goal to improve water use efficiency. We remain
committed to our glidepath to attain our 2025 goal with a continued focus on improving water use ratio.
SITE-LEVEL WATER UPGRADED WATER
RATIO DASHBOARDS TREATMENT INFRASTRUCTURE
Implemented water use ratio dashboards Installed 2nd-Stage reverse osmosis WATER REPLENISHMENT
at 12 sites to monitor, understand and technology to improve the efficiency of our
KDP has a goal to partner with our highest
trend daily water use and efficiency. existing treatment infrastructure at our
water-risk operating communities, so that
Columbus, Ohio site.
by 2030 we are annually replenishing 100%
of water used in our beverages in those
communities. We conduct periodic water
risk assessments of our operations and
WATER OPTIMIZATION EVENTS
supply chain. To refine our understanding of
challenges for our high water-risk sites and
to identify opportunities to implement water-
Conducted a water efficiency continuous improvement exercise and invested in water reuse
related measures, we assess each site in the
treatment infrastructure at our Tehuacán Site in Mexico. The enhanced water treatment allows water
context of the surrounding watershed, the
discharge from our bottle rinsers to be reused in the site’s auxiliary systems, such as cooling towers,
local water issues and other local entities’
condensers and restrooms. Since holding the event, the site has improved its water use ratio by over
interest and perspective on those issues.
20% and saved over 30 million gallons of water.
Through various collaborations with NGOs
and industry partners, we achieved 55%
replenishment for high water-risk operating
communities through the end of 2023. Key to
driving progress were additional investments
and implementation projects in these high
‣
Read more in About this Report: Glossary water-risk operating areas.
‣
Read more in Appendix: Data Summary
‣
Read more in Appendix: Goal Methodology
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 13
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
WATER STEWARDSHIP IN OUR NEW WATER STEWARDSHIP PROJECTS and Wildlife Department and the Texas Water Action
VALUE CHAIN Collaborative, KDP and partners are constructing
CANADA
approximately 111 acres of wetlands and installing water
KDP aspires to achieve Net Positive Water Impact Safe Water Access and Sanitation: KDP has teamed control infrastructure to enhance the water holding
by 2050. This means we are working to reduce up with the One Drop Foundation as a founding Water capacity of the Wildcat Marsh on Richland Creek
water stress by focusing on water availability, Impact Partner of the Indigenous Water Allyship — a Wildlife Management Area which will help replenish
quality and access and that our contributions multi-year partnership to help improve living conditions water, improve water quality and provide habitat for a
exceed impacts on water stress in the same region. and health in First Nations, Métis and Inuit communities variety of wildlife species.
With approximately 96% of our water footprint across Canada through increased knowledge, leadership
coming from indirect water use by our suppliers who and equitable access to safe water. Since the partnership’s MEXICO
grow agricultural raw materials, we are working inception, KDP supported two major events in Quebec Agricultural Interventions: KDP is supporting Cauce
to safeguard water at the farm level through to raise awareness of water access issues with financial Bajio, the Guanajuato Water Fund, in their work with
specific projects related to regenerative agriculture, giving and product donations. local farmers to promote best irrigation management
conservation and replenishment practices. This
practices. This includes land leveling, which is a process
includes working with fellow members of the Water CALIFORNIA
to efficiently distribute irrigation water, and the
Resilience Coalition, local NGOs and other industry
Agriculture Water Conservation: KDP is working with provision of targeted recommendations for farmers
partners to scale our impact through collective
precision irrigation solutions company Netafim, Oriba on irrigation systems performance improvements.
action on projects in key regions. Our interconnected
Precision Agriculture to implement drip irrigation on farms This initiative positively impacts water quality and
efforts and collaborations in biodiversity,
in the Sacramento watershed and San Joaquin Valley. As availability for the Lerma River which eventually flows
deforestation, packaging, regenerative agriculture,
part of this effort, we are helping to incentivize farmers to into Lake Chapala, near Guadalajara.
conservation and climate action are fundamental to
deploy state-of-the-art crop management practices and
positively impact our water stewardship work.
robust reporting and data collection. Read more in Environment: Climate Action ‣
‣
TEXAS Read more in Supply Chain: Nature
‣
Wetland Creation: Water scarcity in the Trinity Water Read more in About this Report: Glossary
Basin leaves little to no water in-stream to protect wildlife Read more in Appendix: Data Summary ‣
habitat. In partnership with Ducks Unlimited, Texas Parks
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 14
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
PACKAGING & CIRCULAR ECONOMY
KDP is committed to designing for, collaborating on, advocating for and investing in circularity models so the materials
we use can be kept in the economy and continue to be reused. Our packaging strategy is centered on advancing the use
of more sustainable packaging materials and designs that use less virgin plastic. This means incorporating more PCR
content, eliminating unnecessary materials, redesigning packaging to be compatible with recycling and composting
systems and exploring reuse and refill models.
In 2023, we continued to work toward our 2025 sustainable packaging goals. We began the conversion of Bai to 100%
recycled plastic bottles and completed the conversion of Core Hydration+ products to 100% recycled plastic bottles8. This
effort, along with several lightweighting accomplishments, helped to reduce our virgin plastic footprint by 15% versus
the 2019 baseline. Our PCR content across our plastic packaging portfolio was 17% in 2023, ultimately impacted by the
overall reduction of virgin plastic. Across our entire packaging portfolio, we achieved 27%, an increase from 24% in 2022.
Also in 2023, 2% of our plastic portfolio was reusable versus 1% in 2022. Approximately 95% of our packaging in 2023 was
designed to be recyclable or compostable. In 2024, we performed a review of cold beverage packaging that meets our
definition of recyclable and updated our measurement to include plastic packaging that is considered “recyclable with
detrimental qualities” by the APR. We applied this adjustment to our recyclability metric reported for 2023 and all prior NEXT-GENERATION INNOVATION AND
years included in this report. We remain committed to our glidepath to attain our 2025 sustainable packaging goals. EXPANDED RECYCLING OPTIONS
‣ In early 2024, we announced a new
Read more in About this Report: Glossary
innovation aimed at meeting the needs of
‣
Read more in Appendix: Data Summary the next-generation of coffee consumers. The
‣ foundations of our new innovation are new
Read more in Appendix: Goal Methodology
K-Rounds plastic-and aluminum-free pods
4% 3% as well as a new Keurig brewing system, the
Flex Packaging Refillable Keurig Alta brewer. K-Rounds are created
4% Glass Bottles from roasted coffee beans that are ground,
Other pressed and wrapped in a proprietary,
protective plant-based coating preserving
the coffee’s flavor and aroma. Consumers
will have the opportunity to provide essential
feedback in the ongoing development in
various beta testing phases beginning in
7%
Polypropylene 34% the fall of 2024. Also in late 2024, Keurig
Paper/ will offer a mail-back recycling program for
Cardboard K-Cup pods via Keurig.com as an option for
those consumers who cannot currently recycle
8%
2023 their coffee pods locally. K-Cup pods are
Non-Refillable
made from recyclable polypropylene, which is
Glass Bottles PACKAGING
widely accepted in communities across North
MIX* America9. However, many communities do not
yet accept certain polypropylene containers,
including coffee pods, for recycling. This is
often due to outdated recycling infrastructure
27%
or lack of equipment that can effectively
PET Bottles
13% sort polypropylene plastic. We are working
Aluminum with individual communities and recyclers
& Steel
so more consumers can recycle their pods in
local community recycling programs through
investment, collaboration and advocacy.
*% of total weight procured; % of 2023 Packaging Mix may not sum to 100% due to rounding.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 15
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
CIRCULAR DESIGN & INNOVATION
REFILLABLE PACKAGING
Innovation in sustainable packaging materials and design is critical to KDP’s strategy. Our smart design efforts aim to
use less virgin plastic while also working on improved designs and delivery models that can have broader benefits and We continue to advance our work on refillable
influence positive consumer recycling behaviors. packaging by exploring new partnerships that
are critical to develop and scale reuse and
refillable delivery models. For example, we
are working with our foodservice sales team
RECYCLED PLASTIC IN BEVERAGE BOTTLES in university campus settings as well as event
arenas for potential pilots. We are also working
with peers in the beverage industry to establish
We moved our Bai and Core Hydration+ products into bottles made from recycled polyethylene terephthalate a common methodology for the measurement
(PET) plastic, joining Core Hydration, Snapple 16 oz. & 20 oz., Mistic Juice Drink 16 oz., Aguafiel and Peñafiel of reuse and refill servings delivered.
bottles that are already made from recycled PET plastic10. Across our portfolio, we incorporated more than 39,000
metric tons of recycled PET into our packaging portfolio. • In 2023, we joined the Green Sports
Alliance (GSA), a nonprofit that convenes
We also continued to use PCR in our brewers with our black K-Mini and K-Mini Plus Keurig brewers containing at
professional sports leagues, governing
least 50% PCR content and our black K-Compact, K-Supreme Plus and K-Supreme Plus SMART Keurig brewers all
bodies, teams, venues and fans for a more
containing at least 30% PCR content.
sustainable future. This partnership will
help KDP build relationships and explore
piloting reuse and refill delivery models
in sports venues in the U.S. As part of
RECYCLING COMPATIBILITY & BEHAVIORS
our membership, KDP funded the Reuse
Playbook that published in 2024. The
playbook explores the current landscape in
We converted labels on the majority of Bai, and all of Mr & Mrs T 1 liter and 1.75 liter products and Rose’s products
the U.S. for reusable opportunities and
to meet the APR Design® Guide for Plastics Recyclability Preferred criteria for circularity status.
actions that venues and brands can take.
We also encouraged “recycle right” behaviors by continuing to update additional labels so that recycling
instructions are visible, including extending the use of the standardized How2Recycle® symbol further across all of • We continue to offer
our K-Cup pod packages and the majority of our cold product packages. refillable glass bottles
in Mexico where the
infrastructure for collection,
sanitation and refill currently
MATERIAL OPTIMIZATION exists. Specifically, our plant
in Tehuacán, Mexico has
over 70 years of experience
We lightweighted nearly all of our K-Cup pods by reducing the plastic in each pod by 18%, and also removed in producing and managing
polypropylene plastic discs in select K-Cup pods, resulting in the elimination of over 14 million pounds of virgin our refillable glass bottles.
plastic from the packaging portfolio in 2023. In just the last five years, we
have seen a 90% increase
We maximized space within our 80 count K-Cup pod packaging by arranging pods in a nested format. This in production in volume of
practice results in the use of less packaging material and helps to optimize transportation. beverages in this reusable
We also utilized software to improve the way we evaluate the impact of packaging decisions holistically to format, which includes
understand the tradeoffs between climate benefits and recycling compatibility. Peñafiel flavors, mineral
water, Squirt and Crush,
available in both 12 oz. and
6.5 oz. sizes.
‣
Read more in Environment: Climate Action
‣
Read more in Health & Well-Being: Choice
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 16
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
ADVOCACY & INFRASTRUCTURE
We advocate for policies at all levels of government to accelerate the development of a circular economy for packaging
materials, particularly for the modernization and standardization of recycling and industrial composting infrastructure.
Across North America, a patchwork of regulations, inadequate investment and lack of minimum performance standards
are preventing economies of scale in our recycling system and confusing consumers11. That is why we support smart
policy solutions focused on efficient and equitable ways to increase material recovery, while reducing the economic and
environmental costs of disposal.
Our advocacy is focused on enhancing consumer education, increasing access to collection infrastructure, expanding
recycling capacities and supporting sustainable funding mechanisms, particularly well-designed EPR programs. We
also support policies that encourage design for recyclability standards, support innovation and provide for studies of
packaging and delivery alternatives.
KDP has co-founded three pre-competitive organizations that amplify both dollars and action to enhance
recycling infrastructure and educate consumers on proper recycling behaviors.
The Recycling Partnership’s Polypropylene Recycling Coalition
Since its start in 2020, $13 million has been awarded in grant funding across
51 facilities, enabling over 46 million people in the U.S. to have new or improved
access to polypropylene recycling.
American Beverage Association’s Every Bottle Back Initiative
At year-end 2023, commitments made in 52 communities across the U.S. are
estimated to yield more than 750 million additional pounds of PET plastic to be
recycled over the next 10 years.
Circular Plastics Taskforce in Canada
In 2023, the CPT mobilized 20 circularity leaders from across the industry to
advance the circular economy in Canada. The projects, which are valued at an
estimated $600,000 CAD, are working to optimize plastics recycling.
Since 2014, KDP has committed more than $43 million in support of a more circular
$43
economy through collaborative projects, partnerships and investments in communities
MILLION across North America.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 17
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
EXTENDER PRODUCER RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMS
KDP plays a leading role in supporting the modernization California: Selected by CalRecycle as the In Canada, CM is at the forefront of advancing EPR operations
and standardization of recycling processes via EPR single PRO to implement the Plastic Pollution throughout Canada and KDP Canada has supported as a founding
programs in both the U.S. and Canada. KDP is a founding Prevention and Packaging Producer member since 2021. Key areas of focus include:
member of two nonprofit producer responsibility Responsibility Act.
organizations (PROs): Circular Action Alliance (CAA) in Emerging Packaging EPR Programs: The transition to EPR continues
the U.S. and Circular Materials (CM) in Canada. Oregon: Submitted an initial program plan to the to progress in several provinces, with particular emphasis on
Oregon Department of Environmental Quality, operations within Ontario, where the transition to EPR began on
In the U.S., KDP played a key role in launching the a requirement to become a PRO and implement July 1, 2023 and New Brunswick where the transition began on
country’s first PRO, CAA, and currently chairs the Oregon’s Plastic Pollution and Recycling November 1, 2023. Preparations are also underway for transitions in
National Board of Directors. Several recent CAA Modernization Act. Alberta, Nova Scotia and Yukon in 2025.
accomplishments include:
Maryland: Approved to represent producer Collaboration with PROs in Provinces with Established Packaging
Colorado: Selected by the Colorado Department of interests and serve as the single nonprofit PRO EPR Programs: Strengthening our collaborative efforts, CM’s
Public Health & Environment as the single PRO to on the Producer Responsibility Advisory Council in memorandum of understanding with Éco Entreprises Québec (ÉEQ)
implement Colorado’s Producer Responsibility Program Maryland, which will make recommendations on underscores our commitment to advancing joint interests and EPR
for Statewide Recycling Act. future proposed legislation to create a producer initiatives across Canada. This strategic approach highlights CM’s
responsibility program for packaging materials. commitment to fostering a circular economy nationwide.
WASTE REDUCTION
Our commitment to the circular economy also means achieving zero waste to landfill at our facilities. Each of our sites
supports this commitment through production optimization and investing in reducing, reusing and recycling materials
and resources.
In 2023, we kept 93% of our manufacturing waste from entering landfills and maintained zero waste to landfill at
multiple manufacturing sites. Specific to our hot manufacturing sites, we maintained a landfill diversion rate of more
than 98% in 2023. Highlights from our cold manufacturing sites include:
• Our Allentown, Pennsylvania facility increased the waste kept out of landfill at the site from 95% in 2022 to 99%
in 2023.
• Our Irving, Texas facility increased the waste kept out of landfill at the site from 89% in 2022 to 92% in 2023.
• In 2023, we achieved 100% landfill avoidance at our Aspers, Pennsylvania and Ottumwa, Iowa facilities.
• In Mexico, our Tecámac and Tehuacán sites implemented a waste composting project which significantly reduced the
shipment to landfill.
In addition, our KDP Canada team works with Quantum Lifecycle Partners to help recycle end-of-life assets like
electronics, commercial Keurig brewers and in-store consumer brewer returns. Over 750,000 pounds of these materials
were diverted from landfill as a result of this program in 2023.
‣
Read more in About this Report: Glossary
‣
Read more in Appendix: Data Summary
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 18
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
Supply Chain
We aim to use our buying power for good through responsible sourcing actions in key supply chains
and focused work with suppliers. We collaborate with a range of innovative partners around the world
with the goal of improving livelihoods and supporting regenerative agriculture and conservation.
STRATEGY • RESPONSIBLE SOURCING • NATURE • LIVELIHOODS
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 1199
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
ONGOING CHALLENGES
• Mitigating the risks to agriculture, food
Progress & Highlights systems and communities resulting from
climate change
• Navigating the increased demand for
traceability of raw materials
• Managing the economic pressures that
ONGOING 2023 ACTUAL are driving up the cost of production for all
players in value chains, but especially for
agricultural raw materials
Responsibly source our brewers and priority inputs*
FUTURE OPPORTUNITIES
Responsibly source our coffee 100%
• Expanding responsible sourcing strategies
to more of our supply base
Responsibly source our cocoa 100%
• Implementation of regenerative agricultural
practices and incorporating deforestation
*For coffee and cocoa, we rely on verification or third-party certification programs to help foster fundamental social, environmental
and biodiversity considerations in our
and economic protections. In 2023, 0.002% of coffee (a single shipment) was received as conventional per
a customer requirement. approach to sustainable supply chains
• Integrating our enterprise supply chain,
climate and water strategies to ensure
BY 2030 2023 ACTUAL connectivity and quantifiable impacts
• Applying learnings gathered from farmer
economic impact projects to explore a new
Support regenerative agriculture and conservation on 250,000 acres of land 43,435 ACRES
livelihoods approach
‣
Read more in About this Report: Glossary
‣
Read more in Appendix: Goal Methodology
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 20
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
STRATEGY
KDP’s supply chain touches many parts of the world, from the farms that produce coffee, cocoa and other priority crops,
to the facilities that process those raw materials and the factories that build our brewers. Our supply chain strategy
focuses on a foundational commitment to responsible sourcing of our priority inputs, supporting regenerative agriculture
and conservation, as well as advancing inclusion and improving livelihoods for the people in KDP’s upstream supply chain.
We recognize that interconnected environmental and social issues require holistic solutions, including shared investment
and collaboration with a variety of stakeholders. Partnerships in key locations with producer organizations, suppliers and
contract manufacturers, NGOs, academia and government are a critical component of our approach.
MANAGEMENT APPROACH
KDP’s cross-functional teams, including Procurement, Quality, Sustainability, Marketing, Research & Development
and Legal, collaborate to source materials and agricultural inputs that meet our established quality requirements and
advance our sustainability goals.
Within KDP’s priority supply chains, we focus our resources on advancing responsible sourcing, supporting regenerative
agriculture and conservation and positively impacting livelihoods — or a combination of all three. We develop a tailored
approach for each priority input that recognizes the unique combination of inherent risk, availability of risk mitigation
tools and KDP’s influence and opportunity to drive positive impact. That specific context determines which aspects
of our complementary tools and approaches we prioritize to help safeguard fundamental human rights, incorporate
environmental protections and/or invest to improve livelihoods in our priority supply chains. These tools may include risk
assessments, verification or third-party certification programs, traceability and transparency strategies, audits, impact
investments and ongoing engagement and collaboration with strategic partners.
Specific to responsible sourcing, we are evolving how we report progress toward our ongoing goal. For coffee and cocoa,
we will continue to disclose the percentage responsibly sourced through verification or third-party certification programs.
For our factory-based inputs, such as apple juice concentrate (AJC) and tomato paste, we will report on the outcomes of
audits via our Supplier Rating System, which is the same approach used for our brewer supply chain.
For supply chains like apple and corn, we recognize they are better served through investments to support regenerative
agriculture, conservation or livelihoods. This evolved approach allows us to prioritize the specific needs of each supply
chain and enable us to build on the interdependence of systems, such as natural ecosystems and communities, in an
effort to achieve impact at scale.
KDP has also established several policies and statements that reinforce our commitment to responsibly source our
products. They include Supplier Code of Conduct, Brazilian Coffee Purchasing Policy, Conflict Minerals Policy, Forced
Labor and Child Labor Statement and Human Rights Position Statement.
To measure progress toward our regenerative agriculture and conservation goal, we have developed a standardized set
of metrics outlined in KDP’s Regenerative Agriculture & Conservation Monitoring & Evaluation Guide.
‣
Read more in Governance: Ethical Business Practices
‣
Read more in Governance: Human Rights
‣
Read more in About this Report: Glossary
‣
Read more in Corporate Responsibility Topics A-Z
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 21
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
2023 PRIORITY INPUTS
Priority status is determined by the input’s importance to KDP, measured by the magnitude of
spending, the social and environmental risk profile of the input and our unique opportunity for
impact within the supply chain.
APPLE
• KDP sources whole apples to make Mott’s Applesauce.
• Sourced directly from North American farmers with the vast majority from upstate
New York, and a small amount from other regions. Protect, restore LI Promote well-being
E V
and manage for UR E LI and prosperity
T H
APPLE JUICE CONCENTRATE the future A O within an inclusive
N O
• KDP sources AJC to make certain flavored waters, juices and juice drinks. D value chain
S
• Our AJC supply chain has a global footprint that takes in apples from farms and
processes them in factories into juice concentrate. We source the juice concentrate
from a variety of suppliers in Europe, Latin America and Asia. RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
BREWERS Safeguard fundamental human rights
• KDP sources a variety of components and materials to make our coffee brewers. and environmental protections
• Components are sourced from all over the world and brewers are assembled in
Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia and China.
COCOA
• KDP sources raw cocoa and blended powders containing cocoa for our owned, SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN FRAMEWORK
licensed and partner brands.
• Sourced primarily from the Ivory Coast, Ghana and Cameroon, with smaller volumes
coming from other global cacao-producing countries. Our pursuit of a resilient supply chain is critical to our ability to secure
a reliable supply of the inputs needed to make our products, while
aiming to create shared prosperity for farmers, workers and KDP alike.
COFFEE
• KDP sources coffee for our owned, licensed and partner brand K-Cup pods, whole
bean and ground coffee.
• Sourced from over 20 countries across Latin America, Africa and Asia.
‣
Read more in About this Report: Glossary
CORN
• KDP sources high-fructose corn syrup for our full calorie beverages and concentrates.
• Sourced primarily from the U.S., with a smaller amount sourced from Mexico and
Canada.
TOMATO PASTE
• KDP sources tomato paste for our Clamato, Mr & Mrs T products and other tomato-
based beverages.
• Sourced from the U.S. and Chile.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 22
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING: FARM
We are committed to responsibly source agricultural inputs, such as coffee and cocoa. For these specific supply chains,
we use verification or third-party certification programs to help foster fundamental social, environmental and economic
protections. In 2023, a small amount of coffee (0.002%) was received as conventional due to a requirement to source a
unique coffee cup profile for a new coffee brand partner that was unavailable from KDP’s accepted responsible sourcing
programs. Moving forward, we have found an appropriate responsible sourcing program that can supply us with the
needed cup profile. For cocoa, we received 100% responsibly sourced cocoa in 2023.
14
KDP is the largest buyer of Fair Trade Certified coffee
in the world for the 14th consecutive year12.
YEARS
RESPONSIBLY SOURCED COFFEE AT KDP
Responsibly sourced means the coffee we purchase for our owned and partner brands is
grown and sold in adherence to a credible sourcing program that aligns with
KDP’s Supplier Code of Conduct and industry-aligned environmental, social and
governance criteria. KDP’s coffee responsible sourcing program consists of:
• Working with second-party verification and third-party certification partners
that have been vetted by the Global Coffee Platform (GCP)13. GCP is a multi-
stakeholder association that has established a set of principles for global
sustainable coffee production and has created a standardized process for
assessing sustainable sourcing programs14.
• Requiring the completion of independent, third-party audits on coffee farms to
verify compliance with standards and remediation of key issues15.
• Mandating our external partners share standardized data with us on traceability,
risk and impact.
We recognize there is no single tool that can completely eliminate the human rights risks associated with complex and
systemic issues. This is why KDP views verification and certification systems as a valuable starting point but goes further
to invest in impact projects in certain places within our supply chains that aim to address root causes of these issues,
such as farmer profitability.
‣
Read more in About this Report: Glossary
‣
Read more in Appendix: Data Summary
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 23
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING: FACTORY
We aim to responsibly source manufactured products, such as AJC, brewers and tomato paste by prioritizing and engaging
ENGAGEMENT WITH
key suppliers to implement and maintain effective social and environmental management systems in their own operations.
BREWER SUPPLIERS
For these factory-based inputs, we work with our contracted processing facilities and the contract manufacturers (Tier 1)
and several of our Tier 2 suppliers within the brewer supply chain, employing KDP’s Supplier Rating System. This evaluation
We work with our brewer suppliers to provide
structure uses a uniform methodology that enables us to align and rate our suppliers within one audit program.
training, improve capacity building, safeguard
human rights and collaborate on environmental
KDP determines which suppliers are in scope for responsible sourcing audits based on third-party, country-level risk data.
initiatives.
All suppliers receive a risk score of Low, Medium or High. In some cases, supplier risk is further refined via a Self-Assessment
Questionnaire (SAQ). Factories that have a high-risk score must undergo a third-party audit adhering to one of KDP’s
accepted audit standards16. We consider a high-risk factory compliant if it earns an audit rating that Meets or Exceeds TRAINING & CAPACITY BUILDING
Expectations. For any that receive a Below Expectations rating, we work directly with those suppliers to remediate issues
and verify corrective actions through additional onsite audits and specific trainings. Labor shortages in Malaysia have led to
increasing recruitment of migrant workers
‣
Read more in Environment: Climate Action from countries like Myanmar, Bangladesh
Read more in About this Report: Glossary ‣ and Nepal. In May 2023, we partnered with
Verité, a nonprofit specializing in preventing
‣
Read more in Appendix: Data Summary
and remedying labor rights violations in supply
chains, to host a three-day workshop with our
Malaysian suppliers and their labor brokers
2023 FACTORY-BASED PRIORITY INPUTS AUDIT RESULTS
to discuss topics such as implementing an
employer-led payment model for recruitment
fees, also known as the Employer Pays
Principle, that helps to reduce forced labor
APPLE JUICE CONCENTRATE BREWERS TOMATO PASTE
risks, strengthen contracts and service
agreements with labor brokers and provide fair
72% of our AJC supplier facilities were 80% of our Tier 1 We expanded our systems for remedy.
located in high-risk countries, representing brewer suppliers audit program to
36% of our total volume of AJC. were rated Meets include tomato
ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES
or Exceeds paste in 2023.
Of the high-risk facilities, 48% received
Expectations, 100% of our
an audit rating that Meets or Exceeds In 2023, we partnered with our Tier 1 suppliers
with 20% supply base
Expectations, with 52% not yet rated. to map their facilities’ GHG emissions. This
of suppliers was sourced
Approximately one-third of those unrated exercise resulted in the identification and
receiving a Below from suppliers
factories are in Ukraine, where onsite implementation of more energy efficient
Expectations rating. located in high-
audits remain difficult due to the ongoing practices, such as replacing energy inefficient
The underperforming supplier sites risk countries,
Russian-Ukrainian conflict. We took an machinery, swapping fluorescent light bulbs
had a drop in performance this year and 100% of
additional step this year to utilize an SAQ with LED light bulbs and installing solar panels.
due to new manufacturing lines that facilities received
to evaluate these suppliers’ social and
were added to accommodate non- an audit rating of
environmental management systems.
KDP customer demand17. The speed Meets or Exceeds
The remaining suppliers outside Ukraine
of expansion led to several health and Expectations.
will undergo audits
safety findings.
during 2024 to
align with harvest Among the selected Tier 2 high-risk
and workforce brewer component suppliers, 53%
presence in the received a rating of Meets or Exceeds
facilities that Expectations, 7% received a Below
reflects peak Expectations and 40% were being
season. onboarded to the KDP Supplier
Rating System as of December 2023.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 24
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
NATURE
A critical strategy to supporting supply chain resiliency industry organizations. We will continue to evolve our
is implementing regenerative agriculture and approach as we implement projects and learn through
conservation initiatives. A regenerative approach to collaboration with our community partners.
agricultural production can create many benefits, such
As we strive to make progress toward our regenerative
as the potential to mitigate climate change, enhance
agriculture and conservation goal, we will continue
soil health, improve water quality, support resilient
to evaluate the interconnectivity of positive climate
landscapes, increase biodiversity and boost farmer
and water benefits in conjunction with KDP’s broader
livelihoods.
environmental commitments and aspirations. As
We have committed to support regenerative agriculture a result, we are looking to better integrate our
and conservation on 250,000 acres of land by 2030 measurement and reporting to ensure that progress
via targeted projects within our apple, coffee and corn from our supply chain efforts is also captured within
supply chains18. Of the 43,435 acres achieved since our relevant enterprise climate and water goals going
2022, 41,229 acres supported regenerative agriculture forward.
practices with individual farmers on their farms, while
Read more in Environment: Climate Action ‣
2,206 acres supported conservation efforts on non-
agricultural land located near farms. Despite each Read more in Environment: Water Use &
cropping system varying in geography and climate, we Stewardship ‣
measure progress toward our goal using a standardized ‣
Read more in About this Report: Glossary
set of metrics outlined in KDP’s Regenerative Agriculture
‣
& Conservation Monitoring & Evaluation Guide published Read more in Appendix: Data Summary
on our website. This document was developed in Read more in Appendix: Goal Methodology ‣
partnership with experts including farmers, NGOs and
REGENERATIVE AGRICULTURE & CONSERVATION INVESTMENTS
Apple Pollinator Program
KDP, the IPM Institute and Cornell University’s Danforth Lab are partnering to provide safe
pest management practices and habitat conservation techniques to apple farmers in upstate
New York. The goal of the three-year program is to provide a solution for apple farmers to grow
healthy apples, benefit the local ecosystem and protect native pollinators, which are vital for apple
pollination. Since 2022, the program has supported regenerative practices on 1,780 acres of land.
Todos Al Agua Regenerative Coffee Program
In partnership with RGC Coffee, we are implementing a program that aims to improve regenerative
practices within our Colombian coffee supply chain. These practices promote soil health, water management,
agroforestry, biodiversity and net reductions in GHG emissions.
Nebraska Farmer Resilience Project
KDP, the Practical Farmers of Iowa, Archer Daniels Midland and PepsiCo are working together to help improve
productivity, profitability and environmental outcomes for corn farmers in Nebraska. The project provides direct
financing to supply technical assistance to these farmers and subsidized cover crop seed. Over the last two
years, the project has supported regenerative practices on approximately 15,920 acres of farmland for KDP.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 25
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
CLIMATE/NATURE NEXUS The Sustainable Coffee Challenge PUBLIC POLICY SUPPORT
A coalition, led by Conservation International, that
The interconnectedness of climate and nature can KDP supports federal agriculture policies to advance
is working together to increase transparency, align
vastly impact the global economy, businesses and climate-smart regenerative agriculture and conservation.
around a common vision for sustainability and
communities. KDP takes a holistic and integrated This includes advocating for increased federal incentives
accelerate progress toward sector-wide goals. As
approach to building climate and supply chain resiliency to promote voluntary methods of environmental
part of its efforts, the Challenge is implementing a
by investing in initiatives that have the potential to stewardship, such as cover cropping. We also support
collaborative study to develop and apply an aligned
reduce GHG emissions and create additional benefits policies to increase farmer access to technical and
approach to carbon measurement and related data
to nature. These include water replenishment, financial assistance programs, including opportunities
collection for the coffee sector. The aim is to produce
regenerative agriculture and conservation initiatives offered through the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s
accurate and reliable national carbon footprint
in key regions in parts of our value chain. For example, (USDA) Natural Resources Conservation Service. KDP and
baselines as a starting point for scaling action toward
in 2023, our Van Houtte brand partnered with One World Coffee Research (WCR), a nonprofit agricultural
a low-carbon future in Brazil, Colombia, Honduras,
Tree Planted, an environmental nonprofit dedicated research organization seeking to protect and enhance
Mexico and Peru.
to planting trees in areas of need around the world. supplies of quality coffee, are jointly advocating for
In addition, Grupo Peñafiel launched a program in The Cool Farm Alliance public policy, including the Coffee Plant Health Initiative
Tecámac, Mexico that included a donation of a variety A group committed to accelerate the transition to Amendments Act, which authorizes additional federal
of trees to improve environmental conditions and regenerative and sustainable agriculture by providing research, development and deployment of science-based
update urban appearance throughout the municipality. globally aligned, credible and science-based metrics, tools, treatments and integrated pest management
KDP’s contribution assisted in funding reforestation in tools and resources to create impact. The Cool Farm programs needed to help secure the future of coffee in
forests in Quebec, Ontario and British Columbia. Alliance manages the Cool Farm Tool, a scientifically- the face of mounting climate pressures.
based carbon accounting tool that is tailored to
KDP has also engaged with two pre-competitive Read more in Environment: Climate Action ‣
perennial cropping systems, such as cocoa, coffee,
industry coalitions with the goal to improve collection
citrus and apple. Read more in Environment: Water Use &
of and access to farm-level GHG emissions data to ‣
Stewardship
enhance the accuracy of target-setting and reporting
‣
across the coffee industry. Read more in About this Report: Glossary
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 26
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
LIVELIHOODS
We are committed to supporting the economic resilience of farmers and workers in our supply
chains. Decades of working with smallholder coffee communities have propelled us to focus
on advancing inclusion by addressing barriers to entry and prosperity in these supply chains.
Farmers and workers are better positioned to contribute to positive outcomes, such as preserving
biodiversity, mitigating and adapting to climate change, improving water stewardship and
boosting personal and community well-being, when they have economic stability and access to
financial opportunities and prosperity. We are continuing to build out an updated approach in
support of our Livelihood ambition, taking learnings from our key impact investments to shape a
refreshed approach.
LONG-TERM PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS
Climate pressures, coupled with the growing costs of production, place significant burdens on
farmers and can result in them switching crops or abandoning their farms altogether. Therefore,
KDP advocates for expanded investments in agricultural research and development and public-
private partnerships that encourage innovation to improve resiliency and sustainability. This
includes being a founding member of WCR, to help support accelerating new approaches to grow,
protect and enhance supplies of quality coffee. We are also partnering with Cornell University
to fund a 10-year study on the impact of new planting technologies for apple farmers in upstate
New York.
KDP is a supporter of the reauthorization of the Global Food Security Act, which authorizes
foreign assistance funding and international development programs benefiting smallholder
farmers in low-income countries that are critical suppliers to the U.S. coffee industry.
FARMER LIVELIHOOD INVESTMENTS
IMPACT SOURCING GROUPS COFFEE INNOVATION PARTNERSHIP FARMWORKER PROSPERITY PROGRAM
Through a combination of purchasing practices One of KDP’s iconic coffee brands, Green Mountain KDP continued its support for the Las Manos
and direct investments, KDP has continued Coffee Roasters, teamed up with renowned Academy del Cafe program in central Colombia, an
testing a new model for improving farmer Award Winner Kevin Costner to craft a series of freshly initiative implemented by RGC Coffee that
income among three coffee producer groups inspired coffee blends in 2023. Along with Costner, the delivers strategic services to farmworkers who
in Honduras and Colombia. In 2023, KDP’s brand shares a mutual passion for giving back to farming are often excluded from formal employment
procurement and sustainability teams hosted communities and actively invests in organizations protections. In alignment with the International
a roundtable in Intibucá, Honduras to convene supporting sustainable agriculture. To celebrate the Labor Organization’s Decent Work Agenda,
leaders of these three producer groups. partnership, Green Mountain Coffee Roasters donated the program employs a holistic approach
Throughout the two-day event, the group $100,000 to Root Capital, a nonprofit organization which encompassing access to health and well-being
exchanged learnings, proposed new ideas invests in agricultural enterprises to build more prosperous, services, education and improved working
for solving persistent challenges and built inclusive and resilient rural communities. KDP has been a conditions, resulting in improved worker well-
relationships to leverage in the future. partner of Root Capital for 25 years, and with our support, being and a positive transformation in the
Root Capital has delivered financing and critical advisory relationship dynamics between workers and
services to more than 170 coffee cooperatives to help them farmers.
grow into sustainable businesses.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 27
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
Health & Well-Being
We strive to offer a broad, well-balanced portfolio of quality products that is accessible to all consumers and marketed responsibly.
We aim to understand root causes of health inequities and look for opportunities to address them through our portfolio and partnerships.
STRATEGY • CHOICE • ACCESS • TRANSPARENCY & MARKETING • PRODUCT QUALITY & SAFETY
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 2288
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
ONGOING CHALLENGES
• Expanding equitable access to nutrition for
Progress & Highlights consumers across diverse markets
• Combating public misinformation about
ingredients and product safety
• Renovating and innovating products that
both promote a healthier lifestyle and
satisfy taste preferences
BY 2025 2023 ACTUAL
FUTURE OPPORTUNITIES
Provide positive hydration in 60% of KDP products 59%
• Providing information about our ingredients
and products to empower consumers to
‣
Read more in About this Report: Glossary make informed choices
‣
Read more in Appendix: Goal Methodology • Exploring in-store merchandising and
marketing strategies to expand distribution
of better-for-you beverages in varied
markets
• Continuing to engage key stakeholders,
including NGOs, government and public
health officials and advocacy groups
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 29
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
STRATEGY
Our health and well-being strategy focuses on accelerating innovation, renovation and partnerships to provide more
better-for-you beverage options in our portfolio and expanding distribution of those offerings in new and varied markets.
Working alongside credentialed health and well-being experts, we are committed to empowering consumers to make
informed choices that support their holistic health and well-being journeys.
We know that trust and transparency about our marketing practices, ingredients and product safety are fundamental to
our business. KDP pursues safety and quality standards throughout product development, sourcing, manufacturing and
commercialization for all beverages and Keurig brewers that we manufacture and market.
MANAGEMENT APPROACH
KDP’s cross-functional teams work to develop and distribute a broad portfolio of products that are aimed at meeting
evolving and diversified wellness needs. The teams working to innovate, renovate and distribute more better-for-
you beverages include Strategy, Product Development, Scientific & Regulatory Affairs, Procurement, Marketing and
Commercial Sales. In 2023, we hired a Director of Nutrition within our Research & Development function to expand
existing capabilities, engage external stakeholders and provide additional guidance for our health and well-being strategy.
Specific to our positive hydration goal, we collaborate with Partnership for Healthier America (PHA), a nonprofit
committed to transforming the food landscape in pursuit of health equity in the U.S. Through our multi-year partnership,
PHA is providing KDP health and well-being advice and annual validation of our positive hydration goal progress.
We also have compliance programs and review systems to oversee KDP’s product safety and quality standards aligned
to legal and regulatory requirements. This work is led by a cross-functional team of Food Safety, Engineering, Quality
Assurance and Scientific & Regulatory Affairs experts. KDP offers products that comply with U.S. regulations, such as the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the USDA Smart Snacks in School standards; Canadian regulations, such
as the Canadian Food Inspection Agency (CFIA) and Health Canada (HC); and Mexican regulations, such as the Federal
Commission for Protection against Health Risks (COFREPRIS) and Office of the Federal Prosecutor for the Consumer
(PROFECO). For our Keurig coffee makers, rigorous development and safety processes and procedures are overseen
by teams within our Global Product Organization, including the Appliance Safety Management Committee and the
Appliance Product Safety Council.
Our Chemicals Management Policy, Responsible Marketing Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct are ways in which we
govern our commitment to providing our consumers safe products that are marketed responsibly.
‣
Read more in Governance: Ethical Business Practices
‣
Read more in About this Report: Glossary
‣
Read more in Corporate Responsibility Topics A-Z
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 30
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
CHOICE
KDP is committed to providing a balanced portfolio of beverage options and the resources consumers need to make
informed choices. Over the past few years, we have expanded our product offerings with lower sugar and calories and/or PORTION-SIZE EXPANSION
deliver nutritional and functional benefits.
We have added smaller portion sizes of
POSITIVE HYDRATION INNOVATION our full-calorie beverages in mini sizes
to give people the opportunity for treat
We have committed that, by 2025, 60% of our product portfolio in the U.S. will provide positive hydration19. At year- occasions while being mindful of their calorie
end 2023, 59% of our products provided positive hydration, an increase from 57% at year-end 2022. We achieved this consumption. In 2023, we began rolling out
progress by continuing to expand our range of positive hydration choices across our brands, including Intelligensia K-Cup Snapple Minis in 8 oz., 8 pack sizes. The can
pods, new Green Mountain Coffee Roasters flavors, Nutrabolt’s C4 Energy drink portfolio and certain flavors of La carbonated soft drinks (CSD) category saw
Colombe ready-to-drink coffee. At the close of 2023, 46% of our U.S. corporate marketing budget promoted the 48% of significant growth, and our Dr Pepper regular
our cold products and 91% of our hot products that met the definition of positive hydration. CSD 7.5 oz., 10 pack was our top selling mini
can pack24.
POSITIVE HYDRATION Mini Can Volume Growth*
A product meets the positive hydration criteria if it: +21.9%
+19.5%
Provides a serving of fruit or vegetables (with no added sugar)
OR
Is 40 calories or less per serving20 with a functional attribute21
or at least 10% Daily Value of a nutrient to encourage22
7.5 oz Mini Can 7.5 oz Mini Can
CSD 10 pack CSD Dr Pepper
U.S. sales only; examples of products that meet these criteria include non- category 10 pack
caloric coffees and teas, 100% fruit juice with no added sugar, low-calorie
energy and soft drinks and sparkling, still and functional waters.
*Circana MULO+C Volume % Change v. Year Ago;
Calendar Year 2023.
KDP participates in the Portion Balance Coalition,
PRODUCT RENOVATION
a group of public health organizations and food
We have transformed our portfolio over the past decade, offering a low- or no-calorie option for virtually every full- and beverage manufacturers that promote
calorie brand in our portfolio. In 2023, we continued to invest in the reformulation of existing options to expand consumer awareness of how portion sizes can fit within
choices that complement a balanced lifestyle. In Mexico, we introduced Peñafiel Soft Seltzer, a natural mineral water a healthy diet. KDP continues to invest in the
with a touch of 100% natural flavors, containing no sugar and no calories. manufacturing and distribution of emerging
beverage categories and in the reformulation of
existing options to expand consumer choices that
complement a balanced lifestyle.
5.6% Over the last three years, KDP has reduced added sugar from its cold portfolio by 5.6% through
product innovation and renovation to meet evolving consumer preferences23.
‣
Read more in About this Report: Glossary
‣
Read more in Appendix: Data Summary
‣
Read more in Appendix: Goal Methodology
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 31
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
ACCESS Recipe4Health and DC Central Kitchen. H2HC has
committed to awarding $1 million over 5 years via the
KDP continues to expand the distribution of better- Innovation Prize. This commitment was recognized and
for-you offerings to new and varied markets to reach a applauded by the White House as a meaningful step
diverse mix of consumers. Over the last year, we have towards achieving the Administration’s goal to end
advanced that access through engagement locally and hunger and reduce diet-related diseases by 2030.
nationally.
We also engaged consumers nationally by participating
IN-STORE MARKETING & in a Giving Tuesday campaign with Instacart and PHA.
For one week, a shoppable pop-up was launched within
MERCHANDISING STRATEGIES
the Instacart app that featured KDP brands Core
To build off our successful 2022 in-store marketing Hydration and Mott’s. For every $1 purchased of the
and merchandising pilot25, we expanded our work select better-for-you products, KDP, Instacart and other
to additional neighborhoods and retailers in 2023. participating brands donated one serving of fruits and
Specifically, we partnered with regional grocer Jewel- vegetables to PHA. In total, the campaign provided one
Osco to provide samples of KDP’s better-for-you million servings of nutritious food for families in need
products in stores located in South Side Chicago, a across the country.
community with a high poverty rate, a high sugar-
sweetened beverage consumption rate and a lack
of access to varied food options. In tandem with
the sampling in-store, we worked with a local NGO,
Project H.O.O.D to provide community members with
information about our low and zero sugar beverages
as well as direct food and beverage donations. We also
sponsored a fitness event with Project H.O.O.D and local
fitness instructors to make exercise more accessible
to the community. In Pennsylvania, we teamed up
with the retail dietitian team from supermarket
chain Redner’s Markets to promote our Bai and Core
Hydration products in 44 stores via price promotions
and a “HealthCents” merchandise wall. By partnering
with retailers in varying geographies to test different POLAR NATIONAL
in-store marketing and merchandising strategies, we
DISTRIBUTION RESULTS*
are gathering insights from consumers on how access
and placement of beverages impacts their purchase In 2020, we entered a long-term franchise
behaviors and on what types of choices they are looking agreement with Polar Beverages to drive
for when shopping. national distribution of Polar Seltzer, a zero-
calorie offering with a variety of flavors and
CROSS-SECTOR COLLABORATION the #1 sparkling water brand in the
Northeastern U.S. As a result, Polar Seltzer has
KDP is a member of the Leadership Council for the
become the #3 unsweetened sparkling water
Hunger to Health Collaboratory (H2HC), a convening of
brand in the U.S.
cross-sectional leaders that explores systemic solutions
to food, health and nutrition challenges. In 2023, KDP
invested, alongside its fellow members of H2HC, to Total Grocery
+2X points of +1.7X number of
issue its inaugural “Prizes for Innovation” award — a
distribution displays
$100,000 grant that identifies and highlights creative,
systemic efforts to address food and nutrition inequities
and advance health equity in U.S. communities. The
*Circana MULO+C 2019 and 2023.
first two grant recipients were Alameda County
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 32
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
TRANSPARENCY & MARKETING
To advance transparency and empower consumers to make informed choices, we provide detailed public information about our ingredients and products. We comply with local nutrition
labeling regulations and display voluntary front-of-pack calorie labels on many beverage containers. In addition, we regularly monitor third-party communications regarding our products
and services to identify and address any emerging issues, safety concerns or misleading information to protect the interests and well-being of our consumers.
PRODUCT FACTS
PUBLIC POLICY SUPPORT RESPONSIBLE MARKETING
WEBSITES
KDP hosts websites for the We actively participate in public-private discussions aimed KDP published a Responsible Marketing Policy in 2023 for the
U.S. and Canada that provide at replicating and accelerating the implementation of pilot U.S. It serves as a guiding framework for how we present the
detailed information about initiatives designed to increase access to our full portfolio of benefits of our products to consumers and applies to all KDP-
our product facts. These products. This extends to working collaboratively to address authorized products, brands and communications. The policy also
websites offer comprehensive health disparities in communities to help ensure that all outlines the commitment that our advertising does not appear
nutrition, allergen and consumers can benefit from our offerings, including our on or near content that is discriminatory or harassing. Employees
certification information, positive hydration products. We continue to advocate for and media agencies with primary responsibility for adhering to
allowing visitors to easily informed consumer decision-making by providing transparent, the Responsible Marketing Policy are trained and educated on
compare products, check straightforward and easily comprehensible information on our the Policy. We are in the process of developing a similar policy in
compliance with USDA Smart packaging and products. More information can be found in our Canada, expected to publish in 2024.
Snacks in schools26 or verify Responsible Public Policy Advocacy in the United States Policy.
When it comes to marketing to children, KDP recognizes the need
Fair Trade certification and
In 2023, we participated in a two-day public meeting held by for intentional guardrails for this specific audience. In the U.S.,
review packaging attributes
the FDA on strategies to reduce added sugar consumption in we are a member of the Better Business Bureau’s Children’s Food
such as recycled content and
the U.S. KDP discussed industry approaches to promote better- and Beverage Advertising Initiative (CFBAI). As participants in
nutritional information for
for-you beverage options to consumers, presenting our in-store CFBAI, we comply with the advertising standards set in CFBAI’s
fountain beverages based on
marketing and merchandising pilot with Stop & Shop as a case Core Principles and report annually on our pledge to not engage
product, cup size and ice level.
study and our work to better engage with retail dietitians. in advertising directed to children 13 and under unless the product
being advertised meets CFBAI’s strict nutrition criteria27.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 3333
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
PRODUCT QUALITY & SAFETY
We understand that trust and transparency for ingredient and product safety is fundamental to our business. We pursue
safety and quality standards throughout product development, sourcing, manufacturing and commercialization for all
beverages and Keurig coffee makers that we manufacture and market. We also have compliance programs and review
systems to oversee KDP’s product safety and quality standards aligned to legal and regulatory requirements. In addition,
we actively engage with outside experts and resources to understand emerging science and regulations to improve our
processes and products.
KDP works to manage Chemicals of Concern and the identification of opportunities to reduce or eliminate the use of
certain chemicals where feasible or required by law within packaging and products by engaging our supply chain per our
Chemicals Management Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct. Specific to animal testing, we state that our suppliers shall
strive to avoid animal testing altogether. Where it cannot be avoided, suppliers shall have a responsible animal testing
policy and procedures in place. KDP does not test our products on animals.
FOOD & PACKAGING SAFETY BREWER QUALITY & SAFETY
SYSTEMS INITIATIVES
Our food safety systems include the Producing both household and commercial
Preventative Controls and Hazard Analysis appliances, our Keurig coffee brewers have
and Critical Control Point (HACCP) method, unique engineering and safety requirements.
an internationally recognized system of All our brewers meet or exceed the market-
identifying and managing food safety-related leading safety standards of Underwriters
risks. Every KDP manufacturing site is Laboratories (UL) and UL of Canada under
audited annually to confirm it meets or normal use. Our Keurig Commercial brewers
exceeds requirements set by the Global also meet or exceed the safety standards of the
Food Safety Initiative (GFSI), an industry- National Sanitation Foundation under normal
recognized coalition that oversees food safety use. In 2023, we continued the expansion of our
standards. These programs include internal UL Certified Labs with the addition of our new
and third-party audits to review our food Witness Test Certified Appliance test center
safety processes and controls. In addition, in Shenzhen, China. For all of our brewers, we
annual food safety and quality training is employ a robust testing program throughout the
required for 100% of our KDP manufacturing brewer development and production lifecycle to
facility employees. identify potential use cases and failure modes
to support appliance quality and consistency of
operation over time.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 34
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
People & Communities
We aim to cultivate top beverage talent with a challenger mindset. We are committed to creating an inclusive,
high-performing work environment in which all employees feel supported and talent can thrive. We also
engage locally by investing in meaningful social impact programs to build strong, vibrant communities.
STRATEGY • EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT, ENGAGEMENT & WELL-BEING • DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY • COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 3355
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
ONGOING CHALLENGES
• Competing for highly sought-after talent
Progress & Highlights while navigating employee turnover,
particularly in frontline roles
• Supporting community resilience given the
increasing frequency and severity of natural
disasters as a result of climate change
BY 2025 2023 ACTUAL
FUTURE OPPORTUNITIES
Increase female representation in Director+ positions by 25% to 33% of the total 32% • Accelerating leadership development
programs with mid-level and senior leaders
for both frontline and non-frontline roles
Increase people of color representation in Director+ positions by 25% to 21% of
19% • Investing in and implementing enhanced
the total
tools, resources and data to help us attract,
train and retain diverse talent, improving
the overall employee experience
‣
Read more in About this Report: Glossary
• Increasing awareness, access and
Read more in Appendix: Goal Methodology ‣ opportunities for participation of employees
in volunteer opportunities and community
engagement initiatives
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 36
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
STRATEGY
At KDP, we recognize that our employees make our success possible. We strive to provide rich and meaningful career
experiences to help attract, develop and retain a highly talented, engaged and diverse workforce. To foster an engaged
and inclusive employee culture, we use a variety of tools, resources and programs to encourage open dialogue and
frequent feedback. In addition, we offer competitive benefits that support our employees’ total well-being, including
their physical, mental and financial health. To further support our employees in advancing their careers, we provide a
wide variety of onboarding and talent development programs aimed at cultivating and retaining a team of creators,
collaborators and achievers. In addition, workplace safety is a priority for KDP that is reinforced through continuous
improvement programs and investment in tools and technologies that enhance how we capture metrics and identify,
report and solve health and safety issues.
KDP’s community engagement strategy aims to build community resilience through corporate partnerships, employee
giving, volunteerism and brand and retail activations. Each country, region and local community in which we operate
has a distinct set of challenges that we seek to address through a combination of employment opportunities, financial
contributions, product donations and volunteer time.
MANAGEMENT APPROACH
KDP’s Human Resources team manages the total employee rewards experience, including company-wide benefits
and compensation. Business leaders, along with Human Resources, provide oversight for recruitment, training and
development programs, as well as employee programs that foster and strengthen our culture of inclusiveness. In support
of our Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) efforts, we have established executive-level governance, including participation by our
CEO, as well as a D&I leadership team, comprised of committed leaders from across KDP to help set priorities and lead
dialogue throughout the organization, including within our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). Our EHS team manages
oversight of our programs designed to safeguard the health and safety of our people.
Specific to community engagement, our Corporate Affairs and Human Resources teams, as well as ERGs, collaborate
to deliver impactful volunteerism and charitable giving opportunities for employees. We follow our Charitable Giving
Guidelines and use the Benevity system to screen all community partners and ensure they are reputable, registered NGOs.
Our Corporate Code of Conduct outlines the expectations we have of our employees to conduct business legally and
ethically. In addition, our Human Rights Position Statement outlines core standards and expectations we have established
for our employees in areas including human rights and building inclusive workplaces.
‣
Read more in Governance: Ethical Business Practices
‣
Read more in Corporate Responsibility Topics A-Z
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 37
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT, ENGAGEMENT & WELL-BEING
KDP offers competitive benefits, well-being and development opportunities to support our employees in advancing their careers.
RECRUITMENT & TALENT
WORKFORCE BENEFITS & WELL-BEING EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
DEVELOPMENT
We continue to refine our processes to increase the Our employee benefits programs strive to deliver KDP invests in enabling conversations at the
quality and quantity of touchpoints with potential diverse, competitive benefits that are effective team level to create a dynamic and rewarding
and current employees28. In 2023, initiatives included in attracting and retaining talent and help us to workplace. Our annual employee engagement
enhancing our KDP’s Careers website by producing create a culture of well-being and inclusiveness. survey solicits feedback from all team members
more than 50 videos that share employees’ Our total package of benefits is designed to on topics including culture, engagement, well-
experiences and perspectives about working at KDP. support the physical, mental and financial being, development, leadership, diversity, inclusion
We also expanded our outreach to non-traditional health of our employees. We currently provide and work environment. With 89% of employees
candidates to fill frontline roles. For example, we access to medical, dental, vision, life insurance, participating in the 2023 survey, findings showed
partnered with local shelters in Vermont to offer retirement benefits and disability benefits, as well that 80% of KDP employees are engaged,
job opportunities to unhoused community members as assistance with major life activities such as committed to staying with KDP and have a strong
and coordinated with local transportation to add a adoption, childbirth and back-up childcare, among sense of accomplishment from their work.
designated bus stop at the KDP facility. other benefits.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 38
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
We understand that embracing our team’s diverse experiences, perspectives and backgrounds is key to inspiring innovation,
fostering and retaining talent, driving change and better connecting with our customers and consumers. We also aim to
DIVERSITY
create a culture of trust and respect in which all employees feel like they belong and different perspectives are valued.
INCLUSION
In 2020, we set representation goals for management at or above the Director level, known as Director+, and have made
demonstrable progress. As of December 31, 2023, our global workforce was approximately 21% female, while our global
DRIVING CHANGE
Director+ workforce was approximately 32% female, as compared to our baseline of 26% in 2020. Approximately 48% of our
U.S. workforce was comprised of people of color, with our U.S. Director+ workforce comprised of approximately 19% people
of color, as compared to our baseline of 17% in 2020.
WORKFORCE DEMOGRAPHICS
A snapshot of KDP employee demographics as of December 31, 2023. We have also made available our EEO-1 Report.
Global Gender Demographics* U.S. Racial/Ethnicity Demographics*
<1% Not Disclosed
21% Women 79% Men 3% 1% <1%
<1% 2%
3% <1% 3% <1%
51% 4% 77%
GLOBAL 7%
TOTAL 19%
7%
U.S. TOTAL DIRECTOR+
1% Not Disclosed
32% Women 67% Men 21%
DIRECTOR+ Asian Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander
Black White
Hispanic Two or More Races
Native American or Alaska Native Not Disclosed
*% of Gender Demographics and U.S. Racial/Ethnicity Demographics may not sum to 100% due to rounding.
‣
Read more in About this Report: Glossary
‣
Read more in Appendix: Data Summary
‣
Read more in Appendix: Goal Methodology
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 39
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
TARGETED HIRING EFFORTS, and high performing leaders from select functions to with minority, women, LGBTQ+, veteran, disabled-
ENGAGEMENT & WELL-BEING align their formal development plan with their career owned and small businesses, we are working to create a
ambitions. This included matching them with a senior more equitable supply chain while supporting economic
We strategically focused our hiring efforts to ensure our leader to provide mentorship and guidance on their growth in communities nationwide.
candidate pool for frontline and Director+ roles included career journey.
females and people of color. In 2023, we provided a In 2023, we spent more than $200 million with
variety of D&I training courses and tools to our talent PAY EQUITY diverse and small businesses. In addition, we formed
acquisition team equipping them to source candidates partnerships with two leading organizations to help
At KDP we are committed to fair and equitable pay.
from diverse backgrounds, including women, LGBTQ+, connect us with and support minority-owned and
We engage with an independent third party to conduct
military and other groups. In addition, we are working women-owned businesses. They include the Women’s
periodic assessments, ensuring parity across similar job
closely with local hiring managers to consider talent Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC) and
roles striving to eliminate any statistically significant
from non-traditional backgrounds, such as refugees the National Minority Supplier Development Council
gaps based on gender or race. Our last pay equity
and people who are currently unhoused. These localized (NMSDC). Moving forward, we are committed to
analysis confirmed our commitment, demonstrating
efforts prioritize helping these employees acclimate and furthering our efforts in supplier diversity, fostering
consistent pay levels across comparable job functions,
be successful at KDP. meaningful relationships with diverse suppliers and
regardless of gender globally. Furthermore, in 2024,
driving positive impact through our procurement
To foster retention and the advancement of our current we are expanding our efforts and are actively ensuring practices.
top talent, we focused on providing employee well- pay equity for people of color in the U.S. through a
being and learning initiatives that meet the needs comprehensive pay analysis.
Read more in People & Communities:
of diverse populations. For example, our expanded ‣
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY Community Engagement
employee wellness and benefits offerings were informed
by the perspectives of our diverse employees. Also,
KDP’s supplier diversity program aims to expand
we encouraged all employees to complete a formal
opportunities for diverse suppliers within our
development plan, and in 2023, we identified emerging
procurement processes. By seeking out and engaging
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
More than 4,600 KDP employees are members
of one or more of our eight ERGs that help
build connection and community. In 2023,
these groups hosted 112 events and activities
focused on KDP culture, career, community and
company.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 40
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY
The safety and well-being of our employees are top priorities for KDP. We reinforce workplace safety through
continuous improvement programs and investing in tools and technologies to enhance how we capture metrics
and identify, report and address health and safety issues.
Our employees receive a wide range of safety training, depending on their role and site location, which can
include daily safety huddles, annual refresher courses, emergency response, specialized training and more. KDP
also continues to make operational upgrades to enhance safety protocols and routinely reviews emergency
preparedness and response plans.
KDP has implemented management systems and tools that support safety. Total Productive Maintenance
Principles (TPM) is a globally recognized framework designed to help improve manufacturing productivity
which can have employee health and safety benefits. By encouraging employees to share the responsibility
of watching for developing hazards, TPM can prevent employee accidents, as well as reduce unplanned
downtime and personnel errors. We also use the Global Safety Tracking System which monitors safety metrics
and trends. In addition, KDP develops programs and procedures to advance compliance with federal (e.g.
Occupational Safety and Health Administration [OSHA]), state and provincial laws and standards applicable
to our workplaces.
2023 MANUFACTURING & DIRECT STORE DELIVERY SAFETY INITIATIVES
• Completed a baseline ergonomic analysis for job tasks at our manufacturing sites and within
our direct store delivery (DSD) services by using wearable technology. The evaluation resulted in
revamping our pre-shift stretching program and implementing an early intervention program using
athletic trainers to help reduce the number and severity of musculoskeletal injuries in locations with
higher injury numbers.
• Onboarded a new management system for contractors to enhance our safety protocols for
personnel working on our property.
• Updated our electrical safety program by conducting electrical safety training specific to EHS
Managers.
• Upgraded select beverage production machinery with additional automatic controls to improve
machine safety.
• Expanded the training of new and existing certified drivers, including the use of in-cab event
recorders, for enhanced fleet safety.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 41
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
KDP, and our family of brands, are dedicated to supporting positive local impact and building community FEATURED CORPORATE PARTNERSHIP
resilience through corporate partnerships, employee giving and volunteerism and brand and retail activations.
Many of our flagship brands have long-standing relationships with local, national and international
organizations and have supported through in-kind and direct donations for years. We choose to work with
strategic NGOs via long-term corporate partnerships that enable us to maximize our impact. After surveying
our employees and analyzing data from the past five years, we determined that our employees wanted more
opportunities to spend time giving back to communities beyond just monetary donations. As such, in 2023 we
prioritized increasing volunteer events organized by the Corporate Affairs team for both headquarters and
manufacturing sites.
ENGAGE FOR GOOD
KDP’s employee match and volunteer program raises donations for NGOs through matching employee
donations and rewarding employees who volunteer in their communities with grants to donate to NGOs of
their choice. In this way, we support causes that matter most to our employees. Each year, we allot employees
eight hours of paid time off to volunteer in their communities. We also collaborate with our ERGs to support
activations with specific causes and organizations tied to their mission. Key 2023 highlights include:
Red Cross
• Increased employee volunteerism significantly from the prior year, in part, by bringing opportunities to
• KDP has teamed up with the Red Cross in a multi-
our frontline employees. For example, we held volunteer events at two manufacturing sites where our
year partnership to provide support to families and
employees packed more than 5,000 hygiene kits for unhoused veterans and young people in crisis.
communities in need across the U.S. and Canada
• Enhanced team building by working within specific functions for community activations. For example, through both financial support and in-kind donations.
our Supply Chain team supported Driving for a Cure to help fight breast cancer. KDP doubled employee • We also create opportunities for employees and our
donations and the campaign raised more than $18,000 in one month. customers to volunteer with the Red Cross, participate
in blood drives, contribute to food drives and donate to
emergency relief efforts.
• U.S. Year-One Red Cross Impact Highlights:
• Held five blood drives across three U.S. sites
• Donated 1,400 bottles of Mott’s Apple Juice to blood
drive distribution centers and brewers and coffee to
Red Cross blood donation centers nationally
• Participated in certified CPR training for KDP
emergency management responders and hands-only
CPR trainings for team members
• Purchased and packaged disaster relief kits for
distribution in vulnerable communities
• Canada Year-One Red Cross Impact Highlights:
• Provided 66 employee volunteer hours and $50,000
to support disaster response efforts
• Held food drives across two offices and 30 VHCS
branches and donated an additional $30,000 to
programs supporting food insecurity as part of its
Nutrition Month fundraising campaign
• Sponsored the organization’s Annual Giving Tuesday
and Holiday Giving Campaign and helped raise a
record breaking $4.5 million
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 42
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
DISASTER RELIEF & EMPLOYEE RELIEF FUND
KDP provides critical products and resources to individuals and families in the wake of crises and natural disasters.
FEATURED BRAND COMMUNITY
Working with key partners like Good360 and Operation Blessing, KDP stocks warehouses with water throughout the year
so the organizations can respond swiftly by supplying beverages to those impacted by natural disasters such as wildfires, ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVES
flooding and hurricanes. In this way, our partners always have water ready and do not have to wait on our deliveries to
respond to communities in need. This is a key logistical change we have made over the past two years after analyzing our Dr Pepper Tuition Giveaway
support programs. We also facilitate grants to U.S. employees through our Employee Relief Fund, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit
Since 1990, Dr Pepper has awarded more
that supports KDP employees and their family members who experience a disaster or emergency hardship.
than $19 million in tuition assistance to
deserving students through its various
programs, including at the annual football
throwing competition during halftime at
five marquee NCAA conference
championship games.
Ronald McDonald House Charities®
We celebrated KDP and McCafé® At Home
coffee’s partnership with Ronald McDonald
House Charities® (RMHC) to support
families with children who are sick. To launch
year two of the partnership, McCafé® At
Home committed to an increased donation
and partnered with Alexander Schulz,
Slackliner and World Record Holder. Through
the partnership, Schulz brought awareness
to how the most daring of stunts cannot
measure up to the resilience of RMHC
families. Via our partnership, the brand is
on track to donate $450,000 to RMHC.
We also supplied select RMHC Chapters in
the U.S. with additional McCafé® At Home
K-Cup pods, to use with Keurig brewers
donated as part of the partnership.
Peñafiel Pink Campaign for Breast
Cancer Awareness
In Mexico, Peñafiel partners with the COI
Foundation to create awareness and
support for breast cancer patients during
October’s Breast Cancer Awareness month.
Since 2018, we have raised $285,000
MXN to help provide access to treatment,
increase timely detection and improve
quality of life for patients.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 43
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
Governance
We have strong governance structures in place to foster a culture built on integrity,
transparency and responsibility.
STRATEGY • ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES • ESG MATERIALITY & STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 4444
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
STRATEGY
We believe strong corporate governance and ethics
provides the foundation for fostering a culture of
integrity, transparency and responsibility. Our strong
governance structures and ethical business practices
help to build trust with our stakeholders and generate
sustainable business performance. This includes our
focus in the areas of corporate policies, compliance,
human rights, advocacy, public policy, data privacy and
cybersecurity.
MANAGEMENT
APPROACH
The KDP Board of Directors oversees KDP’s
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG)
strategy and goals, as outlined in our Corporate
Governance Principles. In this role, the Board approves
our commitments and monitors progress in topics
including climate, water, circular economy, health and
well-being, sustainable practices within our supply
chain, human rights and D&I. While the full Board is
responsible for oversight of KDP’s overall ESG strategy,
the Remuneration and Nomination Committee of the
Board, along with KDP’s Executive Leadership Team,
Sustainability Governance Committee, Chief Corporate
Affairs Officer and cross-functional KDP teams that
include leaders from all areas of the business, provide
specific management, advisory, accountability and
collaboration capabilities in support of ESG efforts.
Read more in Environment: Management
‣
Approach
Read more in Supply Chain: Management
‣
Approach
Read more in Health & Well-Being:
‣
Management Approach
Read more in People & Communities:
‣
Management Approach
Read more in Corporate Responsibility
‣
Topics A-Z
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 45
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
BOARD COMPOSITION
The diverse personal and professional
backgrounds and experiences of our Board
enhance its effectiveness and ability to provide
broad perspectives and constructive feedback
to management. When selecting and recruiting
director candidates, the Board seeks experienced, 55% 36% 18%
qualified members with a diversity of
backgrounds, including professional experience,
skills, education and international experience
and perspectives, as well as characteristics such
as age, gender, race and national origin. More
information on our Board is available on our
website and in our 2024 Proxy Statement.
are “independent” under are women are racially or
Nasdaq listing rules ethnically diverse
As of this report publication, the composition of 4 OUT OF 11
the Board is as follows: 6 OUT OF 11 2 OUT OF 11
ESG OVERSIGHT
BOARD OF REMUNERATION EXECUTIVE SUSTAINABILITY CHIEF CORPORATE
DIRECTORS AND LEADERSHIP GOVERNANCE AFFAIRS OFFICER
NOMINATION TEAM COMMITTEE IN COLLABORATION
Provides primary
COMMITTEE WITH CROSS-
board-level Ensures alignment Provides cross-functional
FUNCTIONAL TEAMS
oversight of Assists the Board of our corporate decision-making and alignment
Establishes robust ESG
strategy and with oversight of responsibility with business strategy, oversees
agenda and strategic
goals. human capital approach and progress toward commitments
priorities throughout
management strategies with our and reviews and monitors the
the organization,
strategy and long-term business preparation of our Corporate
identifies and addresses
corporate objectives, provides Responsibility Report and other
challenges, enhances
governance. advisory support ESG disclosures, comprised of
disclosure and monitors
on programs and select Executive Leadership Team
emerging trends.
monitors progress. members and other key leaders.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 46
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES KDP is dedicated to transparency, accountability and
continuous improvement with respect to human rights.
CORPORATE POLICIES & COMPLIANCE We provide a grievance mechanism for employees,
communities and certain workers in our supply chain.
Our suite of policies and programs outline the We encourage stakeholders to report any violations
expectations we have of our Company and employees or ethical concerns without delay and without fear of
to act in a professional, ethical and legal manner. reprisal or concern for retaliation. In the event that
KDP’s Corporate Code of Conduct is an expression of KDP is found to have caused or contributed to adverse
our values and provides the guideposts for employees human rights impacts, we will provide for or cooperate
and directors to make the right decisions and act in the remediation of the adverse impacts through
responsibly. Our policies cover topics including anti- processes informed by internal guidance, as well as
bribery, anti-competitive behavior, insider trading and external expertise, when necessary, to achieve effective
disclosure in addition to the statements and policies remedy.
covered in other sections in this report. KDP employees
are required to hold themselves and each other ADVOCACY & PUBLIC POLICY
accountable to all policies and the law. We offer a 24/7
We believe we have a duty and responsibility to
“Speaking Up” hotline, managed by an independent
participate in the collaborative public policy-making
third party, for employees to anonymously report any
process and strive to maintain a strong voice in shaping
potential violations of our Code of Conduct or related
policy agendas that are critical to our continued growth
concerns.
and corporate responsibility strategy. These include,
party affiliation. KDP has not solicited any KDP PAC
In 2023, we provided an enterprise-wide annual but are not limited to, working to restore resources contributions since 2018. The KDP PAC’s Executive
compliance training program with curriculum tailored for a more circular economy, supporting sustainable Committee has oversight over all political contributions
to specific roles and employee populations. The global agricultural supply chains, reinforcing responsible and maintains a fund in a segregated account with
program allows teams to predict, prioritize and plan marketing and labeling and ensuring product quality Treasury oversight. All contributions are administered
for dedicated training time once a year and participate and food safety. by an independent third party. The KDP PAC did
through an engaging and modernized learning not make contributions in 2023. KDP does not make
KDP’s advocacy efforts include direct engagement
experience, with courses available in multiple languages direct corporate political contributions to candidates,
with public officials, participation in trade associations,
on any device. parties, nor their committees even where permitted by
coalitions and stakeholder meetings. All advocacy
applicable law. More information on the governance
HUMAN RIGHTS activities and contributions comply with applicable U.S.
of campaign contributions and factors that guide
laws and regulations. KDP discloses its U.S. federal,
We recognize our responsibility to uphold and state and local lobbying activity and expenditures as contributions can be found in our Policy on Responsible
promote human rights for all people and communities required by law via the Lobbying Disclosure website. We Public Policy Advocacy in the United States.
impacted by our operations and business activities. also voluntarily publish a report every year which details
DATA PRIVACY & CYBERSECURITY
Our commitment to human rights is embedded our trade association memberships, including those
across a range of policies, including our Corporate associations that received more than $25,000 per year We are committed to protecting the personal
Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct, Conflict in non-deductible fees for federal lobbying expenditures. information entrusted to us by our consumers,
Minerals Policy and Forced Labor and Child Labor In 2024, we began voluntarily publishing a report which customers, employees and business partners. In
Statement. In addition, the standards in the Human details third parties who are registered to directly accordance with applicable privacy and security
Rights Statement cover topics including discrimination advocate on KDP’s behalf. This information is outlined in laws and in alignment with the National Institute of
and humane treatment, freedom of association and our recently refreshed Policy on Responsible Public Policy Standards Framework, KDP’s Privacy and Cybersecurity
collective bargaining, child labor, working hours, wages Advocacy in the United States. Programs implement and maintain a range of trainings,
and benefits, among others. We also are supporters policies, processes and technical safeguards designed
of a number of international initiatives focused on We also administer the Keurig Dr Pepper Political to protect our systems and preserve the confidentiality
sustainability and human rights, including the United Action Committee (PAC) which is registered with the and integrity of personal information in our care. We
Nations (UN) Global Compact, the Responsible Business Federal Election Commission and funded solely through take precaution to avoid using data and technology in
Alliance (RBA) and the GCP. voluntary contributions from eligible employees. PAC ways that are unethical or could lead to discrimination
contributions are bipartisan and given to federal
and exploitation or cause harm.
and state candidates, without regard to political
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 47
ESG MATERIALITY
& STAKEHOLDER
ENGAGEMENT
We understand the importance of focusing our Product Quality & Safety
efforts on the ESG issues for which we can have Product/Packaging Design & Circular Economy
Responsible Sourcing
the greatest impact. In 2023, we performed an
ESG double materiality analysis to identify and Employee Health, Safety & Well-Being
understand the issues that are most important to Product Labeling Water Use & Stewardship
our organization and stakeholders and included Responsible Marketing Innovation & R&D
Corporate Governance & Ethics Supply Chain Resiliency
an evaluation of emerging trends and internal Employee Engagement & Development
Climate Change & GHG Emissions Consumer Health & Well-Being
and external stakeholder input. The outcome of Regenerative Agriculture Resource Use & Conservation
this process was our materiality matrix, which Energy Use/Renewable Energy Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Living Wage Stakeholder Engagement
outlines a total of 30 non-financial issues ranked
Human Rights
in relation to importance to stakeholders and Transportation Emissions
most impactful to the business. We supplement
this with our up-to-date understanding of our Advocacy & Public Policy
material ESG issues through ongoing dialogue BioP dh ii vla en rst ih tyropy GMOs/Bioengineered Ingredients Data Privacy & Protection
and engagement with key stakeholders as well as Deforestation Community Development
continuous monitoring of evolving sustainability
issues and macroeconomic events globally.
Regulation & Taxation
The top-ranking issues identified in our
matrix remained aligned with our corporate
responsibility approach and will continue to play
a prominent role in our corporate responsibility
strategies and related programs and policies. We Economic Downturns & Periods of Uncertainty
also use these responses to validate priorities
and identify gaps while meeting disclosure
standards. In addition, we have aligned our
corporate responsibility approach with seven UN Environmental Social Governance
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) most
relevant to our business.
The definition of materiality with respect to ESG
issues in this report is different than the definition
of materiality in the context of our filings with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission THE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
(SEC). The identification of material issues that
guide our corporate responsibility approach The UN SDGs were developed to address the global challenges facing our current world and represent the
should not be construed as a characterization transformative power of collective action. We have aligned our corporate responsibility approach with the seven UN
regarding the materiality or financial impact of SDGs most relevant to our business.
such issues or related information to investors in
KDP. A discussion of the risks that are material to
investors in KDP can be found on our Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2023, filed with
the SEC, our subsequent Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q and our Current Reports on Form 8-K.
All can be found on our website.
ymonocE
dna
elpoeP
,tnemnorivnE
eht
ot
tcapmI
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
LOWER IMPACT MEDIUM IMPACT HIGHER IMPACT
Impact to the Business
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 48
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Through formal and informal methods and within every level of the organization, we engage with our employees,
suppliers, consumers, customers, NGOs, investors, regulatory agencies, policy makers, communities, partners and others.
These collaborations and partnerships foster trust, elevate our performance, help to identify emerging trends and allow
us to find solutions to shared challenges.
EMPLOYEES NGOS
• Intranet • Corporate and organizational memberships
• Employee communications website and app • Direct engagement
• Online collaboration tools: Workplace and KDP • Collective action coalitions
wellness platforms
• Weekly newsletters, executive communications and
team information cascades INVESTORS
• Quarterly Town Hall meetings for the company and
for individual functions or Business Units • Quarterly earnings reports, including conference
• Regular VP+ leadership meetings calls and SEC filings
• Employee engagement surveys • Financial conferences, investor events and
• ERGs meetings, with involvement from management
• Financial publications and other filings, including
Annual Report and Proxy Statement
SUPPLIERS • Company website
• Individual and broad-based communications
• Supplier trainings, assessments and remediation REGULATORS/POLICY MAKERS
processes
• Social impact investment directly or through NGOs • Direct engagement
• Industry trade associations
• Policy coalitions
CONSUMERS • KDP U.S. PAC
• Marketing and advertising campaigns
• Consumer Care hotlines COMMUNITIES
• Brand social media channels and websites
• Influencer engagement • Employee volunteering and financial giving
• Sponsorships, sweepstakes and giveaways • Partnerships with local and national NGOs
CUSTOMERS
• Direct engagement
• Industry conferences/trade shows
• In-store promotions
• Joint community events
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 49
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
ABOUT THIS REPORT
This progress report focuses on the goals, programs and initiatives that encompass our key corporate responsibility
efforts for 2023. Unless otherwise noted, this report covers data and activities for the calendar year 2023 from KDP’s
wholly owned operations. The content covers the parts of our business in which we have operational control and does not
include joint ventures, entities in which we hold a minority interest or franchised or outsourced operations, except where
noted. Selected data and information on our global supply chain activities are also included.
This report was created with reference to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index and is in alignment with the
Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards and the Task Force on Climate-related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD).
For 2023, we have obtained limited third-party assurance of certain sustainability performance metrics by ERM CVS. The
assured data points are flagged in the Data Summary and SASB Standards, located in the Appendix of this report. The
ERM CVS Independent Assurance Report can also be viewed on our website.
KDP welcomes questions about, and feedback on, our corporate responsibility work and invites anyone to contact us at
sustainability@kdrp.com.
‣
Read more in Appendix
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Certain statements contained herein are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of applicable securities laws
and regulations. These forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of words such as “outlook,”
“guidance,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “feel,” “forecast,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “potential,”
“project,” “should,” “target,” “will,” “would” and similar words. Forward-looking statements by their nature address
matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. These statements are based on the current expectations of our
management, are not predictions of actual performance, and actual results may differ materially. Forward-looking
statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the factors disclosed on our Form 10-K and
subsequent filings with the SEC. We are under no obligation to update, modify or withdraw any forward-looking
statements, except as required by applicable law.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 50
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
Glossary
TERM DEFINITION
Circular Economy & Circularity Terms used to describe the efforts made to design products, packaging and processes for durability, reuse, recycling and/or composting while
helping to support the necessary infrastructure to enable circularity.
Compostable Packaging Packaging that is able to be broken down into carbon dioxide, water and biomass within a specific time frame under specific conditions. This
can mean either home compostable (at specific temperatures and with a natural microbial community) or industrially compostable (under
increased temperatures, humidity and specifically formulated microbial conditions). Compostable material can be made from either bio-based or
petrochemical inputs and is subject to third-party certification.
Consumers People who buy and use our products for the purpose of personal use and consumption.
Customers Retailers that buy products from KDP and sell to consumers.
Extended Producer Responsibility A policy approach that assigns producers responsibility for the end-of-life of their products. This can include both financial responsibility and
operational responsibility.
Fleet Decarbonization Efforts to remove or reduce the levels of carbon emissions (such as carbon dioxide) caused by or involved in fleet operations.
GHG Emissions – Scope 1, 2 and 3 Scope 1 emissions
Direct GHG emissions from sources that are controlled or owned by KDP (e.g. fuel used in fleet and manufacturing).
Scope 2 emissions
Indirect GHG emissions associated with the purchase or operations of sources that are not controlled or owned by KDP (e.g. electricity).
Scope 3 emissions
Indirect GHG emissions from sources not owned by the company throughout our value chain (e.g. upstream transportation, materials processing,
use of sold products, etc.).
Net Positive Water Impact Efforts to reduce water stress by focusing on water availability, quality and access and that contributions exceed impacts on water stress in the
same region, as quantified by established methodologies and measured via both short-term outputs and long-term outcomes.
Positive Hydration Positive hydration
When a KDP product provides a serving of fruits or vegetables (with no added sugar) OR is 40 calories or less per serving with a functional attribute
or at least 10% Daily Value of a nutrient to encourage.
Functional attribute
A food product that together with its basic nutritional impact has a beneficial effect on one or more functions of the human organism either
improving the general physical conditions or/and decreasing the risk of the evolution of disease.
Nutrient to encourage
Essential nutrients such as protein, fiber, vitamins and minerals.
Priority Inputs Materials of importance to KDP’s business, including apple, apple juice concentrate, cocoa, coffee, corn and tomato paste, as well as certain of
our brewer components critical to brewer function and quality. Priority status is determined by the input’s importance to KDP by magnitude of
spending, its social and environmental risk profile and our unique opportunity for impact within the supply chain.
Recyclable Packaging Packaging for which design is not a barrier to the packaging being successfully collected, sorted and reprocessed into another material, a product
component or a recycled raw material. Packaging we consider to be recyclable includes materials and formats for which recovery, sortation and end
markets exist or can practically be scaled across North America, noting that many communities may not accept or sort certain materials or formats
today. We likewise consider plastic packaging to be recyclable if it is deemed “recyclable with detrimental qualities” by the APR.
Regenerative Agriculture & Regenerative Agriculture is a holistic, localized approach to agricultural production and land management that seeks to mitigate climate change,
Conservation increase soil health, support resilient landscapes and improve farmer livelihoods. Conservation is the act of bringing non-agricultural land into
conservation protection or supporting an increase in protections and/or stewardship on already conserved lands.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 51
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
TERM DEFINITION
Responsible Sourcing Our approach to help safeguard fundamental human rights and environmental protections across our supply chain. For coffee and cocoa, we rely on
verification or third-party certification programs. For factory-based inputs, we employ KDP’s Supplier Rating System.
KDP-managed Brewer Suppliers KDP-managed brewer component suppliers
Suppliers that are critical to brewer function and quality where KDP negotiates volume and price. These include all Tier 1 Brewer Suppliers and a
portion of Tier 2 Brewer Suppliers.
Tier 1 brewer suppliers
Contract manufacturers that assemble our brewers.
Tier 2 brewer suppliers
Component suppliers that provide component parts to final assembly manufacturers.
Value Chain A value chain is the complete journey of a product or process, covering all stages from material sourcing to end-of-life. It includes sourcing,
production, distribution and disposal, highlighting the interconnectedness of each step.
Virgin Plastic Newly manufactured resin produced from petrochemical or biomass feedstock used as the raw material for the manufacture of plastic products
and which has not been used or processed before.
Workforce Definitions “Director+ Professional” - CEO, CFO, ELT, SVP, VP, Sr. Director, Director
“Other Professional” - Any employee with a pay rate type of salaried, below Director
“Hourly”- Any employee with a pay rate types “Hourly-Bi-weekly”, “Hourly-Weekly”, “Daily”, “Commission Only”
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 52
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
Endnotes
1. Circana MULO+C 52W ended 12/31/23; NPD Crest 52W ended 12/30/23; Nielsen Discover full square root of the total number of farms. That baseline can be adjusted up or down based
year 2023; NielsenIQ full year 2023. on risk, and each verification or third-party certification program will approach this differently.
2. Net Positive Water Impact are efforts to reduce water stress by focusing on water availability, The GCP, through its equivalence process, assesses third-party certification programs to help
quality and access and that our contributions exceed impacts on water stress in the same ensure a robust management system is in place that is fit-for-purpose. KDP likewise requires
region, as quantified by established methodologies and measured via both short-term outputs second-party verification programs to disclose their sampling methodology as part of KDP’s
and long-term outcomes, per the Water Resilience Coalition. approval process.
3. SBTi 2025 scenarios were aligned to the Paris Agreement climate change goal of limiting global 16. We accept audit reports from the RBA, Sedex Member Ethical Audits (SMETA), Social
warming to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels. In 2021, SBTi scenarios were adjusted Accountability International (SAI) SA8000 and the Business Social Compliance Initiative
for companies to be aligned to a 1.5°C pathway by 2030 and Net Zero by 2050 (90% reduction (BSCI). In cases where factories have another comparable audit standard, we consider them for
across all Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, with all remaining value chain GHG emissions neutralized approval on a case-by-case basis.
by purchases of carbon removal offsets). Our actions in 2023 and 2024 are allowing KDP to 17. Any changes to manufacturing lines within a site, regardless of whether they are manufacturing
explore revising our goals relative to the new SBTi targets, as appropriate, no later than year- KDP products, can negatively impact a supplier’s overall audit score.
end 2024, prior to the expiration of existing SBTs in 2025. 18. 250,000 acres represent approximately 50% of the land area used to grow the crops in scope
4. In 2022, the SBTi launched a new methodology for the forest, land and agriculture sector. The for the goal, which include coffee, corn and apple, based on our 2019 purchasing footprint.
SBTi FLAG Guidance is a standard for companies in land-intensive sectors to set SBTs that 19. U.S. sales only; includes all owned, licensed and partner beverage brands, excludes private label.
include land-based GHG emissions, reductions and removals. 20. U.S. FDA definition of “low calorie”, Code of Federal Regulations, Title 21.
5. In 2024, the GHG Protocol will publish its Land Sector and Removals Guidance to explain 21. European Commission: “A food product that together with its basic nutritional impact has
how companies should account for and report GHG emissions and removals from land a beneficial effect on one or more functions of the human organism either improving the
management, land use change, biogenic products, carbon dioxide removal technologies and general physical conditions or/and decreasing the risk of the evolution of disease.” Orrù S, et al.
related GHG inventories. Nutrients. 2018.
6. According to ISO 14001 Standard. 22. Drewnowski A, et al. Nutr Rev. 2019; Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 2020-2025.
7. KDP does not account for the purchase of these voluntary carbon credits with respect to its 23. Based on sales-weighted average.
climate targets, nor does KDP claim to reduce any portion of its reported carbon footprint on 24. Circana MULO+C; Calendar Year 2023.
the basis of these purchases. 25. In 2022, we partnered with Stop & Shop and PHA to conduct a pilot in the Roxbury
8. Excluding lid and cap. neighborhood of Boston, Massachusetts, an area known to have food access disparities. We
9. According to The Recycling Partnership’s National Recycling Database. tested in-store marketing and merchandising strategies that prioritized the placement of our
10. Excluding lid and cap. better-for-you beverages, such as Core Hydration, Bai, Evian, Snapple Zero and Polar in front
11. According to The Recycling Partnership, the U.S. recycling system is not a unified or of consumers at the store entrance and check out. The pilot successfully marketed healthier
governmental entity, but rather a network of more than 9,000 separate local recycling beverage options and provided key learnings to inform our efforts in the future.
programs. Each individual program has specific parameters for which materials can be recycled, 26. For U.S. only.
and municipalities collect recyclables in different ways. 27. KDP considers child-directed advertising to be a program or website where the audience
12. Largest buyer status designated by Fair Trade USA and based on purchases for both KDP and generally consists of 25% or more of children under the age of 13. This is a stricter standard
KDP-owned and partner brands. than required by CFBAI, which considers media primarily directed at children under 13 when the
13. As of June 2024, KDP’s accepted responsible sourcing programs include: Fair Trade Certified, audience is 35% or more of that age group.
Fairtrade International, Rainforest Alliance, 4C, AtSource Entry Verified by ofi, Volcafe Verified, 28. 100% of our U.S. salaried employees receive an annual performance review. Our hourly
Volcafe Excellence, NKG Verified, LDC’s RSP Advanced, RGC Coffee 3E Guaxupé Planet, workforce receives ongoing feedback throughout the year.
Sucafina IMPACT and SMS Verified by ECOM.
14. Between 2021 and 2023, the GCP updated its Coffee Sustainability Reference Code (Coffee
Photo Credits: Lucia Bawot (page 1: Report Cover; page 23: Responsible Sourcing: Farm); AP
SR Code), which lays out a global set of “primary principles of sustainable coffee production”.
Images for Keurig (page 15: Next-Generation Innovation and Expanded Recycling Options); Corgan
GCP also created the “Equivalence Mechanism”, a standardized process for benchmarking
(page 18: Waste Reduction); E11evate, LLC (page 32: Access); Lindsay Rapier (page 38: Employee
responsible sourcing programs with respect to the Coffee SR Code and other operating criteria.
Development, Engagement & Well-Being); Operation Blessing (page 43: Disaster Relief & Employee
No verification or third-party certification program can guarantee there are no challenges with
Relief Fund); AP Images for Dr Pepper (page 43: Dr Pepper Tuition Giveaway); FireTheCanon.com
human rights or other risks in a supply chain. However, programs that meet the Equivalence
(page 44: Governance); Isabela Gomes (page 50: About this Report).
Mechanism have demonstrated credible and effective systems for implementation, remediation
All amounts expressed in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.
of issues identified and continuous improvement over time. More detail on the Equivalence
All brands owned by their respective trademark owners. All rights reserved.
Mechanism can be found here.
15. In responsible sourcing programs only a representative sample of farms is audited. Under the
commonly employed industry approach, the baseline number of farms to audit equals the
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 53
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
Data Summary
For detail on methodologies and boundaries for the goals that these data support, see our Goal Methodology Table.
Year ended December 31 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
GHG Emissions & Energy
SCOPE 1: Direct Emissions (MTCOe)* 268,712† 289,755† 294,455† 298,188† 286,787†
2
Stationary 128,958† 116,081† 116,495† 134,628† 128,976†
Mobile 152,631† 160,797† 162,642† 162,435† 156,686†
SCOPE 2: Indirect Emissions, Purchased Energy (MTCOe)*
2
Market-based 97,345† 93,280† 81,091† 57,680† 36,721†
Location-based 162,746† 165,076† 167,493† 168,450† 174,778†
SCOPE 3: Indirect Emissions, Value Chain (MTCOe)* 9,138,787§ 8,455,045 10,039,170 10,872,567 10,048,420
2
Category Breakdown:
Purchased Goods and Services 4,048,579 3,245,733 4,762,340 5,511,255 4,966,238
Capital Goods 34,831 45,134 53,177 51,757 51,623
Fuel-and-energy-related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2)** 93,618 97,180 88,351 83,121 78,273†
Upstream Transportation and Distribution 476,052 455,091 432,347 488,178 408,034
Waste Generated in Operations 6,120 7,365 7,323 9,536 9,771
Business Travel 9,335 4,243 2,616 1,337 9,474
Employee Commuting 53,681 50,833† 52,268† 49,103† 45,820†
Downstream Transportation and Distribution 960,902 1,073,631 1,106,642 1,115,535 1,081,598
Processing of Sold Products 2,648,284 2,726,216 2,856,423 2,876,039 2,772,831
Use of Sold Products*** 675,627§ 664,521 559,947 529,557 479,915†
End-of-life Treatment of Sold Products 131,058 85,058 117,735 157,149 143,524
Downstream Leased Assets 700 0 0 0 1,320
Total Energy Use (MWh) 1,687,239† 1,812,598† 1,895,189† 1,924,265† 1,862,927†
Total Direct Energy Usage (MWh) 1,248,290† 1,352,299† 1,398,647† 1,398,100† 1,337,084†
Total Purchased Electricity Wse (MWh) 438,949† 460,299† 496,542† 526,165† 525,843†
% Grid Electricity N/A 100% 100% 100% 100%
†Third-party data assurance completed by ERM CVS with limited assurance. The report is available on our website.
§Updated from the prior year.
*Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions are accounted for in accordance with the GHG Protocol. We use the most current GHG emission factors in our inventory each year and site- and supplier-specific factors where available. Scope 1 emissions are calculated
with U.S. EPA Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories. Scope 2 emissions are calculated following both the location-based and the market-based methodologies as defined in the GHG Protocol. Location-based factors are taken from the
eGRID and International Energy Agency (IEA) datasets for U.S. and international sites, respectively; where applicable, market-based factors are taken from supplier-specific utility factors (for larger sites), Green-e (U.S.), AIB (Europe) and IEA. The
latest datasets available at time of publication are used.
**GHG emissions from Fuel-and-energy-related Activities are based on KDP direct fuel consumption and purchased electricity. Fuel consumption is multiplied by the relevant GHG emission factor for each fuel type. Electricity consumption is
multiplied by a country-specific GHG emission factor. Calculation takes into account renewable electricity procured via market instruments and green tariff contracts.
***Use of Sold Products GHG emissions are limited to brewer energy use and consumer refrigeration. Brewer energy use is estimated using brewer annual shipments and lifetime electricity consumption for each model. GHG emissions from
consumer refrigeration are estimated by lifecycle analysis.
Key: N/A = disclosures are not applicable; N/R = disclosures are not reported
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 54
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
% Renewable Electricity (Renewable Electricity as % of Total Purchased Electricity)**** 47% 50%† 62%† 74%† 83%†
Fleet Fuel Management (Total Fuel Consumed) (Gigajoules) N/R 2,325,866 2,312,032 2,316,494 2,264,898
Fleet Fuel Management (% Renewable ) 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
†Third-party data assurance completed by ERM CVS with limited assurance. The report is available on our website.
§Updated from the prior year.
****Renewable electricity in 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023 was sourced through a mix of Green-e certified REC products. Our Newbridge, Ireland facility is supplied with 100% wind electricity by the local utility.
Water
Total Withdrawal (Million Liters) 12,653† 13,166† 13,355† 13,716† 13,175†
% Withdrawal, Municipal 74%† 75%† 79%† 78%† 76%†
% Withdrawal, Groundwater 26%† 25%† 21%† 22%† 24%†
Total Consumption (Million Liters) 7,290† 7,407† 7,463† 7,326† 7,193†
% Consumed in High Baseline Water Stress Areas 38% 37% 38% 59% 59%
Total Discharge (Million Liters) 5,363† 5,759† 5,893† 6,390† 5,982†
% Discharge to Municipal 66%† 66%† 66%† 62%† 66%†
% Discharge to Waterbody 34%† 34%† 34%† 38%† 34%†
Water Use Ratio (L/L)* (Liters of Water Required to Make One Liter of Product) 1.88 1.82† 1.82† 1.82† 1.85†
Water Replenished in Highest Water-risk Areas (Million Liters per Year)** 97 725 1,817 2,084 2,169
Water Replenished in Highest Water-risk Areas (% Replenished)*** 3% 20% 49% 55% 55%
†Third-party data assurance completed by ERM CVS with limited assurance. The report is available on our website.
*The Water Use Ratio is calculated based on water withdrawals and production volumes, for cold beverage sites only. 2017 was our baseline year with a Water Use Ratio (L/L) of 1.95.
**Based on WRI’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas v3.0 (2019) locations with High or Extremely High baseline water stress, aligned with SASB metric. Prior years used v2.1 of Aqueduct and additional indicators. Total water capacity “replenished” or
otherwise restored, protected, conserved in nature through our water stewardship partner projects.
***Based on WRI’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas v3.0 (2019) locations with High or Extremely High baseline water stress, aligned with SASB metric. Prior years used v2.1 of Aqueduct and additional indicators. Progress is the volume of water capacity
replenished versus the volume of water consumed by in-scope locations within the same year.
All Packaging*
% Packaging Recyclable or Compostable** 91% 94% 95% 94% 95%†
% PCR across Total Packaging Portfolio 20% 22% 24% 24% 27%†
Plastic Packaging
% Plastic Packaging Recyclable or Compostable**, *** 73% 88% 92% 89% 91%†
% Plastic Packaging Reusable or Refillable 0.10% 1% 1%§ 1%§ 2%
% PCR across Total Plastic Packaging Portfolio 0.40% 2% 11% 18% 17%†
Total Virgin Plastic Packaging (Metric Tons) 229,000 226,000 215,000 202,740 195,015
Total Plastic Packaging (Metric Tons) 230,000 230,000 243,000 246,588 234,334†
Packaging Mix† (% of Total Weight Procured)
% Paper/Cardboard 26% 26% 32% 34% 34%
Key: N/A = disclosures are not applicable; N/R = disclosures are not reported
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 55
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
% PET Bottles 23% 24% 27% 26% 27%
% Aluminum and Steel 11% 12% 14% 14% 13%
% Non-Refillable Glass Bottles 23% 22% 10% 10% 8%
% Polypropylene 6% 8% 8% 9% 7%
% Other 8%§ 4% 4% 5% 4%
% Flexible Packaging and Plastic Film 2% 3% 3% 3% 4%
% Refillable Glass Bottles 2% 1% 2% 0% 3%
†Third-party data assurance completed by ERM CVS with limited assurance. The report is available on our website.
§Updated from the prior year.
*This report encompasses the packaging data for KDP-owned and operated facilities, which include primary secondary, and tertiary packaging, as well as brewer packaging. Materials procured by external bottlers and brewer accessory contract
manufacturers are not included. Recyclable packaging is packaging for which design is not a barrier to the packaging being successful collected, sorted and reprocessed into another material, a product component or a recycled raw material.
Packaging we consider to be recyclable includes materials and formats for which recovery, sortation and end markets exist or can be practically be scaled across North America, noting that many communities may not accept or sort certain
materials or formats today. We likewise consider plastic packaging to be recyclable if it is deemed “recyclable with detrimental qualities” by the APR. For all other material categories, our recyclability determinations are informed by applicable law
and the guidance of several organizations, including the Sustainable Packaging Coalition, the Aluminum Association, the Can Manufacturers Institute, the Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries, the Glass Packaging Institute, the Carton Council and
the American Forest & Paper Association. Packaging specifications — weight, composition and PCR content — are sourced from our suppliers. In the absence of specific data, KDP estimates are based on analogous products, ensuring our reporting
reflects the most accurate information possible.
**Data is updated from the 2022 Corporate Responsibility Report to include the addition of cold beverage plastic packaging that is categorized as “recyclable with detrimental qualities” per the APR.
***The EMF Global Commitment definition of “recyclable” differs from the KDP definition. EMF specifies that a package type must be recycled at a 30% recycling rate across geographies of 400 million or more inhabitants, which moves beyond the
traditional definition of “recyclable”. In 2019, 46% of KDP plastic packaging fit this definition. In 2020, 50% of KDP plastic packaging fit this definition. In 2021, 58% of KDP plastic packaging fit this definition. In 2022, 58% of KDP plastic packaging fit
this definition. In 2023, EMF included the category “polypropylene other rigid” as recyclable. As a result, we are evaluating KDP’s plastic packaging against this updated information for 2023 and will report to EMF later in 2024.
Waste
Total Waste Generated (Short Tons) 72,407 114,241 124,859 142,824 140,620
% Waste Diverted from Landfill 88% 92% 92% 92% 93%
Responsible Sourcing — Farm
Coffee Fair Trade Community Development Premiums (Millions USD) (Cumulative since 2001) $96 $107 $116 $129 $142
% Coffee Responsibly Sourced* 65% 81% 100% 100% 100%
% Cocoa Responsibly Sourced** N/A N/A 81% 100% 100%
Total Volume of Green Beans Received (Million Pounds) N/R N/R 278 294 256
*2020 was our final transition year, with 19% of coffee purchased as conventional. At the end of 2020, all coffee contracted going forward was 100% responsibly sourced through verification or third-party certification programs. This metric is
updated from our 2022 Corporate Responsibility Report to reflect the percentage of responsibly sourced coffee received during the year ended December 31, 2020. During 2021 and 2022, a small amount of coffee was received as conventional (0.38%
and 0.36%, respectively) due to COVID-19 impacts, supplier error or shipping delays. In 2023, 0.002% of coffee (a single shipment) was received as conventional per a customer requirement.
**2021 was our final transition year, with 19% of cocoa purchased as conventional. At the end of 2021, all cocoa contracted going forward was 100% responsibly sourced through verification or third-party certification sourcing programs. This metric
is updated from our 2022 Corporate Responsibility Report to reflect the percentage of responsibly sourced cocoa received during the year ended December 31, 2021.
Responsible Sourcing — KDP Supplier Rating System for Factories Summary*
Tier 1 Brewer Suppliers
Meets or Exceeds Expectations N/A N/A N/A 90% 80%
Below Expectations N/A N/A N/A 10% 20%
Not Yet Rated N/A N/A N/A 0% 0%
Key: N/A = disclosures are not applicable; N/R = disclosures are not reported
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 56
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Tier 2 Brewer Suppliers
Meets or Exceeds Expectations N/A N/A N/A 38% 53%
Below Expectations N/A N/A N/A 13% 7%
Not Yet Rated N/A N/A N/A 49% 40%
Apple Juice Concentrate Suppliers from High-Risk Countries
Meets or Exceeds Expectations N/A N/A N/A 59%§ 48%
Below Expectations N/A N/A N/A 0% 0%
Not Yet Rated N/A N/A N/A 41%§ 52%
Tomato Paste
Meets or Exceeds Expectations N/A N/A N/A N/A 100%
Below Expectations N/A N/A N/A N/A 0%
Not Yet Rated N/A N/A N/A N/A 0%
§Updated from the prior year.
*In 2022, we began to execute on an evolved responsible sourcing program with a uniform methodology and supplier rating system that enables us to align and expand our audit program across more of our supply base where the risk is focused in
manufacturing factories.
Responsible Sourcing — Brewer Audit Summary*
Total Number of KDP Managed Tier 1/Tier 2 Suppliers N/A N/A N/A 33§ 77
Tier 1 Suppliers Risk Assessed N/A N/A N/A 100% 100%
Tier 2 Suppliers Risk Assessed N/A N/A N/A 51% 62%
Total Audits Conducted for Tier 1/Tier 2 Suppliers N/A N/A N/A 33 77
Total Priority Findings Violations N/A N/A N/A 14 0
Tier 1 Priority Findings N/A N/A N/A 3 0
Tier 2 Priority Findings N/A N/A N/A 11 0
Priority Findings Violations Closed N/A N/A N/A 62% 0%
§Updated from the prior year.
*We met our responsible sourcing goal for brewers in 2021. In 2022, we adjusted our methodology for our Responsible Sourcing Brewer Program and report these metrics. Read more in Appendix: Goal Methodology.
Nature
KDP Supported Regenerative Agriculture and Conservation (Acres) (Cumulative since 2022) N/A N/A N/A 11,296† 43,435†
†Third-party data assurance completed by ERM CVS with limited assurance. The report is available on our website.
Livelihoods
Investments Improving Livelihoods of Coffee Farmers (Millions USD) (Cumulative through 2023,
$63 $64 $71 $72 $73
since 2003)
Key: N/A = disclosures are not applicable; N/R = disclosures are not reported
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 57
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Health & Well-Being
% Products that Provide Positive Hydration* N/A 54% 56% 57%† 59%†
†Third-party data assurance completed by ERM CVS with limited assurance. The report is available on our website.
*U.S. sales only; includes partner brands and fountain, excludes private label. We define a positive hydration product as one that provides a serving of fruits or vegetables (with no added sugar) OR is 40 calories or less per serving with a functional
attribute or at least 10% Daily Value of a nutrient to encourage.
Employee Engagement
% Annual Survey Participation Rate 65% 81% 89% 87% 89%
% Employee Engagement 60% 62% 71% 81% 80%
% Total Employee New Hire Rate N/R 32% 16% 15% 38%
% Total Employee Turnover Rate N/R 32% 41% 43% 38%
Workplace Safety — Manufacturing*
Lost Time Injury Rate 0.23 0.28 0.18 0.19 0.27
Total Fatalities (work-related) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Total Recordable Injury Rate 1.23 0.97 0.89 0.96 0.88
*Owned and operated KDP manufacturing facilities; rates are calculated as frequency of injuries per 100 employees. 2022 data revised due to incidents becoming recordable or resulting in lost time after end of calendar year.
Workplace Safety — Direct Store Delivery*
Lost Time Injury Rate 1.60 1.90 1.30 1.41 1.99
Total Recordable Injury Rate 8.20 6.70 5.20 6.27 7.35
*U.S. operations. Rates are calculated as frequency of injuries per 100 employees.
Diversity & Inclusion
Female Representation in Director+ Positions N/A 26% 28% 31%† 32%†
% People of Color Representation in Director+ Positions* N/A 17% 17% 18%† 19%†
Diverse Supplier Spend (Millions USD) N/R N/R N/R N/R $212
†Third-party data assurance completed by ERM CVS with limited assurance. The report is available on our website.
*Includes only U.S. employees
TOTAL DIRECTOR+ PROFESSIONAL OTHER PROFESSIONAL HOURLY
2023 Global Employee Gender Demographics†
Total Global KDP 28,124 672 9,080 18,372
Female 5,769 217 2,614 2,938
Male 22,224 447 6,399 15,378
Not Disclosed 131 8 67 56
†Third-party data assurance completed by ERM CVS with limited assurance. The report is available on our website.
Key: N/A = disclosures are not applicable; N/R = disclosures are not reported
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 58
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
TOTAL DIRECTOR+ PROFESSIONAL OTHER PROFESSIONAL HOURLY
2023 U.S. Employee Racial/Ethnicity Demographics†
Total U.S. KDP 21,677 596 5,620 15,461
Total 11,061 458 3,768 6,835
Female 2,572 148 1,125 1,299
White
Male 306 306 2,638 5,519
Not Disclosed 26 4 5 17
Total 4,558 41 767 3,750
Female 559 8 161 390
Hispanic
Male 3,997 33 605 3,359
Not Disclosed 2 0 1 1
Total 4,147 18 570 3,559
Female 818 9 161 648
Black
Male 3,323 9 407 2,907
Not Disclosed 6 0 2 4
Total 736 41 286 409
Female 264 20 133 111
Asian
Male 470 21 152 297
Not Disclosed 2 0 1 1
Total 694 14 140 540
Female 162 7 54 101
Two or More Races
Male 530 7 86 437
Not Disclosed 2 0 0 2
Total 96 1 9 86
Female 36 0 5 31
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander
Male 59 1 4 54
Not Disclosed 1 0 0 1
Total 76 1 9 66
Female 10 0 1 9
Native American or Alaska Native
Male 66 1 8 57
Not Disclosed 0 0 0 0
Total 309 22 71 216
Female 77 6 27 44
Not Disclosed
Male 203 15 36 152
Not Disclosed 29 1 8 20
†Third-party data assurance completed by ERM CVS with limited assurance. The report is available on our website.
Key: N/A = disclosures are not applicable; N/R = disclosures are not reported
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 59
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
Goal Methodology
TARGET
BASELINE COMMITMENT
GOAL UNIT OF MEASURE COMPLETION BOUNDARIES EXCLUSIONS OTHER/COMMENTS
(YEAR) MADE (YEAR)
(YEAR*)
Engage bottlers % of Scope 3 N/A 2019 2024 The suppliers and bottlers targeted cover None Validated by SBTi. For
and select suppliers emissions covered the Scope 3 categories of purchased goods more information on our
representing 50% of by bottler and and services, downstream transportation GHG emissions calculation
Scope 3 emissions to supplier SBTs and distribution, processing of sold methodology and boundaries
set a science-based products and the end-of-life treatment of please refer to our CDP
target by 2024 sold products. Climate Disclosure.
Obtain 100% of Renewable N/A 2019 2025 All KDP-owned and operated facilities' None Validated by RE100.
electricity from electricity electricity consumption is included.
renewable sources by purchases as % Consumption is estimated for some small
2025 of total electricity sites.
purchases
Reduce Scope 1 and MTCO2e 2018 2019 2030 The reductions targeted are against all Refrigerant leaks Validated by SBTi. For
2 emissions by 30% (metric tons KDP energy use from owned and operated from HVAC systems in more information on our
by 2030 carbon dioxide assets and purchased electricity. facilities. GHG emissions calculation
equivalents) methodology and boundaries
please refer to our CDP
Climate Disclosure.
Reduce Scope 3 MTCO2e 2018 2019 2030 The reductions targeted cover the Scope 3 None Included categories account
emissions in select (metric tons categories of purchased goods and services for approximately 20% of our
categories by 15% by carbon dioxide (PET and glass packaging), fuel and energy- Scope 3 emissions.
2030 equivalents) related activities, upstream transportation
Validated by SBTi. For
and distribution and the use of sold
more information on our
products.
GHG emissions calculation
methodology and boundaries
please refer to our CDP
Climate Disclosure.
Improve our water % improvement 2017 2019 2025 Cold beverage manufacturing sites. Excludes coffee Approach is aligned
use efficiency by in water use ratio production, applesauce to Beverage Industry
20% by 2025 (water use ratio = production, third-party Environmental Roundtable
water withdrawal production and all definitions and approach.
divided by total other cold beverage
finished product) facilities that were not
fully operational in the
reporting year.
*Goals will be met by the end of the specified year
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 60
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
TARGET
BASELINE COMMITMENT
GOAL UNIT OF MEASURE COMPLETION BOUNDARIES EXCLUSIONS OTHER/COMMENTS
(YEAR) MADE (YEAR)
(YEAR*)
Partner with our % water N/A 2019 2030 Ten focus communities were determined by None Prior to 2022, progress toward
highest water- replenished of a water risk assessment that utilized the this goal was calculated as a
risk operating volume used in Ecolab Water Risk Monetizer and the World percentage of the forecasted
communities to products produced Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Water goal, not as a percentage of
replenish 100% of at highest water- Risk Atlas, and expert knowledge from the reporting year's water
water used in our risk sites LimnoTech. The locations are: Miami and consumption for sites in scope.
beverages in those Jacksonville, Florida; Houston and Irving, Following the expansion of
communities by 2030 Texas; Sacramento, Vernon and Victorville, the goal boundary from six to
California; and Tecámac, Tehuacán and 10 sites, as well as extending
Tlajomulco, Mexico. the target completion year
to 2030, performance for
Water replenishment project water volumes
2022 and 2023 is reported
are calculated on a yearly basis (ML/yr),
as volume replenished in the
based on the annual volume benefit they
reporting year per volume of
deliver.
consumption in the reporting
Replenish volumes are only counted toward year. Duration of volumetric
the cold beverage sites sharing the same benefit varies and is based on
watershed and only up to 100% of that project characteristics. Benefit
site’s water use volume. duration is capped at 10 years.
Validated by Limnotech.
Convert 100% % of total N/A 2019 2025 Primary, secondary and tertiary packaging Third-party bottlers’ Ongoing projects to recycle
of packaging to packaging by from KDP-owned and operated food and packaging material. coffee brewers are additional
be recyclable or weight beverage manufacturing facilities as well as to this goal.
Plastic strapping,
compostable by 2025 packaging used for brewers.
adhesives, tapes,
wood pallets, brewers,
brewer components
and brewer accessory
packaging.
Use 30% post- % of total N/A 2019 2025 Primary, secondary and tertiary packaging Third-party bottlers’ Ongoing projects to
consumer recycled packaging by from KDP-owned and operated food and packaging material. incorporate PCR in coffee
content across our weight beverage manufacturing facilities as well as brewers are additional to this
Plastic strapping,
packaging portfolio packaging used for brewers. goal.
adhesives, tapes,
by 2025
wood pallets, brewers,
brewer components
and brewer accessory
packaging.
Use 25% post- % of total plastic N/A 2019 2025 Primary, secondary and tertiary plastic Third-party bottlers’ Ongoing projects to
consumer recycled packaging by packaging from KDP-owned and operated packaging material. incorporate PCR in coffee
content in our plastic weight food and beverage manufacturing facilities, brewers are additional to this
Plastic strapping,
packaging by 2025 as well as plastic packaging used for goal.
adhesives, tapes,
brewers.
wood pallets, brewers,
brewer components
and brewer accessory
packaging.
*Goals will be met by the end of the specified year
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 61
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
TARGET
BASELINE COMMITMENT
GOAL UNIT OF MEASURE COMPLETION BOUNDARIES EXCLUSIONS OTHER/COMMENTS
(YEAR) MADE (YEAR)
(YEAR*)
Achieve a 20% virgin % of virgin plastic 2019 2019 2025 Primary, secondary and tertiary virgin Third-party bottlers’ None
plastic reduction packaging by plastic packaging from KDP-owned and packaging material.
across our plastic weight operated food and beverage manufacturing
Plastic strapping,
packaging portfolio facilities as well as virgin plastic packaging
adhesives, tapes,
by 2025 used for brewers.
wood pallets, brewers,
brewer components
and brewer accessory
packaging.
Send zero waste to % solid waste, by N/A 2019 2025 Solid waste at manufacturing sites only. Does not include None
landfill across our weight, diverted offices or warehouses/
operations by 2025 from landfill distribution centers
except in some
instances of co-
location with the
manufacturing site, or
any other properties
that are not production
facilities. Nonetheless,
many of these excluded
facilities have robust
recycling and waste
diversion practices.
Responsibly source % of responsibly N/A 2014 Ongoing All green coffee purchased by KDP for Soluble and freeze- Accepted verification or third-
our brewers and sourced coffee by owned and partner brands. dried coffee; other party certification programs:
priority inputs volume coffee-based Fairtrade International, Fair
ingredients; green Trade USA, the Rainforest
coffee extract; green Alliance, 4C, AtSource Entry
coffee or other coffee Verified by ofi, NKG Verified,
inputs purchased by RSP Advanced by Louis Dreyfus
partners. Company, Volcafe Verified,
Volcafe Excellence, Sucafina,
RGC Coffee 3E, Guaxupe
Planet, ECOM SMS.
% of responsibly N/A 2021 Ongoing All cocoa purchased by KDP, including if Cocoa purchased by Accepted verification or third-
sourced cocoa by sourced as a standalone ingredient or partners. party certification programs.
volume within a blended powder finished product; Purchased volumes validated
including if sourced directly or from a co- by the Rainforest Alliance,
manufacturer or processor. Fair Trade USA and Fairtrade
International. KDP's evaluation
tool to accept partner
programs was independently
reviewed by Conservation
International and WWF.
*Goals will be met by the end of the specified year
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 62
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
TARGET
BASELINE COMMITMENT
GOAL UNIT OF MEASURE COMPLETION BOUNDARIES EXCLUSIONS OTHER/COMMENTS
(YEAR) MADE (YEAR)
(YEAR*)
Responsibly source # of brewer N/A 2021 Ongoing All KDP managed Tier 1 and Tier 2 brewer Contract Validated by third-party
our brewers and suppliers that and brewer component suppliers. manufacturer- auditors.
priority inputs Meets or Exceeds managed Tier 2
Expectations in a suppliers and spot buy
social compliance suppliers.
audit
Support regenerative Number of N/A 2021 2030 Coffee, corn (for high fructose corn syrup), Coffee: Soluble and Methodology was developed in
agriculture and cumulative acres apple supply chains. freeze-dried coffee; partnership with Terra Genesis
conservation on supported since other coffee-based International with significant
250,000 acres of 2022 ingredients; green stakeholder outreach to
land by 2030 coffee extract; green farmers, NGOs and industry
coffee or other coffee organizations.
inputs purchased by
All regenerative agriculture and
partners.
conservation projects follow
Corn: corn starch, citric the guidelines established in
acid, erythritol, corn KDP’s Regenerative Agriculture
syrup, soluble corn & Conservation Monitoring and
fiber, gin, vodka, brown Evaluation Guide.
caramel color.
One project, implemented in
Apple: purees, flakes. KDP’s coffee supply base by
Root Capital, also necessitates
application of a calculation that
assumes an 80% overlap of
land area where the qualifying
outcomes have been supported.
Provide positive % of total number N/A 2021 2025 U.S. sales only. Positive hydration is defined Excludes multi-packs, Validated by PHA.
hydration in 60% of of KDP products; as a product that provides a serving of co-packed brands and
our products by 2025 U.S. sales fruits or vegetables (with no added sugar) private label.
OR is 40 calories or less per serving with a
functional attribute or at least 10% Daily
Value of a nutrient to encourage.
Serving size is defined on product label. A
product is defined as any unique portion
size of a beverage or sauce. Includes all hot,
cold, owned, licensed and partner brands
and fountain beverages.
Increase female % of Director+ 2020 2021 2025 Director+ employees in all geographies. All employees below None
representation in employees Director-level.
Director+ positions
by 25% to 33% of the
total by 2025
Increase people of % of Director+ 2020 2021 2025 Director+ employees in the U.S. only. All employees below None
color representation employees Director-level.
in Director+ positions
by 25% to 21% of the
total by 2025
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 63
*Goals will be met by the end of the specified year
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index
KDP has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period January 1, 2023 to December 31, 2023 with reference to the GRI Standards.
DISCLOSURE LOCATION
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
2-1 Organizational details Overview, page 4
2023 Form 10-K
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting About this Report, page 50
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point About this Report, page 50
2-4 Restatements of information Data Summary, page 54
SCOPE 3: Indirect Emissions, Value Chain (MTCO2e)*, 2019, page 54
Scope 3 : Indirect Emissions, Value Chain (MTCO2e)*, Use of Sold Products, 2019, page 54
% Packaging Recyclable or Compostable, page 55
% Plastic Packaging Recyclable or Compostable, page 55
% Plastic Packaging Reusable or Refillable, 2021, 2022, page 55
Packaging Mix (% of Total Weight Procured), Other, 2019, page 55
% Cocoa Responsibly Sourced, 2021, page 56
Responsible Sourcing — KDP Supplier Rating System for Factories, Apple Juice Concentrate
Suppliers, 2022, page 57
2-5 External assurance About this Report, page 50
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships 2023 Form 10-K
2-7 Employees People & Communities, pages 35-43
2023 Form 10-K
2-8 Workers who are not employees People & Communities, pages 35-43
2023 Form 10-K
2-9 Governance structure and composition Governance, pages 44-49
2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance Principles
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body Governance, pages 44-49
2024 Proxy Statement
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body Governance, pages 44-49
2024 Proxy Statement
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of impacts Governance, pages 44-49
2024 Proxy Statement
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 64
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
DISCLOSURE LOCATION
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Governance, pages 44-49
2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Governance Principles
Audit and Finance Committee Charter
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting Governance, pages 44-49
2-15 Conflicts of interest Governance, pages 44-49
2024 Proxy Statement
Corporate Code of Conduct
2-16 Communication of critical concerns Governance, pages 44-49
2024 Proxy Statement
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body Governance, pages 44-49
2024 Proxy Statement
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body Governance, pages 44-49
2024 Proxy Statement
2-19 Remuneration policies 2024 Proxy Statement
Remuneration and Nomination Committee Charter
2-20 Process to determine remuneration 2024 Proxy Statement
Remuneration and Nomination Committee Charter
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio 2024 Proxy Statement
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy A Letter from our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Corporate Affairs Officer, page 3
2-23 Policy commitments Governance, pages 44-49
Our Policies
2-24 Embedding policy commitments Governance, pages 44-49
Our Policies
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts Governance, pages 44-49
Our Policies
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns Governance, pages 44-49
Our Policies
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations In the normal course of business, KDP is subject to a variety of federal, state and local
environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. KDP maintains environmental, health and
safety policies and quality, environmental, and health and safety programs designed to foster
compliance with applicable laws and regulations. KDP had instances of non-compliance in 2023.
However, the costs of such compliance matters did not have a material financial impact on KDP
operations.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 65
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
DISCLOSURE LOCATION
2-28 Membership associations Environment, pages 7-18
Supply Chain, pages 19-27
Health & Well-Being, pages 28-34
People & Communities, pages 35-43
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Governance, pages 44-49
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements 2023 Form 10-K
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3-1 Process to determine material topics Governance, pages 44-49
3-2 List of material topics Governance, pages 44-49
3-3 Management of material topics Environment, pages 7-18
Supply Chain, pages 19-27
Health & Well-Being, pages 28-34
People & Communities, pages 35-43
Governance, pages 44-49
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2023 Form 10-K
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 2023 Form 10-K
2023 CDP Climate Submission
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 2023 Form 10-K
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Governance, pages 44-49
Corporate Code of Conduct
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Governance, pages 44-49
Corporate Code of Conduct
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Governance, pages 44-49
Corporate Code of Conduct
GRI 301: Materials 2016
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
301-2 Recycled input materials used Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 66
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
DISCLOSURE LOCATION
GRI 302: Energy 2016
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
302-3 Energy intensity Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
303-3 Water withdrawal Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
303-4 Water discharge Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
303-5 Water consumption Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016
304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and Environment, pages 7-18
areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas
Supply Chain, pages 19-27
Data Summary, pages 54-59
304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity Environment, pages 7-18
Supply Chain, pages 19-27
Data Summary, pages 54-59
304-3 Habitats protected or restored Environment, pages 7-18
Supply Chain, pages 19-27
Data Summary, pages 54-59
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 67
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
DISCLOSURE LOCATION
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
GRI 306: Waste 2020
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
306-3 Waste generated Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
306-5 Waste directed to disposal Environment, pages 7-18
Data Summary, pages 54-59
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Supplier Code of Conduct
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Environment, pages 7-18
Supply Chain, pages 19-27
Data Summary, pages 54-59
GRI 401: Employment 2016
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover People & Communities, pages 35-43
Data Summary, pages 54-59
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part- People & Communities, pages 35-43
time employees
401-3 Parental leave People & Communities, pages 35-43
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 68
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
DISCLOSURE LOCATION
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system People & Communities, pages 35-43
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation People & Communities, pages 35-43
403-3 Occupational health services People & Communities, pages 35-43
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health People & Communities, pages 35-43
and safety
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety People & Communities, pages 35-43
403-6 Promotion of worker health People & Communities, pages 35-43
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked People & Communities, pages 35-43
by business relationships
403-9 Work-related injuries Data Summary, pages 54-59
403-10 Work-related ill health Data Summary, pages 54-59
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
401-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Our non-frontline, full-time, salaried team members have completed more than 66,000 hours of
training in 2023.
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs People & Communities, pages 35-43
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees People & Communities, pages 35-43
Governance, pages 44-49
Data Summary, pages 54-59
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men People & Communities, pages 35-43
GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken People & Communities, pages 35-43
Human Rights Position Statement
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective Supply Chain, pages 19-27
bargaining may be at risk
Governance, pages 44-49
Human Rights Position Statement
GRI 408: Child Labor 2016
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor Supply Chain, pages 19-27
Governance, pages 44-49
Supplier Code of Conduct
Brazilian Coffee Purchasing Policy
Forced Labor and Child Labor Statement
Human Rights Position Statement
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 69
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
DISCLOSURE LOCATION
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Supply Chain, pages 19-27
Governance, pages 44-49
Supplier Code of Conduct
Brazilian Coffee Purchasing Policy
Forced Labor and Child Labor Statement
Human Rights Position Statement
GRI 410: Security Practices 2016
410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures Supply Chain, pages 19-27
Human Rights Position Statement
GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016
411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Supply Chain, pages 19-27
Human Rights Position Statement
GRI 413: Local Communities 2016
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development Environment, pages 7-18
programs
Supply Chain, pages 19-27
Health & Well-Being, pages 28-34
People & Communities, pages 35-43
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Supply Chain, pages 19-27
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Environment, pages 7-18
Supply Chain, pages 19-27
GRI 415: Public Policy 2016
415-1 Political contributions Governance, pages 44-49
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories Health & Well-Being, pages 28-34
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products Health & Well-Being, pages 28-34
and services
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016
417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling Health & Well-Being, pages 28-34
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling Health & Well-Being, pages 28-34
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications Health & Well-Being, pages 28-34
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of Governance, pages 44-49
customer data
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 70
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards
In alignment with the SASB Standards, we report against the two sector standards that most closely reflect our business: Non-Alcoholic Beverages and Appliance Manufacturing. The
following index provides KDP’s disclosures and references relevant sections within this current 2023 Corporate Responsibility Report. For additional detail, including assurance on data
for the report, see Data Summary.
Non-Alcoholic Beverages
TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC CATEGORY UNIT OF MEASURE CODE RESPONSE
Fleet Fuel Management Fleet fuel consumed, percentage renewable Quantitative Gigajoules (GJ), FB-NB-110a.1 2,264,898, 0%
Percentage (%)
Energy Management (1)Operational energy consumed, (2) Quantitative Gigajoules (GJ), FB-NB-130a.1 (1)4,515,667
percentage grid electricity, (3) percentage Percentage (%) (2)42%
renewable (3)35%
Water Management (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water Quantitative Thousand cubic FB-NB-140a.1 (1)13,175, 49%
consumed, percentage of each in regions meters (m3), (2)7,193, 59%
with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Percentage (%)
Stress
Description of water management risks and Discussion and N/A FB-NB-140a.2 We operate in areas of high baseline water
discussion of strategies and practices to Analysis stress, and stress is projected to increase over
mitigate those risks time. Our water efficiency target aims to reduce
KDP’s impact to local water supplies and our
water stewardship efforts implement water
replenishment and conservation in areas of highest
water risk where we have operations.
Water Use & Stewardship, pages 13-14
Data Summary, pages 54-59
Health & Nutrition Revenue from (1) zero- and low-calorie, Quantitative Reporting Currency FB-NB-260a.1 We do not report this publicly. We have a goal that
(2)no-added-sugar, and (3) artificially 60% of our beverages will provide positive hydration
sweetened beverages by 2025. Positive hydration is defined as a product
that provides a serving of fruits or vegetables (with
no added sugar) or is 40 calories or less per serving
with a functional attribute or at least 10% Daily
Value of a nutrient to encourage.
Choice, page 31
Discussion of the process to identify and Discussion and N/A FB-NB-260a.2 Health & Well-Being, pages 28-34
manage products and ingredients related Analysis
to nutritional and health concerns among
consumers
Product Labeling & Percentage of advertising impressions (1) Quantitative Percentage (%) FB-NB-270a.1 (1)0%
Marketing made on children and (2) made on children (2)0%
promoting products that meet dietary
Transparency & Marketing, page 33
guidelines
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 71
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC CATEGORY UNIT OF MEASURE CODE RESPONSE
Product Labeling & Revenue from products labeled as (1) Quantitative Reporting Currency FB-NB-270a.2 We do not report this publicly. Per our ESG
Marketing containing genetically modified organisms materiality assessment, we have determined this
(GMOs) and (2) non-GMO is not a material issue for KDP. We comply with the
federal bio-engineered labeling law in the U.S. for
any product containing a bioengineered ingredient.
Number of incidents of non-compliance Quantitative Number FB-NB-270a.3 We do not report this publicly.
with industry or regulatory labeling and/or
marketing codes
Total amount of monetary losses as a Quantitative Reporting Currency FB-NB-270a.4 We do not report this publicly.
result of legal proceedings associated with
marketing and/or labeling practices
Packaging Lifecycle (1) Total weight of packaging, (2) Quantitative Metric tons (t), FB-NB-410a.1 (1) 572,630
Management percentage made from recycled and/or Percentage (%) (2) 27%
renewable materials, and (3) percentage (3) 95%
that is recyclable, reusable, and/or
compostable
Discussion of strategies to reduce the Discussion and N/A FB-NB-410a.2 Packaging & Circular Economy, pages 15-18
environmental impact of packaging Analysis
throughout its lifecycle
Environmental & Social Suppliers’ social and environmental Quantitative Rate FB-NB-430a.1 We do not report this publicly. Because our risk
Impacts of Ingredient responsibility audit (1) non-conformance assessments show that the major social and
Supply Chain rate and (2) associated corrective action environmental risks are at the farm and factory
rate for (a) major and (b) minor non- levels, we focus our efforts on upstream suppliers.
conformances For coffee and cocoa, we rely on verification or
third-party certification programs. For our factory-
based inputs, such as AJC and tomato paste, we
report on the outcomes of audits via KDP’s Supplier
Rating System. Both approaches include audits and
corrective action processes for major and minor
non-conformities.
Supply Chain, pages 19-27
Ingredient Sourcing Percentage of beverage ingredients sourced Quantitative Percentage (%) by FB-NB-440a.1 In alignment with our CDP Water Disclosure,
from regions with High or Extremely High cost we report the percentage of key ingredients (by
Baseline Water Stress volume) sourced from areas of water stress,
which corresponds very closely to reporting the
percentage by cost. Based on our most recent
water risk assessment in 2021, the data was as
follows:
Apple: 0%
Cane Sugar: 64%
Coffee: 0.04%
Corn (for High Fructose Corn Syrup): 5%
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 72
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC CATEGORY UNIT OF MEASURE CODE RESPONSE
Ingredient Sourcing List of priority beverage ingredients Discussion and N/A FB-NB-440a.2 We use third-party risk data, as well as other
and description of sourcing risks due to Analysis industry group data, to assess our ingredients
environmental and social considerations based on environmental and social risk factors.
We consider risk level, spend, volume purchased,
KDP influence and opportunity for impact, and
other factors to determine the prioritization of our
ingredients. Our 2023 priority beverage ingredients
are: coffee, cocoa, corn, apple, AJC and tomato
paste. Key environmental risks for these ingredients
include climate change, deforestation, agrochemical
use and biodiversity. Our strategy to address these
risks is shaped by our regenerative agriculture
efforts.
Supply Chain, pages 19-27
KDP Forced Labor and Child Labor Statement
Activity Metric
TOPIC CATEGORY UNIT OF MEASURE CODE RESPONSE
Volume of products sold Quantitative Millions of hectoliters (Mhl) FB-NB-000.A KDP discloses revenues by segment.
2023 Form 10-K
Number of production facilities Quantitative Number FB-NB-000.B 2023 Form 10-K
Total fleet road miles traveled Quantitative Miles FB-NB-000.C 102,287,375
i Note to FB-NB-270a.1 – The entity shall disclose the applicable dietary guidelines and the methodology used to estimate advertising impressions.
ii Note to FB-NB-270a.4 – The entity shall briefly describe the nature, context and any corrective actions taken as a result of the monetary losses.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 73
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
Appliance Manufacturing
TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC CATEGORY UNIT OF MEASURE CODE RESPONSE
Product Safety Number of (1) recalls issued and (2) total Quantitative Number CG-AM-250a.1 0 appliance recalls
units recalled
Discussion of process to identify and Discussion and N/A CG-AM-250a.2 Product Quality & Safety, page 34
manage safety risks associated with the use Analysis
of its products
Total amount of monetary losses as a Quantitative Reporting Currency CG-AM-250a.3 We do not report this publicly.
result of legal proceedings associated with
product safety
Product Lifecycle Percentage of eligible products by revenue Quantitative Percentage (%) by CG-AM-410a.1 0%
Environmental Impacts certified to the ENERGY STAR® program revenue
Percentage of eligible products certified Quantitative Percentage (%) by CG-AM-410a.2 0%
to an Association of Home Appliance revenue
Manufacturers (AHAM) sustainability
standard
Description of efforts to manage products’ Discussion and N/A CG-AM-410a.3 In the U.S. and Canada, we offer a program to
end-of-life impacts Analysis select retailers to send in-store returned Keurig
brewers to be recycled through a third-party
partner. Utilization of this program by our retailers
varies. In Canada, we also offer a recycling program
for our commercial brewers through VHCS.
Activity Metric
TOPIC CATEGORY UNIT OF MEASURE CODE RESPONSE
Annual production Quantitative Number of units CG-AM-000.A KDP discloses revenues by segment.
2023 Form 10-K
i Note to CG-AM-250a.1 – The entity shall discuss notable recalls such as those that affected a significant number of units of one product or those related to serious injury or fatality.
ii Note to CG-AM-250a.3 – The entity shall briefly describe the nature, context and any corrective actions taken as a result of the monetary losses.
iii Note to CG-AM-000.A – Production shall be disclosed as the number of units produced by product category, where relevant product categories may include small appliances and major appliances.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 74
Overview Environment Supply Chain Health & Well-Being People & Communities Governance Appendix
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index
In alignment with the TCFD recommendations, the following index provides references to KDP’s disclosures on climate change, including our CDP Climate Disclosure and the relevant
sections within this 2023 Corporate Responsibility Report.
TCFD METRICS RESPONSE
Governance Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. 2023 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2022 Reporting): C1.1a, C1.1b
2023 Form 10-K
Climate Action, pages 7-12
Governance, pages 44-49
Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks 2023 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2022 Reporting): C1.2
and opportunities. 2023 Form 10-K
Climate Action, pages 7-12
Governance, pages 44-49
Strategy Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has 2023 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2022 Reporting): C2.1a, C2.3, C2.3a, C2.4, C2.4a
identified over the short, medium, and long term. 2023 Form 10-K
Climate Action, pages 7-12
Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the 2023 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2022 Reporting): C2.3a, C2.4a, C3.1, C3.2, C3.2a,
organization’s business, strategy, and financial planning. C3.2b, C3.3, C3
2023 Form 10-K
Climate Action, pages 7-12
Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration 2023 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2022 Reporting): C3.2, C3.2a, C3.2b
different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario. Climate Action, pages 7-12
Risk Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate- 2023 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2022 Reporting): C2.1, C2.2, C2.2a
Management related risks. Climate Action, pages 7-12
Governance, pages 44-49
Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks. 2023 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2022 Reporting): C2.1, C2.2
Climate Action, pages 7-12
Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate- 2023 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2022 Reporting): C2.1
related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management. Climate Action, pages 7-12
Governance, pages 44-49
Metrics and Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks 2023 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2022 Reporting): C4.2, C4.2a, C4.2b, C9.1
Targets and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process.
Climate Action, pages 7-12
Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) 2023 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2022 Reporting): C6.1, C6.3, C6.5, C6.5
emissions, and the related risks.
Climate Action, pages 7-12
Data Summary, pages 54-59
Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks 2023 CDP Climate Submission (FY 2022 Reporting): C4.1, C4.1a, C4.1b, C4.2, C4.2a,
and opportunities and performance against targets. C4.2b
Climate Action, pages 7-12
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 75
