Creating
meaningful
connections
Impact Report 2022
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Contents
Global presence.
Revolutionary technology.
Deeper connections.
CONTENTS
Welcome & about us 3 People 12 Governance 27
Message from the CEO 3 Diversity, equity, 13 Corporate governance 28
and inclusion
About us 4 Data security and 30
Talent acquisition 16 data privacy
Our ESG strategy 6
and retention
Read more & data tables 31
Safety 7
Employee development 18
About this report 31
Safety strategy 8
Community 19
UN Sustainable 32
Five key safety pillars 10
Community investment 20 Development Goals
Safety practices 11
Underrepresented 22 Performance table 33
empowerment
SASB report 34
Environment 23
TCFD report 38
Climate change 24
Awards 39
Environmental impact 26
Disclaimer 40
Match Group Impact Report 2022 2
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Message from the CEO “The fundamental need for human connection unites us
Bringing people all, and our employees work tirelessly to bring the best
platforms and services to those looking for flirtations,
together for relationships, friendships, and life-long partnerships.”
SHAR DUBEY Chief Executive Officer of Match Group
meaningful
connections
Welcome to our 2022 SAFE AND INCLUSIVE COMMUNITIES You?”, which creates an easy way to programs for underrepresented groups. Committee charter, and the Committee
We offer digital communities for singles, report behavior that isn’t appropriate. We also named our first VP of Corporate now oversees ESG matters and best
Impact Report.
but those lead to in real life interactions And we reviewed and updated our Social Responsibility, to focus on practices across Match Group. And on
and meetings that impact our society as reporting flows and resources for partnerships, employee engagement, data security, Tinder, Match and our
a whole. We take a holistic approach to survivors of assault through our sustainability, and charitable Affinity brands all achieved ISO 27001
cultivating safer communities, both on partnership with the Rape, Abuse & contributions that benefit the certifications, another industry first.
and off our platforms, through launching Incest National Network (RAINN). We also communities where we live and work.
Since we published our inaugural
new safety products to working with announced that we would be supporting
Impact Report last year, we have LOOKING FORWARD
NGOs, advocates, law enforcement, and Garbo, a female-founded non-profit
accomplished so much that we are ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT As part of our fundamental mission of
regulators. We announced our support background check company, and
proud to share in this year’s Report. We assessed our environmental impact bringing people together for meaningful
for the Violence Against Women Act bringing their service to our platform.
Our brands continued to spark joyful and achieved carbon neutrality for this connections, we are committed to
– which funds programs that protect and We recently introduced this on Tinder
connections for singles around the year. We will stay vigilant in our implementing ESG initiatives and want
support survivors of domestic abuse – and look forward to making this public
world, despite lockdown restrictions endeavor to maintain carbon neutrality to further our positive impact. This work
and built a grassroots effort through our information more easily accessible to our
and the continued global pandemic. and are committed to developing is a journey, and we are pleased with our
services to support its passage. I’m so users at our other brands as well.
The fundamental need for human short- and long-term science-based continued progress – with more to do
pleased that Congress has passed this bill
connection unites us all, and our Building a safer environment also means targets to achieve net zero. We – as we strive to help people find
that President Biden has just signed into
employees work tirelessly to bring the an inclusive, supportive culture internally. continue to build-out additional green connections that enhance their lives
law. We continue to iterate and invest in
best platforms and services to those I’m very pleased to announce that last programs that are good for the safely, securely, and inclusively.
our safety team and have spent more
looking for flirtations, relationships, year we hired our first Head of Diversity, environment and the places we work.
than $125 million on Trust and Safety
friendships, and life-long partnerships. Equity, and Inclusion. We’ve promoted SHAR DUBEY
efforts annually, to bring new tools to the
Our most important relationships are an inclusive and supportive environment DATA SECURITY AND GOVERNANCE Chief Executive Officer
industry, such as the industry’s first law
those that make us resilient, and our and have invested in our employee We’ve also strengthened our of Match Group
enforcement portal to better aid
ability to make those introductions resource groups, along with diverse governance with the creation of a
investigations. Tinder launched “Are You Named on Fortune’s 2021
motivates us every day. recruiting efforts, learning and Nominating and Corporate Governance
Sure?,” which helps stop bad behavior List of the Most Powerful
development programs, and mentorship Committee. We adopted a new
before it starts, and “Does This Bother Women in Business
Match Group Impact Report 2022 3
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
About us
Building a
OVERVIEW
We are committed to fulfilling our
global technology
mission responsibly, to maximize our
positive impact around the world,
and to keep on raising the bar across
company to
our industry.
Since we first started, hundreds of
Magdalena & Annie Ashley & Kyle
connect people millions of people have used our
Matched on: Tinder Matched on: OkCupid
brands’ services to create meaningful
connections. We pioneered the “ My name is Magdalena and my “ The wildest part is that, when we met,
concept of online dating more than fiancée’s name is Annie! We liked each it was her first night on the app! We
At Match Group, our mission is to spark 25 years ago, and we are now evolving other and really haven’t looked back had a lot in common, and both of us
our diverse portfolio of apps so that since. We went on our first date after rearranged our schedules to meet up
meaningful connections for every we can continue to lead the way in about a week of chatting back and as soon as we possibly could. Now we
single person worldwide. helping people make meaningful forth and both knew right away that are married, we have two cats, a niece,
connections across the spectrum of we had found someone special. We and a nephew. We love everything
age, race, gender, sexual orientation, just wanted to share our story and say about one another. We’ve built this
and backgrounds. thanks to Tinder, because we wouldn’t amazing life together, and it all started
$3.0bn $1.1bn We believe that having a diverse have met without you!” on OkCupid.”
portfolio of leading brands under one
umbrella enhances their ability to
Revenue1 Adjusted Operating Income1
pioneer, disrupt, and revolutionize
their categories.
15.5m 2,500+
As we look forward, we aim to stay on
the cutting edge of technologies for
Average Payers1,2 Employees worldwide1 bringing people together, and we are
unending in our pursuit to build and
1. Metrics for the year 2021. Please note Adjusted Operating Income integrate technology that truly helps
reconciliation on page 40. connect people.
2. “Payers” are unique users at a brand level in a given month from whom we
earned Direct Revenue. When presented as a quarter-to-date or year-to-
date value, Payers represents the average of the monthly values for the
respective period presented. At a consolidated level, duplicate Payers may
exist when we earn revenue from the same individual at multiple brands in
a given month, as we are unable to identify unique individuals across brands
in the Match Group portfolio. Our global portfolio of brands includes Tinder®,
Match®, Meetic®, OkCupid®, Hinge®, Pairs™, PlentyOfFish®, OurTime®, Azar®,
Hakuna Live™, and more, each built to increase our users’ likelihood of
connecting with others.
Match Group Impact Report 2022 4
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
About us
continued
OUR LARGEST BRANDS
We have a global portfolio of brands, including:
TINDER MATCH MEETIC PAIRS AZAR
– Launched in 2012 – Launched in 1995 – Launched in 2001 – Launched in 2012 – Launched in 2014
– World’s most popular app – Created millions of love stories – A leader for dating services – A leading dating app in Japan – Leading 1:1 live chat and
for meeting new people as a top destination for singles in Europe, enabling its members video app with user base
looking for a long-term relationship to find meaningful connections predominantly in Asia
PLENTY
OKCUPID HINGE OUR TIME HAKUNA
OF FISH
– Launched in 2003 – Launched in 2004 – Launched in 2011 – Launched in 2011 – Launched in 2019
– Offers a low-pressure user – Uses daters’ responses to its – Designed to be Deleted®: dating – Premier experience tailored – Interactive, social livestreaming
experience, and live streaming, iconic, in-depth questions to app for the modern millennial, to celebrate singles over 50 app enabling group video
helping people to match match singles based on the getting them off the app and out and audio broadcasts
and meet things that matter to them on great dates
HAWAYA ABLO CHISPA BLK UPWARD
– Launched in 2017 – Launched in 2019 – Launched in 2017 – Launched in 2017 – Launched in 2020
– Matchmaking app for – Chat and video app that provides – Largest dating app for U.S. – A leading dating and lifestyle – Leading dating app for Christian
young adults connected automatic translation to Hispanic or Latin singles app for Black singles singles in the U.S.
to Muslim culture encourage global connections
Match Group Impact Report 2022 5
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Our ESG strategy
ENVIRONMENT
Empowering safer
Connecting to the world around us
and more inclusive
connections
SAFETY
Creating a safer
environment for all
We are dedicated to advancing our ESG strategy.
OUR VISION To this end, we have reviewed material Our ESG reporting focuses primarily on
Providing services that enable all issues and will continue to review them these key material issues. Our reporting
singles to make a meaningful in line with our regular business is also informed by the frameworks for
VISION
connection has been a driving force for planning and risk management the Sustainability Accounting
us and underpins how we approach our processes. We have currently identified Standards Board (SASB) and the Task GOVERNANCE Creating PEOPLE
work every day. Our environmental, the following as being most material to Force on Climate-Related Financial Meaningful
Cultivating a culture Building diverse
social, and governance (ESG) strategy our business and to our stakeholders: Disclosures (TCFD). of integrity Connections teams and an
and practices are aligned to our and reliability inclusive workplace
– Safety We have expanded our disclosure
business strategy, and we are
committed to continue making – Data security in this Report to include the TCFD
framework and our alignment with
meaningful progress. – Data privacy
the United Nations Sustainable
– Diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) Development Goals (SDGs).
OUR APPROACH – People development
Match Group’s approach to ESG is We look forward to sharing our
informed by an understanding of the – Climate change progress with our stakeholders. PRIVACY
issues that are considered to be the Providing data security
and privacy
highest priority to our business, to our
stakeholders, and to the communities
we impact – including safety, inclusivity,
and privacy.
COMMUNITY
Generating impact through
community connection OUR STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK
Match Group Impact Report 2022 6
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
SAFETY
Providing a safer
environment for all
It takes truth to build meaningful CONTENTS
connections, and that calls for Safety strategy 8
safety, which is why we make it a Five key safety pillars 10
top priority here at Match Group. Safety practices 11
Whatever their background and
whomever they are looking for,
our users all desire and deserve
to feel secure, protected, and
loved for who they really are.
MMaattcchh GGrroouupp IImmppaacctt RReeppoorrtt 22002222 77
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Safety strategy
“We believe everyone has the right to date freely and safely, and
Building a community it’s the reason why our team is pushing the Company and our
industry to do more to create new standards, invest in new
of safety technology and develop policies around the globe to make
dating safer.”
We strive to create a safer environment for everyone. TRACEY BREEDEN Head of Safety and Social Advocacy
OUR VISION OUR APPROACH Strengthening Our Safety Team
We aim to build an authentic, Safety is truly one of the areas where, We’ve built our central safety team to
equitable, and respectful community, as a company, we can collaborate and support our brand safety teams and to
free from all forms of harm. To realize do more together. Working together oversee our focus on five key safety
this vision, we apply our safety values. across our diverse brands with expert pillars: Trust and Safety Operations,
We work hard to put people first. We insight from across the portfolio, Social Advocacy, Law Enforcement
empower and inspire others through we can have a much bigger impact Operations and Investigations, Safety
service. We enable connections with on safety. Product, and International Safety.
truth and transparency. We innovate Match Group
Our goal is to lead by setting the Across Match Group and its brands,
from shared ideas and mutual
highest overall safety standards in the there are now more than 450 people Advisory Council
ownership. And we operate from a
industry and by continually improving working on trust and safety. We also
place of integrity.
them. To integrate safety into the fabric continued to significantly grow our 450+
Formed in 2018, the Match Group
Our Focus Areas of Match Group, we have a central central safety team throughout 2021,
Advisory Council (MGAC) is a group
To deliver lasting impact in line with safety team and dedicated safety from four to 18 employees, working
of leading experts and advocates
our vision, we are working towards teams at each of our brands. The together to help our brands create Number of colleagues
involved in the study and prevention
these safety focus areas: central safety team is a center of a safer environment for everyone. engaged in trust and safety
of sexual assault, sex trafficking,
excellence that advances global safety To this end, we are able to build a
– Create an educated community abuse, harassment, and similar
by creating strategy and identifying safer dating experience for both
– Empower women and those best practices from our brands to on-app and in real life interactions. issues. The first of its kind, the
traditionally marginalized build standards, policies, processes, We are committed to continue council regularly makes
recommendations to improve
– Help create a safe haven online safety features, and education. The expanding our safety initiatives and
$125m+ safety on our platforms.
and promote safety in real life brand safety teams aim to be the investing in flagship safety features
– Build up shared knowledge, services, experts on their user base and aimed at making online dating safer Find out more:
and people geographies and focus on executing and more inclusive. Our investment in trust https://mtch.com/mgac
on critical feature innovations.
and safety in 2021
Match Group Impact Report 2022 8
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Safety strategy
continued
SAFETY FRAMEWORK LOOKING FORWARD
Our safety framework guides our To drive further improvement in our
VALUES VISION GOALS
brands and addresses three core safety safety culture and environment, we will
To build an authentic,
areas: prevention, disruption, and continue to prioritize our key focus
– Work hard to put people first equitable, and respectful – Create an educated community
response. Each brand has their own areas. This means strengthening
community of safety, free
safety team including representatives customer support, moderation efforts, – Empower and inspire others from all forms of harm – Empower women and those
through service traditionally marginalized
from development and customer and the knowledge of our employee
care. We align our focus across five base by providing additional training – Connect with truth – Help create a safe haven online
key pillars: and sessions with experts on key safety and transparency and promote safety in real life
topics. It means making the reporting – Innovate from shared ideas and – Build up shared knowledge,
Trust and Safety Operations
flows across our portfolio more mutual ownership services, and people
Achieving operational safety excellence
trauma-informed by expanding the
through cross-portfolio initiatives. – Operate from a place of integrity
recommendations made to us by
Social Advocacy RAINN, the nation’s largest anti-sexual
Building partnerships to advocate for violence organization. It means
those traditionally marginalized. providing more education and
awareness of our features to our users
Law Enforcement Operations
and continually partnering with
and Investigations
experts, NGOs, and law enforcement
Collaborating with public safety
to understand the latest trends and
organizations and law enforcement.
approaches to keeping people safer.
Safety Product And it means increased transparency
Guiding safety product strategy on safety data which will be further
through shared services and Safety advanced in our upcoming SAFETY FRAMEWORK SAFETY PILLARS
by Design. Transparency Report for the
United States that we intend to – Trust and Safety Operations
International Safety
publish for 2022.
Leveraging our diverse global portfolio Prevention Disruption Response – Social Advocacy
to share safety best practices. – Law Enforcement Operations
and Investigations
Expert Partnerships – Safety Product
– International Safety
Safety Culture & Design Policies & Procedures
Match Group Impact Report 2022 9
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Five key safety pillars We also invested $500,000 towards the SAFETY PRODUCT INTERNATIONAL SAFETY
National Network to End Domestic We support the development teams As a diverse global Company, we are
Maximizing our Violence (NNEDV) to support the of our brands at a strategic level and very aware of how important it is to
reauthorization of the Violence Against believe that by utilizing and investing create safe environments that resonate
Women Act (VAWA). in innovative technology, each of our locally around the world. Having an
safety efforts brands can design features as international focus helps us set and
effectively as possible from the outset strive for the highest safety standards
LAW ENFORCEMENT OPERATIONS
with safety at the center of every and culture throughout Match Group.
AND INVESTIGATIONS
product. Across the Company, we also
We work closely with law enforcement In 2021, the Tinder India team launched
To organize and focus our work on safety agencies to stay informed of safety share insights on safety developments a consent campaign informed by
and consider emerging concepts, such
for maximum impact across Match Group, trends, to manage safety incidents as as the metaverse and how people experts to meaningfully address and
quickly and effectively as possible, and to normalize this key issue that impacts
can connect safely and enjoyably in
we have five key pillars. prevent incidents. In 2021, we engaged dating safety. As part of this campaign,
virtual worlds.
with 21 law enforcement agencies they created a fictional eight-minute
globally to identify and respond to key In 2021, Tinder introduced a new safety film that explores the nuances of
TRUST AND SAFETY OPERATIONS SOCIAL ADVOCACY trends and safety concerns. feature: “Are You Sure?” (AYS?). It uses consent, what consent really means,
We focus on achieving operational We bring in outside experts and artificial intelligence to detect and how it manifests in relationships.
We aim to build strong relationships
excellence across the Company, organizations to share their specialist potentially inappropriate language, Tinder India has also partnered with
with local, state, and federal agencies
through several cross-portfolio knowledge on key issues, including based on past reporting. In early several influencers, brands, and
so that together we can identify safety
initiatives. We partner with brands to women’s safety, sexual violence, and testing, AYS? meaningfully reduced creators from the industry and created
trends and develop proactive safety
develop safety strategies, share best suicide prevention. This helps to build harmful language in sent messages. a resource center called “Let’s
intervention campaigns in partnership
practices, and implement projects that understanding across the Company, This innovative feature exemplifies Talk Consent”.
with our portfolio brands. For example,
scale across our portfolio. In August which in turn informs our policies, and positive behavior change and a safe
we ran a proactive Sexual Assault Over the past year, we met with
2021, for instance, we held our very first supports a strong safety culture and and welcome community. As of March
Awareness campaign with Queensland governing bodies and officials to
Company-wide Safety Summit to learn user experience across each platform. 2022, Plenty of Fish has introduced
Police in Australia, and we are also discuss promoting safety, including the
and share safety knowledge and best AYS? as well.
In 2021, we collaborated with seven working with the Federal Bureau UK Parliament, and we partnered with
practices across our portfolio of brands.
central non-profit and NGO of Investigation (FBI) on Romance Match Group, starting with Tinder, has the Australian eSafety Commission to
Another example is our partnership partnerships and expert facilitations Scam Awareness. This enables us to also partnered with Garbo, a female provide feedback and inform their
with RAINN. RAINN reviewed and across the portfolio, including the help provide backup for users in the founded, non-profit background check Safety by Design framework.
provided expert feedback on our National Network to End Domestic real world. platform, with the goal to help
Across EMEA and APAC, we worked
existing reporting and response Violence, No More, At Last, RAINN, proactively prevent gender-based
In order to quickly deal with the most with NGOs to support marginalized
policies and processes. Implementation Still Bisexual, Center for Democracy violence in the digital age. By doing so,
critical safety incidents, we have a communities, such as Ablo’s
of their recommendations began with and Technology, and the Human we hope to help our users make more
specialist team focusing on serious partnership with a Belgium-based
Tinder, Hinge, and Plenty of Fish in Rights Campaign. They support a informed decisions and choices about
safety escalations. Taking this to the NGO to add non-binary gender options,
2021, including the creation of a new, diverse range of communities their safety. Tinder is the first Match
next level, in a first for the industry, in as well as the option to hide gender
trauma-informed reporting flow. These including women, transgender, and Group property to provide access to
2021, we launched a law enforcement information from profiles.
efforts will expand to other brands in incarcerated individuals. Many of these Garbo, with other Match Group U.S.
portal to enhance collaboration and
2022. We also launched RAINN training organizations spoke at our first ever brands to follow in the coming months.
understanding between Match Group
on how to respond to reports of sexual Safety Summit to share guidance on
and agencies.
violence across our U.S. brands. restorative justice, LGBTQIA+ inclusion,
and human trafficking.
Match Group Impact Report 2022 10
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Safety practices
Enhancing
SAFETY SUMMIT During the 2.5-day Summit, we
As a Company, we are committed to discussed our vision, values, strategic
bringing all our brands together to goals, and objectives for safety. It was
safety practices
share learnings and best practices. an opportunity for our brands to get
We put this principle into action with together and share the safety issues
our Company-wide Safety Summit, that were particularly concerning for
which we held for the first time in them, and to pool their ideas and
Safety is at the top of our minds,
August 2021 and plan to hold solutions so everyone could benefit. Law enforcement portal
and we will continue making it annually going forward. In addition, we brought in external
experts, such as NGOs in the trans
our priority. The Summit’s objectives were to In a first for the dating industry, we
inclusion space and law enforcement
strengthen relationships with our launched a law enforcement portal in 2021.
agencies, who were able to share their
brands; share best practices and The portal is currently receiving legal
latest insights on cryptocurrency and
Two key examples of this from the past year are our elevate safety expertise; and align romance scams. requests for all U.S.-based brands and will
Safety Summit and our law enforcement portal. on our vision and strategy for 2022 be available for our international-based
safety planning. Following the Summit, our brands have brands by the end of 2022.
taken the insights gathered and woven
It brought cross-functional teams Developed in consultation with various law
them into their safety roadmaps.
together to guide the development enforcement officials and departments
Together, we are focusing on key safety
of our safety strategy and roadmaps. from around the world, it provides a faster,
problem areas, such as reporting and
Attendees ranged from specialists in more efficient way to submit and receive
response and online harassment and
trust and safety product, operations, legal requests all in one place.
abuse. We are prioritizing what our
and moderation to teams from
brands have told us they want in terms Through the portal, verified public safety
marketing and communications.
of Group-level safety support: sharing and law enforcement professionals can
Our goal was to empower a strong
portfolio knowledge and learnings; make a general inquiry to check if a user
cross-functional safety group with
safety problem work sessions; creating has a profile on an app and if there is
allies from across the Company and
effective consumer-facing safety information available; a legal request for
disciplines that can deliver on an
narrative; and more centralized more detailed data supported by a warrant,
integrated safety strategy.
partnerships with law enforcement, court order, subpoena, or similar legal
NGOs, and other outside experts. document; and an emergency request
to assist in responding to an imminent
safety threat.
An innovative step forward, it is part of our
ongoing commitment to build and
implement new safety technologies and
collaborate with partners to cultivate a safer
society both on and off our platforms.
Match Group Safety and Social Advocacy Team
Match Group Impact Report 2022 11
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
PEOPLE
Connecting teams
across the globe
We are proud to create apps CONTENTS
for a diverse world, and we are Diversity, equity, and inclusion 13
able to do that by fostering a Talent acquisition and retention 16
safe and inclusive workplace for Employee development 18
all of our employees. We want
Match Group to be a place
where everyone who works
here can truly connect,
contribute, and belong.
MMaattcchh GGrroouupp IImmppaacctt RReeppoorrtt 22002222 1122
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Diversity, equity, and inclusion “As Match Group’s first-ever Head of Diversity, Equity,
and Inclusion, I have been excited to lead the
Creating an equitable,
development of our new DEI strategy. We are laying
out the foundations for building awareness and the
inclusive, and
incorporation of equity across our global portfolio.”
engaging workplace
JENNIFER ZEPHIRIN Head of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
We promote a supportive and inclusive culture
at Match Group.
OUR VISION OUR APPROACH To develop and lead Match Group’s DEI ETHNIC ETHNIC GENDER DIVERSITY GENDER DIVERSITY
We want to make Match Group a global We recognize that enhancing DEI work, we named our first-ever Head of DIVERSITY IN OUR DIVERSITY IN OUR IN OUR GLOBAL IN OUR GLOBAL
leader in connecting diverse people on initiatives within Match Group is an DEI in June 2021. Growing out the DEI U.S. POPULATION U.S. LEADERSHIP1 POPULATION2 LEADERSHIP1,2
an equitable, inclusive, and safe platform. ongoing, long-term process. It takes team will enable us to provide thought
time to change culture, structure, and leadership, to drive accountability, and
Our mission is to build a diverse
representation in a thoughtful, to build the support infrastructure
workforce; to build an inclusive and
respectful, and authentic way. To needed to help our brands collectively
equitable workplace of belonging;
organize and amplify our impact, our achieve our DEI mission.
and to meet the needs of our diverse
DEI strategy is focused on achieving
consumers, ensuring equitable The team works to make DEI an
meaningful, lasting change across
experiences in the global marketplace. integral part of Match Group’s culture
three key pillars: workforce, workplace,
and priorities, including raising
The goals of Match Group’s Diversity, and marketplace. Working closely with
awareness through Company-wide
Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) commitment our brands, we are concentrating
programming, investing in strategic White 47% White 61% Male 59% Male 56%
are to enable people with diverse on several workstreams to build a Asian 25% Asian 17% Female 41% Female 43%
partnerships, policymaking around
identities to thrive. We aim to create and strong foundation for Match Group’s Hispanic/Latin 10% Hispanic/Latin 7% N ot specified 0.4% N ot specified 0.3%
equity and inclusion, infusing DEI into Black/African Black/African
support an inclusive platform and to help DEI commitment. American 7% American 5%
provide services where our consumers existing processes, and incentivizing Other/Not specified 11% Other/Not specified 10%
equity and inclusion in employee
feel seen.
job performance.
1. Our leadership consists of Director level and above.
2. Totals may not sum to 100% due to rounding.
Match Group Impact Report 2022 13
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Diversity, equity, and inclusion OUR DEI FRAMEWORK
continued
LONGER-TERM ACTION CORE PRIORITIES:
PROGRESS IN 2021 NEW PROGRAM FOR 2022
During 2021, we made meaningful A major focus of the DEI team was OVERALL:
progress in a number of priority areas. to create a brand-new Adaptive – DEI Strategic Plans
We highlight a few here: Leadership program to be rolled out in by Business
Workforce: Marketplace:
2022 for Match Group executives across
Data Transparency and Accountability – Pipeline Planning – Supplier Diversity
all brands. This program empowers
To improve data transparency and – Inclusive Design
leaders to advance our commitment to
accountability, we have built a
become a more inclusive organization
dashboard across brands. This
by developing their roles as guardians
dashboard measures the organization’s
of DEI. During these sessions, leaders
internal demographic data, to identify
will gain a greater understanding of IMMEDIATE ACTION CORE PRIORITIES:
key areas of focus.
this role and their impact as leaders,
Integrating DEI Across Match Group along with how Company values,
In its first year, the newly formed DEI identity, and culture affect their ability OVERALL:
team focused on integrating DEI into to successfully drive inclusion and – Adaptive Leadership Program
already existing practices, policies, and change by region. By the end of the – DEI Communications
processes. For example, the DEI program, each leader will develop
team partnered with the People the mindset and tools to overcome
Team to roll out an employee barriers in their own teams and to Workforce: Workplace: Marketplace:
engagement survey and to support create team-specific action plans – Representation – ERGs – Strategic Partnerships
DEI-enhanced policymaking. to activate inclusion goals. – Data Transparency – Equity and Belonging
and Accountability – Benefits and Perks
MISSION
Build a diverse Build an inclusive Meet the needs of our diverse
Workforce and equitable consumers, ensuring equitable
Workplace experiences in the global
Marketplace
VISION
Make Match Group a global leader connecting diverse people on an equitable,
inclusive, and safe platform
Match Group Impact Report 2022 14
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Diversity, equity, and inclusion
Named one of the
continued
“Best Places to Work
ERGs
for LGBTQ+ Equality”
Led by our new Head of Employee
Resource Groups (ERGs), the DEI team MATCH:
worked to build-out the strategic In January 2022, Match Group, for Match Group’s efforts in satisfying
roadmap for ERGs across our brands. @ the first time as an independent all of the CEI’s criteria earned a 100%
We are focusing on bringing their company, was named one of the ranking and the designation as one
collective voices together and leveling “Best Places to Work for LGBTQ+ of the “Best Places to Work for
up their impact. We hosted our first Equality”, receiving a top score of LGBTQ+ Equality.” Match Group
ERG summit in Q1 2022 and announced 100 on the Human Rights Campaign joins the ranks of 842 major U.S.
our plan to create enterprise-wide ERG (HRC) Foundation’s 2022 Corporate businesses that also earned top
TINDER:
communities, with corresponding Equality Index (CEI). marks this year.
Executive Sponsors. We also
The CEI is the nation’s foremost We are proud to receive this
emphasized the need to increase
benchmarking survey and report recognition and remain committed
visibility and support for ERG leaders
measuring corporate policies and to creating an equitable and
and Company leaders across Match
practices related to LGBTQ+ inclusive workplace.
Group, by providing more formal
workplace equality. Top-rated CEI
executive engagement, professional
employers take concrete steps to
development opportunities, and
establish and implement Find out more:
leveraging newly established external
comprehensive policies, benefits, www.hrc.org/cei
strategic partnerships.
and practices that ensure greater
ERGs throughout Match Group are still equity for LGBTQ+ workers and
relatively new, across Tinder, Hinge, and their families.
Match. They include Pride@ Tinder, HINGE:
The CEI rates companies on
Desis@ Tinder, Women of Color@
detailed criteria falling under
Tinder, Black Excellence@ Match ASIAN LGBTQIA+ Disability
four central pillars:
(BE@M), Women@ Match (W@M),
at at at
Asian@ Hinge, UNAPOLOGETIC@ – Non-discrimination policies across
Hinge, LGBTQIA+@ Hinge, Women and business entities;
Non-Binary@ Hinge, Women of Color@ UNAPOLOGETIC Women&Enbys – Equitable benefits for LGBTQ+
Hinge, and Disability@ Hinge. Driven
at at workers and their families;
by passionate champions to create a
– Supporting an inclusive culture;
culture where everyone feels like they
and,
belong, our ERGs have independent
budgets and are empowered to plan – Corporate social responsibility
their own programs.
Match Group Impact Report 2022 15
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Talent acquisition and retention
Attracting and
candidates, such as our partnerships activities; and communicating often and We shared the findings of the audit
with Jopwell and Fairygodboss. We are with transparency. with our employees across Match
retaining top talent
also increasing our impact through our Group and will continue to report on
In addition, we highlighted areas for
expanding diversity internship program. any actions we take, to ensure everyone
opportunity, including preventing
is engaged and informed. We are
employee burnout and promoting
building our approach to pay equity
We are actively growing our pipeline ENGAGING EMPLOYEES work-life balance; promoting internal
into our day-to-day compensation
Our work helps to support strong mobility; providing clarity around
of diverse talent and investing in our management, and we aim to keep
employee engagement across Match promotions and career advancement;
refining our analysis going forward. To
greatest asset – our employees. Group. This is reflected in our annual increasing diversity in senior leadership
that end, we are exploring a number of
engagement survey, whereby roles and new recruits; communicating
areas to expand in our 2022 analysis.
employee participation increased 3% to the Company vision and strategy more
85% in 2021. We had an overall score of often; creating processes and policies
70% in 2021, and there were advances that can improve sense of belonging; ENCOURAGING AN
in key areas that we have been and providing opportunities for more OWNERSHIP CULTURE
OUR VISION Our approach to the People team investing in. These include 81% of cross-team/brand collaboration. As part of our full separation process
We grow our business by attracting, is a mix of local and global. We have participants feeling they can be from IAC, in 2020 we offered our
encouraging, and retaining the best a number of key centralized themselves at work. There was also a employees the opportunity to buy
ENSURING PAY EQUITY
talent, resulting in an outstanding People functions, such as systems, 5% increase in employees agreeing that shares in Match Group. This allowed
In 2021, we carried out a comprehensive
team of over 2,500 colleagues across 20 compensation, and benefits, to operate they have access to learning and our people to feel even more
pay equity audit across Match Group,
countries dedicated to bringing people as a center of excellence to set our development to do their job well. connected to our business and
partnering with Syndio. The audit
together across the globe. People strategy. We then support local share in our future success.
We identified areas to celebrate, found no systemic statistically
People business partners across our
We care about our people and invest in including confidence in the feedback significant gaps by sex or race/ethnicity, In 2021, we extended this opportunity
individual brands in these areas, to
them throughout their Match Group process and People survey; people think which was consistent with our analysis to new and existing employees. With
ensure they translate best practice into
journey, which helps us improve our this is a great place to work; people know in 2018. Our 2021 audit was more the Employee Stock Purchase Plan
their own unique needs and culture.
business outcomes and drive innovation, how their work contributes to Company extensive than the one conducted in (ESPP) that was rolled out in 2021,
while also increasing retention. goals; and managers are doing a good 2018 – it expanded the analysis by sex eligible employees can purchase Match
ATTRACTING THE BEST
job caring for employee wellbeing. globally, by race/ethnicity within the Group common stock at a discounted
We focus on identifying and attracting
OUR APPROACH U.S., and added manual analysis for a purchase price through automatic
diverse top talent to add to our We also identified items to keep doing,
We are committed to investing in more comprehensive review. payroll deductions. Roughly half of
outstanding team. To this end, while including highlighting ongoing safety
learning and development. Our People eligible employees enrolled in the ESPP
Match Group brands build their own efforts; managers continuing to prioritize In addition, we conducted manual
strategy is focused on continuing to following the latest enrollment period.
recruiting strategy, we work closely with employee wellbeing; ensuring people analysis of small groups not fully
widen our recruiting net to find talent
each brand, making the most of see how their role connects to the big covered by the main analysis and did
from diverse backgrounds, rewarding
analytics and insights to help optimize picture; improving benefits and further research based on findings
our people, and prioritizing their mobility,
candidate sourcing. Each brand uses a compensation iteratively; offering from that analysis.
learning, and career development.
wide range of sources to find talent and learning and development opportunities
build a diverse pipeline of potential at scale; holding virtual events and social
Match Group Impact Report 2022 16
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Talent acquisition and
retention continued
PROVIDING A FULL RANGE OF
COMPETITIVE BENEFITS
We are proud of the comprehensive
Compensation Health Personal time off Authenticity
and competitive benefits package
we offer our people. packages benefits and leave at work
In 2021, we expanded our benefits
package for employees in the United PAY MEDICAL VACATION DEI
States. We announced our partnership – Competitive salary – Medical insurance – Paid vacation time – ERGs
with Modern Health for permanent – Retirement matching funds1 – Dental insurance – Local holidays – DEI training
employees, to expand on our mental
– Performance bonuses – Vision insurance – Birthday time off at select brands – Company celebrations of
health offerings to include services
– Health Savings Account2 Heritage Months
such as therapy sessions and
behavioral coaching, and the increase TRAINING – Family forming benefits3 LEAVE
– Training and education allowance – Parental4 GIVING
to our parental leave policy. We also
added 10 additional wellness days off INSURANCE – Bereavement – Charitable matching program5
for employees, expanded our family OTHER BENEFITS – Life insurance – Emergency
planning policy to include adoption, – Employee stock purchase program OTHER BENEFITS
– Disability insurance
surrogacy, and IVF expenses, and – Work from home allowance – Legal insurance COMMUNITY SERVICE – Discount programs
increased the family forming stipend – Commuter subsidy – Paid community service time – Flexible work from home options
for employees and their spouses/
– Come-as-you-are dress code
domestic partners to $10,000. WELLNESS
– Wellness program – Premium memberships on our apps
– Mental health counseling – Pet discounts and insurance
– Meditation services
– Virtual gym membership
1. 401k retirement plan support that is matched 10% up to $10,000.
2. Up to $500 per employee ($1,000 if more than one person is covered) for employees who elect the high deductible plan.
3. Up to $10,000 per employee and their spouse/domestic partner to use towards fertility preservation treatment, adoption fees, surrogacy fees, and IVF treatments.
4. Fully paid parental leave of 20 weeks for both the birth and non-birth parent (increased from 16 weeks for the child-carrying partner and 12 weeks leave for the supporting parent).
5. Up to $15,000 per employee.
Match Group Impact Report 2022 17
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Employee development In 2021, we also appointed a vendor Match Group are getting more quickly access targeted courses that
for a new centralized learning comfortable and familiar with the have already been bundled together
Developing our people management system (LMS). The plan performance review process. for them upon logging in.
is to have one LMS that is shared by
We have also continued to improve the Our employees can also choose from
all of our brands and will enable us
integration of succession planning into a wide range of courses based on
to easily assign and track training
the performance review process, personal interests, such as courses
We believe that learning in all aspects of life with robust reporting capabilities.
focusing on plans for the brand CEOs focused on home decorating or
Our initial focus will be to house our
enriches us not just as working professionals, and their direct reports. learning how to play guitar.
new compliance training on the
but also as human beings. A commitment to system, and we’ll add on-demand We created succession planning
learning options as we continue to materials and tools for the brand MENTORMATCH™
learning helps us on our journey to becoming build our portfolio-wide offerings. People leads to help standardize the In 2021, we piloted our first mentorship
the best version of ourselves. process, making things more efficient program, MentorMatch. It is designed
TRAINING MID-LEVEL MANAGERS and consistent across brands. to facilitate focused career and
professional development, an ongoing
To help newly promoted managers In another example of our people- relationship between mentors and
OUR VISION MAKING THE MOST OF DIGITAL gain leadership skills, we developed a centric, tech-enabled approach, we have mentees, and purposeful conversations.
We aim to help our people perform at PLATFORMS FOR LEARNING training program specifically for this digitized succession planning and goal
the highest level and be more inclusive, We put strong emphasis on improving audience, in 2021. This program equips setting, making these modules available MentorMatch is a cross-brand program
equitable, and engaged. engagement and communications leaders with the skills to have effective on our Workday human resources where mentors and mentees are
with our people through digital one-on-ones, navigate challenging information system. We also created intentionally matched with someone
OUR APPROACH platforms, making it as easy as possible conversations, build trust and team guides on how to access the modules outside of their own brand, in an effort
We take a collaborative approach, to connect and learn, and ultimately, cohesion, and have meaningful career to enable the development of more to expand networks and to build
encouraging our managers to connect democratizing learning. In 2021, we conversations with direct reports. targeted development plans and relationships across Match Group.
with their teams and have regular introduced Central, our new intranet. The program is launching in 2022. focused training budgets. 138 MentorMatch partnerships were
It is available to all teams in the U.S.
performance and development formed in 2021, with meetings
conversations. Our combination of a including Match Group Corporate, PERFORMANCE REVIEW AND A WEALTH OF LEARNING occurring at least monthly. The
global footprint and various brands Match, Match Media, +1 Labs, Tinder, SUCCESSION PLANNING ALL IN ONE PLACE program was favored by participants,
gives our people a wide range of future Hinge, and OkCupid. Central provides In 2021, we focused on supporting our In June 2021, we internally launched and we will be launching the next cycle
career opportunities. one shared hub for employees to learn employees to have more meaningful Udemy for Business, an on-demand of MentorMatch in the summer of 2022.
more about Match Group and our and frequent performance and learning platform offering more than
We’ve launched development brands, our benefits, what it means development conversations with their 6,000 top-rated, engaging courses,
programs to stimulate internal mobility to work here, and keeps all teams managers. This included self- for our full-time, permanent
and a global mentorship program that updated on the latest news and reflections, peer feedback and employees. People are free to make
involves all levels of our organization. announcements about our platforms employee calibrations throughout the their own choices and can learn at
Our learning and development and employee-specific initiatives. performance review cycle. This was their own pace.
approach not only includes a We plan to extend access to Central achieved by our team offering train-
personalized budget for everyone to to our brands and teams outside the the-trainer materials for our brand Next, we are working on adding 138
drive their career growth, but also U.S. in 2022. People leads to use throughout the specific learning paths for core areas
provides on-demand training courses. performance review cycle. As a result, of interest that our employees have
we have found that employees across shared. This way, employees can MentorMatch partnerships
formed in 2021
Match Group Impact Report 2022 18
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
COMMUNITY
Generating impact
through community
connection
We work within our communities CONTENTS
to create positive change and Community investment 20
enrich lives. From innovative Underrepresented 22
empowerment
ideas implemented by
individual brands to initiatives
across Match Group, we are
committed to creating positive
social impact through
meaningful connection.
MMaattcchh GGrroouupp IImmppaacctt RReeppoorrtt 22002222 1199
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Community investment OUR APPROACH event at the Dallas Holocaust and
As a Company, we are committed to Human Rights museum, promoting Match Group Fellowship
Connecting with leading on community involvement diversity and inclusion, and so
and impact through direct action. much more.
We empower all our Match Group The Match Group Fellowship aims to
our communities colleagues to raise their hands and lead SUPPORTING TECH EDUCATION provide professional and academic learning
on issues that are important to them. opportunities to high-achieving
Match Group has taken several steps
underrepresented students to transform
In 2021, Match Group and its brands in line with our goals of supporting individual lives and careers. Each year, it
donated $3 million to charitable causes, women in technology and moving provides internship opportunities to
We live for connections. Making the most including employee matching and towards closing the gender gap in tech. underrepresented students, working with
meaningful ones is fundamental to human special double-matching opportunities. We became a long-term corporate key community partners such as Inroads,
Our brands provided advertising partner of The National Center for Code 2040, and Correlation One, to source
happiness, which is why we actively strive inventory pro bono at a value Women & Information Technology the students.
equivalent of approximately $2 million. (NCWIT), the farthest-reaching network
to connect with and support the diverse
of change leaders focused on In 2021, there were numerous students at
communities of our brands around the world. Furthermore, given the remote work advancing innovation by correcting every Match Group brand in North America.
environment over the past year, underrepresentation in computing. Initially scheduled for 10-12 weeks, several
Match Group provided employees We also became a supporter of internships were extended for many more
with virtual experience kits to keep Catalyst, a global non-profit company, months, and several full-time offers were
OUR VISION teams engaged, while simultaneously to help build workplaces that work for extended. The interns were paid
Community investment is inextricably donating a meal for every kit women, and our CEO joined their competitive wages for full-time work and
linked to our purpose – helping people purchased. Over 3,000 meals have Board of Directors. We sponsored a received educational grants upon
find a place to express their authentic been donated to the Feeding Girls Who Code Summer Immersion completion of the program. Benefits
selves and create connections with America network of food banks, Program, a two-week interactive, included access to health benefits,
those who love them for who they are. as of March 2022. cooperative, coding boot camp for 60 including HeadSpace; 401k participation
While we remained While each Match Group brand has a We modified our investment policy 10th to 12th grade girls. In addition to and matching; donation gift matching;
virtual, we were still able distinct identity, we are joined by a to be able to take a stand against daily coursework, there were several swag and snack boxes; a technology
t Ino sm oe ma en i cn ag sf eu sl ,l y it c po rn on ve idc et d. common goal – to contribute to a financial inequality by supporting other Match Group employee and stipend; fun events, learning and
even more opportunities better society, one connection at a time. the work of credit unions serving executive engagements, including an development programming, access
to engage globally with low-income communities to provide “Executive Chat” with the CEOs of to executives, and much more.
senior leadership.
access to equitable financial products Match Group and Plenty of Fish, an
Shar Dubey, CEO of and services. “Internet Safety Introduction” led by In 2021, the Fellowship received 100%
Match Group, and Malgosia
the Head of Safety, and a “Brand
Green, CEO of Plenty of Fish, favorable feedback from the fellows.
speak at Match Group’s We encourage active participation and Yourself – Resume and LinkedIn
sponsored Girls Who Code give our people the freedom, as well as Workshop” led by Match Group
Summer Immersion paid time off for volunteering, to be Human Resources. We have taken
Program classroom.
passionate in community support. this approach globally, including
From local Pride marches to a supporting the Feminist Approach to
Company-wide global virtual Technology (FAT) with our local team
walk supporting Best Buddies, a in India and Mozaik in France.
simultaneous in-person and virtual
Match Group Impact Report 2022 20
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Community investment
continued
CONNECTING COMMUNITIES PROMOTING COVID-19 CAMPAIGNING AGAINST STANDING UP FOR SUPPORTING THE
ON ISSUES THAT MATTER VACCINATIONS AROUND THE GLOBE DOMESTIC VIOLENCE ABORTION RIGHTS LGBTQIA+ COMMUNITY
Across Match Group, we are proud to In 2021, we teamed up with the White Across our apps that run ads, such as In 2021, OkCupid introduced a Hinge teamed up with The Lesbian Bar
promote various social causes and House to promote COVID-19 vaccinations Tinder, OkCupid, and Plenty of Fish, we Pro-Choice badge that users can add Project to celebrate and support
encourage community engagement across our leading U.S. brands including launched a campaign in 2021 urging to their profile to show their support of lesbian bars across the U.S. In the late
on issues that matter. We do this at Tinder, Match, OkCupid, Hinge, Plenty of users to call their congressional abortion access. For everyone who 1980s, there were an estimated 200
a Company-wide level and through Fish, BLK, and Chispa. The campaigns representatives and advocate for adds the Pro-Choice badge to their lesbian bars across the country, and
initiatives led by our individual brands. included information on where to find reauthorization of the Violence Against profile, OkCupid donates $1 to Planned now, only 21 remain. Hinge has
COVID-19 vaccine sites, vaccination Women Act. Parenthood (up to $50,000). committed at least $50,000 to the
badges for singles to display on their lesbian bars from its U.S. one-day sale
The legislation around the OkCupid also joined the “Don’t Ban
profiles, plus free “Super Likes” and other of Roses, a premium like on the app,
reauthorization of the Violence Against Equality” movement, dedicated to
boost-type features for users who said and is also encouraging LGBTQIA+
Women Act includes new funding, ensuring companies provide employee
they were vaccinated. singles on the app to connect with
housing protections for survivors of access to comprehensive reproductive
dates at the bars.
BLK got the message across through a domestic abuse, and closing loopholes care, including abortion. The movement
song – “Vax That Thang Up” – creating a in previously passed firearm legislation, stands against policies that hinder Tinder’s development team also
summer hit in the process. according to the NNEDV. people’s health, independence, and collaborated with the HRC Foundation
ability to fully succeed in the workplace. to host a listening session with their
Hinge joined U.S. Surgeon General Dr. As referenced in the “Safety” section,
Youth Ambassador program, which is
Vivek Murthy to discuss and share tips to we made a $500,000 corporate
comprised of teens and young
help people to date safely during the donation to the NNEDV and
adults that engage with the
pandemic, notably by getting vaccinated. matched employee contributions
Foundation’s work to improve
to the organization.
Outside the U.S., we partnered with UK, the lives of LGBTQIA+ youth.
Irish, French, and Austrian governments We also have a partnership with NO
on similar vaccination campaigns that MORE Foundation and teamed up with
included vaccination badges, push me too. International to promote
notifications, in-app rewards and more. GivingTuesday campaigns across the
Pairs even partnered with health U.S., matching $250,000 in charitable
experts in Japan to develop and donations spread across seven different
distribute unique restaurant partitions women-led grassroots organizations.
that limit the spread of pathogens
while allowing patrons to hear one
another more clearly on dates.
Match Group Impact Report 2022 21
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Underrepresented empowerment
DATA SCIENCE FOR ALL DS4A Fellow profile
Working
Match Group was the inaugural sponsor of
Correlation One’s Data Science For All
Ilissa Hendricks is a Match Group
(DS4A) / Empowerment – an innovative
employee who participated in Correlation
together to make program dedicated to advancing women “My experience with
One’s DS4A / Empowerment program,
and underrepresented minorities in data Correlation One/DS4A has
completing the course in February 2021.
science and promoting a more inclusive
been a career-defining and
a difference global AI ecosystem. Ilissa was able to change roles at Match
honestly life-changing
Group following the DS4A training
In 2021, Match Group created life- program and received a promotion to experience. DS4A helped
changing opportunities for 25 individuals,
Associate Product Manager. She is also a me make the right
selected from 40,000 applicants, who
Inclusion is core to Match Group. lead at Match Group’s Black Excellence@ connections (inside and
participated in DS4A for free as Match
Match (BE@M) ERG.
We partner with several distinct Group Endowed Scholars. outside of my organization)
Ilissa’s career progression is a prime and gave me new technical
organizations, including Correlation One, They completed 14 weeks of practical data
example of how we hope to advance and skills, which led to exciting
analytics training and partnered with
to support and positively transform professional mentors. We provided elevate Match Group employees, as well new opportunities and
as the broader community, to expand
the lives and careers of those in employee mentors who volunteered nearly their skill sets and offer more programs to promotions. I’m so thankful
500 combined hours. Match Group also to the team at Match Group
increase women and underrepresented
underrepresented communities. covered the costs of employees who
groups in technical roles and in the data who supported my decision
participated as DS4A Fellows.
science industry. Our ultimate goal is to to join DS4A and were there
Subsequently, we have hired DS4A graduates empower this next generation of to support me throughout
as interns and full-time employees. underrepresented professionals to
the journey.”
advance into data-driven leadership roles.
One team was honored with the Match
Group Impact Award, recognizing a project
25 500 ILISSA HENDRICKS Associate
that delivered meaningful and measurable
Product Manager, Match
social value through data science. The
project helped a grocery store co-op
Match Group Combined volunteer
deliver on its racial equality commitments
Endowed Scholars hours by employee
– to buy local, buy Black.
mentors
Match Group Impact Report 2022 22
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
ENVIRONMENT
Creating connections
in an environmentally
friendly way
We are determined to execute on our CONTENTS
mission in an environmentally friendly Climate change 24
way. To this end, we have embarked Environmental impact 26
on a journey not only to minimize our
negative environmental impact but
also to look for ways to make a
positive difference.
MMaattcchh GGrroouupp IImmppaacctt RReeppoorrtt 22002222 2233
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Climate change
Tackling
We are focusing on embedding reduction targets. These commitments
sustainability into the Match Group will drive Match Group’s contributions
climate change
“Sustainability is a
culture in various ways. For example, towards global decarbonization goals
we are working toward including and ensure the Company is managing core foundational
sustainability goals in job descriptions its impact alongside projected
and are aiming to integrate business growth. principle that all
We carried out a carbon assessment across Match
sustainability topics into more
companies should
Group to measure our footprint. Armed with this management conversations.
CLIMATE RISK MANAGEMENT
care about. There’s
understanding, we decided to commit to being Allied to this, we engage across our Due to our limited physical footprint,
brands to influence positive we do not have material exposure to no future if we do
carbon neutral.
environmental behavior changes. high physical risks such as extreme
not have a livable
weather or flooding. As a digital
For example, we held a “Going Green” business, our carbon footprint is planet to hand over
contest in which many employees relatively low compared to companies
OUR VISION We aim to understand the activities shared their ideas for how to green in many other sectors. to our children and
We want to play our part in ensuring affecting our climate impact across the Match Group and its brands. We received
that the world we share and connect in businesses; measure and mitigate a variety of imaginative and impactful However, we do face certain risks, grandchildren.”
becomes more sustainable – for every the impact; and share best practices suggestions and are looking at how best which we have identified and are
single one of us now, and for future among brands to amplify our to adopt them across our global offices. addressing as part of our commitment SHAR DUBEY Chief Executive
to the environment. These include
generations. We care deeply about the positive impact. Officer of Match Group
We purchased verified carbon offsets increased regulatory requirements
environment, and this goes beyond
In 2021, we created the Match Group through 2023 to balance our impact. around climate and greenhouse gas
just meeting global regulatory
Global Environmental Sustainability This long-term approach solidifies our (GHG) emissions affecting many of our
requirements. We look for opportunities
Council. It brings together people from participation in carbon markets and global brands, new market and
to make a positive difference as well as
across the businesses to share and helps us evaluate the cost of carbon in technological demands to offer low-
being clear on the risks to ensure we
work on environmental practices, a tangible way, so we can be clear on carbon app and web-based platforms,
manage them well.
encourage tangible action, and help our impact and track improvements. and shifts in consumer preferences
shape overall strategy. The Council We are not stopping there. We are which may impact our reputation both
OUR APPROACH is open to anyone interested in currently exploring developing a as a service provider and an employer.
We take a collaborative approach to contributing and is currently made near-term and net zero long-term These risks are impacting our business
decreasing our environmental impact up of over 100 changemakers across (2050) commitment through the today, and we expect them to continue
across Match Group, guided and our brands, all working together to Science-Based Targets initiative (SBTi), to do so into the medium and long
facilitated from the center. make a difference. to hold ourselves and our value chain term, so we are actively managing
100%
accountable for meeting ambitious them across Match Group as key drivers
to guide our environmental strategy.
Match Group achieved
carbon neutrality in 2021
Match Group Impact Report 2022 24
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Climate change
Sharing best
continued
practices to increase
OFFSETTING CARBON OUR CARBON REDUCTION JOURNEY sustainability
IN SOUTH KOREA We evaluated several relevant sources
To achieve carbon neutrality, we of carbon emissions to identify our first
invested in offsets from Hyundai Green carbon baseline in accordance with the
Power Corporation, which captures and GHG Protocol and assess performance By sharing best practices across
recycles waste gases to generate over time. Given the nature of our brands and offices we have
electricity through its Hyundai Steel business, our real estate footprint and increased sustainability across
Waste Energy Cogeneration Project. cloud storage services cause the majority Match Group. For example, since
We chose to offset carbon in South of our emissions. Our owned buildings 2017, the OkCupid offices in New
Korea not least because it is home to operate on 100% green electricity York have donated 1,241 pounds of
our newly acquired Hyperconnect provided by the local utility, and we hope food. That food created 1,034 meals,
business and, in turn, our largest office to transition leased office spaces to saved 339,800 gallons of water and
outside the United States. highly efficient LEED (Leadership in diverted 2,495 pounds of carbon
Energy and Environmental Design) dioxide from the atmosphere.
certified buildings over time. Our cloud OkCupid has now shared that
storage providers are part of our carbon vendor with our other Match Group
footprint, and we monitor their progress offices around the country to pick up
on meeting public commitments for excess food and put it to good use.
renewable energy procurement.
In another example, Tinder’s green with initiatives like installing electric EV stations in other offices, and
COVID-19 had a significant influence on team has shared its success stories vehicle (EV) charging stations with exploration of other solutions that
our footprint, driving down emissions for engaging employees in intelligent power control in order to can be used to increase the
related to business travel and employee sustainability, hosting lunch and charge more vehicles with less stress efficiency of our offices through
commuting. We intend to extend some learns around composting and applied to the power grid during peak automation. These actions all
flexible work policies, such as hybrid recycling and organizing usage hours. In our Los Angeles office, contribute towards reducing our
and remote work options, to keep community volunteering including we are introducing an intelligent impact as a global company and the
these emissions low. beach clean ups and clean air days. charging system for electric vehicles sharing of best practices helps our
This has led to increased green (EVs) called power flex. It allows us to businesses learn quickly from one
engagement in other locations. prioritize when we pull electricity and another to amplify our success.
how much we send to each car, based
Members of the Match Group
on people’s needs, to be as energy
facilities team are using technology
efficient as possible. This has led to
to drive sustainability in our offices
increased discussions around adding
100% and are showcasing this approach
Green electricity at
owned facilities
Match Group Impact Report 2022 25
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Environmental impact
“We are developing an environmental strategy that
Improving our
reflects the positive impact we want to have on the
planet while complementing our business strategy,
environmental impact
starting with achieving carbon neutrality in 2021. I am
proud to lead us towards a more sustainable future and
across Match Group
evolve our carbon strategy to become more measurable
and time-bound in the near future.”
We are focused on reducing our Scope 1 and
JOANNA RICE Vice President of Corporate Social Responsibility
Scope 2 emissions across Match Group,
particularly making our offices more energy
efficient while also purchasing as much renewable
energy as possible from our energy suppliers.
Leading the way on Meetic has achieved this 10% yearly
decrease since 2019 and believes it
carbon reduction
will be able to maintain this effort in
INCREASING ENERGY EFFICIENCY We took environmental considerations TCFD
the coming years.
We use renewable energy (wind and into account in our 2021 new office In 2021, we started to assess our
Our Meetic brand achieved ISO 14001
solar) for all our owned offices. In the build-outs in New York, Paris, and environmental impact, as well as the During Match Group Global
certification to ensure environmental
buildings we rent and for our data Los Angeles. We make the most of risks and opportunities presented by Environmental Sustainability
concerns are integrated across its
centers, we liaise with our landlords to technology to automate the efficiency climate change, in line with the Council meetings, Meetic has
business processes. ISO 14001 is
secure renewable energy where possible. of our offices wherever possible. framework set out by the Financial shared its onboarding document
internationally recognized as the
For example, we implement smart Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate- where they teach about its green
Furthermore, we focus on increasing leading environmental management
technology to program lighting systems, related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). best practices and expectations
office energy efficiency across Match system (EMS) standard, providing a
use intelligent sensors to better We recognize that we are at the for employees, its approach to IT
Group. Our headquarters in Dallas is in systematic framework for integrating
understand when spaces are in use, beginning of our journey and much recycling, and other initiatives.
a LEED certified building, as is our Paris environmental management
and have systems to monitor air quality. work lies ahead as we develop our Meetic is also building increased
office, and we signed a new lease in practices. It helps Meetic maintain an
In addition, our teams are working to climate risk management and metrics energy efficiency into its app and
Vancouver in a LEED platinum certified environmental focus. Meetic has
ensure heating, ventilation, and air capabilities. This summary, together held an eco-themed hackathon.
building. LEED enables us to reduce pledged to follow Paris Agreement
conditioning (HVAC) systems have with our separate TCFD summary
energy and water consumption across objectives for carbon reduction,
sensors that optimize their use based on table, forms our first TCFD disclosure.
our real estate portfolio, reducing reducing its carbon footprint by 10%
how many people are in the building,
operating costs and providing healthy each year. Using internal evaluations,
assuring that our sustainable practices
buildings for our employees.
can adapt to a hybrid office environment.
Match Group Impact Report 2022 26
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
GOVERNANCE
Cultivating a culture of
integrity and reliability
At Match Group, we are CONTENTS
committed to best practices Corporate governance 28
for corporate governance, data Data security and data privacy 30
security, and data privacy as
we continue to bring people
together for meaningful
connections. Such practices
help build trust with our
stakeholders and our users.
MMaattcchh GGrroouupp IImmppaacctt RReeppoorrtt 22002222 2277
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Corporate governance
Practicing good
OUR APPROACH
We have a sound corporate governance
corporate governance Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
approach that meets all the
requirements of a listed company on the
Nasdaq stock exchange and all other Reflecting our increased emphasis on strengthening our governance as a
applicable local and national regulations. publicly listed company, in September 2021 we expanded the remit of our
We know how critical governance practices
This is led by our Board and executive Nominating Committee to create a Nominating and Corporate Governance
are to being able to achieve our goals, control team, who shape the structure, Committee. At the same time, we adopted a new Committee charter, which is
processes, and policies that drive available on our Investor Relations website.
risks, and promote compliance. It provides the
continuous improvement.
Alongside director nomination responsibilities, the scope of the Committee
foundation for engaging with stakeholders and
As a leading technology company, now includes overseeing environmental, social, and governance (ESG)
continuing our work toward a more sustainable Match Group has an important role to matters. As such it has responsibility for overseeing the implementation of
play in defining governance standards governance best practices across Match Group. The Committee also
business with a greater positive impact.
for the tech sector. Our Code of periodically reviews Board and Committee composition, to ensure the
Business Conduct and Ethics, which appropriate skills and diversity.
covers ethical conduct, insider trading,
We have added to the Committee’s charter responsibility for the oversight
and fraud, applies to all our people
of evaluations of the Boards and its Committees, even though we are not
worldwide and is something we expect
45% OUR VISION required to conduct these evaluations as a Nasdaq-listed company. We view
everyone to uphold.
Our aim is to help people make the this as a best practice, and we carried out the first evaluations in Q1 2022.
connections that matter most to Our Board exceeds independence We expect to conduct annual evaluations going forward.
Number of female Board members them, while working for all our requirements, maintaining eight
In line with the Committee’s charter and our commitment to good
stakeholders. We are responsive to independent directors out of a total of
governance at Match Group, we developed and implemented a set of
the views of our shareholders and eleven. This group is also diverse,
8 out of 11 corporate governance guidelines in September 2021. These guidelines
uphold a company culture of integrity including 45% female members. Our
formalized key good governance principles and practices, such as
through good governance practices, Audit, Nominating and Corporate
maintaining an independent Chair of the Board. The guidelines are
led by a diverse Board of Directors Governance, and Compensation and
Number of independent members available on our Investor Relations website.
that demonstrates adaptive leadership Human Resources Committees are
of the Board
and ethical decision-making. each composed solely of independent
directors. At least twice a year, our
Find out more:
independent directors meet in
Guidelines and Committee Charters
scheduled executive sessions without
management and non-independent
directors present.
Match Group Impact Report 2022 28
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Corporate governance
continued
CLIMATE STRATEGY RISK MANAGEMENT TAXATION REPORTING HOTLINE HARASSMENT PREVENTION
As outlined in the “Environment” We review risk at an enterprise-wide As a global business, we meet If employees have any concerns All U.S. employees must complete
section, in 2021, we developed a formal level, including an annual applicable local and national tax about issues such as fraud or annual harassment prevention training.
Company-wide environmental strategy, comprehensive risk assessment across requirements. Overall, we seek to make misrepresentation, they can report
including the assessment of climate- all brands and geographies. The results appropriate tax contributions based on them confidentially through our
BUSINESS CONTINUITY
related risks across the Group and how of these assessments are regularly our business operations and footprint 24/7 hotline and web-based
We have a strong global business and a
these are being addressed. Regular reviewed at the executive and Board and recognize that they are a crucial reporting service.
team that can adapt quickly. We have
updates are provided to our Board on levels. Our aim is to include impact- component of local community
Beginning in November 2021, our made a concerted effort to bring our
Match Group’s environmental strategy. related risks and strengthen our investment by public bodies.
independent reporting hotline is now security systems together and to form
governance of sustainability
managed by EthicsPoint, replacing a consistent approach across all of our
considerations at the Board and
STOCK OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS our former system. EthicsPoint is a brands, so that our business can
executive levels.
In line with best practices for publicly Match Group does not make any comprehensive and confidential continue robustly in any scenario. For
listed companies, we have introduced federal political contributions in the reporting tool and is available 24 hours example, in response to the COVID-19
a minimum stock ownership PUBLIC ADVOCACY United States. a day, 7 days a week. Employees are pandemic, we integrated data security
requirement for each of our non- We are proud technology pioneers and able to confidentially report any and physical security in the context of
employee directors and named are continuously innovating and ETHICS AND WHISTLEBLOWING violation of our stated Code of Business disaster recovery and emergency
executive officers, including our chief working closely with legislators and Our employees share a common Conduct and Ethics, our Harassment action plans.
executive officer, chief operating officer regulators across the globe to make the responsibility to uphold the highest Policy, or other work-related concerns, Furthermore, to help people be safe
and chief financial officer, chief internet safer. We have helped support standards of conduct. We require all except for matters related to an audit and feel safe, we regularly test all of our
business affairs and legal officer, and national legislation – such as the employees to certify their compliance or financial issue (addressed through employees for COVID-19 at our offices.
chief accounting officer. The minimum bipartisan Protecting our Kids Act – with our core policies annually, a separate process). In January 2022, we expanded our
stock ownership requirements are that has expanded the information
disclosed in our Proxy Statement, provided to sex offender registries, thus including the Code of Business Reports can be submitted via either testing program to also include
which is available on our Investor making bad actors easier to identify Conduct and Ethics, Harassment Policy, the phone or online. The hotline and employees’ families and on-site vendors.
Securities Trading Policy, and
Relations website. and removed from platforms. Our website were emailed out to all
whistleblower procedures. Employees
overriding objective is to ensure that employees and are easily accessible
can access our full Policies and
users are safe and protected. on Central, our Match Group intranet.
Procedures Manual on our Workday
human resources information system.
Match Group Impact Report 2022 29
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Data security and data privacy
Implementing strong
In 2021, we improved on our data We take a multi-layered approach to We take a proactive approach to data
security practices in a number of ways. external security scans and audits. This privacy, looking at best practices for
data security and data
Tinder achieved ISO 27001 certification includes bug bounty programs and data governance, rather than just
in February 2021 for its Information carrying out regular external security focusing on current legal requirements.
Security Management System (ISMS). audits with third-party penetration This reinforces our commitment to
privacy standards
This certification provides a trusted testing to identify and remove any setting and implementing the highest
framework to improve information potential vulnerabilities across the standards and continually looking to
security practices and to reduce systems. This is also analyzed through improve on this.
security risks, and it demonstrates to the lens of our internal vulnerability
At Match Group, we believe every user should feel We look at current and future factors
our customers that Match Group takes management program.
and aim to strike the right balance
confident that their privacy is being protected online. a proactive approach towards
All employees of the various Match to future proof our privacy policies
protecting their information. Match and
Group companies receive data security and practices while making sure
Match Affinity (BLK, Chispa, and
OUR VISION DATA SECURITY awareness training during the new hire they remain grounded in today’s
Upward) also achieved ISO 27001
Making connections is a deeply Data security is a significant risk to all and onboarding process. All brands requirements and challenges. So, for
certifications in Q1 2022. We are looking
personal experience – keeping users’ technology companies, and Match also provide annual recertification for example, when one of our brands
to continue to expand our compliance
privacy secure is fundamental. We Group is no exception. We take a data security awareness training. develops a new feature on their app,
standards to other Match Group brands.
want our members to feel confident Company-wide approach to help we assess whether we need to update
that we’ve got their backs as they ensure that our data remains secure We aim to standardize data security DATA PRIVACY our policies or practices.
navigate the exciting world our and is not accessed or disclosed practices across all our brands. This We implement strong data privacy This is aligned to our focus on privacy
platforms create. without authorization and to integrate enables us to share best practices and standards globally at all of our brands, by design, to ensure that privacy is
data security into our risk monitoring raise technology standards. For example, regardless of where the brand or their enabled and reinforced from the outset
OUR APPROACH and risk procedures. We also have a in 2021, as part of the post-acquisition users are located. We collect only as new features and services are
We set high Company-wide standards National Institute of Standards and onboarding of Hyperconnect, we necessary and proportionate data, developed by Match Group brands.
for data security and data privacy and Technology (NIST) framework in place reviewed their data security to make are transparent in the way we process
look to continuously improve in these for all Match Group brands in order to sure it aligned with Match Group’s it, obtain strong security and
critical areas. be able to assess and report on their standards. Based on our findings, confidentiality commitments from
security capabilities and maturity. we were able to outline and reflect our vendors, and seek to delete data
a number of Match Group best
when it is no longer necessary.
practices at Hyperconnect.
We maintain data privacy as a separate
ISO 27001 CERTIFIED In addition, all data breach detection function, to ensure that the way data is
practices are standardized across
processed is in line with applicable laws
all brands and fed into event
and meets our own high standards.
management tools, and we are
Our privacy and data security teams
continually exploring ways to bolster
act as a joint center of excellence to
how we detect and alert people to any
support our brands’ apps.
unauthorized access.
Match Group Impact Report 2022 30
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Read more
About this report
MORE INFORMATION
This Impact Report includes all of Match
Group, Inc.’s wholly-owned and majority-
owned subsidiaries where direct operational
control was exercised as of December 31, 2021.
Safety Governance
User Safety Center Code of Conduct
REPORTING APPROACH
Safety Framework Annual Report
Where we have minority investments,
the performance of those businesses
Proxy Statement
is not included in this Report.
Modern Slavery Statement
Except as otherwise noted, all
performance data included in this Anti-Fraud/Anti-Corruption Policy
Report is based on the 2021 calendar
year. Where appropriate for a fuller UK Taxation Policies
understanding, we’ve supplemented
Guidelines and Committee Charters
our performance with key performance
elements through March 2022.
All performance data is measured, Privacy
collected, and reported internally,
subject to our usual control and Privacy Principles
compliance procedures. Our goal
User Privacy Center
is to be accurate, complete, and
comprehensive. Our non-financial
performance data is not externally
audited or reviewed. People
Career Center
Match Group Impact Report 2022 31
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
UN SDGs
Match Group Supports
the Sustainable
Development Goals
We consider opportunities to align our business
activities and key priority areas throughout Match
Group with these important goals.
The United Nations’ Sustainable WE DIRECTLY CONTRIBUTE TO
Development Goals (SDGs) are a THE FOLLOWING SIX SDGS:
collaborative, global effort to achieve a Goal 3: Good Health and Well-being
better and more sustainable future for Ensure healthy lives and promote
all. Represented by 17 Global Goals and wellbeing for all at all ages.
189 targets, the SDGs address
Goal 4: Quality Education
challenges of poverty, inequality,
Ensure inclusive and equitable quality
climate change, environmental
education and opportunities for all.
degradation, peace, and justice.
Goal 5: Gender Equality
We have identified key areas where we
Achieve gender equality and empower
have the greatest influence and impact
all women and girls.
through our business strategy,
platforms, and services, and therefore Goal 10: Reduced Inequalities
see that we have a direct, positive Reduce inequality within and
contribution to six of the 17 SDGs. among countries.
At the same time, we remain
Goal 13: Climate Action
committed to responsibly managing
Take urgent action to combat climate
our operations and supporting our
change and its impacts.
communities in line with all of
the SDGs. Goal 16: Peace, Justice
and Strong Institutions
Promote peaceful and inclusive
societies for sustainable development.
Match Group Impact Report 2022 32
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Performance table
Our performance
METRIC UNIT 2021
We measure our progress using these
FINANCIAL Revenue USD$ 3.0 billion
key performance indicators.
Adjusted Operating Income USD$ 1.1 billion
Average total Payers Payers 15.5 million
SAFETY Investment in trust and safety USD$ 125 million+
Employees engaged in trust and safety Number 450+
PEOPLE Employee engagement (favorability) Percentage 70%
Gender diversity in workforce Percentage 41% female
Gender diversity in leadership Percentage 43% female
Gender diversity in tech teams Percentage 25% female
Ethnic diversity in workforce (U.S.) Percentage 42% non-white
Ethnic diversity in leadership (U.S.) Percentage 29% non-white
Ethnic diversity in tech teams (U.S.) Percentage 47% non-white
GOVERNANCE Gender diversity of the Board Percentage 45% female
Independent members of the Board Number 8 out of 11
COMMUNITY Employer and employee donations and
advertising space USD$ 5.2 million
ENVIRONMENT Grid electricity used Percentage 100%
Match Group Impact Report 2022 33
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
REPORTING STATUS:
SASB report
Fully reporting
Partially reporting
Our approach
Not reporting
This report includes all
SASB CODE ACTIVTY METRIC 2021 RESPONSE REPORTING STATUS
disclosures as defined
TC-IM-000.A Entity-defined measure of 15.5 million average total Payers as defined on page 4 of our Impact Report.
by the Sustainability
user activity
Accounting Standards
TC-IM-000.B (1) Data processing capacity Omitted as privileged and confidential.
Board (SASB) framework (2) Percentage outsourced
for “technology and TC-IM-000.C (1) Amount of data storage Omitted as privileged and confidential.
(2) Percentage outsourced
communications”
industries.
Our disclosures are based on the
SASB CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC 2021 RESPONSE REPORTING STATUS
2018-10 version of the Standard, and,
except where otherwise noted, we
ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT OF HARDWARE INFRASTRUCTURE
provide information for the 2021
calendar year. TC-IM-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed (1) 13,589 gigajoules
(2) Percentage grid electricity (2) 100%
We expect our SASB framework to
continue to evolve over time. Where (3) Percentage renewable (3) 0% renewable
noted, in accordance with SASB TC-IM-130a.2 (1) Total water withdrawn According to the current WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas, 11 out of 36 active
Standards Application Guidance (2) Total water consumed, facilities in 2021 are located in high or extremely high baseline water stress
section 2.2, certain information is not
percentage of each in regions, equivalent to 31% of our facilities by number. We do not currently track
included in this appendix, to the extent
regions with high or water consumption as all of our facilities are office spaces (>90% leased), with
the information is not considered
extremely high baseline only three active data centers.
material; is privileged or confidential;
water stress
or is not currently collected in a manner
wholly correlative with the related TC-IM-130a.3 Discussion of the integration We are developing an environmental strategy that would include this over the
SASB metric. of environmental coming years. Our brand, Meetic, for example, achieved ISO 14001 certification,
considerations into strategy which is internationally recognized as the leading environmental management
planning for data center needs system (EMS) standard.
Match Group Impact Report 2022 34
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
REPORTING STATUS:
SASB report
Fully reporting
continued Partially reporting
Not reporting
SASB CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC 2021 RESPONSE REPORTING STATUS
DATA PRIVACY, ADVERTISING STANDARDS & FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION
TC-IM-220a.1 Description of policies and practices relating to Our Privacy Principles are referenced in the “Safety” section of our Impact Report on page 7
behavioral advertising and user privacy and in the “Governance” section on page 30. They can be read in full in the “Trust and Safety”
center on our website, which includes a fuller description of all our policies and practices
related to user privacy.
TC-IM-220a.2 Number of users whose information is used for Omitted as immaterial because fewer than 3% of our revenues are derived from advertising.
secondary purposes
TC-IM-220a.3 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of No regulatory fines paid in 2021.
legal proceedings associated with user privacy
TC-IM-220a.4 (1) N umber of law enforcement requests for user Omitted as data collection is not wholly correlative with this metric.
information (1) (2) (3) As outlined in our Impact Report, we expect to publish a Transparency Report for the
(2) N umber of users whose information was requested United States for 2022 which would include this data.
(3) Percentage resulting in disclosure
TC-IM-220a.5 List of countries where core products or services Given the nature of online dating services, certain of our services or features have been blocked
are subject to government-required monitoring, in certain countries.
blocking, content filtering, or censoring In some instances we have placed restrictions on our services in order to comply with U.S.
sanctions laws.
TC-IM-220a.6 (1) N umber of government requests to remove content Omitted as data collection is not wholly correlative with this metric.
(2) Percentage compliance with requests (1) (2) As outlined in our Impact Report, we expect to publish a Transparency Report for the
United States for 2022 which would include this data.
Match Group Impact Report 2022 35
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
REPORTING STATUS:
SASB report
Fully reporting
continued Partially reporting
Not reporting
SASB CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC 2021 RESPONSE REPORTING STATUS
DATA SECURITY
TC-IM-230a.1 (1) Number of data breaches (1) No data breaches
(2) Percentage involving personally identifiable (2) Not applicable
information (PII) (3) Not applicable
(3) Number of users affected
TC-IM-230a.2 Description of approach to identifying and addressing Our approach to identifying and addressing data security risks is outlined briefly in the “Safety”
data security risks, including use of third-party (page 7) and “Governance” (page 27) sections of our Impact Report.
cybersecurity standards In addition, we conduct an Annual Risk Assessment with business stakeholders to discuss high
level cybersecurity risks; develop an Annual Security Scorecard on a per brand level based on
NIST Cybersecurity standards; and maintain on-going regular communication with business
and brand leaders to identify and assess risk, including third-party vendor-related risks. Tinder
achieved certification in February 2021 for its Information Security Management System (ISMS)
under the ISO/IEC 27001:2013, and Match and Match Affinity (BLK, Chispa, Upward) achieved
certification in 2022.
Match Group Impact Report 2022 36
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
REPORTING STATUS:
SASB report
Fully reporting
continued Partially reporting
Not reporting
SASB CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC 2021 RESPONSE REPORTING STATUS
EMPLOYEE RECRUITMENT, INCLUSION & PERFORMANCE
TC-IM-330a.1 Percentage of employees that are foreign nationals 10% of our U.S. employees on December 31, 2021 were foreign nationals.
TC-IM-330a.2 Employee engagement as a percentage In September 2021, we had an employee engagement favorability score of 70%.
TC-IM-330a.3 Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group Gender diversity at Match Group (worldwide)2
representation for: (1) 43% female / 56% male / 0% not provided
(2) 25% female / 75% male / 0% not provided
(1) Management
(3) 55% female / 44% male / 1% not provided
(2) Technical staff1
(3) All other employees1
Ethnic diversity at Match Group (U.S. only)2
(1) 29% non-white / 61% white / 10% other
(2) 47% non-white / 41% white / 12% other
(3) 42% non-white / 48% white / 10% other
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION & COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR
TC-IM-520a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal There were no monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with
proceedings associated with anti-competitive anti-competitive behavior regulations in 2021.
behavior regulations
1. “Technical staff” and “All other employees” do not include “Management.”
2. Totals may not sum to 100% due to rounding.
Match Group Impact Report 2022 37
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
TCFD report
Our approach
TOPIC PAGE REFERENCE DISCLOSURE
In 2021, we started to assess our
GOVERNANCE “Governance” Our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee scope now includes overseeing ESG matters.
environmental impact, as well Section:
In 2021, we developed a formal Company-wide environmental strategy, including the assessment of climate-
Nominating and
as the risks and opportunities related risks across the portfolio and how these are being addressed. Regular updates are provided to our
Corporate Governance
Board on our environmental strategy.
presented by climate change, in Committee
(Page 28)
line with the framework set out
“Governance”
by the Financial Stability Board’s
Section:
Task Force on Climate-related Climate Strategy
(Page 29)
Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
STRATEGY “Environment” We carried out a carbon assessment across Match Group to clarify our footprint. Armed with this
Section: understanding, we decided as a Company to commit to being carbon neutral through at least 2023,
Our Approach purchasing verified carbon offsets to balance our impact, solidify our participation in carbon markets, and
(Page 24) help evaluate the financial cost of carbon in a tangible way.
“Environment” We are currently exploring developing a near-term and net zero long-term (2050) commitment through the
Section: Science-Based Targets initiative (SBTi), to hold ourselves and our value chain accountable for meeting ambitious
Our Carbon reduction targets. These commitments will drive Match Group’s contributions towards global decarbonization
Reduction Journey goals and ensure the Company is managing its impact alongside projected business growth.
(Page 25)
RISK “Governance” Our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee scope now includes overseeing environmental, social,
MANAGEMENT Section: and governance (ESG) matters.
Risk Management
The key climate risks to Match Group include increased regulatory requirements around climate and
(Page 29)
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions affecting many of our global brands, new market and technological demands
to offer low-carbon app and web-based platforms and shifts in consumer preferences which may impact our
reputation both as a service provider and an employer.
METRICS “Environment” Scope 1: 77 metric tons CO e.
2
AND TARGETS Section:
Scope 2: 0 metric tons CO e (all owned facilities operate with 100% renewables as part of a green power
Our Carbon 2
purchasing agreement with the local utility).
Reduction Journey
(Page 25)
Match Group Impact Report 2022 38
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Awards
Recognition
for our efforts
We are proud to have
received a number
of awards for efforts
at Match Group and
across our brands.
Human Rights Campaign: “Best Places Fortune 1000: Best Places to Work Digiday Worklife Award for “Most BC’s Best Places to Work
to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality” Committed to Work Life Balance”
MATCH GROUP PLENTY OF FISH
MATCH GROUP HINGE
2021 Built In’s Best Paying Companies 2021 Built In’s Companies with the Best 2021 Built In’s Best Places to Work 2021 Built In’s Best Midsize Companies
Benefits to Work For
TINDER TINDER
TINDER TINDER
Match Group Impact Report 2022 39
Welcome & about us Our ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more & data tables
Forward-looking statements
Disclaimer
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER monetizing services, our ability to transaction, and the impact of the TRADEMARKS Chispa, BLK, Stir, Upward, Ourtime,
THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION attract users to our services through transaction on the businesses of Match MATCH GROUP, the MG Logo, the MG Twoo, Ablo, Meetic, Pairs, Eureka,
REFORM ACT OF 1995 cost-effective marketing and related Group. Certain of these and other risks Blue-Gradient Thread, Tinder, Match, Hawaya, Hakuna, Azar, and all other
This Impact Report may contain efforts, foreign currency exchange rate and uncertainties are discussed in and Swipe are trademarks and trademarks are trademarks and
“forward-looking statements” within fluctuations, our ability to distribute our Match Group’s filings with the registered trademarks of Match Group, registered trademarks of their
the meaning of the Private Securities services through third parties and Securities and Exchange Commission. LLC. Hinge, OkCupid, PlentyOfFish, respective owners.
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All offset related fees, the integrity and Other unknown or unpredictable
statements that are not historical facts scalability of our systems and factors that could also adversely affect
are “forward-looking statements.” The infrastructure (and those of third Match Group’s business, financial
use of words such as “anticipates,” parties), and our ability to adapt ours to condition and results of operations may
“estimates,” “expects,” “plans” and changes in a timely and cost-effective arise from time to time. In light of these
“believes,” among others, generally manner, our ability to protect our risks and uncertainties, these forward-
identify forward-looking statements. systems from cyberattacks and to looking statements may not prove to
These forward-looking statements protect personal and confidential user be accurate. Accordingly, you should
Year Ended December 31, 2021 (In Thousands)
include, among others, statements information, risks relating to certain of not place undue reliance on these
relating to: Match Group’s future our international operations and forward-looking statements, which
Net Earnings attributable to Match Group, Inc. $277,723
financial performance, Match Group’s acquisitions, certain risks relating to our only reflect the views of Match Group
shareholders
business prospects and strategy, relationship with IAC post-separation, management as of the date of this
anticipated trends, and other similar the impact of the outbreak of COVID-19 presentation. Match Group does not Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests ($1,169)
matters. These forward-looking coronavirus, the risks inherent in undertake to update these forward-
Earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax ($509)
statements are based on separating Match Group from IAC, looking statements.
management’s current expectations including uncertainties related to, Income tax benefit ($19,897)
and assumptions about future events among other things, the expected
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES Other expense, net $465,038
as of the date of this presentation, benefits of the separation, any litigation
This Impact Report includes Adjusted
which are inherently subject to arising out of or relating to the Interest expense $130,493
Operating Income, which is a non-GAAP
uncertainties, risks, and changes in transaction, the tax treatment of the
financial measure. Adjusted Operating Operating Income $851,679
circumstances that are difficult to transaction, and the impact of the
Income is not a substitute for, or
predict. Actual results could differ separation on the businesses of Match Stock-based compensation expense $146,816
superior to, Operating Income, which is
materially from those contained in Group, and uncertainties related to the a measure of financial performance Depreciation $41,402
these forward-looking statements for acquisition of Hyperconnect, including,
prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Amortization of intangibles $28,559
a variety of reasons, including, among among other things, the expected
See the table to the right for a
others: competition, our ability to benefits of the transaction, any reconciliation of Adjusted Operating Adjusted Operating Income $1,068,456
maintain user rates on our higher litigation arising out of or relating to the
Income to Operating Income.
Match Group Impact Report 2022 40
Impact Report 2022
CONTACT
Investor relations
ir@match.com
Corporate communications
matchgroupPR@match.com
www.mtch.com
