Creating
Meaningful
Connections
IMPACT REPORT | 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
CONTENTS
Global presence. Revolutionary
technology. Deeper connections.
Welcome | 2 People | 13 Governance | 32
Message from the CEO Diversity, equity, and inclusion Corporate governance
Talent acquisition and retention Data security and privacy
Employee development Machine learning and AI
ESG Strategy | 5
UN Sustainable
Development Goals Community | 23 Read More | 41
Community investment About this report
Community engagement initiatives Awards
Safety | 7
Human rights Performance table
Safety strategy
Changing perceptions SASB report
Safety pillars
TCFD report
Environment | 29
Environmental impact
2
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
MESSAGE FROM THE CEO
Creating meaningful connections
“We are committed to
Match Group is on a mission to create meaningful connections for every single person worldwide, and we take pride in delivering
enhancing user experiences
responsible, sustainable growth across our portfolio of brands. The past year has been remarkable not only due to our accomplishments
across our portfolio
in trust and safety, technological innovation, and environmental stewardship, but also because of our impact in the communities we serve
and making an impact
and the lives of users who we help find connection in this increasingly disconnected world. Some of our recent achievements include:
in the lives of people
Harnessing Artificial Intelligence (AI) with Integrity The responsible use of AI to propel our innovation efforts has been a central
around the world.”
component of Match Group’s strategy for several years. Now, we’re harnessing recent advances in generative AI to continue enhancing
user experiences – making connections more personal while also ensuring respect for privacy and ethical standards. By establishing our
—Bernard Kim,
Responsible AI Principles, we have set a new benchmark for reliability and trust with our users.
Chief Executive Officer
Safety and Security at the Forefront Building trust and prioritizing the safety of our users has always been a key focus and guides of Match Group
our efforts to create a secure and welcoming space for our users. This year, we continued to elevate industry safety protocols, invest
in cutting-edge technologies, and pioneer new standards to affirm our leadership position in online safety. Some standout examples
include the expansion of our anti-harassment feature ‘Are You Sure?’ across several Match Group brands, and our first-ever global public
awareness campaign to educate daters on ways they can better protect themselves against online financial fraud.
A Commitment to Our People We remain dedicated to diversity, equity, and inclusion in our workplace and on our platforms, fostering a
community where everyone feels valued and empowered. Our People strategy and related initiatives are designed to reflect the diverse
groups we serve and are underscored by our solid employee engagement trends. We remain committed to delivering meaningful
Full Year 2023 Performance:
employee experiences, including comprehensive training and development to support our innovation efforts.
Our Environmental Journey We are committed to set near-term and net-zero targets in line with the Science Based Targets initiative
$3.4bn $1.3bn
(SBTi), allowing us to track our impact on the planet against ambitious reduction targets. In addition, our community engagement
programs, which are aimed at conservation and sustainability, enable us to build a culture of environmental consciousness within and
beyond our organization.
Revenue1 Adjusted Operating Income1
We are steadfast in our drive to enhance user experiences across our portfolio and to make an even greater impact in the lives of people
around the world. Through the collective efforts we highlight in this report, and our ambitious vision for the future, we look ahead to 15.6m 2,600+
even more successful user outcomes in the years to come.
Payers1,2 Employees worldwide1
1 Metrics for the year-ended December 31, 2023. Adjusted Operating Income is a non-GAAP financial measure which is in addition to Operating Income, which is a financial measure presented in accordance with
U.S. GAAP. Adjusted Operating Income is not a substitute for, or superior to, Operating Income. For a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measure for each period presented, see page 51.
2 “Payers’’ are unique users at a brand level in a given month from whom we earned Direct Revenue. Direct Revenue is revenue that is received directly from end users of our services and includes both
subscription and à la carte revenue. When presented as a quarter-to-date or year-to date value, Payers represents the average of the monthly values for the respective period presented. At a consolidated level,
duplicate Payers may exist when we earn revenue from the same individual at multiple brands in a given month, as we are unable to identify unique individuals across brands in the Match Group portfolio.
Note: Our brands are operated by subsidiary companies owned by Match Group.
3
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
Celebrating real-life success stories
OUR LARGEST BRANDS
LIFE STAGE: GETTING A PUPPY
TINDER MATCH BLK
Nick & Sam ▪ Launched in 2012 ▪ Launched in 1995 ▪ Launched in 2017
▪ World’s most popular app ▪ Created millions of love ▪ A leading dating and
for meeting new people stories as a top destination lifestyle app for Black
“Dating apps like Hinge are really working to for singles looking for a singles
long-term relationship
have an impact on the world where you get a
HINGE
more holistic view of somebody’s personality.”
▪ Launched in 2011 PLENTY OF FISH THE LEAGUE
▪ Designed to be Deleted®: ▪ Launched in 2015
dating app for the ▪ Launched in 2003
modern millennial, ▪ Offers a low-pressure ▪ Designed to serve
ambitious, career-
getting them off the app user experience, and live
LIFE STAGE: MARRIED WITH A FAMILY oriented singles
and out on great dates streaming, helping people
to match and meet
Heidi & Blake
AZAR
MEETIC ARCHER
▪ Launched in 2014 ▪ Launched in 2001 ▪ Launched in 2023
“You can find anything that you’re looking for ▪ A leading 1:1 live chat and ▪ A leader for dating services ▪ Social-first dating app
on Tinder as a platform and dating site.” video app with user base in Europe, enabling its for gay, bisexual, and
predominantly in Asia members to find meaningful queer men
connections
HAKUNA
OKCUPID
▪ Launched in 2019
LIFE STAGE: DATING ▪ Launched in 2004
▪ Interactive, social live
streaming app enabling ▪ Uses daters’ responses to
group video and audio iconic, in-depth questions to
Ai & Jun broadcast match singles based on the
things that matter to them
“She was unique. She was honest. She told
PAIRS CHISPA
me her story from beginning to end and I
knew she was different from the others.” ▪ Launched in 2012 ▪ Launched in 2017
▪ A leading dating ▪ Largest dating app for U.S.
app in Japan Hispanic and Latino singles
4
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
ESG STRATEGY
Empowering connection around the world
OUR APPROACH
OUR STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK ENVIRONMENT
As global citizens of an interconnected world, Match Group is committed to making positive contributions Connecting to the world around us
through our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) strategy and practices.
Through an assessment of our sustainability impacts and opportunities, we identified several key topics to align
our ESG initiatives and practices with the priorities of our business, our stakeholders, and our communities.
• Safety
Safety
• Data security and privacy Creating a safer
environment for all
• Diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI)
• People development
• Climate change
• Corporate governance VISION
Governance Creating People
Meaningful
Match Group’s 2024 Impact Report focuses primarily on these key material issues and is informed by the Cultivating a culture Building diverse
of integrity Connections teams and
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial and reliability an inclusive
Disclosures (TCFD) reporting frameworks. We also report on our alignment with the United Nations workplace
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
In 2022, Match Group joined the United Nations Global Compact, a voluntary leadership platform for the
development, implementation, and disclosure of responsible, ethical business practices. By becoming
signatories, Match Group and our brands commit to uphold the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact
on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. In 2023, we continued our pursuit of sustainable Privacy
development in line with the UNGC principles. Going forward, we will continue to review our priority issues in Providing data security
and privacy
line with our regular business planning and risk management processes.
Throughout this report, we provide an update on our commitments and our progress in line with these
reporting frameworks. COMMUNITY
Generating impact through
community connection
5
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
UNITED NATIONS’ SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
Making a positive impact through business strategy
The United Nations’ Sustainable Match Group participated in the UN WE SUPPORT THE FOLLOWING SIX SDGS:
Development Goals (SDGs) are a Global Compact’s SDG Innovation
collaborative, global effort to achieve Accelerator for Young Professionals, a
a better and more sustainable future nine-month program that empowers Goal 3: Good Health Goal 10: Reduced Inequalities
for all. Represented by 17 global goals young Match Group employees and Well-being Reduce inequality within and
and 169 targets, the SDGs address with the tools to collaborate and Ensure healthy lives and promote among countries.
challenges of poverty, inequality, accelerate business innovation well-being for all at all ages.
climate change, environmental towards the SDGs. Through this
degradation, peace, and justice. program, participants engaged in
learning opportunities while building
We support this effort. Throughout
a network of global peers invested
Match Group, we consider
in sustainable development. This Goal 4: Quality Education Goal 13: Climate Action
opportunities to align our business
activities and priority areas with the opportunity to nurture talent with Ensure inclusive and equitable Take urgent action to combat
SDGs and have identified key areas the ambition to solve sustainability quality education and climate change and its impacts.
where we have the greatest influence challenges also helped Match opportunities for all.
Group foster a company culture that
and impact through our business
celebrates globally minded individuals
strategy, platforms, and services. While
who seek to better the world.
we remain committed to responsibly
managing our operations and To that end, Match Group will be
Goal 5: Gender Equality Goal 16: Peace, Justice and
supporting our communities in line participating in 2024’s UNGC USA’s
Strong Institutions
Achieve gender equality and
with all SDGs, we have a direct, positive Business & Human Rights Accelerator
empower all women and girls. Promote peaceful and inclusive
contribution to six of the 17 SDGs. Program and hopes to continue to
societies for sustainable
educate employees and advance our
development.
programs.
6
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
SAFETY
Building a community
guided by safety
Match Group strives to create safer environments where
users feel comfortable being their authentic selves. We
have implemented an organizational structure to build a
foundation of authenticity, empathy, equity, care, and respect
for our users and the communities our platforms touch.
CONTENTS
Safety strategy
Safety pillars
7
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
OUR APPROACH
As an industry leader in safety, we are continuously investing in technology, setting new standards, and enhancing
SAFETY existing safety features, as well as expanding features, like ‘Are You Sure?’ and Photo Verification with selfie video to
additional brands. We have implemented a trauma-informed, survivor-centric support structure across our brands
Providing a safer and are always seeking to improve the integrity of our platforms and create safer experiences. We also collaborate
with experts to enhance our practices and policies. Our executive team receives monthly briefings on relevant safety
matters and associated metrics. The Board’s Audit Committee receives quarterly updates, and the full Board of
experience
Directors is regularly briefed.
SAFETY FRAMEWORK
Our safety framework guides our brands in preventing and responding to potential harm both on and off our platforms.
Our extensive network of safety professionals, along with representatives from the feature development and customer
care teams, employs a variety of strategies to help our users lower their risk exposure when venturing into the world of
STRENGTHENING OUR TRUST AND SAFETY TEAM technology-driven connections on and off the app. Those strategies target five key pillars:
At the beginning of 2023, we made updates to our Trust and Safety
Trust and Safety Policy, Operations, and Data
teams to help create more efficiency and alignment across our
Achieving operational excellence through cross-portfolio support in developing and operationalizing community
portfolio. As a result, there is more cross-collaboration across brands
guidelines and monitoring and measuring their efficacy.
to help create more consistency in how we respond to user reports
and have expanded safety features to additional platforms. This work
S ocial Advocacy
is continuing into 2024 and our team is well-positioned to remain
Building partnerships—internally and externally—to advocate for communities disproportionately impacted by
focused on building a safer experience for all users.
social injustice, and to ensure that our policies, features, and programs are built to include and respect the unique
safety concerns of our communities.
Law Enforcement Operations and Outreach
$125M+
Building collaborative partnerships through proactive outreach and responsive engagement with law
enforcement and safety experts to monitor trends and help keep our users safe—both on our platforms, and in
the communities where they live.
our investment in trust
Platform Safety Services and Features
and safety in 2023
Driving a high standard of safety by providing technical safety services and feature development, support,
and maintenance.
Safety by Design
Evaluating new services and features across the portfolio to keep user safety is a focal point of design.
8
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
SAFETY
Global safety highlights
MATCH GROUP EDUCATES USERS ON ROMANCE SCAMS
Following the launch of Match Group’s first-ever global public awareness campaign to educate daters and consumers on how to date safer
and help stay protected against the different forms of online fraud, this year, users across Tinder, Hinge, Match, Plenty of Fish, Meetic, OkCupid,
MATCH GROUP ADVISORY COUNCIL and OurTime, in more than 15 different countries, received periodic messages alerting them to tips and common behaviors to watch out for to
Celebrating its five-year anniversary in 2023, identify potential scams.
the Match Group Advisory Council (MGAC) Match Group, along with victim advocates and cyber-crime investigators, developed several tips to help users identify, prevent, and report
is comprised of leading safety advocates malicious actors - on dating apps or any online platform. For more information on how to avoid romance scams, see our safety tips.
and crime prevention advisors. MGAC meets
This consumer media campaign resulted in creating more user awareness of these types of crimes and common behaviors of scammers to
regularly to review and assess the safety of
better protect themselves on our platforms and any online platform.
our platforms. The Council has completed
a comprehensive review of Match Group’s Following this successful campaign, Match Group teamed up with Tinder to sponsor the inaugural “World Romance Scam Awareness Day” on
sexual misconduct reporting, moderation, October 3. In collaboration with Mean Girls actor Jonathan Bennett we created a PSA to remind users how to avoid online financial scams and
and response protocols across all Match spot toxic behaviors. And yes, we all wore pink.
Group platforms. MGAC also consulted on
features such as ‘Are You Sure?’, ‘Share My
Date,’ a photo verification with selfie video,
and global education campaigns, including
our guides to healthy dating, romance scam
awareness, and digital safety tips. The Council
has connected us with over 40 regional
gender-based violence safety organizations
and NGOs around the world and co-hosted
roundtables to gather feedback on safety
challenges in the U.S., Brazil, the UK, Spain,
and Australia.
9
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
SAFETY
Our safety pillars
TRUST AND SAFETY POLICY, • Issue areas encompassed LGBTQIA+ Cultural Healthy Dating Guides
Match Group’s Social Advocacy team joined
OPERATIONS AND DATA Literacy, Sexual Violence Prevention and Tinder’s teams in Australia and India developed
the Social Impact team based on their joint
Our overall safety approach has long focused Understanding Consent, Decision Fatigue and resources to promote dating safety and help
partnerships with leading safety NGOs
on continuous investments in new, innovative Cognitive Overload, Sex Trafficking Prevention, prevent sexual violence through safety guides
and interconnected workstreams. We also
technology that is rooted in detecting and Dating Safety Practices for women of color, and personal stories from sexual assault
strengthened and added a number of key
preventing potential harm, encouraging users and Disability Awareness and Accessibility on survivors. Additionally, the U.S. partnership
partnerships with safety organizations. These
to report bad actors, and proactively banning dating apps. with NO MORE expanded to deliver Healthy
critical relationships allow us to leverage
accounts that violate our Terms of Service. These their expertise to improve our safety and • We also further expanded our international Dating Guides to users in eight countries—
tools encompass automatic scans of potentially social impact initiatives, make our platforms outreach, hosting NGO roundtable events Germany, Spain, Sweden, Norway, Denmark,
harmful content and thorough manual reviews safer, and interpret community trends. We in several European countries to discuss Italy, France, and the Netherlands—in their
of suspicious profiles. have collaborated with expert nonprofit and gender-based violence, bringing together 20+ native languages on Tinder, Hinge, Meetic,
Match Group employs a team of Trust and Safety NGO partners globally to facilitate safety- organizations committed to fighting sexual and OurTime. The guides provide actionable
professionals who are dedicated to creating a related training, consultation, campaigns, abuse and online violence. steps and considerations for every stage of the
culture of safety. The Trust and Safety team relies and research across the portfolio. Among • dating journey from online to in real life (IRL)
In partnership with Disability:IN, we co-
on technical experts and oversight bodies to our partners were Crisis Text Line, Groupe and beyond. In Sweden, these guides were
hosted a three-part series to educate our
educate users globally about potential risks and SOS, the Human Rights Campaign, the distributed to health clinics throughout the
employees on the fundamentals of inclusivity
how to identify them. When issues are identified, MeToo movement, NO MORE, The Anti- country.
and accessibility for people with disabilities.
critical response teams are deployed to ensure Violence Project, A Call to Men, the Trauma We introduced the series with a “Dating & In France, Match Group partnered with
unsafe situations are alleviated. Stewardship Institute, Ujima: The National Disability Panel,” a user-centric discussion Fédération Nationale Solidarité Femmes to
SOCIAL ADVOCACY Center on Violence Against Women in the that focused on panelist experiences with provide a public resource guide on how to
Black Community, Women’s Services Network online dating and recommendations for recognize violence and respond to victims.
Our investment of cross-functional resources in
(WESNET), and Disability:IN. Representatives improvement for people with diverse Tinder partnered with HandsAway and Consentis
safety and advocacy helps apprise users of risks
of many of these organizations spoke at our disabilities. We used learnings from the panel to launch an awareness campaign to inform
in their communities and of our vigilant efforts to
in-person Safety Summit and to our employee discussion along with tailored UX research users of the basics of consent and why it is
make them feel safe and supported. We endorse
base throughout the year. from our feature design and engineering essential in relationships.
personal safety, human rights, mental health
•
We facilitated 15 safety and accessibility team to enhance accessibility capabilities of
awareness, and suicide prevention organizations
training sessions with expert safety partners, features and inform future marketing and
around the world, and partner with globally-
with a focus on Trust and Safety teams. development.
recognized NGOs to inform our safety strategy,
advocacy efforts, policies, and culture.
10
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
LAW ENFORCEMENT how we can coordinate to combat learn from the intervention prompts
OPERATIONS AND OUTREACH this scam. Since the event, we have and change their behavior. AYS? was
Match Group proactively engages continued to work to share insights, designed using language reported
with law enforcement agencies, trends, and education with our users. by members in the past and has
NGOs, and other safety stakeholders continued to evolve and assimilate
SAFETY FEATURES
around the world to limit the risk to behaviors over time to flag new words
Match Group is leveraging AI tools that
our users. Our Trust and Safety team and phrases. It is now available in 18
proactively detect language and data
are experts with invaluable experience languages around the world.
that could be considered harassment.
and we engage with more than 100
To support users when they are
We saw notable success with our
law enforcement officials globally to
meeting IRL, Plenty of Fish launched
anti-harassment features, like ‘Are
identify opportunities to continue
a new safety feature called ‘Share My
You Sure?’ (AYS?), which asks users to
enhancing online safety.
Date.’ This tool encourages users to
think twice before sending a message,
We were invited to join and contribute share the who/when/where of their
providing real-time warnings to users
to two boards, Cybercrime Support dates with trusted friends and family.
about their opening lines. The feature’s
Network and the International Since its launch, over 75% of Plenty of
automated tools detect potentially
Association of Financial Crimes Fish members who used the feature
harmful language and proactively
Investigators. We also partnered said they believe it makes meeting in
intervene to warn the sender that their
with financial crimes investigators person safer.
message may be offensive, asking
to identify common behaviors of
them to review and consider editing
romance scammers and educate
it before hitting send. The feature has
users on how to protect themselves.
been available since 2021 on Tinder,
In collaboration with law enforcement, Plenty of Fish, and Meetic, and by the
Match Group hosted a public-private end of 2023, was rolled out to users on
partnership event to discuss “pig Match, Stir, OurTime, BLK, Chispa, and
butchering” and its effects. This has Upward, with plans to introduce it on
become a pervasive scam in which Hinge soon.
perpetrators convince unsuspecting
To date, users have either edited
individuals across many different
or deleted more than 500 million
online platforms to invest money in
messages after the feature flagged
fraudulent cryptocurrency schemes
potentially harassing or problematic
through fake websites that are made
language. There has also been an over
to look like real trading platforms. The
80% decrease in AYS? being triggered
open forum enabled our public and
on Plenty of Fish, indicating the
private sector partners to examine
feature is effectively guiding users to
11
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
SAFETY BY DESIGN sharing. These appraisals have also provided leadership
The Safety by Design team plays a pivotal role in ensuring with insight into common challenges and strategic
user safety is a critical consideration in the design of recommendations across our brand portfolio.
features and services across our portfolio. The team’s
The DTSP Safe Assessments revealed our brands are
mission encompasses three key responsibilities:
performing well in areas such as having clear ownership of
LAW ENFORCEMENT PORTAL • Identify and Address Safety Risks: Setting safety Trust & Safety (T&S) work, offering a user-friendly reporting
To rapidly address the most critical incidents, we have a standards, monitoring their implementation, and system, and engaging effective processes and systems for
specialist team focusing on serious safety escalations. In adopting strategies for continuous improvement. managing user reports. The assessments also acknowledged
2021, we launched a first-of-its-kind portal to enhance and • Monitor and Mitigate Emerging Safety Risks: Assess opportunities for improvement, like enhancing care for
expedite the legal request process from law enforcement the well-being of T&S staff exposed to sensitive content,
new and existing features for potential safety risks, apply
agencies. Prior to the launch, no other company in our strengthening collaborations with third parties to drive
industry best practices to minimize these risks, and
industry had offered consolidated resources to help law more effective T&S outcomes, and developing visible in-app
bring significant issues to the attention of leadership for
enforcement officials access the information they need to indicators for enforcement actions.
prompt resolution.
safeguard communities. Through the portal, verified public • Foster Collaboration and Share Best Practices: Identify The Safety by Design team has actively facilitated various
safety and law enforcement professionals can make general workshops aimed at disseminating industry knowledge
common risks across the portfolio to create opportunities
inquiries to check whether an individual has a profile on an and cross-brand best practices. These sessions have been
for collaboration and knowledge sharing. This approach
app and whether information is available; submit a legal instrumental in keeping feature designers updated on
facilitates the development of cross-portfolio solutions,
request for more detailed data supported by a warrant, evolving fraud trends, promoting a culture of collaboration
leveraging shared expertise to enhance overall user safety.
court order, subpoena, or similar legal document; and and innovation.
issue an emergency request to assist in responding to an Match Group has become a member of the Digital Trust
imminent safety threat. This tool serves a vital function & Safety Partnership (DTSP), a coalition of tech companies OUR FUTURE PRIORITIES
in our safety operations and we continue to see a steady dedicated to fostering a safer and more trustworthy Match Group’s work with NGOs, safety experts, and law
increase in portal use by law enforcement agencies. internet. Recognizing the necessity for standardized enforcement officials around the world helps us track
consumer trust and safety protocol, DTSP has outlined 35 the latest trends, invest in technologies, and enhance our
We also successfully expanded the law enforcement portal
best practices to identify, prevent, and challenge harmful policies to help make dating safer for everyone.
in Australia, the UK, Canada, Singapore, and New Zealand to
global agencies and police forces. content and behavior. To align with these practices, Match We have maintained strong and productive relationships
Group created the Safe Assessment Form, enabling a with NGO partners and have significantly expanded our
We plan to continue rolling out the portal as we strengthen
thorough evaluation of our brands’ compliance. collaboration with safety organizations across the globe. We
our partnerships with global safety organizations and law
The Safety by Design team has conducted DTSP Safe plan to continue participating in industry working groups,
enforcement agencies.
Assessments across each brand, analyzing results, enhance and expand our technology, deepen existing
pinpointing improvement areas, documenting safety partnerships, and establish new ones. We engage with
features for enhanced visibility among Match Group other corporate leaders to co-create and implement Trust
stakeholders, and facilitating cross-brand knowledge and Safety best practices.
12
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
PEOPLE
Creating a sense of
belonging for all
Match Group is committed to creating a safe, equitable,
and inclusive workplace where people can grow and thrive.
Fostering a purpose-driven culture that sparks meaningful
connections enables us to develop innovative platforms that
are as diverse as the people who use them.
CONTENTS
Diversity, equity, and inclusion
Talent acquisition and retention
Employee development
Match Group New York
13
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
DIVERSITY, EQUITY, AND INCLUSION
Creating inclusive spaces
where diversity is valued
OUR APPROACH
Our DEI mission is to be a global leader in connecting diverse people in an inclusive workplace
with the best resources on the most equitable platforms. We know that diverse teams produce
more creative solutions, resulting in better, more innovative services and the attraction and
retention of key talent. Our goal is to continue cultivating a culture through recruiting, retention,
and people development where sought-after talent from all backgrounds can contribute, grow,
and thrive.
Our investment in learning, development, and career advancement opportunities is central to
our strategy. Working closely with our brands, Match Group’s DEI team has concentrated on
several internal workstreams to make DEI an integral part of our culture and priorities by:
• Raising awareness through company-wide programming
• Investing in strategic partnerships and policymaking around equity and inclusion
• Embedding DEI into existing processes
MISSION:
• Incentivizing equity and inclusion in employee job performance
Adapting our culture, structure, and representation in a thoughtful, respectful, and authentic
way requires time and collaboration. Together, we have defined what DEI should look like across
our brands and developed the policies and practices to support our strategy across three key
pillars: Workforce, Workplace, and Marketplace.
14
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
Ensuring Pay Equity Employee Resource Groups ERGs are also a great way to improve
Measuring our compensation Through the growth of our Employee existing skills, develop new capabilities,
practices annually is a key tool we Resource Groups (ERGs), we have build mentee-mentor relationships,
HIGHLIGHTS OF MATCH GROUP ERGS:
rely on to ensure equity across our found effective mechanisms to and explore opportunities to give back
operations. We conducted our annual support and empower a diverse to the community. We currently have • Appointment of an executive sponsor for each ERG
comprehensive pay equity audit workforce of forward-thinking and robust brand-level ERGs at Tinder and
across Match Group with an outside globally-minded individuals. ERGs Hinge that actively host programming, • Recruitment and selection of leadership for each ERG
partner, Syndio. The audit included are employee-driven and operate cultural events, and learning
an analysis of pay equity among with an independent budget and the opportunities. While brand-level ERGs • A 2-day offsite conducted by Match Group’s DEI team with
U.S.-based employees by gender and autonomy to plan their own programs. support the specific needs of their onboarding sessions to equip ERG leadership with tools,
gender identity, as well as pay data employees, Match Group ERGs are partners, resources, and best practices
We strive to be a global leader in
insights for intersectionality, which portfolio-wide and allow employees to
developing impactful and effective • Annual budgets for events and programming throughout the year
reviews the race and sex of minority gather under one umbrella, regardless
employee-led groups that help
groups compared to majority groups. build an inclusive culture through of their brand. Match Group ERGs offer • To encourage authenticity in ERG voices and representation, ERG
Any inconsistencies warranting a unified platform for community-
diverse leadership and representative leaders were brought into the logo, charter, and annual planning
remediation were swiftly rectified. building based on shared priorities
organizational networks. Our ability process for their groups in 2023, with the goal to continue these
Following the audit, we invited all and purpose, while respecting the
to support and amplify diverse voices strategy discussion in 2024
employees to attend one of three autonomy of brand-specific ERGs and
helps us to create more thoughtful
informational sessions to share the working collaboratively on common
and inclusive platforms, which benefit
methodology and high-level findings. goals and projects.
all our stakeholders. Collaborating
As in previous audits, we conducted a closely with the DEI team and
manual analysis of small groups not leadership, Match Group’s ERGs have
fully covered by the original study and been instrumental in supporting
Match
did further research based on those the company’s DEI goals by aligning Group:
findings. In the future, we plan to group objectives and events
expand our analysis to explore options around the four Cs: Careers, Culture,
for analyzing additional equity grants, Community, and Commerce. Each
such as new hire grants, throughout the ERG has a specific focus area and
Tinder:
year. We would also like to incorporate provides an inclusive space open to all
sexual orientation analysis, which will employees. Allies are encouraged to
only be possible if more employees join an ERG to learn from and support
self-identify their sexual orientation in its members from all communities.
countries where permitted. Hinge:
15
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
DEI Leadership Training Corporate Equality Index
Match Group initiated executive-level development opportunities Match Group is committed to implementing comprehensive
to empower the leaders supporting our portfolio-wide ERGs. Seven policies and practices that deliver equity for LGBTQ+ workers and
executives became sponsors for the ERGs. The initiatives focused their families. We participate in the Human Rights Campaign
on deepening their cultural competence through an Intercultural (HRC) Foundation’s Corporate Equality Index (CEI)—a roadmap and
Development Inventory assessment, creating actionable steps for benchmarking tool that measures LGBTQ+ equality in the workplace.
amplifying ERG efforts through individual coaching sessions, and Match Group earned a score of 85 out of 100 in the latest HRC
ongoing coaching for continued development. Corporate Equality Index.
SUPPORTING AND GROWING The CEI’s rigorous criteria measure U.S. companies’ policies, benefits,
Diverse Talent Sponsorship Pilot
TINDER’S DIVERSE WORKFORCE
and practices across four categories:
The Match Group DEI team, in collaboration with Talent Management
Tinder DEI programming focuses on & Learning, initiated a pilot program involving 30 U.S.-based • Providing workplace protections for sexual orientation and gender
relationship-building and knowledge-
underrepresented employees at Match Group Corporate, Evergreen identity and expression
sharing. ERGs have supported this
& Emerging, and Tinder. Designed to deepen leadership diversity, • Offering inclusive benefits for LGBTQ+ employees and their families
strategy with roundtable discussions on
enhance employee engagement, and create a more inclusive culture,
how diversity can drive innovation, events • Maintaining a commitment to a diverse and inclusive culture
the pilot paired executives (sponsors) with managers or senior
that gave employees 1:1 time with senior managers (sponsees). Sponsors initially underwent onboarding to • Demonstrating corporate social responsibility through LGBTQ+-
leaders, and heritage celebrations to
build intercultural competencies, to help them support sponsees specific engagement
highlight our diverse communities.
through mentorship, coaching, and facilitating connections.
For the full list of CEI criteria, visit the HRC Foundation’s website.
In 2023, Tinder launched its first Inclusion Sponsees engaged in professional development workshops and
Council comprised of nominated were given a tailored program guidebook to help navigate their
representatives from each department relationships with sponsors.
tasked with helping to advance DEI and
Strategic DEI Partnerships
embed inclusive principles into business
Match Group has cultivated strategic partnerships to support
workflows. This cross-functional structure
historically underrepresented populations within the tech industry.
enables more opportunities for members
Through these partnerships, employees are able to benefit from
to engage in DEI work and helps ERG
trainings, learning opportunities, conferences, fellowships, and
leaders translate their passion into
avenues for growth and advancement. Our valued partners include
strategic action by influencing policies
Afrotech, Catalyst, Council for Urban Professionals, NCWIT, National
and practices for the larger organization.
Society of Black Engineers, HITEC, Lesbians Who Tech, and Out &
Equal. Our proactive engagements resulted in sending employees
to eight different conferences, giving them access to professional
development opportunities, networking, and career advancement
prospects.
16
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
TALENT ACQUISITION AND RETENTION
Building balanced, representative teams
across brands and continents
OUR APPROACH of continuous feedback and learning, we’re developing our
Our remarkable team—spanning approximately 2,600 team’s capabilities to improve how we connect people to their
colleagues across 22 countries—embodies Match Group’s values communities across the globe.
and reflects the diversity of our extensive network. Our success
At the corporate level, Match Group works closely with our
relies on the ability to attract, support, and retain diverse,
brands to centralize analytics, hiring insights, and candidate
exceptional talent.
search resources. We partner with external organizations to
In 2023, we expanded our investments in employee development enrich the diversity in our pool of internship candidates for a
and retention. Our People strategy is a comprehensive approach more robust talent pipeline.
to the employee experience, encompassing recruitment,
Encouraging an Ownership Culture
employee engagement, and development. Our focus and intent
We want our entire team to have a stake in our future growth
is to convene the best of the best within the tech industry. We
and success. Our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) extends
cast a wide net for talent from diverse backgrounds, recognizing
the opportunity for ownership to eligible employees, enabling
and engaging with our people, and prioritizing their mobility,
them to acquire Match Group common stock at a discounted
learning, and career advancement.
purchase price through automatic payroll deductions. Regular
We execute this strategy by identifying the unique needs
employees working over 20 hours per week in the U.S., Canada,
of employees worldwide and tailoring competitive benefits
and France are eligible to participate. Currently, over one-third
packages and initiatives to accommodate them, collaborating
of eligible employees are enrolled in the ESPP.
with brand-specific People teams to ensure best practices.
Providing a Full Range of Competitive Benefits
Attracting the Best Talent
At Match Group, we extend our comprehensive and
We leverage our footprint and portfolio to recruit the best
competitive benefits package to regular employees and
talent across Match Group. Our established presence in global
temporary employees alike. We maintained our emphasis on
markets gives us a pipeline of candidates who bring the
the four pillars of employee health—physical, mental, social, and
diversity of skills, passions, and perspectives we need to create
well-being—by introducing additional services to address the
sustainable value for our stakeholders. Through a culture
full spectrum of wellness.
17
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
PRIORITIZING HEALTH AND WELLNESS Compensation packages
Our first global Total Wellness Challenge in 2023 motivated employees Pay Training Other benefits
to monitor fitness progress by tracking physical activities and focusing – Competitive salary
– Training and education – Employee stock purchase program
on healthy living. Executives hosted a fireside chat to discuss personal – Retirement matching funds1
allowance – Commuter subsidy
experiences with mental health and the importance of supporting – Performance bonuses
employees in their own well-being journeys.
To better meet the needs of employees starting families, we offer paid leave of
20 weeks for both birth and non-birth parents, up from 16 weeks in years prior
for the birth parent and 12 weeks for the supporting parent. This policy applies Health and wellness benefits
to all parents welcoming a new child, whether through birth, adoption, or Health benefits Well-being Family forming
surrogacy. Our family planning policy likewise covers adoption, surrogacy, and
– Medical insurance – Wellness program – Fertility, adoption, and surrogacy3
IVF expenses, as well as a family-forming stipend for employees located in Asia-
– Dental insurance – Mental health coaching – Milk Stork
Pacific offices. Employees and their spouses or domestic partners are eligible
to receive up to $10,000. For employees in Ireland, the UK, and Germany, we – Vision insurance and counseling Life and disability
began offering fertility and adoption coverage through Carrot Fertility. Match – Concierge medical services – Meditation services
– Life and accident insurance
Group also provides meal gift cards to new parents and partners in the U.S. – Health Savings Account2
– Disability insurance
with Milk Stork to ship breast milk where it needs to go during business travel
or relocation, and in cases of adoption or surrogacy.
Employees can now download and explore Insight Timer—a meditation app
Personal time off and leave
designed to make meditation easy, convenient, and engaging, with thousands
of additional wellness courses and offline listening—provided at no cost. Vacation Leave Community service
U.S. employees enrolled in our self-insured medical plans now have lower – Paid vacation time – Parental leave4 – Dollar for Doers volunteer program5
coinsurance rates for out-of-network healthcare costs. We additionally – Local holidays – Compassionate leave – Paid community service time
enhanced our gender affirmation benefits to provide more comprehensive – Wellness days (including miscarriages) – Charitable matching program6
coverage. Beyond physical well-being, a financial concierge offering is now – Paid Military leave
available to any employee with questions regarding personal finances.
1 401k retirement plan support that is matched 10% up to $10,000. Authenticity at work
2 Employees who elect the high deductible plan will receive at least $500 per employee ($1,000 if more
than one person is covered) deposited into a Health Savings Account on behalf of Match Group. DEI Other benefits
3 Up to $10,000 per employee and their spouse/domestic partner to use towards fertility preservation
– Employee Resource Groups – Discount programs
treatment, adoption fees, surrogacy fees, and IVF treatments.
4 Fully paid parental leave of 20 weeks for both the birth and non-birth parent. – DEI training – Flex work
5 $10 per hour volunteered added to employee’s giving account, up to $1,000. – Company celebrations of heritage months – Come-as-you-are dress code
6 Up to $15,000 per employee. – Access to numerous external partners – Pet discounts and insurance
18
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
Empowering our people to reach their full potential
OUR APPROACH Our Employee Engagement and Development Objectives
Leveraging diverse experiences, skills, and perspectives, our employee development strategy prioritizes rich
connections between employees, managers, and teams to promote collaborative learning. We empower team
OBJECTIVE 1 | Expand and iterate strategic talent and skills
leaders with the flexibility to choose the most effective engagement methods to strengthen these connections.
development initiatives to empower employees to innovate and
Through regular touchpoints and feedback mechanisms, we generate critical insights and create leadership
deliver against business results
opportunities throughout our portfolio.
Our suite of development programs includes global mentorship initiatives, accessible to all. We also offer a
learning and development budget called Be Your Best Self, which provides eligible U.S. employees with stipends
to attend conferences, training seminars, professional certification workshops and courses, and other activities
OBJECTIVE 2 | Enhance and amplify career and performance
to support their continued growth. Our international brands provide comparable professional development
opportunities to optimize individual and team effectiveness
opportunities.
Our training and development programs are designed to meet employee needs at all stages of their careers,
ensuring scalability and the flexibility to accommodate diverse learning styles. We continually assess and refine
our strategies for developing and retaining top talent. OBJECTIVE 3 | Improve employee performance and
In 2023, we developed the following Employee Engagement and Development Objectives to streamline efforts engagement through strategic organizational development
across Match Group and ensure that we can reach employees and assist in their development at every stage of and effectiveness
their career. These objectives will guide our plans to expand program offerings in the future.
19
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
OBJECTIVE 1
Testimonials from participants
Expand and iterate strategic talent and skills development initiatives to empower employees to innovate and
deliver against business results
“The MGLE program offers an invaluable
toolkit and cultivates a collaborative learning
Match Group Leadership Essentials (MGLE) Bravely
atmosphere, promoting personal and team
Match Group Leadership Essentials expanded its program to 75 Executives traditionally use professional coaching as a tool to foster
growth for the overall betterment of the
participants in North America, up from 40 during its pilot in 2022. personal, professional, and managerial development. At Match Group,
organization.”
This eight-week training includes independent work, live group however, we believe in democratizing this invaluable resource by
—MGLE Graduate
sessions, and on-demand coaching. In the future we intend to extending its accessibility to all employees. We leverage platforms
expand program eligibility to any person serving in a management like Bravely, an on-demand one-on-one coaching service, to connect
role for up to five years. Current participants must be in management professional coaches with participating employees. These confidential
role for up to two years to be considered.. online coaching sessions typically last around 45 minutes.
“Regardless of whether you are joining as a
Post-program participant feedback and 180-degree manager In 2023, 300 employees across Match Group accessed Bravely,
mentee or mentor, having a growth mindset
effectiveness surveys indicate that 88% of surveyed MGLE graduates collectively participating in 852 coaching sessions. Reflecting the
is really important and allows you to see
would recommend the program to a colleague. The direct platform’s responsiveness to individual needs, employees using
new perspectives. I’m thankful to work for a
reports of graduates also saw improvements in their manager’s Bravely sought coaching on a range of topics, including:
company that promotes the building of new
leadership style. When comparing pre- (n=130) and post-program • Developing communication skills
connections and MentorMatch is a great
(n=139) manager effectiveness, the survey scores for leadership
communication and people development improved by six and nine • Giving effective feedback example of this.”
points, respectively. • Improving relationships with managers, colleagues, or direct reports —Former Mentor
MentorMatch • Preparing for a performance review
We continued to develop and grow our flagship MentorMatch • Managing a full workload
program in 2023. Established in 2021, MentorMatch connects • Dealing with stress from transitioning to new roles “I’m very happy with my coach, the
mentees with mentors from different brands, facilitating purposeful
conversations about career development and cultivating • Approaching difficult conversations onboarding and the time/days flexibility to
book sessions is amazing. Can’t wait to have
meaningful connections across the organization. • Activating diversity, equity, and inclusion
my second session (already booked).”
In 2023, the registration of 233 MentorMatch participants • Leadership and management guidance
—Bravely User
represented 9% of Match Group’s total headcount, which
is comparable to industry benchmarks, and exceeded our
expectations. The program has facilitated 101 sustained connections
between 202 participants across all brands.
20
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
Performance Reviews
We refined our performance review process by encouraging
OBJECTIVE 2 managers to engage with their direct reports for informal
Enhance and amplify career and performance opportunities to optimize individual and team effectiveness assessments and feedback conversations throughout the year,
in addition to their formal mid-year and year-end performance
and development reviews. Mid-year reviews are informal,
open conversations between managers and direct reports to
discuss what is effective and what needs improvement. These
Learning Management System deepening the impact of learning experiences, fostering more
are important touchpoints for employee development, laying
In 2022, we launched a digital, portfolio-wide learning intimate learning environments that encourage collaboration
the groundwork for more comprehensive year-end reviews.
management system. This platform enables us to extend flexible, across brands and personal growth.
Year-end reviews function as progress markers for established
on-demand learning opportunities to both our employees and to
Centralized Communications Objectives and Key Results (OKRs) and other performance
agents embedded within select third-party vendors.
Our employee intranet, Central, continues to serve as a key metrics outlined in the annual review process. These
communication tool for benefits offerings, employee initiatives, conversations include overall performance and development,
We created more than 140 on-demand and live and the latest news and announcements. True to its name, encompassing personal successes, lessons learned, and both
training courses for users. In the last year, over 600 Central is our resource hub and remains instrumental in business and development goals. Business goals correspond
learners participated in at least one of the 49 live keeping our employees well-informed and connected. directly to the employee’s role and daily responsibilities,
and development goals relate to personal and professional
training sessions on topics including mid-year and
Udemy aspirations for the upcoming year.
end-of-year reviews, member experience shadowing,
Match Group’s online employee learning platform, Udemy for
soft skills, and leadership development.
Succession Planning
Business, ensures our hybrid workforce maintains a strong virtual
connection to our organizational culture. This platform is available We focused on creating and implementing succession planning
Learning and Development to our full-time employees, providing personalized learning practices for organizational leaders. This strategic initiative
Launched in 2023, our Summer of Learning program paths and courses for core areas of vocational interest, as well as allowed us not only to identify employees with leadership
exemplifies our commitment to continuous employee personal interests such as gardening or playing the guitar. potential but also to build an internal promotion framework
and sustainable pipeline for future leadership. Through this
improvement. The global program empowered employees
process, we crafted tailored development opportunities
with soft skills training in areas including public speaking,
centered around the strengths and needs of prospective Match
development planning, and feedback skills, in addition
Throughout 2023, 936 Match Group employees Group leaders.
to DEI awareness around themes like sponsorship and
engaged with Udemy with 68% investing their time
microaggressions. We’re evolving the Summer of Learning Our approach to performance reviews and succession planning
learning technology skills and 28% focusing on
program to create more targeted, collaborative opportunities remains people-centric and tech-enabled. We digitized
business skills. Notable program offerings include
for skill development through cohort-based learning. This succession planning and goal setting by making modules
The Complete SQL Bootcamp, ChatGPT Complete
reflects our ongoing commitment to adapting and refining available on our talent management information system. We
Guide, and Principles of Secure Coding.
our learning initiatives to meet the changing needs and also provided resources, job aids, and trainings to share best
preferences of our employee population. This shift will focus on practices and clarify expectations, ensuring a transparent and
effective process for all involved.
21
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
OBJECTIVE 3
Improve employee performance and engagement through strategic organizational development and effectiveness
Engaging Employees Centralized Learning and Development Catalog It will also serve as a valuable resource for future development
At Match Group, we employ a number of engagement methods We are establishing a comprehensive learning and and employment opportunities within Match Group’s global
to capture and respond to employee feedback. Our annual development catalog to promote career development at all portfolio of brands.
company-wide engagement surveys have been a cornerstone for experience levels. This catalog will provide employees with a For a harmonized yet flexible approach to increased
elevating valuable perspectives and insights. At the brand level, clear and efficient way to explore diverse learning opportunities organizational effectiveness, we intend to expand our
we use pulse surveys to evaluate employee sentiment regarding aligned with team, business, and career development goals consultative strategic partner role in change management. This
operational changes and the overarching brand culture. identified in their mid-year and year-end performance reviews. involves supporting leadership in navigating the complexities of
To optimize our feedback strategy in 2023, Match Group Employees can navigate the interactive catalog to assess change and developing resources that support resilience across
streamlined the number of survey questions to mitigate fatigue available offerings at a global level. They can then express their our global workforce. Through these initiatives and brand
and to focus on the questions that have historically had the interest to enroll in the programs that best suit their aspirations, leadership collaborations, we aim to elevate a culture where
largest impact on engagement year-over-year. This ensures driving their career development forward. adaptability becomes an inherent skill, driving continuous
that survey efforts are directly aligned with initiatives aimed at OUR FUTURE PRIORITIES improvement and innovation across all brands.
improving employee engagement practices. Notably, survey
In 2024, we plan to implement transformative strategies to drive
participation rates have improved since our 2020 baseline. Our
excellence and reinforce our approach to nurture individual
2023 engagement score was 62% with an 83% participation rate
talent and organizational effectiveness.
compared to a 64% engagement score and 82% participation
In reimagining our performance management systems and
rate in 2022.
processes, we are creating a culture of continuous feedback
The consistent levels of participation indicate that employees
and goal setting for employees. A key priority in our strategic
have confidence in the feedback process and take the
vision is talent optimization, which we are addressing with a
surveys seriously. We attribute this trust to the evolution of
platform where employees create a career profile and express
our organizational development practices and increased
their career interests, identify skills gaps, and define areas of
communication frequency from leadership. For example, our
desired learning within the company. We believe this initiative
ExecConnect program is an initiative inspired by survey feedback
will enhance internal collaboration, fostering connections
that invites employees to engage directly with leadership during
across brands, and paving the way for cross-functional projects.
their rotating fireside chats and open Q&A sessions.
22
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
COMMUNITY
Creating social impact
through meaningful
connection
Match Group’s global reach empowers us to take action,
make a positive impact, and to stand up for the betterment
of our communities.
CONTENTS
Community investment
Community engagement initiatives
Human rights
Changing perceptions
23
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
OUR APPROACH Global Giving Day
Supporting people and investing in initiatives that make In November, Match Group held its second annual
a positive impact is embedded in our company culture. Global Giving Day. Spanning the company’s global
Our employees are motivated to be good citizens, offices, hundreds of employees committed over 1,000
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT applying their knowledge, skills, and passions to improve collective hours to a variety of charitable causes, resulting
their communities. in more than $150,000 in direct and matching gifts to our
local communities.
Connecting Match Group facilitates and empowers employees
to participate in direct action that sparks individual Teams hosted more than 15 unique volunteer
interests and advances our mission to achieve an opportunities spanning nine different locations globally
with and inclusive and equitable global economy. We provide and reaching more than 700 employees.
employees with paid time off to volunteer with local
This year we provided a Global Giving donation credit to
nonprofits and charitable causes and donate $10
active users on the Benevity platform across the company
supporting per hour—up to $1,000—for every hour of employee
with the goal of increasing our employee’s philanthropic
volunteerism, including both corporate and individual
engagement. Employees from 13 brands globally
efforts, through our Dollar for Doers program. We also
people around redeemed and donated their reward to 200 unique
match employees’ charitable donations on a dollar-for-
nonprofit organizations.
dollar basis, up to $15,000 per person. We engage in a
range of philanthropic activities, community activism
the world.
and engagement initiatives, and matching programs to
amplify our collective impact.
The efforts across our Employee Resource Groups,
Trust and Safety, Human Resources, and Social Impact
teams have benefited hundreds of partnerships and
causes. Match Group employees and leadership endorse
nonprofit and service-based organizations committed
to addressing causes that include LGBTQ+ safety and
equality, human rights, reproductive rights, internet safety,
domestic violence, social isolation, and environmental
justice. Combined donations from our employees and
Match Group’s dollar matching supported more than 400
beneficiaries, including the Human Rights Campaign, NO
MORE, Polaris, and the Maui Food Bank and World Central
Kitchen. In total, Match Group donated $2.8 million to
charitable causes in 2023.
24
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVES Supporting Powerful Women and the SDGs accelerate positive change in their home communities. Now
Match Group is proud to promote community engagement in Match Group is proud to participate as a mentor company in its 18th year, the program includes 366 alumnae from 58
support of social causes that matter. We do this company-wide for the Fortune-U.S. Department of State Global Women’s countries and territories.
and through individual brands. Our partnerships with nonprofit Mentoring Partnership for the third consecutive year, The mentorship program aligns with Match Group’s mission
groups and grassroots organizers, along with collaborations supporting our commitment to the United Nations’ to empower women and underrepresented communities by
within our brands allow us to leverage our unique capabilities Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This public-private promoting equitable access to education and professional
and expertise to address global social challenges. Key focus partnership between Fortune’s Most Powerful Women, the advancement. Match Group also continues to find ways to
areas for 2023 included preventing social isolation, promoting U.S. Department of State, and Vital Voices Global Partnership support mentees from previous years:
human rights, and supporting healthy conversations about aims to create economic opportunity and equity for women
• Winnie Petit-Paul, our 2023 mentee, is the Co-founder
masculinity and sexuality. worldwide. The program selects emerging women business
of HaitiBrand, a branding and creative agency in Haiti
leaders from across the globe and pairs them with Fortune’s
Global Giving Series specializing in brand identity construction, website
Most Powerful Women and their teams.
As an extension of Global Giving Day, we spotlighted the work production, and online promotion. After such a positive
of our current safety and social impact partners year-round Each mentee spends 10 days at their mentor company for a mentorship experience, with support from Match Group,
while also providing ongoing opportunities for employees customized mentorship designed to address their professional Winnie was inspired to create her own mentorship program
to get involved and make a positive impact in communities challenges and interests. Mentees meet with a community of in Haiti to make these opportunities available to talented
through service or charitable contributions. mentors to enhance their business and leadership skills and women in the country, in collaboration with the private sector.
We facilitated 12 Global Giving Sessions between our global
employee base and our nonprofit and NGO partners, for a
total of over 225 hours of engagement. These virtual sessions
provided opportunities for our employees to learn more
from our partners, promote future service opportunities, and
encourage year-round charitable contributions. Match Group
provided double-match donation opportunities for over 200
featured organizations like the Cybercrime Support Network,
the National Center for Victims of Crimes, the American
Foundation for Suicide Prevention and the Dallas Holocaust
and Human Rights Museum.
Global Giving Spotlight
In the lead-up to Global Giving Day, Match Group launched the
first ever Global Giving Spotlight Series to inspire volunteering
and giving, and make it more relatable, increase morale,
and generate awareness of our employees’ philanthropic
engagement.
25
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
A Powerful Woman: Cheeky Chat Panel with the Transgender District
For Women’s History Month, we hosted a Cheeky Chat panel with the Transgender District at
Tinder’s LA office. This conversation featured a panel of Black transgender women who shared best
practices on inclusive workplace policies and how others can show up for the LGBTQ+ community
in both a social and professional environment. The panel also discussed perspectives on women’s
empowerment and equity related to business, culture, dating, and social justice issues.
Mental Health and Social Isolation
Hinge introduced One More Hour, a new social impact initiative mobilizing Gen Z to increase
in-person connection. The program launched with a $1 million fund dedicated to tackling the
loneliness epidemic by providing grants to social groups and organizations helping Gen Z find
opportunities for in-person belonging and community. Hinge is collaborating with DoSomething
Strategic and the Foundation for Social Connection to develop benchmarks for the program and
identify qualifying organizations. One More Hour works with a group of Gen Z judges to select the
final recipients of the grants.
This year, Hinge joined the Coalition to End Social Isolation & Loneliness, collaborating with other
brands and organizations to advocate for policies and initiatives to reduce loneliness. Hinge also
supports Crisis Text Line in expanding its resources on loneliness so that young adults can more
easily access support. Additionally, the brand recently collaborated with the Foundation for Social
Connection to create a Distraction-Free Dating Guide with expert-backed advice and worked
closely with the U.S. Surgeon General to provide tips for combatting loneliness and adopting
dating safety habits during COVID-19.
26
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
HUMAN RIGHTS CHANGING PERCEPTIONS
We believe in the inherent dignity and individual rights of every
Partnership with A Call to Men
human being. A commitment to respecting human rights is a
Match Group partnered with A Call to Men—an organization
priority for Match Group. As a global leader in internet safety,
devoted to transforming society by promoting healthy,
we endeavor to ensure our stakeholders - users, employees,
respectful male behavior—to offer training and educational
and business partners - uphold this commitment to protect
resources for companies, government agencies, schools, and
individuals and safeguard communities.
community groups. Activations across brands provided users
Our Commitment to Human Rights with tools and opportunities to understand the complex
landscape of expressions of masculinity.
Match Group is committed to respecting and protecting the
human rights of our users, employees, contingent workers, and
Gallery of Dick Pics Campaign
people impacted by our business operations. We acknowledge
To further solidify its position as a friendlier way to date online,
and uphold human rights through compliance with laws and
Plenty of Fish launched a campaign to turn the industry’s
regulations wherever we have business operations and through
ugliest behavior on its head (sending unsolicited photos) and
our policies, practices, and programs. We do not tolerate human
introduced the “Gallery of Dick Pics”, full of pictures of nice guys
rights abuses within our portfolio of brands or in our business
named Richard. The campaign also featured a “No Dick Pics”
relationships. Our human rights commitment is guided by the
badge in the app, enabling users to explicitly express disinterest
United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human
in receiving (and sending) unsolicited photos.
Rights (UNGPs).
BLK Retreat
BLK hosted a wellness retreat designed exclusively for Black
men. The “Brotherhood Reimagined” welcomed a unique
collection of journalists, influencers, and like-minded individuals
for a “glamping” experience like no other. Black men from
across the country gathered in Los Angeles before embarking
on a transformative journey featuring workshops on emotional
vulnerability, identity intersections, imposter syndrome,
masculinity, and spirituality. Participants conversed, laughed,
networked, and explored topics related to key societal issues
impacting black men.
27
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
LGBTQ+ Advocacy
Match Group maintains a longstanding partnership with the Human Rights
Campaign (HRC), America’s largest civil rights organization working to achieve
equality for LGBTQ+ communities.
Match Group was a Diamond and After Party Sponsor for the 25th Annual
HRC National Dinner. The dinner, hosted in Washington, DC, brought together
President Biden and Dr. Jill Biden and several senior political leaders, LGBTQ+
activists and organizers, Match Group employees and MGAC members, along
with leaders from across corporate America to celebrate the achievements of
the HRC and its partners. Hinge, Tinder, and Archer provided further support at
events throughout the country. Money raised from the National Dinner enables
HRC to continue its LGBTQ+ welfare support across the country.
For the past decade, Tinder has been a safe space for the LGBTQ+ community
to come out, allowing users to explore their preferences and meet new people
online before making connections IRL. A recent study conducted on Tinder’s
latest Future of Dating Report found that over half of young LGBTQ+ singles
said they were out on a dating app before they came out to friends and
family.
In honor of National Coming Out Day on October 11th, Tinder partnered with
the HRC to offer users essential coming-out resources, celebrate coming out
journeys, and rally against hate. During the week of National Coming Out
Day, Tinder provided direct, in-app access to HRC’s Coming Out Center, which
contains resources and guides for coming out and living openly at home, work,
and in their communities. Both LGBTQ+ users and allies can learn more about
HRC’s “Come Out Against Hate” campaign and pledge their support to counter
anti-LGBTQ+ sentiment, so that everyone, everywhere can feel safe.
LGBTQ+ users are the fastest growing population on Tinder, with users
from that community aged 18–25 more than doubling in the last two years.
Support for this flourishing community has driven previous initiatives like the
introduction of “My First Pride” profile stickers, helping users connect and
find community ahead of their first pride experience, as well as a previous
collaboration with HRC calling for an end to the U.S. Federal blood donation
ban imposed on gay men.
28
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
ENVIRONMENT
Match Group is
committed to doing
our part to improve the
natural world by reducing
our negative impact on
the planet.
CONTENTS
Environmental impact
Match Group Los Angeles Office
29
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
Growing a sustainable business
OUR APPROACH employee insights to refine our strategy. The ongoing Michigan was chosen because it currently has one of the
We are harnessing the scale of our portfolio brands’ platforms to collaboration unifies sustainability efforts across brands and dirtiest grids in the U.S., with about 1% solar, meaning these
promote a more sustainable world. While our primary business empowers employees to make meaningful contributions to projects will effectively displace fossil fuel-generated electricity.
is digital, we recognize that both our direct operations and reduce our enterprise-wide environmental footprint. This project will also help build the local clean energy market,
value chain still can have negative effects on the environment as it will create opportunities for job upskilling, local supply
Match Group is proud to be committed to the SBTi. These
and are taking tangible action. The overall strategy for Match chain development, and investor interest. Every solar project
comprehensive goals will guide Match Group’s strategic
Group’s sustainability program includes: constructed makes the next one easier – that is what makes
investments, enabling us to track our impacts on the planet
• Measure: Audit-grade footprint to correctly prioritize our efforts against ambitious reduction targets. Aligning emission this project even more impactful.
• Report: Provide annual disclosures to promote transparency reductions with the SBTi Net-Zero Standards, we have focused Output from the project that Match Group supported will cover
our future emissions reduction strategy on decarbonizing our future North American electricity footprint. Cumulatively,
• Commit: Set SBTi aligned goals our real estate, investing in renewable energy (VPPA), and Match Group’s 5 year commitment will avoid >35,000 tCO2e,
• Reduce: Reduce carbon at facilities, via VPPA and supplier promoting sustainability in our supply chain. equivalent to >87 million car miles driven.
engagement Our VPPA will help replace the use of fossil fuels in Michigan
Carbon Reduction Journey
• Enable: Engage employees and local partners to actively Match Group submitted its Near-Term and Net-Zero Targets and facilitate the production of 15,000 MWh of renewable
participate in sustainability initiative to the SBTi. It was the culmination of months of analysis and power annually.
Sustainability is embedded in our culture. Starting with the conversations with diverse stakeholder groups to learn from We are collecting energy and climate data from our offices
Board of Directors and executive team actively incorporating each other, build support, and develop detailed plans to to inform energy efficiency upgrades. The two buildings
environmentally responsible practices into our operations, reach ambitious targets. The team is continuously working to Match Group owns are powered entirely through renewable
Match Group employees at all levels, including our first incorporate these targets into the portfolio’s operational strategy. energy provided by our local utility. In existing office spaces,
Environmental Defense Fund Climate Corps fellow, have To support the expansion of renewable energy sources, Match we are incorporating new energy-saving technologies such as
shaped the direction of our organization in this regard. In 2024, Group signed a Virtual Power Purchase Agreement (VPPA) with automation sensors that detect employee presence to optimize
we plan to bring on another Environmental Defense Fund a coalition of other companies to purchase clean energy from a energy usage.
fellow to continue training future climate leaders. new solar project in Michigan. This type of purchase agreement
Match Group’s Environmental Sustainability Council plays a has high environmental impact because it directly helps create
pivotal role in driving our progress. With over 100 members new renewable energy capacity on the grid.
across the globe, the Council meets monthly and leverages
30
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
Match Group’s Dallas headquarters and several other UNGC Innovation Accelerator In France, Meetic is driving the culture of sustainability and has
facilities across our operations are various levels of LEED Three of our team members participated in the United Nations established itself as a leader in the space. Within Match Group,
and Green Mark certified to ensure we maintain the highest Global Compact (UNGC) Innovation Accelerator program on the brand is sharing best practices, an employee Environmental
sustainability standards. In June, Plenty of Fish opened their sustainability. In partnership with the Thunderbird School of Code of Conduct, and onboarding
flagship LEED platinum certified office space in Vancouver. Business at Arizona State University, this nine-month program resources to influence and inspire
These certifications prioritize sustainability by reducing invites employees to identify challenges within their companies our entire portfolio. Consistently ®
the use of energy, water, and material resources, as well as and devise solutions with guidance from university professors striving to innovate sustainably,
improving indoor environmental quality and minimizing and faculty. Meetic’s ISO 14001 certification, which ISO 14001 Certified
external emissions. Leased spaces that do not align with the requires an annual renewal, ensures
decarbonization plans are being retired, while newly leased One Tree Planted the environmental impacts of its
spaces must adhere to high-quality climate standards before Our support with One Tree Planted continued with a operations are considered across all aspects of its business.
being incorporated into the Match Group portfolio. reforestation initiative in Ghana. In honor of our summer intern Meetic continues to honor its 2019 pledge to reduce its GHG
class, Match Group sponsored the event, created by Emi-Beth emissions, which have been reduced each year, in-line with the
Quantson (CEO and Founder of Kawa Moka Limited coffee pace envisioned by the Paris Climate Agreement.
CERTIFIED OFFICES
company and a 2022 Match Group mentee) from the Fortune-
Meetic also launched a sustainable marketing initiative to conduct
U.S. State Department Global Women’s Mentoring Program, to
an environmental audit of their recent advertising campaign’s
raise awareness about the importance of planting native trees
operations and footprint. The brand’s green design guidelines for
and crops for both economic and environmental sustainability.
media are aimed at creating a virtuous circle with our partners
Participants planted coffee, ofram, plantain, and ginger trees
and reduce the carbon impact of media investments. Meetic
Dallas, TX Paris, France San Francisco, CA Vancouver, CA to combat deforestation, soil erosion, and climate change in
also developed a green dating guide, to encourage climate-
Headquarters Meetic Hub Tinder Hub Plenty of Ghana’s Volta region.
Fish Hub responsible dating behavior in all communications.
Meetic publicly pledged to reduce its climate impacts with the
‘Contrat Climat,’ becoming the seventh key member of a coalition
These of technology companies. The Contrat Climat is a voluntary
programs commitment made to reduce the impact of a company’s
support
environmental and climate-related activities across the business.
UN SDGs
OUR FUTURE PRIORITIES
Investing Locally As we consider our priorities in 2024 and beyond, we
Match Group joined the Hudson River Park Business Council recognize how the implementation of our Near-Term Net-Zero
Global Perspectives
to support park and waterway conservation near our New York Sustainability Plan sets the foundation for sustainable growth.
Match Group’s diverse portfolio enhances how we solve
office and fund a STEM Student Leadership Program, offering This begins by clearly communicating our footprint, along with
sustainability challenges. Individual brands bring their own
high school girls from underrepresented communities a paid, our reduction goals throughout the organization.
passion and perspective to testing innovative ideas, which we
six-week internship. We look forward to continuing to support
can then apply across our portfolio. We look forward to executing these plans to ensure a lasting
the park.
impact for our stakeholders and communities for years to come.
31
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
GOVERNANCE
Building trust through
integrity and disclosure
At Match Group, we are committed to good governance
practices that build trust with our stakeholders and users,
and to keeping their data secure and protecting their privacy,
as we continue to help them make meaningful connections.
CONTENTS
Corporate governance
Data security and privacy
Machine learning and AI
32
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Cultivating a culture
of reliability
OUR APPROACH
Match Group aims to lead the tech sector with ethical decision making, a
culture of integrity, and sound corporate governance. Sound governance
requires clearly defined owners of our strategy to provide accountability and
allocate responsibilities among stakeholders. At Match Group, our executive
team owns the execution of our strategy, and our Board of Directors provides
corporate oversight across our operations. These groups shape the structure,
processes, and policies that drive continuous improvement. Accountability,
transparency, and experience are key drivers of our success.
The Match Group Code of Business Conduct and Ethics reflects our ethical
values as a company and provides guidelines for our conduct when interacting
with users, competitors, government officials, and each other. The code
applies to all directors, officers, and employees across our brands. Match Group
employees train on these topics during onboarding and annually thereafter
and regularly confirm their compliance.
Our governance practices are designed to satisfy all applicable local and
national regulatory and Nasdaq stock exchange requirements.
33
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
OUR DIRECTORS
The Match Group Board of
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
Directors recognizes that directors’
diverse backgrounds, experiences, Our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is responsible
skills, geographic locations, races, for overseeing the implementation of governance best practices. This
and genders can bring valuable 50% 33% includes overseeing environmental, social, and governance matters.
perspectives to Board discussions The Committee also periodically reviews Board and Committee
and decisions. composition to ensure our Board has the necessary skills and diversity
for effective oversight of our business.
The Board satisfies independence Female Board Non-white Board
requirements, maintaining ten members members The Committee’s charter includes the responsibility to oversee
independent directors, out of evaluations of the Board and its Committees. Though we are not
a total of twelve. Independent required to conduct these evaluations as a Nasdaq-listed company, we
directors also comprise 100% of our view this as a best practice. The Committee conducted its first annual
Audit, Nominating and Corporate evaluation in 2022 and expect to continue to conduct them annually
Governance, and Compensation moving forward.
and Human Resources
10 12 In support of the Committee’s charter and Match Group’s
Committees. At least twice a year,
commitment to good governance, we’ve developed and implemented
our independent directors meet out of
corporate governance guidelines. These guidelines formalize key
in scheduled executive sessions
Independent good governance principles and practices, such as maintaining
without management or non-
members of an independent Chair of the Board. The guidelines, as well as our
independent directors present.
Committee charters, are available on our Investor Relations website..
the Board
34
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
PUBLIC ADVOCACY
In the U.S. and around the world, Match Group works closely with legislators
and regulators in support of policy and legislation that ensures all users are safe
and protected. We supported efforts to pass the Digital Services Act package in
the EU which aims to create a safer digital space where the fundamental rights
of users are protected. We also advocated for enhanced online dating safety
laws in Utah to ensure users and members of the community are made aware
of potential safety threats.
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
Match Group does not make any federal political contributions in the U.S.
In 2023, we published our Political Contributions and Expenditures Policy
defining Match Group’s expectations and governance around participation in
the political process.
TAXATION
Tax contributions are a crucial component of local community investment by
public bodies. As a global business, Match Group seeks to make appropriate tax
contributions and meet applicable local and national tax requirements.
ETHICS AND WHISTLEBLOWING
Our employees share a common responsibility to uphold the highest standards
of conduct. We require all employees to certify their compliance with our
core policies annually, including the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, tool enabling all global employees to confidentially report any violation of our stated Code of Business Conduct and
Harassment Policy, Securities Trading Policy, and whistleblower procedures. Ethics, our Harassment Policy, and other work-related concerns. For matters related to audits and other financial issues,
Employees can access our full Policies and Procedures Manual through our employees can submit reports by phone through a dedicated hotline or online through Central. The Match Group Legal
intranet site. All U.S. employees must also complete annual harassment Department reviews and manages all reports.
prevention training.
ANTI-BRIBERY
REPORTING HOTLINE Match Group expects all employees to maintain strict compliance with our Anti-Bribery Policy. The policy, which
If employees have any concerns about issues such as fraud or is included in our Employee Manual, prohibits bribery and any other improper payments, and provides definitions
misrepresentation, they can report them confidentially through our 24/7 of prohibited acts and practices, including bribery, facilitation of payments, and false book and recordkeeping. All
hotline and web-based reporting service. Our non-retaliation policy is included employees aware of violations of the policy are encouraged to report them to the Match Group Legal Department. In
in our Employee Manual and assures employees that retaliation for good faith 2023, we conducted anti-bribery specific training for our Business Affairs and Legal Teams and participated in Match
reporting is strictly prohibited and will not be tolerated. Our independent Group’s annual risk assessment process, with a focus on anti-money laundering. In 2024, we plan to roll out company-
reporting hotline is managed by EthicsPoint, a comprehensive reporting wide anti-bribery training.
35
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING AND ANTI-CORRUPTION
As a global business, we recognize the need to expand our ethics program to include an Anti-
Money Laundering and Anti-Corruption program. In 2023, we developed and finalized the
company’s anti-money laundering policy. We also continued expanding our ethics program to
include formalized processes and work around anti-money laundering and anti-corruption.
BUSINESS CONTINUITY AND PHYSICAL SECURITY
Maintaining strength against rapidly evolving and global threats requires a highly adaptable
team and a clearly defined set of goals. To ensure our business can continue to operate robustly
in a threat scenario, we unified our security systems for consistency across all of our brands,
integrating our data security and physical security program into our disaster recovery and
emergency action plans.
We also have standards and baselines for Emergency Response Plans for our offices and
collaborate with our global offices. This includes notification systems that can alert our employees
worldwide in order to make sure our people are safe. We also actively monitor and respond to any
security risks or threats to our brands, employees, executives, and physical office locations.
With the new hybrid work environment across Match Group, we conduct training and drills so
that our employees are actively prepared and ready to respond to any emergencies on-site or at
home. Globally we comply with local regulations for emergency response training, emergency
drills, and supplement with yearly safety training broadcasts to the full company. In mid-2023,
we hosted a worldwide all-hands on Personal Safety Training that covered office safety, personal
safety, and emergency evacuation. In addition, in the U.S., we recently completed our yearly
requirements with drills and training.
We also use data centers and cloud services providers with distributed sites across the world
to ensure consistent services for users across our brands. This geographic redundancy creates
resilience against outages and helps maintain business continuity.
36
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
DATA PRIVACY AND SECURITY
Building best-in-class data protections
OUR APPROACH DATA SECURITY In November 2020, after extensive
Making connections is a deeply Data security is a significant risk to internal and external audits,
®1
personal experience. Because all technology companies, including Tinder became the first dating ISO 27001 Certified
our users entrust us with their Match Group. We take a company- app to achieve ISO/IEC 27001:2013
information, the security of our apps wide approach to mitigating risk at certification for its Information
and the privacy of their data is a top all levels, starting with Board-level Security Management System (ISMS),
priority. Match Group is committed to oversight and dedicated security followed by ISO/IEC 27017:2015 in 2021 Match and Match Affinity Premium security policies, standards, and
ensuring that we maintain a robust, teams. We require all Match Group for cloud security controls. In 2023, (OurTime and BlackPeopleMeet) training programs while our Red Team
transparent, and accountable data employees to complete security Tinder continued to maintain its ISO/ also maintained the ISO/IEC engages in proactive penetration
security and privacy program with awareness training during onboarding IEC 27701:2019 certification for its 27001 certification. These annual testing of our services and vendors
high company-wide standards. We’re and throughout the year. Privacy Information Management certifications by third party ISO across our brands.
striving to be best-in-class in these System, another first in the industry. auditors utilize a trusted framework
Incident detection and response
critical areas, and we’re continuously and demonstrate our proactive
practices are standardized across
seeking to improve. approach to protecting data. We are
all brands and are fed into event
Data security and privacy efforts expanding our security compliance management tools, as we continually
across Match Group’s portfolio are efforts to other Match Group brands explore new ways to bolster how we
reported quarterly to the Audit as well. protect against, detect, alert, and
Committee. The full Board of We continually work to standardize respond to unauthorized data access.
Directors is also briefed periodically data security practices and processes
throughout the year. We’ve across our brands. Our robust,
significantly streamlined our data portfolio-wide security strategy
security and data privacy reporting employs multiple layers across
across the organization for clarity brand security and enterprise
and transparency at all levels of the security domains to safeguard data
company and across brands. effectively. The Match Group security
organization consists of 14 specialized
teams. Among them, our Security
Governance, Risk, and Compliance
1 Tinder also achieved ISO 27017 and ISO 27701. team develops and reviews our
37
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
DATA PRIVACY We take a proactive approach Regular updates ensure our user OUR FUTURE PRIORITIES
Our brands implement strong data to data privacy, looking at best privacy notices accurately reflect In 2024, we plan to continue
privacy standards globally. We collect practices for data governance, our data processing practices. Most creating stronger synergies
only necessary and proportionate rather than only focusing on current Match Group brands update their between our Privacy and Security
data, are transparent in the way we legal requirements. This reinforces user privacy notices annually and teams. The expansion of shared
process it, obtain strong security and our commitment to setting and notify their respective users. Brand data protection initiatives will
confidentiality commitments from implementing the highest standards. privacy policies are also reviewed for foster unity across our operations
our vendors, maintain channels for relevant updates annually. and help Match Group lead the
We aim to strike the right balance of
our users to contact us regarding way toward better data discovery
future-proofing our privacy policies
privacy inquiries and requests, and and classification for ultimately
and practices while making sure
delete data when it is no longer improved data governance.
they remain grounded in today’s
necessary. All Match Group suppliers
requirements and challenges. We are also dedicating resources
and vendors are subject to strict
Whenever one of our brands develops to a new AI/ML security group
contractual obligations around data
a new feature or service, the privacy focused on enhancing our ability
privacy and security practices. We
team works hand-in-hand with all to protect our members’ data.
also provide data privacy training
relevant stakeholders to embed the This internal team will not only
at onboarding and throughout
necessary privacy principles, from review the security of our AI-
employment at Match Group.
design and development to rollout. powered tools but also integrate
We maintain data privacy as a AI breakthroughs to meet Match
Aligned with our focus on Privacy By
separate function to ensure our data Group objectives.
Design, these initiatives help ensure
processing aligns with applicable
that privacy is enabled and reinforced
laws. Our central privacy team acts as
from the outset as our brands
a joint center of excellence to support
innovate.
our brands.
38
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
MACHINE LEARNING AND AI
Leading with responsible, ethical innovation
Match Group remains committed to leveraging new and emergent technologies to provide safe spaces where every single
person can connect and belong. We believe machine learning and generative AI-powered features enable our platforms to
make more accurate and personalized matches and, in turn, empower our users to build more meaningful connections.
ENHANCED EXPERIENCES,
SAFE SPACES
The data privacy and security programs
that govern the way Match Group
processes personal data are critical
to developing generative AI-powered
tools that enhance the way our users
experience our platforms.
Across our brands, Match Group Privacy
and Security teams provide vital support
in the design and rollout of AI-powered
tools and features that make our users’
experience seamless, engaging, and
safer. These teams also explore powerful
new AI-tools that help improve our data
posture and governance.
39
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
OUR APPROACH
As pioneers of the digital dating category and leaders in the modern, mobile landscape, we believe it is our responsibility to lead the way with integrity and reliability.
Across our platforms, our approach to generative AI—and to all new and emergent technologies—is thoughtful and our commitment to ethical and responsible innovation is steadfast, guided by our
corporate values and seven foundational generative AI principles.
OUR RESPONSIBLE GENERATIVE AI PRINCIPLES
AUTHENTICITY EQUITY EXPLAINABILITY ACCOUNTABILITY SAFETY PRIVACY INTEGRITY
Developing features Generative AI Intent and outcomes Continually improving Safer connections Protecting the privacy, Advocating for better
that enhance technologies should are easy to understand. based on feedback means better security, and personal experiences and
individual expression not perpetuate Dating is predicated and assessment of connections. In data of our users. outcomes. Fostering
and the authenticity of harmful biases or on trust. As we bring impacts. We’re just tandem with Data that we collect – meaningful and
human connections. unfair practices. As new technology to the at the start of our incorporating including from our AI engaging digital and
Our AI work is rooted we continue to dive dating experience, we generative AI journey. generative AI technologies – is only real-world connections
in helping users deeper into generative will seek to educate We’re committed to technology into our used to provide the is the foundation
profile, discovery,
better showcase AI, we are being our members on tests, exploration, and best services possible of our company.
and post-matching
their personality and thoughtful on how we its applications and development work for our users and Our investments
experiences, we’re
put their best foot can layer in protections highlight the features alongside industry communities. We do and innovation in
committed to
forward in presenting throughout our apps’ that utilize these partners, third-party not sell user data to generative AI are
leveraging the latest
themselves to development lifecycles, technologies. experts, and our third parties, and we focused on furthering
advancements in
potential matches. such as regular audits communities, both will be transparent that mission and
our safety tools
We want to increase and algorithmic before sensitive new about how we use data improving the lives of
and features, while
user confidence in the adjustments. features or tools to improve generative our users around the
developing policies
connections that they are deployed and AI outcomes. world.
and investing in
make online and help throughout their use.
development that will
them meet in real life.
help protect our users
from AI-enabled risks
and bad actors.
40
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
READ MORE & DATA TABLES
About this report
MORE INFORMATION
GOVERNANCE
REPORTING APPROACH
This Impact Report includes all of Match Group, Inc.’s wholly- and Code of Conduct
majority-owned subsidiaries where direct operational control TRUST & SAFETY Annual Report
was exercised as of December 31, 2023. Where we have minority
Trust and Safety Center Proxy Statement
investments, the performance of those businesses is not included
Safety Framework Modern Slavery Statement
in this report.
Advisory Council UK Tax Policy Statement
Except as otherwise noted, all performance data included in this
report is based on the 2023 calendar year. Where appropriate for a Guidelines and Committee Charters
fuller understanding, we’ve supplemented our performance with Political Spend Disclosures
key performance and business elements through March 2024.
Human Rights Policy Statement
All performance data is measured, collected, and reported
internally, subject to our usual control and compliance procedures.
Our goal is to be accurate, complete, and comprehensive. Our non-
financial performance data is not externally audited or reviewed.
PRIVACY
Privacy Principles
PEOPLE
Career Center
41
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
AWARDS
Recognition for our efforts
We are proud to have received a number of awards for
efforts at Match Group and across our brands.
2024 Built In’s Best Places BC’s Best Places to Work, 2023 Comparably’s 2023 Comparably’s
and Midsize Places to Work Plenty of Fish Best CEO for Diversity, Best Company for
in the U.S., Los Angeles and Tinder Career Growth, Tinder
San Francisco, Tinder
2023 Comparably’s 2023 Comparably’s 2023 Comparably’s 2023 Comparably’s Best
Best Company for Best Company for Best Company for Company for Work-Life
Compensation, Tinder Happiness, Tinder Perks & Benefits, Tinder Balance, Tinder
42
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
PERFORMANCE TABLE
Our performance METRIC 2023 2022 2021
Total Revenue1 $3.4 billion $3.2 billion $3.0 billion
FINANCIAL
We measure our progress using these $1.3 billion $1.1 billion $1.1 billion
Adjusted Operating Income1
key performance indicators.
Payers1,2 15.6 million 16.3 million 15.5 million
SAFETY Investment in Trust and Safety $125 million+ $125 million+ $125 million+
Employee engagement (favorability) 62% 64% 70%
PEOPLE
Gender diversity in workforce 41% female 41% female 41% female
Gender diversity in leadership 39% female 39% female 43% female
Gender diversity in tech teams 27% female 26% female 25% female
1 Metrics for the year-ended December 31, 2023. Adjusted Operating Income is a non-GAAP
financial measure which is in addition to Operating Income, which is a financial measure Ethnic diversity in workforce (U.S.) 54% non-white 44% non-white 42% non-white
presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Adjusted Operating Income is not a substitute for,
or superior to, Operating Income. For a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measure for each
period presented, see page 51.
Ethnic diversity in leadership (U.S.) 42% non-white 29% non-white 29% non-white
2 “Payers’’ are unique users at a brand level in a given month from whom we earned Direct
Revenue. Direct Revenue is revenue that is received directly from end users of our services
and includes both subscription and à la carte revenue. When presented as a quarter-to-
date or year-to date value, Payers represents the average of the monthly values for the Ethnic diversity in tech teams (U.S.) 60% non-white 48% non-white 47% non-white
respective period presented. At a consolidated level, duplicate Payers may exist when
we earn revenue from the same individual at multiple brands in a given month, as we
are unable to identify unique individuals across brands in the Match Group portfolio. Our Gender diversity of the Board 50% female 50% female 45% female
global portfolio of brands includes Tinder®, Hinge®, Match®, Meetic®, OkCupid®, Pairs™,
PlentyOfFish®, Azar®, BLK®, and more, each built to increase our users’ likelihood of GOVERNANCE
connecting with others.
Independent members of the Board 10 out of 12 7 out of 10 8 out of 11
3 In 2022, Match Group contracted Watershed to measure grid electricity. In 2023,
Watershed’s methodology for calculating grid electricity use was updated to include
clean electricity use. Percentage grid electricity is calculated as total electricity consumed Employer and employee donations
as purchased from the grid [excluding clean electricity with Renewable Energy COMMUNITY $2.8 million $6.1 million $5.2 million
Certificates (RECs) applied] divided by total energy consumed. Match Group purchased and advertising space
unbundled RECs in early 2023, equivalent to 56% of Match Group’s 2023 Scope 2 electricity
consumption. However, we chose to shift our clean power purchase strategy towards
higher climate impact investments, including a Virtual Purchase Power Agreement ENVIRONMENT3 Grid electricity used 86% 77% --
(VPPA) and did not buy any additional RECS. Thus, we have chosen not to apply these
unbundled RECs towards our 2023 footprint. Grid electricity use data prior to 2022 has
been removed to reflect Watershed’s methodology.
Note: all metrics as of calendar year-end. Totals may not sum due to rounding.
43
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
REPORTING STATUS:
READ MORE
Fully reporting
SASB report
Partially reporting
Not reporting
SASB CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC 2023 RESPONSE REPORTING STATUS
REPORTING APPROACH
This report includes all disclosures as defined by
TC-IM-000.A Entity-defined measure of user 15.6 million Payers as defined on page 43
the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
activity of our Impact Report.
(SASB) framework for the Internet Media &
Services industry. Our disclosures are based on the
2018-10 version of the Standard, and, except where TC-IM-000.B (1) Data processing capacity Omitted as privileged and confidential.
otherwise noted, we provide information for the
(2) Percentage outsourced
2023 calendar year.
We expect our SASB framework to continue to TC-IM-000.C (1) Amount of data storage Omitted as privileged and confidential.
evolve over time. Where noted, in accordance
(2) Percentage outsourced
with SASB Standards Application Guidance,
certain information is not included in this
appendix, to the extent the information is not ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT OF HARDWARE INFRASTRUCTURE
considered material, is privileged or confidential,
or is not currently collected in a manner wholly TC-IM-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed (1) 56,609 GJ
correlative with the related SASB metric.
(2) Percentage grid electricity1 (2) 86%
(3) Percentage renewable (3) 26%
Metrics for this SASB metric are limited to
managed and third-party data centers.
1 In 2022, Match Group contracted Watershed, an enterprise sustainability
platform, to measure Match Group’s Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions.
In 2023, Watershed’s methodology for calculating grid electricity use
was updated to include clean electricity use. Percentage grid electricity TC-IM-130a.2 (1) Total water withdrawn Not reported.
is calculated as total electricity consumed as purchased from the grid
[excluding clean electricity with Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) (2) Total water consumed,
applied] divided by total energy consumed. Match Group purchased
unbundled RECs in early 2023, equivalent to 56% of Match Group’s 2023 percentage of each in regions
Scope 2 electricity consumption. However, we chose to shift our clean
power purchase strategy towards higher climate impact investments, with high or extremely High
including a Virtual Purchase Power Agreement (VPPA) and did not buy baseline water stress
any additional RECS. Thus, we have chosen not to apply these unbundled
RECs towards our 2023 footprint. Grid electricity use data prior to 2022 has
been removed.
44
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
SASB CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC 2023 RESPONSE REPORTING STATUS
TC-IM-130a.3 Discussion of the integration of To address the impact of our third-party data center
environmental considerations providers, we are developing a strategy to engage with
into strategy planning for data providers on disclosing and reducing their emissions.
center needs Many of our data center providers have SBTi and Net
Zero targets that illustrate their commitment to reducing
these emissions.
DATA PRIVACY, ADVERTISING STANDARDS & FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION
TC-IM-220a.1 Description of policies and Our Privacy Principles are referenced in the Data Security
practices relating to behavioral and Data Privacy and Read More sections of our Impact
advertising and user privacy Report. They can be read in full in the Trust and Safety
center on our website, which includes a fuller description
of all our policies and practices related to user privacy,
including those related to advertising.
In addition to this, every Match Group’s specific data
processing operations are described in their respective user
privacy notices.
45
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
SASB CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC 2023 RESPONSE REPORTING STATUS
TC-IM-220a.2 Number of users whose All of the purposes for which users’ personal information
information is used for secondary is processed are described in the Privacy Policy that users
purposes acknowledge when they join the service and is otherwise
publicly available at all time. The entity does not use
users’ data for any secondary purpose other than those
laid out in the Privacy Policy.
TC-IM-220a.3 Total amount of monetary losses There were no monetary losses as a result of legal
as a result of legal proceedings proceedings related to user privacy in 2023.
associated with user privacy
TC-IM-220a.4 (1) Number of law enforcement Omitted as data collection is not wholly correlative with
requests for user information this metric.
(2) Number of users whose
information was requested
(3) Percentage resulting in
disclosure
46
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
SASB CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC 2023 RESPONSE REPORTING STATUS
TC-IM-220a.5 List of countries where core Given the nature of online dating services, certain of
products or services are subject our services or features have been blocked in certain
to government-required countries. In some instances we have placed restrictions
monitoring, blocking, content on our services in order to comply with U.S. sanctions
filtering, or censoring laws.
TC-IM-220a.6 (1) Number of government Omitted as data collection is not wholly correlative with
requests to remove content this metric.
(2) Percentage compliance with
requests
DATA SECURITY
TC-IM-230a.1 (1) Number of data breaches (1) No data breaches
(2) Percentage involving (2) Not applicable
personally identifiable
information (PII)
(3) Number of users affected (3) Not applicable
TC-IM-230a.2 Description of approach to Our approach for identifying and addressing data
identifying and addressing security risks is detailed in the Data Security and Data
data security risks, including Privacy section of our Impact Report.
use of third-party cybersecurity
standards
47
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
SASB CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC 2023 RESPONSE REPORTING STATUS
EMPLOYEE RECRUITMENT, INCLUSION & PERFORMANCE
TC-IM-330a.1 Percentage of employees that As of December 31, 2023, 11.8% of our U.S. employees were
are foreign nationals foreign nationals.
TC-IM-330a.2 Employee engagement as a Employee participation rate of 83% in 2023, with an
percentage overall engagement score of 62%.
See the Engaging Employees section of our Impact
Report for more information about our employee
engagement survey results.
48
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
SASB CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC 2023 RESPONSE REPORTING STATUS
TC-IM-330A.3 PERCENTAGE OF GENDER GENDER DIVERSITY AT MATCH GROUP (WORLDWIDE)
AND RACIAL/ETHNIC GROUP
(1) 37% female / 63% male / 0% not provided
REPRESENTATION FOR:
(2) 27% female / 73% male / 0% not provided
(1) Executive Management
(3) 64% female / 36% male / 0% not provided
(2) Non-executive management
(3) Technical employees ETHNIC DIVERSITY AT MATCH GROUP (U.S. ONLY)
(4) All other employees (1) 30% non-white / 58% white / 12% other
(2) 49% non-white / 39% white / 12% other
(3) 42% non-white / 49% white / 9% other
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION & COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR
TC-IM-520a.1 Total amount of monetary losses There were no monetary losses as a result of legal
as a result of legal proceedings proceedings associated with anti-competitive behavior
associated with anti-competitive regulations in 2023.
behavior regulations
49
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
READ MORE
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
(TCFD)
GOVERNANCE STRATEGY AND RISK METRICS AND TARGETS
At Match Group, we are committed to understanding and addressing
At the Board level, our Nominating MANAGEMENT In November 2023, we submitted our
the evolving climate-related risks and opportunities in our operations.
and Corporate Governance Our predominantly digital operations near-term and net-zero targets to SBTi
Since 2021, we have collected data aligned with the Taskforce on
Committee oversees all ESG matters, leave us with limited material for approval, nearly a year in advance
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We have deployed the
including strategy, action plans, risk exposure to physical risks such of the application deadline. As we
Watershed enterprise sustainability platform to consistently measure
management, and opportunities. This as extreme weather or flooding. await final approval, we are laying the
our environmental footprint year after year and obtained third-party
includes monitoring Match Group’s However, we do face risks such as groundwork to meet our proposed
limited assurance of our 2023 Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions.
major capital expenditures and increased regulatory requirements targets by conducting baseline
tracking our progress against ESG on climate impacts and emissions, assessments and launching strategic
targets. In the management hierarchy, technology changes, and market initiatives that will be essential in our
the Global Head of Social Impact, risks related to the demand for low emissions reduction journey.
reporting to our President and CFO, carbon applications and web-based
leads implementation of our climate platforms. These transition risks
and ESG-related programs. The have the potential to impact our 2024 Greenhouse
President and CFO, in turn, evaluates reputation as a service provider and Gas Emissions
financial impacts and dependencies an employer in the short, medium, (CO2e metric tons)1
associated with climate changes and and long-term. To gain a more
potential operational shifts at Match comprehensive understanding of risks 564
Group. and corresponding opportunities, we
plan to conduct future climate risk
Scope 1 emissions
assessments aligned with disclosure
requirements.
3,049
Scope 2 emissions
1 Match Group’s emissions inventory follows the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. Our Scope
1 and 2 inventory uses Operational Control as the Organizational Boundary.
50
Match Group Impact Report 2024
Welcome ESG Strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read More
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
Disclaimer
2023 2022 2021
(Dollars in thousands)
Net Earnings Attributable to
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES Match Group, Inc. Shareholders $651,539 $361,946 $277,723
LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
This Impact Report may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements that are not historical
Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests (67) (2,027) (1,169)
facts are “forward-looking statements.” The use of words such as “anticipates,” “estimates,”
“expects,” “plans” and “believes,” among others, generally identify forward-looking
Loss (earnings) from discontinued operations, net of tax -- 2,211 (509)
statements. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements relating
to: Match Group’s future financial performance, Match Group’s environmental and social Income tax provision (benefit) 125,309 15,361 (19,897)
initiatives, Match Group’s business prospects and strategy, anticipated trends, and other
similar matters. These forward-looking statements are based on management’s current Other (income) expense, net (19,772) (8,033) 465,038
expectations and assumptions about future events as of the date of this report, which are
inherently subject to uncertainties, risks, and changes in circumstances that are difficult Interest expense 159,887 145,547 130,493
to predict. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in these forward-
Operating Income 916,896 515,005 851,679
looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others: our ability to maintain
or grow the size of our user base, competition, the limited operating history of some of
Stock-based compensation expense 232,099 203,880 146,816
our brands, our ability to attract users to our services through cost-effective marketing
and related efforts, our ability to distribute our services through third parties and offset Depreciation 61,807 43,594 41,402
related fees, risks relating to our use of artificial intelligence, foreign currency exchange
rate fluctuations, the integrity and scalability of our systems and infrastructure (and those Impairments and amortization of intangibles 47,731 366,257 28,559
of third parties) and our ability to adapt ours to changes in a timely and cost-effective
manner, our ability to protect our systems from cyberattacks and to protect personal and Adjusted Operating Income $1,258,533 $1,128,736 $1,068,456
confidential user information, risks relating to certain of our international operations and
acquisitions, damage to our brands’ reputations as a result of inappropriate actions by
users of our services, uncertainties related to the tax treatment of our separation from NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
IAC, uncertainties related to the acquisition of Hyperconnect, including, among other
This Impact Report includes Adjusted Operating Income, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. Adjusted Operating
things, the expected benefits of the transaction and the impact of the transaction on the
Income is not a substitute for, or superior to, Operating Income, which is a measure of financial performance prepared in
businesses of Match Group, and macroeconomic conditions. Certain of these and other
risks and uncertainties are discussed in Match Group’s filings with the Securities and accordance with U.S. GAAP. See the table for a reconciliation of Operating Income to Adjusted Operating Income.
Exchange Commission. Other unknown or unpredictable factors that could also adversely
affect Match Group’s business, financial condition and results of operations may arise from TRADEMARKS
time to time. In light of these risks and uncertainties, these forward-looking statements
MATCH GROUP, the MG Logo, the MG Blue-Gradient Thread, Tinder, Match, and Swipe are trademarks and registered
may not prove to be accurate. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on these
forward-looking statements, which only reflect the views of Match Group management as trademarks of Match Group, LLC. Hinge, OkCupid, PlentyOfFish, Chispa, BLK, Stir, Upward, Ourtime, Twoo, Ablo, Meetic, Pairs,
of the date of this. Eureka, Hawaya, Hakuna, Azar, and all other trademarks are trademarks and registered trademarks of their respective owners.
51
Match Group Impact Report 2024
CONTACT
Investor Relations
IR@match.com
Corporate Communications
matchgroupPR@match.com
www.mtch.com
