Creating
meaningful
connections
Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
Welcome from the CEO I’d like to thank our colleagues, partners for the LGBTQ+ community, with more
and users for their support this past than 75% of these couples now finding
“ Everyone wants
Bringing people year. The pandemic brought home the each other online. Our brands brought
importance of human interaction for our the first ad featuring a gay man to to feel secure,
mental and physical wellbeing. Digital national broadcast TV in the U.S. and
technology, like we provide, has helped the first ad in Europe featuring a lesbian empowered, and
together for meaningful
to hold us together. couple. Bringing products to life that
loved for who
enable ALL singles to make a meaningful
I feel lucky to have spent my career
connection has been a driving force for they really are.
at a company with a fundamental
connections me and underpins how we approach our
mission of bringing people together work every day. At Match Group
for joyful connections, from short-lived
sparks to romantic couples and lifelong we bring people
companionship. This is where we see our OUR APPROACH: SAFETY,
together for joyful
greatest social impact and we’re inspired PRIVACY, INCLUSIVITY
every day by the millions of babies born Unlocking more joyful connections is only connections that
Welcome to our inaugural Impact Report – and families forged through our platforms. possible if our users can get to know one
another comfortably and securely. That’s enhance their lives.”
an important milestone in our continuing why we’re constantly striving to make
WHAT DRIVES US: JOYFUL
our platforms safe by embedding safety
journey as an independent public company. CONNECTIONS
and privacy tools and practices across the
When I started at Match Group, 3% of
organization. But we know there’s always
U.S. couples who later married met
more to do. Safety never stops, and it must
online. I was often asked whether dating
be balanced with user privacy. That’s why
sites actually worked. We worked hard
we’re committing to releasing our industry
to build products that delivered the love
first Transparency Report for the United
and relationship outcomes. We educated LOOKING AHEAD: RAISING THE BAR
States for 2022.
society on the benefits of online dating In this report we set out how we’re
in a world that was rapidly becoming We’ve promoted a supportive and inclusive making a positive impact on the social,
more nuclear. In a few short years, culture guided by integrity and strong environmental, and governance issues
people started telling me that they knew governance. We’re actively growing our that matter most to our mission.
someone who had met their partner or pipeline of diverse talent and investing We share our approach and – where
spouse on one of our platforms. Now in our greatest asset, our employees, appropriate – our performance, both
Shar Dubey nearly half of all marriages in the U.S. including work-study and mentorship financial and non-financial. We’ll report
start online, and we see similar growing programs for under-represented groups. annually on our progress and we’re
Chief Executive Officer trends around the world. And we’re committed to contributing to committed to raising the bar across
Match Group our communities through volunteering our brands and for our industry.
Our apps have played a meaningful role
programs and social advocacy partnerships
in breaking down barriers for all members
with local and global NGOs. SHAR DUBEY
of the community. This helps explain why
Chief Executive Officer, Match Group
the popularity of dating apps coincides We must stay vigilant on our
with the faster growth of interracial environmental impact. Our servers are the
relationships in the U.S. Our company biggest driver of our carbon footprint and
has been an early champion of marriage we are committed to reducing it as much
equality and normalizing relationships as possible.
2
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
Who we are
OUR LARGEST BRANDS
Building a global
TINDER MATCH MEETIC PAIRS
technology company
• Launched in 2012 • Launched in 1995 • Launched in 2001 • Launched in 2012
• Highest-grossing non- • Created millions of love • A leader for dating services • A leading dating app
to connect people gaming app globally stories as a top destination in Europe, enabling in Japan and a top
• World’s most popular for singles looking for a its members to find dating service available
app for meeting new long-term relationship meaningful connections throughout APAC
people
Match Group is the umbrella company for a
range of leading apps that collectively have
millions of users. Driven by a shared passion
PLENTY
for innovation, we believe that bringing them OKCUPID HINGE OURTIME
OF FISH
together under one umbrella strengthens the
• Launched in 2003 • Launched in 2004 • Launched in 2011 • Launched in 2011
ability of our brands to pioneer, disrupt and
• Offers a low-pressure • Uses daters’ responses • Designed to be Deleted®: • Premier experience
revolutionize their categories. user experience, to its iconic, in-depth dating app for the modern tailored to celebrate
and live streaming, questions to match singles millennial, getting them singles over 50
helping singles to based on the things that off the app and out on
match and meet matter to them great dates
$2.4 $897 10.4 HAWAYA ABLO CHISPA BLK
bn m m
• Launched in 2017 • Launched in 2019 • Launched in 2017 • Launched in 2017
Revenue1 Adjusted EBITDA1 Average Subscribers1,2
• Matchmaking app for • Chat and video app • Largest dating app made • A leading dating
young adults connected that provides automatic for U.S. Latinx singles and lifestyle app for
to Muslim culture translation to encourage Black singles
1. M etrics for the year 2020. Please note Adjusted EBITDA Unless otherwise noted, Subscribers refers to Average global connections
reconciliation on page 27. Subscribers in this presentation. Our portfolio of brands
includes Tinder®, Match®, PlentyOfFish®, Meetic®,
2. “ Average Subscribers” is the number of Subscribers at OkCupid®, OurTime®, Pairs™, and Hinge®, as well as a
the end of each day in the relevant measurement period number of other brands, each designed to increase our
divided by the number of calendar days in that period. users’ likelihood of finding a meaningful connection.
Subscribers as of any given time represent the number
of users who purchased a subscription to one of our
products at that time. Users who purchase only à la carte
features are not included in Subscribers.
3
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
What we do
Empowering
relationships Ashley & Dashawn
Matched on:
I want to thank you for helping
through technology
me connect with my soulmate. My
name is Ashley and met my partner,
Victoria & Bayleigh Dashawn, on your app. On our first Naoya & Kie
phone conversation we spent 5 hours
Matched on: talking to each other! From there, I Matched on:
Just wanted to say thank you for knew it was a connection I wanted to During the COVID-19 pandemic, I
Hundreds of millions of people
making it possible for me to meet explore. We have a similar upbringing couldn’t go out so I decided to join
have used our brands’ products my soulmate. Five minutes into and both love music, which is also the Pairs. That’s where I met Naoya. Not
our first conversation my now wife industry we aspire to work in! only were we able to chat, we could see
to create meaningful connections.
mentioned how we would have an each other through Pairs’ video dating
Match pioneered the concept of amazing wedding. Even though feature. This really helped me to get to
our amazing wedding had to be know him! We’re now living together
online dating over 25 years ago,
postponed because of COVID, we and planning for marriage in the future.
then reinvented the category by still eloped! Thank you again! We even introduced our parents online!
launching Tinder.
Our diverse portfolio of apps and services enables
connections across the spectrum of age, race, gender,
sexual orientation and backgrounds. We’re here to make
life more joyful and revolutionize the way people connect,
whatever their relationship goals. We stay on the cutting
edge for bringing people together and are unending in our
pursuit to build and integrate technology that truly helps
connect people.
And despite the challenges posed by the COVID-19
pandemic, we helped people connect more than ever
in 2020 as these examples show.
4
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
How we do it
SAFETY INCLUSION PRIVACY
Creating safer
WHY IT MATTERS WHY IT MATTERS WHY IT MATTERS
Bringing people together on a digital It is critical that technology platforms Privacy online is a critical cornerstone
and more platform to make meaningful connections enable people from all communities of a modern digital world. Ensuring
is only possible in a safe and secure to take part, in a space free from personal information is secure on
environment focused on protecting harassment, hate and discrimination. technology platforms is vital as
users from potential harms; from That is why our goal is to be inclusive Match Group users choose to use our
inclusive
abuse to discrimination, harassment, by design: for our teams, for our platforms to make the connections that
and violence. users and for our communities. matter most in their lives.
connections OUR APPROACH OUR APPROACH OUR APPROACH
We believe in safety by design: We are our communities. To us, Our privacy function focuses on making
weaving safety into the fabric of our inclusion means designing our sure people can trust our platforms,
brands while continuously innovating brands to reflect the diversity of access their data, and understand how
and looking for ways to raise the bar our users and ensuring everyone their information is respected and
in new safety standards for the tech is welcomed as their authentic treated. We are committed to aiming
As a technology company that
industry. Cutting-edge technology selves. We also strive to ensure to establish a best-in-class privacy
helps people make meaningful and effective partnerships are our colleagues can reach their framework on all our brands’ platforms.
leveraged across our brands’ platforms. full potential in an open, inclusive
connections every day, we’re on a
Because the safety of the people we work environment.
journey to make Match Group the serve is our top priority, we aim to
continuously improve.
safest and most inclusive space to
meet. We aim to set world-class
standards across the industry.
Since we pioneered the idea of online dating more than
25 years ago, we’ve stayed close to what matters in
people’s lives. That means we won’t grow by monetizing
ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY GOVERNANCE
data or compromising privacy, but by being the place
where people want to spend their time and can express Every business must prioritize making our Without our communities, we couldn’t Good governance establishes the
their authentic selves. world more sustainable and preserve a thrive, so we work to create positive change ground rules to operate fairly, equitably
safe, habitable planet. We are committed and enrich the lives of our users. We strive and compassionately. As part of sound
to better understanding our environmental to lead on community involvement, from corporate governance, we have established
In order to be that place, we dedicate significant
impact and taking action on it. We will use innovative community ideas implemented a robust compliance framework, including
efforts on safety, inclusivity and privacy, building on a
our voice to encourage and support our by our brands to Group-wide initiatives. Board practices, our code of conduct and
foundation of good corporate citizenship around robust
stakeholders to care for their environment. rules requiring ethical behavior.
governance, environmental action and community
engagement.
5
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
SAFETY
Creating a safe
environment
for all
Whatever their background and
whoever they are looking for, our users
are united by their desire to feel secure,
protected, and loved for who they really
are. That’s only possible when we strive
to prevent, disrupt, and respond when
our users feel threatened.
6
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
Safety OUR APPROACH OUR PERFORMANCE
We lead by setting the highest overall We are proud of our leadership when
Making it safer safety standards in the industry and it comes to safety. We were the first
continually improving them. Safety platform to use content moderation
is integrated into the fabric of Match 25 years ago and have pioneered many
to explore Group with the establishment of a safety features for the industry.
central safety function – a true center of
Our safety culture embraces
excellence that advances global safety
operations, product and social
by creating strategy, standards, policies CASE STUDY
advocacy: we call it ‘safety by design.’
and processes; building infrastructure;
Across Match Group and its brands Match Group
and measuring our safety impact.
there are now more than 375 people
Advisory Council
The well-being of our users will always Our safety framework guides each working on trust & safety. We are
brand and addresses three core committed to continue expanding
be one of the top priorities for each and Formed in 2018, the Match Group
safety areas: prevention, disruption our safety initiatives and investing in
Advisory Council brings together
everyone of us at Match Group. and response. Each brand has an flagship safety features, building new
leading experts and advocates
internal brand safety ambassador products in-house, and developing
from academia, the non-profit
and customer care team, dedicated tools with partners aimed at making
Even a single harmful incident is one too many. We’re continuously to supporting our users. online dating safer and more inclusive. sector and policy organizations,
striving to raise the bar on safety for our brands and our industry, such as the ‘Me Too’ movement
so that no one has to experience fear, discomfort, or worse when and the Human Rights Campaign.
looking for someone special. The council is the first of its
kind in the dating category and
reviews safety on all Match Group
platforms, in partnership with
SAFETY FRAMEWORK
our dedicated in-house Trust and
Safety team.
The Match Advisory Council meets
PREVENTION DISRUPTION RESPONSE regularly with the Match Group
Executive team, to evaluate our
policies, discuss important safety
developments and recommend
$100
m how we can improve our
EXPERT PARTNERSHIPS
platform safety.
Our projected investment
in trust & safety in 2021
SAFETY CULTURE & DESIGN POLICIES & PROCEDURES
Find out more:
https://mtch.com/mgac
7
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
Safety EXPERT PARTNERSHIPS
We partner with leading experts and PRIVACY’S ROLE IN SAFETY
continued organizations to ensure our practices Data is what makes our brands’ apps
remain at the forefront of industry work, so we focus on its security and
safety standards: from our Match transparency in how we process it.
Group Advisory Council – bringing an Our data security centers on risk
INNOVATIVE SAFETY TOOLS PRIORITIZING OUR USERS outside-in approach to our work – to mitigation, proactive cyber threat
To combat key safety and security Leveraging technology and our partnerships with Garbo – a non- monitoring, and protecting our
issues, including catfishing, partnerships are important profit background check platform systems from digital attack. You
financial fraud, harassment, use components of our safety approach. – and Rape Abuse & Incest National can read more about this in the CASE STUDY
of illegal substances, prostitution One example is Tinder’s recent Network (RAINN), which reviews Governance section. We collect only Match Group
and underage users, our strategy partnership with Noonlight, a first- and provides expert feedback on necessary and proportionate data
focuses on enhancing user safety, of-its-kind safety company, making our existing reporting and response and are transparent in the way we partnership
and increasing safety perception. Tinder’s users the first to have to access policies and processes. We also partner process it, in line with applicable with Garbo
Our brands’ apps equip daters with to on-demand emergency services that with law enforcement agencies around laws and our own privacy standards.
in-app safety resources and key safety transmit highly accurate location data the world to collaborate on keeping our We follow best practices to secure Tinder partnered with Garbo,
features, such as safety tips developed without requiring a 911 phone call. users safe. data, obtain strong security and a female-founded, non-profit
by experts and automatic scans of We are also working on standardizing confidentiality commitments from background check platform,
profiles upon creation. our safety incident data, tracking, and We welcome the opportunity to work our vendors and delete data when it to provide users with access to
We plan to roll out a key background reporting, with a goal of creating our with governments, legislators and is no longer necessary. historical information about prior
regulators around the world to make
check tool in late 2021 that will give inaugural Transparency Report in the the internet a safer place, and to shape We implement leading standards instances of violence and abuse
users access to important information United States for 2022 to ensure that better standards in security, such as globally across all our brands to by users they are looking to date.
to help inform their safety choices. as we grow, we continue to prioritize our support of the EARN IT Act in uphold user safety and privacy. This will help our users make more
We use a network of industry-leading the safety, security and well-being of 2020. You can read more about this We work diligently to ensure that informed decisions and choices
automated and manual moderation our users. This is part of Match Group’s in the Governance section. We are a we comply with privacy laws, about their safety.
and review tools, systems and ongoing commitment to investing in founding member of the Trust & Safety meet industry standards and take Tinder is piloting Garbo in its
processes, and expect to spend over key safety initiatives. Professional Association and a member a proactive stance against cyber Safety Center and, if successful,
$100 million on trust and safety this of WeProtect Global Alliance. We are security threats. Our success is we intend to expand this to our
year alone, an increase of more than aligned with Voluntary Principles to not driven by monetizing users’ other brands. Garbo’s goal is to
15% year-over-year. Counter Online Sexual Exploitation data for advertising sales. Our help proactively prevent gender-
and Abuse and collaborate with the revenue model is overwhelmingly based violence in the digital age.
National Cyber Security Alliance to subscription-based, with fewer than
build best practices as part of their 3% of our revenues coming from
“Stop. Think. Connect.” campaign. advertising sales. We purposefully
limit the types of data we use for
third-party advertising purposes: and
375+ we never use any sensitive data, such
as sexual orientation, racial or ethnic Find out more:
origins or religion. https://mtch.com/single-
Number of colleagues in trust-and-safety/7
trust & safety team in 2021
8
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
Q&A with Tracey Breeden
Q Q
“I believe it’s really
‘Safety never stops’
What is safety to you? What is your safety vision
important to be
for Match Group?
A conspicuously
A
on the side of the
It’s not just physical safety – it’s
creating safe and respectful spaces When it comes to safety, you’ll never people you serve.
free of abuse, harassment, hate hear me say we’ve done enough – safety
Across our portfolio
and discrimination. It’s our goal to never stops. We want to prevent, disrupt
incorporate safety best practices and and respond to physical, emotional and at Match Group we
We asked Tracey Breeden, Head of Safety and expertise into our branded platforms, psychological abuse, harm, harassment,
aim to continually
informing policies, standards and hate and discrimination connected to
Social Advocacy, how her passion for safety is
safety product across our portfolio. our users and communities, whether demonstrate to
helping Match Group raise the bar on safety. online or in person.
our users that we
Q We can always do more and improve
on safety, from launching new safety understand all
features, and strengthening our
When it comes to safety, how their concerns and
policies and processes, to making
important is working with
the platforms safer for women and embrace our role
communities?
marginalized communities – if you do
in creating a safer
A that, you make it safer for everyone.
society.”
We recognize we have an important
Q
role in helping create safer communities.
Safety challenges find their way into
What is your starting point for safety
every corner of society and they’re
at Match Group?
reflected on our corporate platforms,
our business platforms and our
A
Tracey Breeden social platforms. Working with our
Head of Safety and communities is essential. We can only
I start by looking for gaps, opportunities
Social Advocacy impactfully address these challenges
and safety challenges, and finding
through collaboration; being
From a background in law user-friendly solutions to help level up
a strategic thought partner with our
enforcement and policing, our brands’ safety approach, working in
Tracey moved to Uber, where communities; and understanding
partnership with them to identify the
she led women’s safety, the issues impacting our users.
right safety strategy, infrastructure to
and established the social
achieve it, and path to execution—all
advocacy practice.
while embedding a “culture of safety”
into the fabric of our brands.
9
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
PEOPLE
Connecting
teams across
the globe
Attracting people to build and
integrate the latest and most
innovative technology and create
the most meaningful connections
is crucial to our success. Being
inclusive is just as important.
We take care of our teams,
empowering their passion at every
stage of their Match Group journey.
10
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
People OUR APPROACH we offer 401k pension plan support that’s
Our culture is inclusive, inspiring, and matched 10% up $10,000; a minimum of
Attracting, encouraging empowering, and this feeds directly into 16 weeks fully-paid parental leave for the
who we hire, how we work and what child-carrying partner, with 12 weeks of
we do to enable everyone to be the fully-paid leave for the supporting parent;
and retaining top best they can be. We are committed to health benefits including life insurance;
investing in learning and development. unlimited Paid Time Off (at some of our
Our People strategy is focused on brands); mental health support as part of
continuing to widen our recruiting net our Employee Assistance Program (EAP) CASE STUDY
tech talent
to find exceptional talent from diverse and a global giving program, where we
Recruiting more
backgrounds, rewarding our people, and match donations (up to a generous cap)
prioritizing their mobility, learning and through Benevity. diverse talent
career development.
We encourage our managers and their
We want to continually enhance
Our approach to people is a hybrid teams to have regular performance
With nearly 2,000 colleagues across 20 countries, of ‘local and global’. A centralized conversations. Specifically, we help our the diversity of our talent, especially
in our technology teams. That’s
People function operates as a center of people chart a promising career within
motivating and standing up for each other is
why we’ve evolved our recruitment
excellence to set our people strategy. Match Group and our global footprint
critical to our success. We grow our business by It then supports local people business and diverse brands gives them a wide- approach with diversity and inclusion
front of mind. And to create the
partners across our individual brands, to range of future career opportunities.
attracting, encouraging and retaining the best next generation of talent, we’re also
ensure they translate this best practice We’ve launched development programs
sponsoring pipeline programs that
tech talent, resulting in an outstanding team into their own unique needs and culture. to stimulate internal mobility and
bring underrepresented people into
mentorship programs that involve all
that is dedicated to bringing people together STEM careers.
levels of our organization. Our learning
OUR PERFORMANCE
across the globe. Our team is outstanding, and it is & development approach includes a In 2020, we started with an ‘inside
important we selectively identify and personalized budget for everyone to out’ approach. First off, we ensured
attract top talent to bolster our roster. drive their career growth, on top of everyone in our team became an
We care about our people and invest in them throughout their Match Group
We work closely with each Match Group on-demand training courses that are AIRS certified diversity and inclusion
journey. It’s a clear win-win – it helps us improve our business outcomes
brand, leveraging analytics and insights available to our colleagues. recruiter. Since then, we have
and drive innovation, while reducing absence and reducing our reliance on
outside recruitment. to optimize candidate sourcing. We use Taken all together this supports the started to widen our recruitment
a wide range of sources to find talent continuing engagement of our global sources through different diversity
and build a diverse pipeline of potential team. In 2020, in our regular employee partnerships to source tech and
candidates, such as our work/study opinion survey, we achieved a 76% other talent. We’ve also added a
program and partnerships with HBCU favorability score amongst our global self-ID option for our applicants,
Connect, Jopwell and Fairygodboss. team. In our ‘pulse survey’ this increased which illustrates our desire to
76% understand our applicant base
to 78% by the end of the year, also
Once employees join our team, we
and meet their needs.
indicating that we’ve supported our
look after our people with competitive
colleagues through a very challenging
compensation including a range of
Employee engagement generous benefits. In 2020, 91% of our year with a global pandemic. Find out more:
(favorability) in 2020 people have taken up employee stock https://mtch.com/careers
compensation; in the United States,
11
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
People OUR APPROACH
We welcome people of all backgrounds
CASE STUDY
Creating a place where and want everyone at Match Group
to feel empowered. To champion Creating a culture
diversity internally, we started inclusivity
of belonging
awareness building across the U.S.
everyone belongs
in 2020, and plan to extend this across
the globe.
We are supporting our existing and
Our pioneering brands are active developing new Employee Resource
the dial on awareness across
campaigners for creating impact through Groups (ERGs) that reflect the many
Match Group.
awareness; recent examples include different groups in our offices across
Our brands aim to build apps that are inclusive
OKCupid’s #BlackLivesMatter profile the globe. Driven by passionate Our ERGs include Pride@
by design, and that reflect our diverse society. badge, sponsorship of the Afrotech World champions to create a culture where Tinder, Black Excellence@Match
conference by our Match brand’s M4BL, everyone feels like they belong, our (BE@M), Women @ Match
Our Match brand, for instance, was the first
and the PlentyofFish partnership to
ERGs have independent budgets (W@M) and Desis@ Tinder.
company to feature a gay couple in its advertising. provide free memberships to Shine, the and are empowered to plan their Senior management members
self-care app created by women of color.
Inclusion is part of who we are, and encompasses own programs. From providing support these ERGs to enhance
We are passionate about improving access to ongoing development recruitment and internal mobility.
our brands’ users, our people, and our communities. representation in our talent pipeline and opportunities, to giving back to As a result, corporate policies have
are enhancing our recruitment practices communities, and celebrating been adjusted, including Tinder’s
to increase the diversity of our people. cultural holidays and anniversaries, vendor review process, which
Improving diversity, equity and inclusion is an industry-wide challenge for the
technology sector. That’s why we’re passionate about addressing it, but our focus We have also launched pipeline programs they help us to work on moving now considers diversity.
and partnerships through our community
on diversity also results in positive business outcomes, including talent attraction,
engagement. We present opportunities
innovation, and company performance.
to underrepresented communities within
STEM, such as Correlation One, Data
Science for All and Inroads. @
ETHNIC ETHNIC GENDER DIVERSITY GENDER
DIVERSITY IN OUR DIVERSITY IN OUR IN OUR GLOBAL DIVERSITY IN While we’re proud of the impact we
U.S. POPULATION U.S. LEADERSHIP1 POPULATION OUR GLOBAL have around the world we recognize
LEADERSHIP1 that there are areas where we must
improve. We strive to create an inclusive
workplace but our lack of representation
of historically underrepresented
people within our leadership is eye
opening. We must make strides
here. It will take time but we will stay
committed and take accountability by
reporting our numbers, developing
programs and goals, documenting our
progress, learning from our mistakes Find out more:
Asian 24% Asian 17% Male 61% Male 60%
Hispanic/Latinx 9% Hispanic/Latinx 6% Female 39% Female 39% and cultivating a truly inclusive, https://mtch.com/careers
Black/African American 6% Black/African American 5% Not specified 1% Not specified 0% representative workforce.
White 49% White 60%
Other/Not specified 13% Other/Not specified 12%
12
Match Group Impact Report 2021 1. Our leadership consists of Director-level and above.
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
Q&A with Nasseem Nilipour, Ph.D.
Q Q
“My vision is to be
‘Bringing the best
What are your goals? How do you encourage
the place that ignites
personal growth?
A curiosity and sparks
out of our people’
A
movement through
The hallmark of a successful Talent
Management & Learning department I want to be an advocate for our memorable learning
is simple: invest in our talent. It’s employees to spark learning
experiences.”
important we create an environment moments that matter. To do that,
where we are prioritizing the success we need to provide the right tools at
Nasseem Nilipour, Director, Talent Management of our colleagues. I want people the right time. For instance, we are
to feel that Match Group creates working to launch flagship programs
and Learning at Match Group, shares how she
a safe place to try, learn, and try for mid-level managers and emerging
works to inspire colleagues across the Match again to become more resilient leaders but also soft skills modules
and courageous. aligned to core learning needs.
Group brands to unlock their full potential.
Q Q
How do you focus on career How else do you support learning?
development?
A
A
As a leading technology company,
Nasseem Nilipour, In a variety of ways! One that it would be strange if we didn’t also
specifically comes to mind is our embrace the potential of technology
Ph.D.
flagship mentorship program to revolutionize learning! That’s why
Director, Talent
called MentorMatch. It is a 5-month, we recently partnered with Udemy
Management and
company-wide program that is for Business. At the end of the roll-
Learning at Match Group
focused on career growth and out, all Match Group colleagues
Nasseem has more than a decade development. Mentees are matched will have access to an expansive
experience across organizational with mentors based on their career library of online, on-demand learning
and people development, working aspirations and are supported by courses to augment their knowledge
in a variety of industries including a digital mentoring platform. This and skills.
entertainment, aerospace,
helps both mentors and mentees
and insurance.
grow their networks and learn from
each other.
1133
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
GOVERNANCE
Cultivating
a culture
of integrity
In the 25+ years since Match.com pioneered
online dating, hundreds of millions of users
from all ages, races, genders, nationalities and
backgrounds have used our brands’ apps to
form meaningful connections. Only through
acting responsibly with all our stakeholders
will we serve the interests of our users,
company, and shareholders.
14
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
Governance OUR APPROACH RISK has expanded the information provided
We have a sound corporate governance We review risk at an enterprise-wide to sex offender registries, making bad
Enabling good approach in place for Match Group that level, including an annual comprehensive actors easier to identify and remove from
meets all the requirements of a listed risk assessment across all brands and platforms. We’re also working to disrupt the
company on the Nasdaq stock exchange geographies. The results of these app store monopolies to create a fair playing
and all other applicable local and national assessments are regularly reviewed field for all app developers regardless of size
governance to regulations. This is led by our Board and at the executive and Board levels. Our and encourage a fit-for-purpose regulatory
executive team, who shape the structure, aim is to include impact-related risks environment. Our overriding objective is to
processes and policies that drive continuous and strengthen our governance of ensure that users are safe and protected
achieve our goals improvement. sustainability considerations at the and that technology companies have the
Board and executive levels. right level of accountability.
As a leading technology company, Match
Group has an important role to play in
defining governance standards for the DATA SECURITY AND PRIVACY TAXATION
tech sector. At the heart of our corporate Data security presents a significant risk to As a global business, we meet applicable
governance sits our Code of Business all technology companies, and Match Group local and national tax requirements.
Effective corporate governance enables Conduct and Ethics, which covers ethical is no exception. We take a group-wide Overall, we seek to make appropriate
conduct, insider trading and fraud. This approach to working to ensure that our tax contributions based on our business
organizations to achieve their goals, control applies to all our people worldwide and data remains secure and is not accessed operations and footprint and recognize
is something we expect everyone to or disclosed without authorization and that they are a crucial component of local
risks, and promote compliance. It also
uphold. We treat people as we would want integrating cybersecurity into our risk community investment by public bodies.
provides a framework for engaging with to be treated. monitoring and risk procedures. Privacy
is a separate function, which ensures
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
stakeholders and continuing our work that the way data is processed is in line
OUR PERFORMANCE Match Group does not make any federal
with applicable laws and meets Match
toward a more sustainable business with Good governance and inclusivity should political contributions in the United States.
Group’s high standards. Our privacy and
start at the top. Our Board exceeds
a greater positive impact. data security teams act as a joint center
independence requirements with eight of excellence to support our brands’ apps. ETHICS AND WHISTLEBLOWING
independent directors out of a total of
You can find more information about our Our employees share a common
eleven. It is a diverse group, including 45%
Our aim is to help people make the connections that matter most to approach to data security, as well as privacy, responsibility to uphold the highest
female members. Our Audit, Nominating,
them, while working for all our stakeholders to be our best. We are in our Safety section (Safety). standards of conduct. We require all
and Compensation & Human Resources
employees to certify their compliance with
responsive to the views of our shareholders and other stakeholders Committees are each comprised solely
our core policies annually, including the
and uphold a company culture of integrity through good governance of independent directors. At least twice PUBLIC ADVOCACY
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. If
practices, led by a diverse Board of Directors that demonstrates a year, our independent directors meet We are proud technology pioneers and
employees have any concerns about issues
adaptive leadership and ethical decision-making. in scheduled executive sessions without are continuously innovating and working
such as fraud or misrepresentation they
management and non-independent closely with legislators and regulators
can report them confidentially through our
directors present. across the globe to make the internet
ReportIt hotline and web-based reporting
safer – from California’s Dating Services
At Board level, our Nominating Committee service, available 24/7.
Law to Vermont’s and Arizona’s fraud
provides oversight on the social,
45% 8 out of 11 protection laws and Arizona’s expanded
environmental and governance issues that
Registered Sex Offender law. We have
matter most to our purpose. More detail on
helped support national legislation – the
the composition of our Board and Board
bipartisan Protecting our Kids Act – that
Female members Independent members Committee is available in our 2021 Proxy
of the Board of the Board Statement, which can be found here.
15
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
COMMUNITY
Generating
impact through
community
connection
Without our communities, we couldn’t
thrive, so we work together to create
positive change and enrich lives.
From innovative community ideas by
our individual brands to our group-wide
initiatives, we are committed to leading
on community involvement.
16
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
Community OUR APPROACH
As a group, we are committed to CASE STUDY
Engaging our leading on community involvement
Creating partnerships
and impact through direct action.
We empower all our Match Group and impacting
communities colleagues to raise their hands and
lead on issues that are important to individuals
them. In 2020, our people (matched by
Match Group and its brands) donated
$2.8m to charitable causes. Our brands As a true pioneer, we are committed of our colleagues from across our
also provided advertising inventory to help our global community company to play a leading role in
pro bono at a value equivalent of advance toward a more harmonious, working towards a more equitable
Making the most meaningful connections –
approximately $3m. From Pride fair, and equitable society. data future.
especially during a time of intense loneliness marches, to local walks and a Global “We know that while talent is equal,
In addition to Correlation One,
virtual walk supporting Best Buddies, opportunities are not,” says our
and physical distance – is fundamental to through our other partners – Inroads,
to campaigning on BLM, Match 4 CEO Shar Dubey. That’s why we have
Code2040, Mozaik, Sodateage Net,
human happiness. We never underestimate COVID, #BLKVoices, #StopAsianHate launched a program that combines
Hassyadai, Wakamono-work, and
and taking part in fundraisers, we employment opportunities for
our role in supporting the diverse communities Waffle – we have created close to 40
encourage active participation and historically underrepresented groups
internship positions globally for the
of our brands around the world. give our people the freedom to be with training and volunteering
summer of 2021, providing competitive
passionate in community support. opportunities for our people.
pay. Our colleagues volunteer
Community investment is inextricably linked to our purpose – helping At a Group-wide level, we established The Match Group Fellowship Program as mentors to support interns as they
people find a place to express their authentic selves and create a volunteering program in 2020 went live in 2020. Our aim is to do develop their skills. In the summer of
connections with those who love them for who they are. While each focusing on internships and mentoring more than donate; we want to work 2021, we are also sponsoring a virtual
Match Group brand has a distinct identity, we are joined by a common for underrepresented communities with causes that allow us to bring our classroom of 60 girls through Girls Who
goal – to contribute to a better society. via partnerships with selected NGOs. expertise, passion, and resources to Code, to equip them with the right
We measure success in terms of the table. We have identified seven skills for modern tech opportunities.
making meaningful changes in international NGOs that we truly
We are incredibly proud of our success
individual’s lives and are building up our feel match our mission, and support
so far – but this is only the beginning.
data measurement in this space. Our them financially. We are working with
philanthropic donations over the past Correlation One on a Data Science For
year have included project payments to All program, which aims to open doors
our NGO partners and a $5,000 stipend for professionals from Black & African-
to participating interns. American, Latinx & Hispanic, LGBTQ+,
$5.8 170+
veteran and other underrepresented
m
groups. In 2020 and 2021, we will have
sponsored 75 students, in addition to
Employee and employer Students participating in providing the opportunity to dozens
charitable donations and Match Group Fellowship
pro bono advertising space Program and other
partnerships
17
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
ENVIRONMENT
Connecting
to the world
around us
Creating meaningful connections is what
drives us, and digital technology enables
us to do that. We recognize that our
company and our technologies contribute
to climate change. Match Group is
embarking on a mission to better
understand our environmental impact
and how we can reduce it to help create
a more sustainable world.
18
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
Environment OUR APPROACH As we return to some form of office-
We consider our environmental impact based working, we’ve been focused
Protecting the as part of our approach to workplace on creating safe and sustainable
experience, facilities and engineering, workplaces, particularly by considering
and asset and lease management. WELL Building standards for office
world around us We want our offices to be safe, feel fit-outs. All our tenant build-outs are
completed with energy-efficient LED
welcoming to everyone, encourage
fixtures; lights have motion sensors;
healthy lifestyles and tread lightly
HVAC heating and cooling are timed. CASE STUDY
on our planet. We have developed
Our New York and Los Angeles offices
workplace experience best practices Greening our LA office
are currently under construction with
that we are rolling out across our
environmental considerations included
Society’s use of digital technology is growing locations in North America and Europe The ‘green wall’ at our 8800 Sunset
in the build-out process.
before expanding worldwide. We now Boulevard location in Los Angeles
as our digital and physical lives increasingly
include environmental considerations As a pioneer in digital technology, is one of the most notable features
intertwine. We can’t ignore the environmental in that approach. we appreciate the potential of our in the West Hollywood area.
platform, touching millions of users, to This 40,000 plant wall creates a
impacts that result from this fourth industrial We are looking at reducing the
help drive positive change. Our brands naturally shaded area around our
environmental impact of the buildings
revolution. The effects of climate change, aim to use the power of their apps to offices and contributes to cleaner
we occupy. The first step is to measure raise environmental awareness and air and local biodiversity. As water
from rising temperatures to extreme weather our environmental impacts, but we is scarce in greater LA, we operate
to drive positive behavior change
recognize that our biggest impacts a built-in irrigation solution that
conditions and biodiversity loss, pose a threat to in our communities.
are the emissions from electricity used captures and recycles rainwater
our company, our colleagues, our users – to us all. by our data centers, by our network so plants stay healthy and vibrant
and offices, and emissions from our without burdening public water
business travel. Applying these insights resources.
As a pioneering technology company, we are committed to playing our role to assess how we can best enhance our
We’re not just green on the outside,
in mitigating climate change and minimizing our environmental impact. sustainability approach and optimize
we’re green inside too! Our LA office
In doing so, we will seek to improve our operational efficiency and increase operations, we are confident that we
‘Green Team’ leads the charge on
our business resilience through reduced risks and costs, and do our part to can make much headway over the
environmental initiatives. From
promote a more sustainable world. next few years. introducing composting in 2020,
to working with colleagues to join
the ‘Clean Air Coalition’ pledge and
raising awareness around clean air,
we are committed to zero waste to
landfill in LA by 2022 and further
reducing our impacts wherever
we can.
19
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
Q&A with Matthieu Jacquier
Q Q
“I joined Meetic with
‘Sustainability is part
Why are environmental concerns What are your
the belief that we
important for Meetic? reduction initiatives?
can do something
of our culture’
A A
for our environment
There’s an urgency around reducing Our carbon reduction objectives and – we want to change
our carbon footprint – our families, business objectives are absolutely
things for the better.”
teams and users are demanding aligned. Take our biggest impact: the
it. We’ve pledged to help create electricity consumption of our servers
Matthieu Jacquier, CEO at Meetic, discusses a more sustainable world, which to run our apps and data. We worked
is now a cornerstone of Meetic’s with our tech teams to identify how
the development of a new environmental
cultural values. we could develop application updates
approach for Meetic, focused on reducing that were lighter and more efficient
on code. That makes our service
carbon emissions.
Q
more stable but also saves space
in our servers. More efficient data
How did you start to address centers save us money and reduce our
your carbon emissions? environmental impacts. Lighter apps Q
are more reactive and friendly to use.
A
We are improving office management How are you adapting
In 2019 we completed our first carbon software and tools, consolidating your processes?
assessment. Our annual carbon offices, reducing commuting, and
A
footprint is around 2,000 metric encouraging alternatives to air travel
tons of CO e, mainly from powering for business meetings. And for what we
2 In 2020, we launched ISO 14001 to
apps, data centers and offices, and couldn’t avoid, we have now supported
ensure environmental concerns are
business travel. We set out to identify a tree re-planting initiative in a forest
integrated into Meetic’s processes.
where we could achieve reductions, near our Paris offices. This is close to
Matthieu Jacquier ISO 14001 is internationally recognized
aiming for 10% yearly. We agreed that where the majority of our colleagues
as the leading environmental
CEO, Meetic whatever we would not be able to work and live, so we can see the
management system (EMS) standard,
Having worked at SFR, further reduce, we would offset in a tangible impact of our efforts.
providing a systematic framework
Matthieu was Digital Strategy way that is meaningful for all of us in
for integrating environmental
Director at SNCF. He joined the office.
management practices. It helps us
Meetic in 2017.
maintain an environmental focus at
all times.
20
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
Read more
About this report
MORE INFORMATION
This inaugural Impact Report Where we have minority investments,
the performance of those businesses Safety Governance
includes all of Match Group, Inc.’s
is not included in this Report.
User Safety Center Code of Conduct
wholly-owned and majority-
Except as otherwise noted, all
owned subsidiaries where direct performance data included in this Safety Framework Annual Report
Report is based on the 2020 calendar
Proxy Statement
operational control was exercised year. We completed our separation
as of December 31, 2020. Any from IAC/InterActiveCorp in 2020, Modern Slavery Statement
but do not include in this Report
acquisitions since January 1, 2021 any information on historical IAC Anti-Fraud/Anti-Corruption Policy
performance. Where appropriate
are not included and will be included UK Taxation Policies
for a fuller understanding, we’ve
in future reports only when direct supplemented our performance
with key performance elements after
operational control is exercised.
December 31, 2020.
All performance data is measured, Privacy
collected and reported internally,
Privacy Principles
subject to our usual control and
compliance procedures. Our goal
User Privacy Center
is to be accurate, complete and
comprehensive. Our non-financial
performance data is not externally People
audited or reviewed.
Career Center
21
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
Key performance table
Our performance
METRIC UNIT 2020
FINANCIAL Revenues USD$ 2.4 billion
Adjusted EBITDA USD$ 897 million
Average number of subscribers Subscribers 10.4 million
We measure our progress using these
SAFETY Investment in trust and safety USD$ 89.6 million
key performance indicators. It is our intention
Trust and safety team Number 375+
to expand the metrics in this table over time.
PEOPLE Employee engagement (favorability) Percentage 76%
Gender diversity in workforce Percentage 39% female
Gender diversity in leadership Percentage 39% female
Gender diversity in tech teams Percentage 22% female
Ethnic diversity in workforce (US) Percentage 38% non-white
Ethnic diversity in leadership (US) Percentage 28% non-white
Ethnic diversity in tech teams (US) Percentage 43% non-white
GOVERNANCE Gender diversity of the Board Percentage 45% female
Independent members of the Board Number 8 out of 11
Employer and employee donations
COMMUNITY and advertising space USD$ 5.8 million
ENVIRONMENT Grid electricity used Percentage 100%
22
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
REPORTING STATUS:
SASB Report Fully reporting
Partially reporting
About this report
Not reporting
We have a responsibility to be more
transparent and accountable about our
SASB CODE ACTIVTY METRIC 2020 RESPONSE REPORTING STATUS
financial and non-financial impacts.
That’s why we decided to publish this
inaugural Impact Report. But for those TC-IM-000.A Entity-defined measure of 10.4 million average subscribers as defined on page 3 of our Impact Report.
readers that want to focus specifically on user activity
comparing our performance against our
TC-IM-000.B (1) Data processing capacity Omitted as privileged and confidential.
peers, we include this appendix.
(2) Percentage outsourced
This report includes all disclosures as
TC-IM-000.C (1) Amount of data storage Omitted as privileged and confidential.
defined by the Sustainability Accounting
(2) Percentage outsourced
Standards Board (SASB) framework
for ‘technology and communications’
industries. Our disclosures are based
on the 2018-10 version of the Standard
SASB CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC 2020 RESPONSE REPORTING STATUS
and, except where otherwise noted,
we provide information for the 2020
calendar year. ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT OF HARDWARE INFRASTRUCTURE
This appendix is our first disclosure TC-IM-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed (1) O mitted as data collection is not wholly correlative with this metric.
pursuant to the SASB framework, and (2) P ercentage grid electricity (2) 100%
as such, we expect it to evolve over time. (3) Percentage renewable (3) Omitted as data collection is not wholly correlative with this metric.
Where noted, in accordance with SASB
TC-IM-130a.2 (1) Total water withdrawn Omitted as data collection is not wholly correlative with these metrics.
Standards Application Guidance section
(2) T otal water consumed,
2.2, certain information is not included
percentage of each in
in this appendix, to the extent the
regions with high or
information is not considered material;
is privileged or confidential; or is not extremely high baseline
currently collected in a manner wholly water stress
correlative with the related SASB metric.
TC-IM-130a.3 Discussion of the integration We do not currently integrate environmental considerations into strategy
of environmental planning for data center needs. We expect to develop an environmental
considerations into strategy strategy that would include this over the coming years.
planning for data center needs
23
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
REPORTING STATUS:
SASB Report Fully reporting
Partially reporting
continued
Not reporting
SASB CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC 2020 RESPONSE REPORTING STATUS
DATA PRIVACY, ADVERTISING STANDARDS & FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION
TC-IM-220a.1 Description of policies and practices relating to Our Privacy Principles are referenced in the ‘Safety’ section of our Impact Report on page 7.
behavioral advertising and user privacy They can be read in full in the ‘Trust & Safety’ center on our website, which includes a fuller
description of all our policies and practices related to user privacy.
Omitted as immaterial because fewer than 3% of our revenues are derived from advertising.
TC-IM-220a.2 Number of users whose information is used for Omitted as immaterial because fewer than 3% of our revenues are derived from advertising.
secondary purposes
TC-IM-220a.3 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of We paid a regulatory fine of EUR 50,000 in Belgium in 2020.
legal proceedings associated with user privacy
TC-IM-220a.4 (1) Number of law enforcement requests for Omitted as data collection is not wholly correlative with this metric.
user information (1) (2) (3) As outlined in our Impact Report, we expect to publish a Transparency Report in
(2) Number of users whose information 2022 which would include this data.
was requested
(3) Percentage resulting in disclosure
TC-IM-220a.5 List of countries where core products or services Given the nature of online dating services, certain of our services or features have been
are subject to government-required monitoring, blocked in certain countries, most notably the ban of Tinder by the Pakistani government for
blocking, content filtering or censoring “immoral content”.
In some instances we have placed restrictions on our services in order to comply with U.S.
sanctions laws.
TC-IM-220a.6 (1) Number of government requests to Omitted as data collection is not wholly correlative with this metric.
remove content (1) (2) As outlined in our Impact Report, we expect to publish a Transparency Report in 2022
(2) Percentage compliance with requests which would include this data.
24
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
REPORTING STATUS:
SASB Report Fully reporting
Partially reporting
continued
Not reporting
SASB CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC 2020 RESPONSE REPORTING STATUS
DATA SECURITY
TC-IM-230a.1 (1) Number of data breaches (1) No data breaches
(2) Percentage involving personally identifiable (2) Not applicable
information (PII) (3) Not applicable
(3) Number of users affected
TC-IM-230a.2 Description of approach to identifying and addressing Our approach to identifying and addressing data security risks is outlined briefly in the ‘Safety’
data security risks, including use of third-party (page 7) and ‘Governance’ (page 14) sections of our Impact Report.
cybersecurity standards In addition, we conduct an Annual Risk Assessment with business stakeholders to discuss high
level cybersecurity risks; develop an Annual Security Scorecard on a per brand level based on
NIST Cybersecurity standards; and maintain on-going regular communication with business
and brand leaders to identify and assess risk, including third-party vendor related risks.
25
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
REPORTING STATUS:
SASB Report Fully reporting
Partially reporting
continued
Not reporting
SASB CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC 2020 RESPONSE REPORTING STATUS
EMPLOYEE RECRUITMENT, INCLUSION & PERFORMANCE
TC-IM-330a.1 Percentage of employees that are foreign nationals 15% of our U.S. employees on December 31, 2021 were foreign nationals.
TC-IM-330a.2 Employee engagement as a percentage In July 2020, we had an employee engagement favorability score of 76%. Our pulse survey in
November 2020 indicated engagement of 78%.
TC-IM-330a.3 Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group Gender diversity at Match Group (worldwide)
representation for: (1) 39% female / 60% male / 0% not provided
(1) Management (2) 22% female / 78% male / 0% not provided
(2) Technical staff (3) 39% female / 61% male / 1% not provided
(3) All other employees
Ethnic diversity at Match Group (U.S. only)
(1) 28% non-white / 60% white / 12% other
(2) 43% non-white / 43% white / 14% other
(3) 38% non-white / 49% white / 13% other
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION & COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR
TC-IM-520a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal There were no monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with
proceedings associated with anti-competitive anti-competitive behavior regulations in 2020.
behavior regulations
26
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Welcome & about us Safety People Governance Community Environment Read more & data
Disclaimer
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS monetizing dating services, our ability completed, whether the conditions to NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURE TRADEMARKS
AND DISCLAIMER to attract users to our dating services the transaction can be satisfied or any This Impact Report includes Adjusted MATCH GROUP, the MG Logo, and
Safe Harbor Statement Under the through cost-effective marketing event, change or other circumstance EBITDA, which is a non-GAAP financial the MG Blue-Gradient Thread are
Private Securities Litigation Reform and related efforts, foreign currency occurs that could give rise to the measure. Adjusted EBITDA is not a trademarks of Match Group, LLC.
Act of 1995 exchange rate fluctuations, our ability termination of the transaction substitute for, or superior to, Operating All other trademarks are property
to distribute our dating services (including the failure to receive any Income, which is a measure of financial of their respective owners.
This Impact Report may contain
through third parties and offset related required regulatory approvals), any performance prepared in accordance
“forward-looking statements”
fees, the integrity and scalability litigation arising out of or relating to with U.S. GAAP. See below for a
within the meaning of the Private
of our systems and infrastructure the transaction, and the impact of the reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to
Securities Litigation Reform Act of
(and those of third parties) and our transaction on the business of Match Operating Income.
1995. All statements that are not
ability to adapt ours to changes in a Group. Certain of these and other
historical facts are “forward looking
timely and cost-effective manner, our risks and uncertainties are discussed
statements.” The use of words such as
ability to protect our systems from in Match Group’s filings with the
“anticipates,” “estimates,” “expects,”
cyberattacks and to protect personal Securities and Exchange Commission.
“plans” and “believes,” among others, Year Ended December 31, 2020 ($Ms)
and confidential user information, risks Other unknown or unpredictable
generally identify forward-looking
relating to certain of our international factors that could also adversely affect
statements. These forward-looking Net Earnings attributable to Match Group, $128,561
operations and acquisitions, certain Match Group’s business, financial
statements include, among others, Inc. shareholders
risks relating to our relationship with condition and results of operations
statements relating to: Match Group’s
IAC post-separation, the impact of may arise from time to time. In light Net earnings attributable to redeemable $59,280
future financial performance, Match
the outbreak of COVID-19 coronavirus, of these risks and uncertainties, these noncontrolling interests
Group’s business prospects and
the risks inherent in separating Match forward-looking statements may not
strategy, anticipated trends, and Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax $366,070
Group from IAC, including uncertainties prove to be accurate. Accordingly, you
other similar matters. These forward-
related to, among other things, the should not place undue reliance on Income tax provision $32,874
looking statements are based on
expected benefits of the separation, these forward-looking statements,
management’s current expectations Other income, net $(15,861)
any litigation arising out of or relating which only reflect the views of Match
and assumptions about future
to the transaction, the tax treatment Group management as of the date Interest expense $174,791
events, which are inherently subject
of the transaction, and the impact of of this report. Match Group does not
to uncertainties, risks and changes Operating Income $745,715
the separation on the businesses of undertake to update these forward-
in circumstances that are difficult to
Match Group, and risks relating to the looking statements. Stock-based compensation expense $102,268
predict. Actual results could differ
materially from those contained in acquisition of Hyperconnect, including Depreciation $41,271
uncertainties related to, among other
these forward-looking statements Amortization of intangibles $7,525
things, the costs and expected benefits
for a variety of reasons, including,
of the transaction, the expected timing Adjusted EBITDA $896,779
among others: competition, our ability
of the transaction or whether it will be
to maintain user rates on our higher
27
Match Group Impact Report 2021
Impact Report 2021
CONTACT
Investor relations
ir@match.com
www.mtch.com
