Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Creating
meaningful
connections
Impact Report 2023
Match Group Impact Report 2023 1
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Contents
Global presence. Revolutionary technology.
Deeper connections.
Welcome 2 People 14 Governance 35
Message from the CEO 3 Diversity, equity, and inclusion 15 Corporate governance 36
About us 4 Talent acquisition and retention 18 Data security and data privacy 38
Employee development 21
ESG strategy 6 Read more 40
UN Sustainable Development 7 Community 24 About this report 40
Goals
Community investment 25 Awards 41
Underrepresented 30 Performance table 42
Safety 8 empowerment
SASB report 43
Safety strategy 9 TCFD report 49
Safety pillars 11 Environment 31
Environmental impact 32
Climate change 34
Match Group Impact Report 2023 2
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Message from the CEO
Bringing people together through meaningful
connections
▪ Ensuring the trust and safety of institutions. Our actions in these ▪ Beyond all of these efforts, I believe
our users is a core pillar of how we areas are not only a symbol of our that investing in and supporting
“Our relentless focus on our mission
operate. We continue to invest in dedication to human rights, fair labor, our employees to create a strong
of creating connections is more
and implement many new features sustaining the environment, and team culture is perhaps the most
critical now than ever. With the to enhance the safety of those anti-corruption, but they reinforce important factor of business success.
programs highlighted in this report, on our apps and meeting in real our duty and active undertakings to Together with the other leaders in
life. We reorganized our internal uphold the Ten Principles of the UN our newly established executive
plus the many more on the horizon,
teams leading these initiatives to Global Compact. leadership team, we have focused
Match Group has a strong foundation provide better cross-brand sharing on fostering key talent development
from which we will continue to build of our most effective strategies. ▪ Our desire to improve the natural programs at all levels; initiating
We continued to reach out to law world was also on full display this feedback forums to truly listen and
in the years ahead.”
enforcement, regulators, NGOs, year. We maintained our previously respond to input from our teams;
and other experts to deepen our achieved goal to be carbon neutral, and establishing an environment of
—BERNARD KIM, Chief Executive Officer
awareness and understanding of and are shifting towards more transparency, collaboration, inclusion,
of Match Group
key topics so we can create a safer sustainably built new and existing and trust across our entire portfolio.
ecosystem for everyone. office spaces, among many
other efforts. Systemic challenges will continue
▪ We enhanced our commitment to around the world, which deepens the
responsible and ethical business Perhaps my favorite initiative is from economic and societal uncertainty felt
practices by joining the United an idea submitted by one of our by so many. Our relentless focus on
Over the past year, I have been continually awestruck by the dedication and focus Nations Global Compact. Although employees. We now plant a tree our mission of creating connections is
at Match Group on creating and championing connections for singles all over the we support all of the UN’s Sustainable for couples who inform us of their more critical now than ever. With the
world. Every day, our work enables meaningful relationships for people regardless Development Goals, we believe we successful connection made on programs highlighted in this report,
of their age, demographics, or geography. We pair that passion with a deep focus can make a meaningful difference some of our apps – as a way to both plus the many more on the horizon,
on creating connections for our employees and within the global communities by focusing heavily on six of the key symbolically and literally allow us to Match Group has a strong foundation
where we operate. goals – good health and wellbeing, watch their love grow. from which we will continue to build
quality education, gender equality, in the years ahead. We value your
I am incredibly proud of the scale and impact of the programs we provide, our reduced inequalities, climate action, partnership in our journey.
partners in amplifying these initiatives, and our ongoing commitment to listening, and peace, justice and strong
learning, growing, and evolving. I’d like to highlight just a few of our advances:
Match Group Impact Report 2023 3
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
About us
Building a global technology company to connect people
At Match Group, our mission is to spark $3.2bn
meaningful connections for every
Revenue1
single person worldwide.
OVERVIEW an enhanced ability to establish safe
$1.1bn
We pioneered the concept of online and inclusive spaces, disrupt their
dating more than 25 years ago. Since category, raise the bar for our industry,
Adjusted Operating Income1
then, hundreds of millions of people and revolutionize the way people
have used our brands’ services to meet.
create meaningful connections
We’re relentless in our pursuit to
around the world and across a
evolve our diverse portfolio of apps, 16.3m
spectrum of age, race, gender, sexual
and we’re committed to fulfilling our
orientation, ability, and backgrounds.
mission responsibly, while maximizing Average Payers1, 2
By remaining on the cutting edge our positive global impact.
of technology, we’ve continued to
innovate within the category we
built—developing a diverse portfolio 2,700+
of leading brands under one trusted
umbrella. From there, our brands have Employees worldwide
1 Metrics for the year 2022. Adjusted Operating Income is a non-GAAP financial measure which is in addition to Operating Income, which is a financial measure presented in accordance
with U.S. GAAP. Adjusted Operating Income is not a substitute for, or superior to, Operating Income. See page 51 for a reconciliation of Adjusted Operating Income to Operating Income.
2 “Payers’’ are unique users at a brand level in a given month from whom we earned Direct Revenue. Direct Revenue is revenue that is received directly from end users of our services
and includes both subscription and à la carte revenue. When presented as a quarter-to-date or year-to date value, Payers represents the average of the monthly values for the
respective period presented. At a consolidated level, duplicate Payers may exist when we earn revenue from the same individual at multiple brands in a given month, as we are unable
to identify unique individuals across brands in the Match Group portfolio. Our global portfolio of brands includes Tinder®, Hinge®, Match®, Meetic®, OkCupid®, Pairs™, PlentyOfFish®,
Azar®, Hakuna™, and more, each built to increase our users’ likelihood of connecting with others.
Match Group Impact Report 2023 4
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Match Group celebrates connection
SWIPING RIGHT ON LOVE FINDING LOVE AROUND THE CORNER GOING THE DISTANCE FOR REAL LOVE
Emily & Joe Chenlu & Ross Michael & Marc
Matched on: Tinder Matched on: Hinge Matched on: BLK
“I wouldn’t have met my best friend and wife-to-be “People say dating apps are hard, but I only had to “It was nice to see that there was a dating app for
without you, Tinder.” go on one date!” black singles to meet and connect.”
OUR LARGEST BRANDS
TINDER HINGE MATCH MEETIC OKCUPID PAIRS
▪ Launched in 2012 ▪ Launched in 2011 ▪ Launched in 1995 ▪ Launched in 2001 ▪ Launched in 2004 ▪ Launched in 2012
▪ World’s most ▪ Designed to be Deleted®: ▪ Created millions of ▪ A leading dating ▪ Uses daters’ responses ▪ A leading dating
popular app for dating app for the love stories as a top service in Europe, to its iconic, in-depth app in Japan
meeting new modern millennial, destination for singles enabling its members questions to match singles
people getting them off the app looking for a long-term to find meaningful based on the things that
and out on great dates relationship connections matter to them
PLENTY OF FISH AZAR HAKUNA CHISPA BLK THE LEAGUE
▪ Launched in 2003 ▪ Launched in 2014 ▪ Launched in 2019 ▪ Launched in 2017 ▪ Launched in 2017 ▪ Launched in 2015
▪ Offers a low-pressure ▪ A leading 1:1 live chat and ▪ Interactive, social live ▪ A leading dating ▪ A leading dating and ▪ Designed to serve
user experience, video app with user base streaming app app for U.S. Latin lifestyle app for Black highly ambitious,
and live streaming, predominantly in Asia enabling group video singles singles career-oriented
helping people to and audio broadcast singles
match and meet
Match Group Impact Report 2023 5
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
ESG strategy
Empowering connection around the world
OUR VISION Through this process, we have In 2022, Match Group joined the OUR STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK ENVIRONMENT
Connecting to the world around us
At Match Group, we recognize our identified the following ESG issues as United Nations Global Compact,
place in this interconnected world. those most relevant: a voluntary leadership platform for
As our brands strive to create safe, – Safety the development, implementation,
inclusive spaces to enable people and disclosure of responsible,
– Data security
around the world to make meaningful ethical business practices. By
– Data privacy
connections, we also seek to make becoming signatories, Match Group
SAFETY
positive, global contributions – Diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) and our brands commit to uphold Creating a safer
through our environmental, social, – People development the Ten Principles of the UN Global environment for all
and governance (ESG) strategy and Compact on human rights, labor,
– Climate change
practices. environment, and anti-corruption.
We intend to continue to review our
Throughout this report and in the
OUR APPROACH priority ESG issues in line with our
read more section we provide an
Safety, inclusivity, and privacy are regular business planning and risk VISION
update on our progress in line with Governance Creating People
among the top priorities of our management processes. these ESG reporting frameworks and Cultivating a culture Meaningful Building diverse
business, our stakeholders, and the Our report focuses primarily on these on our commitments. of integrity Connections teams and inclusive
communities we impact. To this and reliability workplace
key material issues and is informed
end, we conducted an assessment
by the Sustainability Accounting
to identify opportunities to align our
Standards Board (SASB) and the
ESG initiatives and practices with our
Task Force on Climate-Related
business priorities.
Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
reporting frameworks. We also report
Privacy
on our alignment with the
Providing data security
United Nations Sustainable and privacy
Development Goals (SDGs).
COMMUNITY
Generating impact through
community connection
Match Group Impact Report 2023 6
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals
Making a positive impact through business strategy
The United Nations’ Sustainable Match Group will be participating WE SUPPORT THE FOLLOWING SIX SDGs:
Development Goals (SDGs) are a in the UN Global Compact’s SDG
collaborative, global effort to achieve Innovation Accelerator for Young
a better and more sustainable future Professionals in 2023, a nine-month
for all. Represented by 17 global goals program that empowers young Match Goal 3: Good Health Goal 10: Reduced Inequalities
and 169 targets, the SDGs address Group employees with the tools to and Well-being Reduce inequality within and
challenges of poverty, inequality, collaborate and accelerate business Ensure healthy lives and promote among countries.
climate change, environmental innovation towards the SDGs. wellbeing for all at all ages.
degradation, peace, and justice. Through this program, participants
will engage in learning opportunities
We support this effort. Throughout while building a network of global
Match Group, we consider peers invested in sustainable
Goal 4: Quality Education Goal 13: Climate Action
opportunities to align our business development. Match Group also
Ensure inclusive and equitable Take urgent action to combat
activities and key priority areas with benefits by developing talent
quality education and climate change and its impacts.
the SDGs and have identified key that seeks to solve sustainability
opportunities for all.
areas where we have the greatest challenges and helps us foster an
influence and impact through environment within our company that
our business strategy, platforms, celebrates globally minded individuals
and services. While we remain who seek to better the world.
committed to responsibly managing
Goal 5: Gender Equality Goal 16: Peace, Justice and
our operations and supporting our Achieve gender equality and Strong Institutions
communities in line with all SDGs, we empower all women and girls. Promote peaceful and inclusive
have a direct, positive contribution to societies for sustainable
six of the 17 SDGs. development.
Match Group Impact Report 2023 7
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
SAFETY
Providing a safer
environment for all
At Match Group, our mission is to spark meaningful
connections for every single person worldwide.
In order for our members to feel comfortable
being authentic and vulnerable, we must foster
environments where they feel safe to do so. We
have implemented an organizational structure that
we believe is helping us to build a foundation of
authenticity, empathy, equity, care, and respect for
CONTENTS
our users and the communities our platforms touch.
Safety strategy 9
Safety pillars 11
Match Group Impact Report 2023 8
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Safety strategy
Building a community centered on safety
OUR VISION As an industry leader, our work on venturing into the world of romantic Safety Features teams together under a single leader.
We aim to build an authentic, safety is never done and it’s the reason connections. Those strategies Constantly improving our features We have also realigned our Policy,
equitable, and respectful community, we remain committed to continuously target four key pillars: Trust and and services and future offerings to Data, and Operations team, which
free from all forms of harm. To realize enhancing our practices and policies, Safety Operations, Social Advocacy, prioritize consumer safety in all facets oversees trust and safety strategy
this vision, we apply our safety values. as well as working with experts to Law Enforcement Operations and of production and activation. and liaises with community partners
Put people first. Prioritize individual ensure safety is always top of mind. Investigations, and Safety Features. that become involved in incidents
safety. Respect individual privacy and Our executive team—comprised of STRENGTHENING OUR TRUST involving our brands. This team also
autonomy. Operate with integrity. brand CEOs, Match Group’s CEO, Trust and Safety Operations AND SAFETY TEAM encompasses the critical safety team
and other Match Group executives— Achieving operational safety excellence To build safer and more inclusive and a newly blended team overseeing
OUR APPROACH receives monthly briefings on relevant through cross-portfolio support. dating experiences for both in- law enforcement intake and outreach,
The safety of our users and our safety matters and associated metrics. app and in-person interactions, as well as moderation processes
community is one of our top priorities The Audit Committee of the Board of S ocial Advocacy we are committed to continually for child safety and registered sex
and we intend to lead by setting the Directors receives quarterly updates, Building partnerships to advocate strengthening our safety initiatives offenders.
highest overall safety standards in our and the full Board of Directors is for communities most impacted and investing in industry leading
Match Group’s social advocacy efforts
industry and to continue improving briefed on safety matters regularly. by violence and oppression, both safety solutions. For better alignment
seek to expand our social impact
on those standards. We also recognize internally with our employees and efficiency across the portfolio,
efforts and partnerships with leading
the widespread impact we have on SAFETY FRAMEWORK and externally within our broader we restructured to bring the Match
NGOs and advocacy groups.
making dating safer for everyone. Our safety framework guides our ecosystem. Group and Tinder Trust and Safety
For example, we have continued brands in preventing and responding
to promote the safety of users by to harms facilitated by the misuse Law Enforcement Operations
investing in new innovative safety of our platforms. Each brand has and Investigations
features and technology across the its own safety team comprised Building collaborative partnerships
portfolio, such as the expansion of Are of representatives from Product through outreach and proactive $125m+
You Sure? Does This Bother You?, and Development and Customer Care. engagement with law enforcement
implementing a trauma informed, Our extensive network of safety and safety experts to gain insights
survivor centric support structure professionals have employed a on trends to inform brands on safety our investment in trust
across all of our brands. variety of strategies to ensure our policy, features, and initiatives. and safety in 2022
users limit their risk exposure when
Match Group Impact Report 2023 9
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Safety strategy
Cross-brand global safety campaigns
ROMANCE SCAMS
Match Group Advisory Council DIGITAL CONSENT CAMPAIGN
We recently launched our first global, portfolio-wide user education campaign
Formed in 2018, the Match Group In partnership with the Match Group
focusing on romance scams, with an emphasis on cryptocurrency crimes. Brands
Advisory Council (MGAC) includes leading Communications and Social Advocacy
across the portfolio—including Tinder, Hinge, Match, Plenty of Fish, and Meetic—
safety advocates and crime prevention teams, the MGAC, and the National
provided users with resources and knowledge, including the following tips, to help
advisors. MGAC meets regularly to review keep them safe: Sexual Violence Resource Center (NSVRC),
and assess the safety of our platforms
we launched our first digital consent
and to advise on critical issues, such 1. Stay on the app as long as possible: Scammers will attempt to get you on to another
campaign, offering tips to help users across
as the prevention of sexual assault, platform quickly. If the match wants to move platforms but still does not want to meet
five apps define personal boundaries and
dating violence, sex trafficking, and up or video call it is a red flag.
explain the lines of communication that
harassment. We recently added our first 2. Use the tools available in-app: Verify your profile with Photo Verification and look out for
make them feel most comfortable. Each
global representative to the MGAC from the verification check on your matches. You can also set up video chats before meeting
NO MORE, a non-profit organization in person. If your date can’t do any of these things, it’s a red flag. of the campaign’s core tenets provided
dedicated to helping stop domestic unique insights into how users can ensure
violence and sexual assault in homes and 3. They’re a 10 but a crypto expert: If a new love interest is giving you crypto or their own safety through intentional and
investment advice, there is a high probability that it’s a scam. Always report these
communities around the world. thoughtful actions. The campaign also
interactions back to the platform where you met.
explained how users can take action
Looking forward 4. The promise of a big return on investment or help to secure your financial future: against unsafe actors and behaviors
In working with NGOs, safety experts, and According to experts, scammers will use techniques to focus on how a large sum of by using the Report a Concern feature
law enforcement around the world, we returns could improve your life. Be skeptical of anyone who wants to teach you how to
within the apps or reporting directly to a
are able to understand the latest trends invest and make money.
respective apps Customer Care team.
and continue investing in technology
5. They may play on your heart strings and appear to be desperate: Scammers often
and enhancing our policies. As part of
claim they need money for a visa, customs fees, surgeries, family medical bills, car
this ongoing work, we intend to continue
repairs, or plane tickets to visit.
to focus on leveraging technology and
building practices that make dating safer 6. Scams can look different and constantly evolve. Keep your guard up and stay vigilant:
for everyone. Scammers often don’t start talking about finance until months later after they’ve gained
your trust. It’s best to never send or receive money via a wire transfer, money order,
currency exchange, gift card or investment with someone you’ve never met in person.
Match Group Impact Report 2023 10
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Our safety pillars
Maximizing our safety efforts
TRUST AND SAFETY OPERATIONS SOCIAL ADVOCACY Sidaction, Sidragtion, The Transgender
Match Group is using industry-leading Match Group’s investment of cross- District, Trauma Stewardship
automated and manual moderation functional resources in our safety Institute, Ujima: The National Center
and review tools, systems, and and advocacy efforts helps ensure on Violence Against Women in the
processes to identify, monitor, and our users are aware of risks in their Black Community, WAVA Rape
remove bad actors who have violated communities and informed of Match Crisis Centre, The Women’s Services
company terms. These tools include Group’s vigilant efforts to help them Network (WESNET), and Yubaa. These
automatic scans of profiles for red- feel safe and supported. We support organizations support a diverse
flag language and images, manual personal safety, human rights, range of communities, including
reviews of suspicious profiles, activity, mental health awareness, and suicide women, sexual and dating violence
and user generated reports, as well prevention causes around the world survivors, transgender people, and
as blocking email addresses, phone and partner with globally-recognized financial scam survivors. Many of
numbers, and other identifiers. NGOs to inform our safety strategy, these organizations spoke at our in-
advocacy efforts, policies, and culture. person Safety Summit to share expert
The Match Group Trust and Safety
guidance.
team involves a number of individuals We expand our engagement with
focused on users’ personal safety as outside organizations from year to
Tinder France partnered with the
well as oversight bodies that ensure year. We collaborated with expert
French government and launched a
users around the world are aware of non-profit and NGO partners globally
safety campaign on the International
potentially unsafe situations and how to facilitate safety-related training,
Day for the Elimination of Violence
to handle them. Our critical response consultation, campaigns, and
against Women. The campaign
teams then act when users report research across the portfolio. Among
received public support from the
unsafe behaviors. our 2022 partners are Cybercrime
government. In the UK, Tinder’s
Support Network, Groupe SOS, the
partnership with NO MORE enables
Human Rights Campaign, Me Too
us to build healthy dating guides with
Movement, NO MORE, Qmunity,
safe dating tips.
Match Group Impact Report 2023 11
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
LAW ENFORCEMENT OPERATIONS of Attorneys General and National Commission. In August, we presented
AND INVESTIGATIONS Center for Victims of Crimes. We at the Bali Process Working Group
To ensure that we are true partners were invited to sit on two boards— in Trafficking in Persons event Building safer communities with the
in alleviating potential violence that Cybercrime Support Network and the regarding our efforts to combat Transgender District
may put our users at risk, Match International Association of Financial trafficking and on what more we can
Group stays connected to law Crimes Investigators—to support our do to be a partner in the fight against
In support of LGBTQ+ populations on our platforms, the Match Group
enforcement agencies and NGOs commitment to building collaborative trafficking of persons internationally.
Consumer Insights team hosted the globally recognized Transgender
around the world. We engaged with partnerships, both proactively and In September and October, we
District for an in-person focus group discussion in Los Angeles. The
more than 100 law enforcement reactively. We also collaborated with participated as a panel member
Transgender District highlighted the importance of digital spaces for
experts globally to identify and several financial crimes investigators at the WESNET Tech Summit and
the LGBTQ+ community and the ways in which queer and transgender
discuss potential safety challenges to create tips and identify common at the ANZPAA Police Conference,
people find joy on dating apps. They also worked together to identify
related to online dating and tech- behaviors of romance scammers to respectively. In November, we focused
opportunities to optimize the experience for transgender people
facilitated abuse. Many members of help educate users on ways to protect on safety in discussions with federal
and to learn ways in which Match Group brands could better foster
our Trust and Safety team are former themselves. policy and lawmakers as well as the
an inclusive environment and continue to make more meaningful
law enforcement experts and bring country’s Attorney General’s Office
connections for LGBTQ+ people.
invaluable experience. International Outreach and the Federal Police to ensure we
and Engagement are continuing to do our part to help
Together, we co-hosted educational training sessions entitled
Domestic Outreach and Engagement In the fight against human trafficking create safer communities online and
“Love in the 21st Century” and “Dating and Intimacy Experiences of
We recognize that safety awareness internationally, we partnered with in real life.
Transgender Men,” designed to help Match Group employees better
and education continues to the Australia New Zealand Police
understand the trans experience and difficulties encountered by the
be a focus, and that proactive Advisory Agency (ANZPAA) to receive
trans community in online dating.
engagement with law enforcement feedback and support on sexual
and other safety stakeholders is violence policies as well as being part
These teach-ins offered opportunities for all Match Group employees
critical to our approach to holistic of several roundtables and working
to hear about these experiences and together brainstorm potential
safety education. We spoke on group sessions with state and federal
improvements. For example, offering a nonbinary identity option
panels with the National Association police and the Australian e-Safety
and adding inclusive gender identity categories can support trans
individuals through every step of their transition. These events helped
participants and audience members focus on developing more
inclusive apps by creating visible digital spaces where trans dating and
relationships can be further normalized.
Match Group Impact Report 2023 12
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
SAFETY FEATURES Liveness Check to confirm that it’s a to Garbo, and in 2022, these efforts
We continue to invest in innovative live video and not digitally altered. were expanded to Match, Stir, and
Law enforcement portal
technology to improve user safety. In addition, the safety feature Plenty of Fish.
We utilize a network of industry- compares the face in the video to the
A number of the safety efforts we
leading automated and manual user’s profile photos to help verify that In order to quickly deal with the most critical safety incidents, we have
implemented throughout the year
moderation and review tools, systems, both are the same person. a specialist team focusing on serious safety escalations. In 2021, we
are unique to the users and strategy
and processes—and continuous launched a law enforcement portal to enhance and expedite the legal
By leveraging AI tools that proactively of each platform, including an
investments—to prevent, monitor request process from law enforcement agencies. Prior to the launch
detect language that could be integrated crisis text line offered for
and remove bad actors who have of our portal, no other company in our industry had been able to offer
harmful or deemed harassment, there complimentary use in-app on Hinge
violated our terms of service. These consolidated resources to help external law enforcement officials access
is an opportunity to educate users in and Plenty of Fish to ensure users
tools include automatic scans of information they need to ensure community safety. Through the portal,
real time and to inform their choices have access to free and immediate
profiles for red-flag language and verified public safety and law enforcement professionals can make a
and decisions before a message is mental health services. This year, Stir
images, manual reviews of suspicious general inquiry to check whether a user has a profile on an app and
sent on the app. worked with the National Center for
profiles, activity, and user generated whether there is information available; a legal request for more detailed
Missing and Exploited Children to
reports, as well as blocking email Match Group partnered with Garbo, data supported by a warrant, court order, subpoena, or similar legal
create safety tips and review features
addresses, phone numbers, and a U.S.-based, female-founded document; and an emergency request to assist in responding to an
for safety concerns.
other identifiers. We expanded the background check platform imminent safety threat. In 2022, we saw a continued increase in portal
use of photo verification technology that provides access to historical Pairs implemented effective anti- use by law enforcement. This tool has become a vital aspect of our safety
across our brands, allowing members information about violence and fraud measures, produced a user operations. In 2023, we intend to roll out the portal internationally as
to make more informed decisions abuse, empowering people to make education video about romance we continue to build partnerships with safety organizations and law
about whom they interact with on informed decisions about their scams, and held a workshop on enforcement agencies globally.
our platforms. The feature asks users personal safety. Tinder was the first romance scams in Japan.
to take a video selfie and performs a Match Group brand to provide access
Match Group Impact Report 2023 13
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
PEOPLE
Creating a sense of
belonging for all
At Match Group, we are committed to creating a
safe and inclusive workplace where all people can
connect, contribute, belong, and thrive. When our
people thrive, our company can thrive, and we can
continue to develop innovative products that are
as diverse as the people who use them.
CONTENTS
Diversity, equity, and inclusion 15
Talent acquisition and retention 18
Employee development 21
Match Group Impact Report 2023 14
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Diversity, equity, and inclusion
Creating an environment where all voices can be heard
OUR VISION since forged new relationships with We understand that changing culture, OUR DEI FRAMEWORK
Our DEI mission is to make Match external organizations to help us structure, and representation in a
Group a global leader in connecting more effectively recruit and retain thoughtful, respectful, and authentic MISSION
diverse people in an inclusive diverse employees. We’ve turned way requires time, commitment, and
environment with the best resources
to our partners for learning and collaboration. We continue to strive to
on the most equitable platforms.
development opportunities that focus better understand and learn from one Workforce Workplace Marketplace
on capacity building. We’ve leaned another and treat one another with
OUR APPROACH Connect the most Working in the most Anticipating and
into industry partners to better serve respect. Working together, we have innovative diverse inclusive, equitable, meeting the needs
On our platforms, we are committed
marginalized communities around defined what diversity, equity, and global workforce and engaging of our diverse
to ensuring equitable and inclusive
the world. inclusion should look like across our workplace consumers, striving
experiences for our diverse
brands and developed policies and to create equitable
consumers globally. Working closely with our brands, experiences as a
practices to support our DEI strategy
Match Group’s DEI team has also leader in the global
across three key pillars: Workforce,
We aim to cultivate a diverse concentrated on several internal marketplace
Workplace, and Marketplace.
workforce of individuals from all workstreams to make DEI an integral
backgrounds and empower them to part of our culture and priorities:
NEAR-TERM ACTION PRIORITIES
flourish and contribute their full set of
Training | Communications | Compliance | DEI Strategic Business Plans
– Raising awareness through
skills and capabilities.
company-wide programming
When we set out to build the
- Accountability - Employee Resource - Strategic Partnership
infrastructure to support our DEI – Investing in strategic partnerships
- Data Transparency Groups - Supplier Diversity
mission in 2021, Match Group and policymaking around equity - Career Development - Inclusive Benefits
created a senior leadership position, and inclusion
dedicated solely to building an
– Infusing DEI into existing
inclusive and equitable workplace LONG-TERM ACTION PRIORITIES
processes
and creating accountability for
our DEI commitment. With our – Incentivizing equity and inclusion - Representation - Build Community - Brand Recognition
Head of DEI at the helm, we have in employee job performance - Accountability - Inclusive Design
Match Group Impact Report 2023 15
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS
Match Group’s mission starts with Match Group: Hinge:
the people across our business who
innovate, design, and dream up new
ideas every day. Through the growth
of our Employee Resource Groups Tinder:
(ERGs), we have found effective
mechanisms to support a diverse
workforce of forward-thinking,
globally-minded individuals. Each
with an independent budget and the
autonomy to plan its own programs,
our ERGs empower all employees Advancing women leaders and the SDGS Supporting and growing ®
to build communities, create Tinder’s diverse workforce
To advance the goals of the SDGs and women leaders globally, we continued our support of
meaningful connections, share ideas,
and push the limits of progress. Vital Voices, a venture catalyst partnership investing in women. In 2022, we were a sponsor Tinder ERGs hosted a number of events to discuss
of their WE Empower UN SDG Challenge, the first of-its-kind global competition for social women’s rights and bodily autonomy, the Iran
Our ERGs also enable our entrepreneurs who are advancing the SDGs and inspiring others to follow suit. Awardees conflict, the war in Ukraine, and the impact of mass
organization to identify areas where were provided with capacity-building training sessions and opportunities to connect with a shootings across the U.S. Tinder added four new ERGs
we can better support our people. global network to advance their enterprises. in 2022: Womxn of Color@ Tinder, Gen Z@ Tinder,
In 2021, we created a dedicated role In addition, Match Group supported the Vital Voices Mentees from The Fortune – U.S. EMEA Pride@ Tinder, and EMEA Women@ Tinder.
within our DEI team to lead our ERG Department of State Global Women’s Mentoring Partnership, a public-private partnership Heart 2 Heart and Listening Sessions hosted our ERGs
efforts and built a strategic roadmap between Fortune Most Powerful Women, the U.S. Department of State, and Vital Voices. In to help ensure our employee experiences are curated
for ERGs across our brands. addition to financial support, Match Group provided executive women mentees to support with DEI as a priority.
the entrepreneurs. During the year, the DEI team continued to advance
Match Group’s ERGs have made
significant strides to promote unity, The program draws on the expertise of America’s most accomplished leaders to enhance the brand’s commitment to diversity and equity in the
equity, and learning. the business and leadership skills of international women professionals. During the program, hiring process. To ensure fair and equitable screening
mentees engage in skills trainings, panel discussions, networking events, and a mentorship processes, the team involved Tinder’s ERGs in hiring
program with top women executives and their teams. Mentees gain critical business and panels and recruitment events.
leadership skills and the inspiration to pay it forward, accelerating positive change in their
home communities. Now in its 17th year, the program includes 351 alumnae from 58 countries
and territories.
Match Group Impact Report 2023 16
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
ADAPTIVE LEADERSHIP TRAINING As in previous audits, we also again named among the “Best Places ETHNIC DIVERSITY IN OUR ETHNIC DIVERSITY IN OUR
Successfully shaping equitable and conducted a manual analysis of to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality” for 2022 U.S. POPULATION1 U.S. LEADERSHIP2
inclusive cultures requires a company- small groups not fully covered by the with a top score of 100 on the CEI.
wide approach, driven by purposeful original study and did further research
The CEI’s rigorous criteria measure
leaders. We rolled out a four-part based on those findings. To keep
U.S. companies’ policies, benefits, and
Adaptive Leadership Training series, employees engaged and informed,
practices across four categories:
designed to activate executives we shared the findings of the audit
across all brands and equip them with teams across Match Group and – Providing workplace protections
with inclusive mindsets, behaviors, will continue to report on any actions for sexual orientation and gender
skills, and tools to foster engagement we take. identity and expression
and belonging within their teams.
We’re building our approach to – Offering inclusive benefits for
As of the end of 2022, 135 executives White 45% White 58%
completed the training. pay equity into our day-to-day LGBTQ+ employees and their Asian 27% Asian 18%
compensation management and families Hispanic/Latin 10% Hispanic/Latin 5%
will continue to refine our analysis Black/African 8% Black/African 7%
ENSURING PAY EQUITY going forward. We are exploring – Maintaining a commitment to a American American
Other/Not specified 11% Other/Not specified 12%
We conducted our annual a number of areas to expand in diverse and inclusive culture
comprehensive pay equity audit
2023, including analysis of equity
– Demonstrating corporate social
across Match Group with an outside
compensation, gender identity, and
responsibility through LGBTQ+
partner, Syndio. In addition to
sexual orientation.
providing analysis by se x globally and specific engagement GENDER DIVERSITY IN OUR GENDER DIVERSITY IN OUR
GLOBAL POPULATION1 GLOBAL LEADERSHIP²
by race/ethnicity within the U.S., our
CORPORATE EQUALITY For the full list of CEI criteria, visit the
2022 audit also included pay data
Match Group remains committed HRC Foundation’s website.
insights for intersectionality, which
to implementing comprehensive
reviews race and sex of minority
policies, benefits, and practices that
groups compared to majority groups.
ensure greater equity for LGBTQ+
The audit identified a limited number
workers and their families. We
of individuals from similarly situation
participate in the Human Rights
groups for which redemption was
Campaign (HRC) Foundation’s
warranted. These groups were
Corporate Equity Index (CEI)—a
remediated during our 2022 year end
roadmap and benchmarking tool
compensation cycle, at which time we
that measures LGBTQ+ equality in the Male 59% Male 61%
achieved pay equity throughout the workplace. Match Group was once Female 41% Female 39%
organization. Not specified 0.1% Not specified 0%
1 Totals may not sum to 100% due to rounding.
2 Our leadership consists of Director level and above.
Match Group Impact Report 2023 17
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Talent acquisition and retention
Building balanced and representative teams across
brands and continents
OUR VISION unique needs of employees around INTERNSHIP PROGRAMS senior-most leaders, lunch and learns, ENGAGING EMPLOYEES
Our businesses grow by attracting, the world, and ensure we are offering Creating mechanisms to develop hackathons, and more. Members of Research has shown that when
encouraging, engaging, and retaining competitive benefits packages and talent from the earliest stages of the People teams from across Match companies create inclusive
the best talent. This has resulted in an opportunities for our people. Match professional growth has enabled Group brands facilitate personal and environments where all people feel
outstanding team of approximately Group has established a number of Match Group brands to grow a professional development workshops, they have a voice, they’re six times
2,700 colleagues across 23 c ountries, key People functions to operate as highly skilled workforce comprised including educational sessions more likely to be innovative and
each dedicated to bringing people centers of excellence to set our People of industry-leading individuals across on personal branding and other agile and eight times more likely
together. strategy—chief among them, systems, operational areas. Internships at topics of interest. Interns’ ideas and to achieve business outcomes. At
compensation, and benefits. We our brands provide mechanisms to solutions are often integrated into Match Group, we use a number of
OUR APPROACH also work with local People business support students and advance our our services, ultimately elevating our engagement methods to ask for and
This year, Match Group expanded its partners across individual brands to development of a robust pipeline of member experience. Opportunities act on feedback from our employees
focus and commitment to investing ensure best practices translate for diverse talent. exist to extend internships beyond across our operations, including pulse
in the development and retention the unique needs and culture of our the summer term, from part-time surveys and annual engagement
of our employees. We’ve evolved our global employee base. Our two summer internship programs internships during fall and spring surveys.
programs to ensure we are keeping include the TindershipTM program semesters to conversion to full-time
In our 2022 engagement survey,
employees engaged and aiding in ATTRACTING THE BEST TALENT and the Match Group Fellowship, an roles post graduation.
employee feedback highlighted a
their growth throughout their time We leverage our global footprint and umbrella opportunity for our North
In our post-internship exit survey, number of growth opportunities and
at our brands. Our People strategy the diversity of our portfolio to recruit American brands. The Match Group
100% of the 2022 Tindership cohort areas for improvement across our
takes a multi-faceted approach the best talent across Match Group. Fellowship begins with a DEI focus.
reported a favorable view of the operations and some bright spots
to recruitment, engagement, and At the corporate level, Match Group It is open to high-achieving college
experience. Among the survey’s to celebrate. As expected, our 2022
development, which strives to widen works closely with brands to centralize students from underrepresented
key findings was that access to and engagement score was slightly lower
our recruiting net to find talent from analytics, hiring insights, and candidate communities with students recruited
communication with managers than in past years, standing at 64%
diverse backgrounds, reward our search resources. We partner with directly from either INROADS or
and mentors made interns feel well (83% participation rate), attributed to
people, and prioritize their mobility, companies like Mogul to enhance the Correlation One’s Data Science for All
equipped to succeed in a professional a year of significant organizational
learning, and career development. pool of diverse internship candidates. program. All interns have access to the
setting after their time with Tinder. and leadership changes. We emerge
Our global People teams identify the
Match Group Impact Report 2023 18
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
from these changes steadfast, The survey brought into focus the ENCOURAGING AN
encouraged, and optimistic about need for continued development OWNERSHIP CULTURE
the organizational structure, and in the area of cohesion and We have an Employee Stock
strong and thoughtful leadership. We connectivity for employees. To Purchase Plan (ESPP) to provide all
remain excited about our compelling address employees’ needs, we’ll begin our employees with the opportunity
strategic roadmap that will ground by working to improve executive to own shares in Match Group and
us around long-term growth and communications with our global share in our future success.. Through
investment in innovation. employee base. Strategies include this program, eligible employees can Investing in black talent
increased employee communication purchase Match Group common
To engage employees, our vehicles that more frequently frame stock at a discounted purchase In a continued effort to cultivate strategic partnerships focused on
communication and engagement leadership’s vision for the future and price through automatic payroll DEI, Match Group sent nearly 40 employees across brands to AfroTech
practices across our brands CEO spotlights to share upcoming deductions. Regular employees 2022, the largest Black tech conference in the U.S. This investment
must resonate with individuals. brand initiatives and to celebrate scheduled to work more than 20 in our Black talent provided professional opportunities to participate
Match Group implemented a product and marketing wins. hours per week in the U.S., Canada, in learning labs and think tanks. Our employees enhanced brand
comprehensive plan to more and France are eligible to participate. recognition among the AfroTech community and connected our
effectively align our engagement As we roll out this employee More than a third of eligible brands to a robust pipeline of diverse t alent.
practices with our people. communication and development
employees are currently enrolled in
plan and other efforts across Match
the ESPP.
Where employee feedback has
Group, we’ll continue to create
pointed to strengths within our
a culture that is suitable for our
processes and practices, we’ve
diversified company and—with a
elevated programs to continue
360-degree view of what it means to
enhancing the employee experience.
be an industry-leading workplace—
Overall, employees are happy with
explore new ways to improve the
the availability and strength of Match
employee experience for all.
Group’s benefits offerings, learning
opportunities, and leadership
development programs. Employees
highlighted our career development
activations and career enhancement
opportunities as essential to their
continued personal growth and
satisfaction at work.
Match Group Impact Report 2023 19
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
PROVIDING A FULL RANGE OF their spouses/domestic partners to Compensation packages
COMPETITIVE BENEFITS1 $10,000. For 2023, we have added
Match Group is proud to offer our more benefits, including a partnership Pay Training Other benefits
temporary employees the same with Milk Stork, which provides – Competitive salary – Training and education – Employee stock
comprehensive and competitive working parents access to breast milk – Retirement matching funds2 allowance purchase program
benefits package we offer our regular shipping when traveling for business, – Performance bonuses – Work from home allowance
employees—a competitive offering we employee relocation, and adoption/ – Commuter subsidy
rolled out in 2022. surrogacy. New parents also receive a
Health and wellness benefits
meal gift card to help them adjust to
In 2021, we made significant
their new lives. Health benefits Wellbeing
enhancements to our U.S. parental Family forming
leave policy. Recognizing the Our expanded mental health benefit – Medical insurance – Wellness program – Fertility, adoption, and
important role that non-birth parents offerings for 2023 include unlimited – Dental insurance – Mental health coaching surrogacy4
have in caring for a new c hild, we access to counseling, available to – Vision insurance and counseling – Milk Stork
expanded our policy to provide parity employees and their dependents. – Concierge medical services – Meditation services Life and disability
between new parents, and now Employees can also now access
– Health Savings Account3 – Life and accident insurance
offer fully paid leave of 20 weeks for Insight Timer—a meditation app
– Disability insurance
both the birth and non-birth parent. that helps make meditation easy,
This is an increase from 16 weeks for convenient, and engaging—as well
Personal time off and leave
the birth parent and 12 weeks for as thousands of wellness courses and
the supporting parent. This benefit offline listening at no cost. To help Vacation Leave Community service
applies to all parents with a new employees who are enrolled in our – Paid vacation time – Parental leave5 – Dollar for Doers volunteer
child, including through adoption self-insured medical plans and have program6
– Local holidays – Compassionate leave
or surrogacy. We also expanded our difficulty finding in-network mental – Birthday off at select brands (including miscarriages) – Paid community service time
family planning policy to include health care, we also lowered our
– Wellness days – Paid Military leave – Charitable matching program7
adoption, surrogacy, and IVF coinsurance rates for out-of-network
expenses, and increased the family healthcare costs.
forming stipend for employees and
Authenticity at work
DEI Other benefits
1 Benefits and practices vary and are consistent with local laws.
2 401k retirement plan support that is matched 10% up to $10,000. – Employee Resource Groups – Discount programs
3 Employees who elect the high deductible plan will receive at least $500 per employee – DEI training – Flexible work from
($1,000 if more than one person is covered) deposited into a Health Savings Account on behalf of Match Group.
4 Up to $10,000 per employee and their spouse/domestic partner to use towards fertility preservation treatment, – Company celebrations of home options in many cases
adoption fees, surrogacy fees, and IVF treatments. heritage months – Come-as-you-are dress code
5 Fully paid parental leave of 20 weeks for both the birth and non-birth parent for employees who elect the high deductible plan.
6 $10 per hour volunteered added to employee’s giving account, up to $1,000. – Access to numerous – Pet discounts and insurance
7 Up to $15,000 per employee. external partners
Match Group Impact Report 2023 20
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Employee development
Empowering our people to reach their potential
OUR VISION We offer a variety of development CENTRALIZED DIGITAL PLATFORMS offerings are 60 individual instructor- we continued to expand the learning
Supporting our employees’ individual programs, including a global FOR CONNECTING AND LEARNING led training modules spanning 38 paths and programs available to our
growth incentivizes the development mentorship program open to Match Group launched a company- courses, as well as 135 individual employees, based on identified needs,
of new ideas and fuels innovation. employees at all levels of the wide intranet called Central, which information sessions on topics such including: becoming a manager,
At Match Group, we invest in organization. We also offer connects employees to more assets as mid-year and end-of-year reviews, developing project management
opportunities for people to learn, a personalized learning and related to benefits, employee-specific member experience shadowing, soft skills, engineering essentials, and
grow, and contribute at their highest development budget called Be initiatives, and the latest news and skills, and leadership. building confidence around verbal
potential. Your Best Self, which provides U.S. announcements about our platforms. and written communication skills.
employees with stipends to attend Central has become the go-to EXPANDED TOOLS TO GROW SKILLS
More than 1,100 Match Group
OUR APPROACH conferences, training seminars, resource for our employees. AND PURSUE PASSIONS
employees have enrolled in at least
Our employee development strategy professional certification workshops In 2021, Match Group’s online
one Udemy learning path to further
prioritizes fostering connections and courses, and other activities to We also launched a company-wide employee learning platform Udemy
develop their skills.
between employees, managers, support skills development. Global centralized learning management for Business became an essential
and teams across Match Group. brands also provide professional system in 2022. Through this digital tool for our employees to access
Because our global teams’ dynamics development opportunities. learning platform, we are able to continuous learning tools in a
and functions vary widely, we give expand offerings for our employees remote environment. This platform,
We take care to create training and
team leaders the flexibility to choose and agents embedded within select available for our full-time, permanent
development programs that are not
the most effective methods for third-party vendors—providing them employees, provides learning
only scalable and sustainable for
having those ongoing discussions. with flexible, on-demand learning paths and courses for core areas of
our operations but also valuable for
Frequent touchpoints and feedback opportunities. For 2023, we’ve vocational interest, as well as personal
employees. We’ll continue to evaluate
mechanisms help to empower our expanded the platform to add more interests, such as learning to garden
the most effective strategies to
global employee base and to create than 200 online training courses and or play the guitar. Throughout 2022,
develop and retain top talent through
leadership opportunities throughout compliance training. Among the new
continuous development programs.
our portfolio of brands.
Match Group Impact Report 2023 21
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
TRAINING MID-LEVEL MANAGERS PERFORMANCE REVIEW AND
Match Group created and formalized SUCCESSION PLANNING
Equity in career coaching
manager training and development Match Group continued to implement “Match Group Leadership
programs in 2022. We piloted a meaningful and practical feedback
Essentials provided me
North America mid-level manager mechanisms throughout 2022, Professional coaching is often used as a tool to support executives in
with tangible leadership
training program, Match Group including a performance review their personal, professional, and managerial development. At Match
Leadership Essentials (MGLE), with process designed to enhance the skills I could immediately Group, we believe this valuable resource should be scalable and
40 new managers. Plans for 2023 employee experience and improve accessible to all employees, not just our executives. To achieve this
put into use. The training
include expanding the program to retention and engagement. broad access, we rely on tools like Bravely, an on-demand coaching
reach and train more than double Managers are encouraged to has made me a stronger platform that connects participating employees with professional
the 2022 cohort in North America, connect with their direct reports for coaches. These online coaching sessions typically span about 45
people manager.”
as well as developing customized informal assessments and feedback minutes, can be accessed at any time, and remain confidential
programs for our global brands and throughout the year. They must also between employees and coaches.
—CAMILLE, Senior Manager,
creating additional networking and conduct formal performance and
Safety & Social Advocacy@ In 2022, 200 employees across Match Group’s global brands had
communication opportunities for development reviews at mid-year and
Match Group access to Bravely for coaching on performance, growth, work
participants. year-end.
relationships, and company culture. Match Group employees who
This seven-week, blended training Mid-year reviews center around used the Bravely platform reported having sought consulting on a
program featured independent informal and conversational aspects of range of topics, including:
work, live group sessions, and individual development and provide
– developing communication skills
on-demand coaching sessions, opportunities to communicate what is
for individual participants. The working and what is not. These check- – giving effective feedback
response to this pilot program was ins with managers are key aspects of – improving relationships with managers, colleagues, or
overwhelmingly positive. In a post- employee development and provide direct reports
program survey, 85% of participants groundwork for more formal year-end
– preparing for a performance review
would recommend the management reviews.
training program to colleagues. – managing a full workload
Respondents overwhelmingly agreed – dealing with personal stress resulting from changes in
that the program provided tangible one’s role
and practical development tools and
Among employees who used the Bravely platform, 96% felt more
opportunities to connect beyond the
positive about their topic following a session.
bounds of the program.
Match Group Impact Report 2023 22
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Year-end reviews serve as progress making modules available on our
markers for achievements against talent management information
Mentor
Objectives and Key Results (OKRs) system. We also provided resources,
and other success metrics proposed job aids, and facilitated trainings to
“Taking the plunge and becoming a mentor
in the annual review process. In share our best practices and clarify
was one the highlights of my year. People Developing a pipeline of women for
these conversations, managers expectations on what the process
sometimes perceive mentoring as a one- the C-suite
and employees discuss overall entails.
way dialogue that ultimately benefits
performance and development,
the mentee. Well, scrap that notion! The Match Group is committed to helping our senior leaders
including personal successes, MENTORMATCH™
program had me taking a step back and advance on their leadership journey, while developing a
lessons learned, and business We continued to develop and grow
really thinking about how I could best pipeline of women for executive positions. We partner with
and development goals. Whereas our flagship MentorMatch program.
support and aid my mentee. In turn, I outside organizations to provide our high potential, high
business goals correspond directly Established in 2021, MentorMatch
learned a lot about myself. I believe it has performing women with the tools and skills needed to
to the employee’s role and day-to- pairs mentees with mentors outside
made me a better leader and teammate.” empower them to become future executives.
day responsibilities, development their own brands—facilitating
goals relate to one’s personal and purposeful conversations about career For example, Match Group sponsored a senior employee to
—Laura, Senior Director of Communications,
professional development aspirations development, expanding participants’ attend the Texas Women’s Foundation’s 10-month Talent
Northern Europe@Tinder
for the upcoming year. professional networks, and building Development Program. The candidate is also supported
meaningful connections across the by one of our C-suite leaders as an executive sponsor.
Efforts to integrate succession Mentee
organization. This program’s mission is to ensure that more women
planning into the performance review
enter the pipeline to become candidates for the C-suite
process continued in 2022, as well. We The program’s total 2022 registration “I joined the MentorMatch group with
at corporations. The program develops women corporate
developed standardized succession of 278 participants represented nearly a junior profile and not a lot of clarity
leaders by building a diverse peer network, providing
planning materials and tools for 12% of Match Group’s total headcount, about my career goals. My mentor shared
them with a foundation of leadership skills, and creating
brand CEOs and their direct reports, compared to industry benchmarks valuable, real-life experiences and helped
a tangible toolkit to utilize within a team, across different
enhancing efficiency and consistency of around 10%. The program has me delve deep down to the roots to
business functions and throughout their careers.
in transitions. facilitated 110 sustained connections figure out what I should achieve to be
between 220 participants across all what I want to be. This mentorship played Match Group also sponsors several senior-level women
We have taken a people-centric,
brands, delightfully exceeding not an important role in my career path, leaders for membership to, a private network focused on
tech-enabled approach throughout
only our expectations but those of guiding me toward more seniority and connecting and supporting women executive leaders, to
the implementation of performance
many MentorMatch participants, responsibility in my day-to-day work.” help them to continue to develop, learn, and network with
review and succession planning
as well. other executives.
protocols. For example, we digitized
—Yanjun, Online Marketing
succession planning and goal setting,
Manager@Meetic
Match Group Impact Report 2023 23
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
COMMUNITY
Creating social impact
through meaningful
connection
Match Group and our brands help people create
life-enriching connections in a space where they can
be their authentic selves. We strive to build meaningful
connections within our communities, too. By connecting
communities around causes and encouraging direct action
CONTENTS
on issues that matter, we help empower communities and
generate positive social impact. Community investment 25
Underrepresented 30
empowerment
Match Group Impact Report 2023 24
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Community investment
Connecting with and supporting diverse communities
around the world
OUR VISION our employees. To amplify employees’ domestic violence survivors, DEI, shelter in New York City; visiting an
While each Match Group brand has collective impact, we have initiated LGBTQ+ equality, and other efforts. animal shelter in Korea; serving food
a distinct identity, we are joined a range of matching programs and Combined donations from employees to people experiencing homelessness,
by a common purpose: to provide events to support the causes that are and Match Group’s matching collecting cigarette butts or helping
a place where people can express important to them. dollars totaled $800,000 in 2022 and solve tech issues with several NGOs
their authentic selves and create supported more than 300 beneficiaries, in Paris; as well as a variety of events
Launched in 2022, our Dollars for Doers
connections with those who care including Get Out the Vote, Best across our offices in Ireland and
program donates $10 per hour (up to
about who they are. By investing in Buddies, Human Rights Campaign, London.
$1,000) for every hour an employee
communities, we aim to contribute to Girls Who Code, and others.
volunteers in support a cause of their In total, Match Group and our brands
a better society, one connection at
choice. We also match employees’ Elsewhere, we launched our first-ever donated $5.5 million to charitable
a time.
charitable donations dollar for dollar, up Global Giving Day, held on Giving causes. Further, our brands’ provision
to $15,000 per person. Tuesday. Throughout the day, we of pro bono advertising inventory
OUR APPROACH
held a combination of virtual events resulted in over 55 million impressions,
Our colleagues generously give their
Our new double-match calendar
highlighting some of our charitable amplifying the messaging of the
time to support those in need and
program results from a collaborative
partners, including World Central CrisisTextLine, World Wildlife Fund for
make a difference in their communities.
effort among our ERGs, DEI, Trust
Kitchen and Best Buddies. Local Nature, and other causes we support
Match Group shares their commitment
and Safety, Human Resources, and
community and in-office activities around the world.
to community involvement. To
Corporate Social Responsibility teams.
included packing kits for a women’s
empower employees to participate
This year, more than 200 committee-
shelter in Vancouver; planting trees and
in direct action and lead on issues
selected causes benefitted over the
flowers to support reforestation efforts
they’re passionate about, Match Group
course of the full-year double-match
in Los Angeles, Dallas, New York City,
provides paid time off to volunteer with
calendar, amplifying their positive
and Delhi; serving meals at an LGBTQ+
charitable causes that are important to
impact on environmental recovery,
shelter and packing kits for a homeless
Match Group Impact Report 2023 25
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
CONNECTING COMMUNITIES ON GET OUT THE VOTE WITH Chispa and BLK focused community BLK also launched the BLK Advisory With guidance by the BLK Advisory
ISSUES THAT MATTER MATCH GROUP impact efforts on partnerships with Council in 2022. The six-member Council, BLK will continue to pursue
Across Match Group, we are proud Like our communities, Match Group organizations dedicated to enhancing Council seeks to help address social opportunities to expand voter
to promote various social causes and values the right to vote. To remove a voter registration and participation. issues of cultural relevance to the awareness and political participation
encourage community engagement barrier to our employees’ participation Black community and build an for all users. And through our
In partnership with Voto Latino, a
on issues that matter. We do this at in the democratic process and support inviting, inclusive, and welcoming partnerships with the nonpartisan,
grassroots organization dedicated
a company-wide level and through their right to make their voices heard, environment. Comprised of members not-for-profit organizations like the
to educating, empowering, and
initiatives led by our individual brands. Match Group and our brands proudly from academia, activism, business, NUL, Voto Latino, and Texas Impact,
mobilizing voters, Chispa created an
Through partnerships with non-profit provide employees with paid time off entertainment, financial services, and Match Group will continue to inform
in-app landing page to prepare Latino
groups and grassroots organizers on to vote. When legislators in our home technology, the Council is positioned and encourage our employees to get
voters to vote in the 2022 midterm
the ground and brand collaborations state of Texas enacted voter registration to approach a critical-thinking involved in the democratic process.
elections.
within our apps, we support our restrictions that disproportionately strategy from a range of backgrounds
communities’ engagement and impacted our marginalized, voting- BLK joined forces with the and perspectives.
amplify their social impact. From eligible neighbors, Match Group and nonpartisan organization When We
taking a stand on legislative issues and our employees connected communities All Vote, whose mission is to increase
supporting direct action to updating and partnered with nonpartisan, not- voter participation and help close race
the benefits we extend to our own for-profit organizations to help remove and age gaps among the electorate.
colleagues, Match Group and our new barriers to their participation, too. Together, they created the BLK in-app
communities have helped remove Election Center to register voters and
At our Dallas headquarters, we
barriers to exercising the right to vote build awareness of local and national
mobilized our colleagues to support
and accessing reproductive care. elections in 2022. BLK also surveyed
Get Out the Vote (GOTV) and voter
members to gain an understanding
registration initiatives with Texas
of the voting habits, behaviors, and
Impact, Voto Latino, and the National
preferences of Black single people,
Urban League. Working with the
then used that survey data to inform
National Urban League (NUL) and the
development of effective in-app tools
Dallas County Elections Department,
to boost voter participation rates. To
Match Group employees became
promote member participation in
trained and deputized voter registrars.
election cycles throughout 2022, BLK
collaborated with Saucy Santana and
Trina to create the PSA music video,
“No Voting No Vucking.”
Match Group Impact Report 2023 26
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
STANDING UP FOR Employees and their dependents who Vote effort in Kansas during a crucial
ABORTION RIGHTS aren’t on our healthcare plans may summer election to defeat a ballot ®
The U.S. Supreme Court’s landmark access reproductive care assistance initiative to limit Kansans right to
Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health through our existing fund. reproductive care.
Organization decision overturned Roe Promoting democratic participation around the globe
v. Wade and set off a wave of state- In solidarity with our employees and BEING A FRIEND AND ALLY TO THE
level abortion bans and restrictions our members, Match Group and LGBTQ+ COMMUNITY Match Group is committed to supporting employees’ and users’ right to
across the country. Match Group our U.S.-based brands took a public At Match Group, we’re proud that our vote. Tinder led our efforts in this regard in 2022 with initiatives in several
recognizes the undue hardship many stand against restricted access to services have enabled millions of our key countries.
women face when their states restrict reproductive care. By signing the users, including many LGBTQ+ people,
their access to the reproductive care Don’t Ban Equality statement, to form families. We strive to be an ally In Japan—where low participation among eligible, young adult voters
they need. When our home state of Match Group, Tinder, Hinge, Match, to people of all backgrounds, genders, has become a public concern in recent years—Tinder launched an
Texas enacted a reproductive care ban and OkCupid have affirmed that races, religions, abilities, and creeds. in-app campaign to encourage all members to vote in the national
restricting access to abortion as early reproductive healthcare restrictions When users, employees, or neighbors House of Councillors election. In partnership with the non-profit group
as six weeks into pregnancy, our then- contradict our company values and find the person who means the most NO YOUTH NO JAPAN, the campaign leveraged the reach of the Tinder
CEO established a fund to protect negatively affect efforts to promote to them, we support their right to love platform to communicate with a young electorate of Tinder members.
our Texas-based employees’ access equality in the workplace. and to marry as they choose. So when
to reproductive healthcare. The fund To empower OkCupid users to take a passage of the bipartisan Respect In Brazil—where 2022 marked a presidential election year—Tinder
covers both the costs of reproductive stand for abortion rights, the brand for Marriage Act ran into a roadblock leveraged the platform’s reach to encourage Brazilian members to
care for our Texas-based employees has consistently partnered with in the U.S. Senate, we used our voice register to vote before the national deadline. The team aligned on a
and their dependents. The reversal of Planned Parenthood and offered an and platforms to urge U.S. Senators series of in-app and external actions. Press and social media responded
Roe v. Wade impacts our employees “I’m Pro-Choice” badge users could from both parties to pass legislation to positively, with results in top general news outlets like Metropoles
and our members in states across add to their profile. OkCupid also support the rights of LGBTQ+ people, and Yahoo.
the U.S., so we set out to expand our employees, and members of our
encouraged daters to “take a break
positive social impact to help protect from dating” to support pro-choice community. In France—the team partnered with the non-profit A Voté on an
abortion rights for all. activities on Planned Parenthood’s In a CNN op-ed, Match Group’s Chief awareness campaign to get younger citizens to vote in the presidential
We updated our benefits for Corporate Day of Action. For two Business Affairs and Legal Officer election. During election season, Tinder members ages 18-25 based in
employees and their covered hours that day, the app’s home screen laid out why this issue is important to France received video Swipe cards explaining the steps to participate in
dependents to ensure that our displayed information directing daters Match Group and urged the Senate the election.
healthcare providers will cover to various pro-choice activities. to pass the bill. The op-ed kicked off
reproductive and gender affirming our nationwide advocacy campaign
Match Group and Tinder partnered
healthcare that may not be available spotlighting amazing LGBTQ+ couples
with women’s rights organizations to
in an individual’s home state. who met on Tinder.
spearhead a successful Get Out the
Match Group Impact Report 2023 27
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Match Group also signed on to the Through a partnership with the reality Tinder Australia launched a
Texas Competes pledge to further our competition television series “Drag monumental, two-phase campaign,
“It was so meaningful for us to be a part of Tinder’s campaign to
commitment to fairness and equality. Race France”, the brand launched bridging real and virtual worlds with
advocate for the Respect for Marriage Act. Tinder is an important
The pledge creates an opportunity an in-app educational campaign one culturally unifying symbol: a
part of our love story, and the fact that the company is using its
for business leaders to clarify their in support of the French non-profit rainbow. In the brand’s Big Rainbow
resources to take a stand for the LGBTQ+ community shows just
shared economic interests in a fair organization Sidragtion. campaign’s first phase, a virtual Big
how much they value the relationships they help form.”
and welcoming Texas for lesbian, gay, Rainbow connected members of the
—Mando and Raul, a couple who met on Tinder and featured on To enhance visibility for the LGBTQ+
bisexual, and transgender people. Australian LGBTQ+ community with
our Marriage Equality campaign community, the team worked with
their very own in-app meet-cute.
French influencer Marie de Brauer
In the campaign’s second phase,
to launch “How Do You Date,” a
Tinder unveiled plans for a physical
contemporary podcast featuring
Big Rainbow LGBTQ+ landmark,
inclusive, informed dialogue about
including the shortlist of potential sites
We reaffirmed our steadfast starters, and icebreakers. Under their the dating lives of minorities in
for the symbolic LGBTQ+ landmark.
commitment to battling profile settings, daters in the LGBTQ+ France.
A nationwide vote determined that
discrimination and fighting for community can select which prompts
LGBTQ+ rights. In partnership with the they want to display on their profile TAKING GLOBAL ACTION AS Through a partnership with two of the the landmark’s permanent home
AN LGBTQ+ ALLY country’s leading digital media outlets would be the regional community of
Human Rights Campaign, OkCupid to tell their story and connect with
had previously launched an expanded others. For example, “I wish I could Around the world, our brands (BRUT and PAINT), Tinder pushed Daylesford, Victoria.
list of over 60 gender identity and tell the younger version of myself...” are committed to creating and forward thoughtful discussion around
orientation options so LGBTQ+ users and “the first TV character I ever developing initiatives that help people gender fluidity in the modern dating
can signal who they really are and identified with...” Throughout the year, better understand the fundamentals world.
how they identify. In 2022, OkCupid Hinge continued to introduce new of diversity and inclusion.
Tinder sponsored an in-person
added definitions to each identity features to support LGBTQ+ daters on
France Tinder teamed up with NGOs, fundraising and drag auction event
option included in the app. By helping their journeys of self-expression and
influencers, and entertainers to on World AIDS Day. The event raised
people better understand what these finding connection. In August, Hinge
develop a multi-platform campaign funds and amplified voices united
terms mean, OkCupid can better launched NFAQ (Not-So-Frequently
against LGBTQ+ stereotypes in the fight against AIDS, including
serve all of their users. Asked Questions), an in-app LGBTQ+
and homophobic social media respected influencers, reporters,
dating and identity guide answering
Hinge partnered with Gay and interactions. Some examples of Tinder and celebrities. At the event, Tinder
queer daters’ most pressing
Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation efforts include: announced the brand’s new Diversity
questions.
and Inclusion Champion Award,
(GLAAD) to create a more welcoming
established to promote diversity and
and inclusive community for LGBTQ+
inclusion among French youth.
users. To empower people to better
express themselves, Hinge introduced
a series of new prompts, conversation
Match Group Impact Report 2023 28
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
CAMPAIGNING AGAINST DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
In furtherance of Match Group’s goal to provide safe spaces, we expanded our
® global partnership with the non-profit organization NO MORE to help stop
domestic violence and sexual assault in homes and communities around
Investing in the diverse, inclusive Taking a stand against decades of the world. Through the partnership, we’re positioned to access NO MORE’s
future of mental health discrimination extensive network of global safety experts and crisis managers as we continue
to improve and enhance our safety features. These experts will inform our
ongoing efforts to provide support for survivors of sexual assault and domestic
Hinge further supported queer and BIPOC users For decades, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
violence, as well as survivor-centered resources and assistance for those in crisis
through the creation of an inaugural education (FDA) imposed discriminatory policies toward
or experiencing hardship due to dating violence or sexual assault.
award. Launched in May, the Mental Health gay and bisexual men, barring or restricting
Advocates of Tomorrow award is the cornerstone blood donation. Match Group and Tinder joined
of an initiative to address the lack of sufficient nationwide efforts to end the outdated practice,
mental well-being resources for underrepresented which dates back to the 1980s AIDS crisis.
communities. More than 1,000 aspiring therapists
and counselors submitted applications, which In partnership with the Human Rights Campaign,
included two prompts about the mental health Tinder launched an in-app campaign. Tinder users
and wellness needs of LGBTQ+ and BIPOC people. in eight pilot cities received All Types Pride Cards
From their inspiring entries, Hinge selected 20 within the app, directing them to information about
finalists to submit a video answering the prompt, the FDA’s discriminatory policy and inviting them
“How will winning the Grand Prize support your to participate in a study to help find more inclusive
individual education and career journey?” A alternatives to the outdated practices of restricting
judging panel selected ten grand prize winners, or barring blood donations from sexually active men
awarding each $10,000 toward their education. who have sex with men.
Among the distinguished judges were campaign
ambassador Fariha Róisín and Black Emotional
and Mental Health Collective (BEAM) founder Yolo
Akili Robinson.
Match Group Impact Report 2023 29
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Underrepresented empowerment
Connecting underrepresented communities with
transformative career opportunities
SUPPORTING TECH EDUCATION DATA SCIENCE FOR ALL NATIONAL CENTER FOR WOMEN & Match Group sponsored NCWIT’s the AiC Stories campaign. Upon
Working to close the tech industry’s Match Group was one of the INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY initiative to identify role models within NCWIT’s evaluation and selection of
gender gap requires a commitment inaugural sponsors of Correlation Match Group recognizes that a the Aspirations in Computing (AiC) the campaign’s diverse cast of tech
to supporting women in tech. One’s Data Science for All (DS4A) homogeneous workforce struggles Community to feature prominently in ambassadors, production begins, with
Match Group partners with several / Empowerment—a program to bring new ideas to the table and video and digital media supporting the first group of AiC Stories set to
organizations to support and dedicated to advancing women fails to solve complex problems. launch in 2023.
positively transform the lives and underrepresented minorities in Diversifying our industry and
and careers of women and other data science and promoting a more promoting technology education
members of underrepresented inclusive global AI ecosystem. across our community is not only a
communities. We support Catalyst, powerful tool for change, but also an
For the third year in a row, 35
a global non-profit that helps build essential mechanism for ensuring our
individuals, selected from thousands
workplaces that work for women. workforce and candidate pools are as
of applicants, participated in this
We partner with Correlation One to innovative as they can be.
life-changing opportunity as Match
provide data science education and
Group Endowed Scholars. Participants
career navigation to students and Match Group continued to grow
completed 14 weeks of practical data
professionals from underrepresented programs that support a pipeline of
analytics training and partnered with
communities. We also provide women in STEM positions through
professional mentors. In addition
continued support for Girls Who Code our partnership with the National
to sponsoring participants, Match
and the National Center for Women & Center for Women & Information
Group covered the costs of employees
Information Technology’s Aspirations Technology (NCWIT). Through
who participated as DS4A Fellows
in Computing program. Tinder also structured educational programs,
and provided employee mentor
funds scholarships for students from NCWIT’s is building an intersectional
volunteers. Subsequently, we have
the ISCOM school in France. network of women and girls in the
hired DS4A graduates as interns and
field of computational science.
full-time employees.
Match Group Impact Report 2023 30
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
ENVIRONMENT
Making a positive
impact on the
planet that
connects us
Climate change is a growing concern and a threat
to every community around the world. At Match
CONTENTS
Group we are committed to doing our part to
Environmental impact 3 2
improve our impact on the natural world that
connects us all.
Climate change 3 4
Match Group Impact Report 2023 31
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Environmental Impact
Growing a more sustainable business with a greater
positive impact
OUR VISION and is open to all employees interested events in our major U.S. cities, with
As digital leaders, Match Group and in contributing to make a difference. Amigos de los Rios in Los Angeles, the
®
our brands are harnessing the scale Texas Trees Foundation in Dallas, and
of our platforms and the power GOING GREEN CONTEST Hudson River Park in New York.
of connection to support a more We held a Going Green contest and
Leading the way
sustainable world—now and for invited our employees to share ideas
generations to come. for leveraging our brands to make a Based in France, Meetic has long been a leader in its focus on
positive environmental impact. One sustainability. Among Meetic’s many achievements, the brand currently
OUR APPROACH of the winning concepts called for has in place an ISO 14001 certified environmental management system,
Across Match Group, we have the planting of a tree for every couple which helps Meetic ensure that environmental considerations are
embarked on a journey to not only who informs us of their successful integrated across all of its business processes. In line with the Paris
minimize our negative environmental connection made on our apps, allowing Agreement, Meetic has also pledged to reduce its greenhouse gas
impact but also amplify our positive us to symbolically and literally watch emissions by 10% annually, a goal Meetic has successfully achieved
impact on the world we share. their love grow. To plant the trees, we since 2019. Meetic is also building energy efficiency into its app.
Guided by the Match Group Global turned to One Tree Planted, a non-
Environmental Sustainability Council, profit organization focused on global As a brand that has been focused on sustainability and has been doing
we take a collaborative approach to reforestation. it well, Meetic is also sharing best practices across Match Group. These
managing our environmental impact. include the brand’s efforts to create a culture of sustainability, including
The Council, led by the Vice President of We also partnered with One Tree the implementation of an employee Environmental Code of Conduct,
Corporate Social Responsibility, brings Planted again, sponsoring Forest as well as the development of onboarding documents to educate
together people from across Match Fest and Earth Month, to empower new employees. Every new hire commits to a set of environmental
Group, encourages tangible action, and individuals to plant trees in their local best practices such as avoiding energy waste, over-consumption,
helps shape our overall environmental communities. Then, as part of our and favoring the use of biodegradable products, or respecting waste
strategy. Currently composed of more Global Day of Giving, we expanded recycling procedures.
the partnership to include more local
than 100 team members from across
organizations to hold tree planting
our brands, the Council meets monthly
Match Group Impact Report 2023 32
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
CERTIFIED OFFICES PARTNERING ACROSS BRANDS multiple years to complete, we are In the buildings Match Group and our this data could help us improve the
We believe in a two-pronged approach: hopeful that we will be able to show brands currently occupy, we use sensor operational efficiency of our portfolio.
strategically leading and supporting tangible results across our global and building automation upgrades By becoming more targeted in how we
from the top, and providing ground- portfolio this year by pursuing the to reduce power consumption and power our buildings based on expected
up opportunities for our colleagues WELL Health-Safety Rating for Facility better predict when our employees attendance, we have reduced power
Dallas, TX to share best practices across our Operations and Management and the will be in the office. As we dove into consumption per employee.
Headquarters brands and offices. Our diverse office WELL Performance Rating in all global the usage of our offices in a hybrid
populations have championed a offices with more than 50 employees. work environment in 2022, we realized
multitude of causes. In addition to this commitment, we
are building with WELL certification in
For example, our OkCupid office in New
mind for all new construction projects
York began donating excess food in
moving forward. Environmental commuting survey and a West
2017 and shared this successful vendor
Hollywood electric vehicle revolution
partnership with our other Match
A COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABLE
Paris, France
Group offices around the country.
Meetic Hub BUILDINGS
Tinder’s green team shared information More than half of our employees responded to our first Environmental
As a company that predominantly
about lunch-and-learn programs and Commuting Survey in 2022. Survey insights helped us glean a clearer
leases office space, our lease decisions
community volunteer opportunities. understanding of the environmental footprint of our workforce’s
have some of the highest impact on our
Meetic teams shared their learnings commuting habits and, in turn, will help us develop options to better
sustainability goals. The two buildings
from a past environmental hackathon; serve our employees and the environment as well as help with our
we own utilize clean power. As we find
Tinder and OkCupid then incorporated target setting.
long-term homes in other locations,
those learnings into the judging of their
we aim to choose spaces in buildings
San Francisco, respective hackathons. For example, the survey illuminated a dramatic increase in electric
that exemplify our commitment to the
CA Tinder Hub vehicle (EV) usage in our West Hollywood employee population during
environment. The planned June 2023
A HEALTHIER APPROACH TO the pandemic year and a bold opportunity to overhaul our parking
opening of our flagship Plenty of Fish
CORPORATE OFFICES structure. Whereas the EV charging conversion rate for parking in
office space will mark Match Group’s
Match Group’s shift toward a more California averages around 10%, we went well beyond this, converting
new commitment to pursuing LEED
sustainably built environment 40 parking spaces or 18% of our parking structure, to EV charging
certified buildings for all new, long-
continues in 2023 with our stations. We hope the ample availability of EV charging stations will
term leases. Plenty of Fish’s new home
commitment to human health and further incentivize our employees to make the shift to electric vehicles.
Vancouver, well-being through enterprise-wide in Vancouver’s state of the art, LEED In anticipation, we proactively included the future prep to enable us to
Canada Plenty participation in WELL offered by the Platinum office building The Stack will scale to 80 spaces, or 36% of our parking structure, as our employees’
of Fish Hub1 International WELL Building Institute set the standard for future long-term commuting habits necessitate the upgrade.
projects.
(IWBI). While the journey will take
1 Areas of the building are still under construction. Targeting certification in 2023.
Match Group Impact Report 2023 33
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Climate Change
Tackling climate change
100% OUR CARBON REDUCTION JOURNEY carbon neutrality commitment. In
In 2021, Match Group set a goal to 2022, we focused our sourcing on
Offsetting carbon around the world
renewable energy at be carbon neutral.2 Through the renewable energy credits following
owned properties purchase of verified carbon offsets, Green-e certifications and high-
we achieved that target the same additionality reforestation project When Match Group acquired South Korea-based Hyperconnect,
year. That first demonstration of our credits. These credits mitigate the our offices there became our largest outside the U.S. So, when we
commitment enabled us to make equivalent of Match Group’s 2022 began investing in offsets, we turned to South Korean-based Hyundai
an immediate meaningful impact Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Green Power Corporation, which captures and recycles waste gases
while further developing long-term to generate electricity through its Hyundai Steel Waste Energy
2022 Greenhouse Gas Emissions emission reduction plans and setting OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT Cogeneration Project.
ambitious goals. Given the nature of our business, our
(CO2e metric tons)1 For 2022, through PlanVivo, we purchased offsets from ECOTRUST’s
real estate footprint and cloud storage
We submitted our intent to the services account for the majority Trees for Global Benefits project in Uganda. We chose this project
883 Science-Based Target initiative (SBTi), of our emissions. Our two owned because it supports seven of the 17 SDGs by contributing to income
in which we committed to set both buildings, both located in Los Angeles, stability and food and fuel security for local Ugandan communities. This
Scope 1 emissions near- and long-term goals. These operate on 100% renewable electricity carbon offsetting scheme, which focuses on reforestation, encourages
targets will hold our company and our (wind and solar) provided by the local sustainable land-use practices and provides farmers with direct
value chain accountable for meeting utility. For our leased office spaces, payments for planting trees and climate mitigation measures.
ambitious reduction targets, drive we seek to lease from LEED certified
5.2 Match Group’s contribution toward buildings. Currently, our Dallas The project directly supports 7 of the 17 SDGs
global decarbonization goals, and headquarters and new San Francisco
Scope 2 emissions ensure the continued management and Vancouver offices are LEED
of our impact alongside our projected certified. Further, we engage with our
business growth. In addition, we landlords to source renewable energy
intend to continue to maintain our where possible.
1 Match Group’s emissions inventory follows the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. Our Scope 1 and 2 inventory boundary
includes owned buildings, leased buildings, and managed data centers.
2 Match Group’s carbon neutrality goal applies to our Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
Match Group Impact Report 2023 34
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
GOVERNANCE
Cultivating a
culture of integrity
and reliability
Trust cements relationships. It’s the glue that
allows people to live and work together. It’s
impossible to have a meaningful connection
without it. At Match Group, we are committed to
good governance practices that build trust with our
CONTENTS
stakeholders and users and to keeping their data
secure and protecting their privacy, as we continue Coporate governance 3 6
to help them make meaningful connections. Data security and data privacy 38
Match Group Impact Report 2023 35
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Corporate governance
Cultivating a culture of integrity and reliability
OUR VISION Our Board is responsive to the views
Match Group has an important of our shareholders and is reflective of
role to play in defining governance our DEI mission—women represent 50%
standards for the tech sector. We aim 50% of Board membership. The Board
Nominating and corporate governance committee
to lead with ethical decision making, exceeds independence requirements,
a culture of integrity, and sound maintaining seven independent Female Board
Our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is responsible
corporate governance. directors, out of a total of ten. members
for overseeing the implementation of governance best practices across
Independent directors also comprise
OUR APPROACH 100% of our Audit, Nominating Match Group. This includes overseeing environmental, social, and
At Match Group, good governance and Corporate Governance, and governance (ESG) matters. The Committee also periodically reviews
practices provide the foundation Compensation and Human Resources Board and Committee composition to ensure our Board has the
for continuing our work toward a Committees. At least twice a year, necessary skills and diversity for effective oversight of our business.
40%
more sustainable business with our independent directors meet in The Committee’s charter includes the responsibility to oversee
greater positive impact. Our Board scheduled executive sessions without evaluations of the Board and its Committees. Though we are not
of Directors, in partnership with management or non-independent Non-white Board required to conduct these evaluations as a Nasdaq-listed company,
the executive team, shapes the directors present. Under our Board’s members we view this as a best practice. The Committee conducted the first
structure, processes, and policies leadership, our governance practices evaluations in the first quarter of 2022. We expect to conduct annual
that drive continuous improvement. meet all the requirements of a listed evaluations going forward.
Board members uphold our Code company on the Nasdaq stock
of Business Conduct and Ethics— exchange and all other applicable 7 In support of the Committee’s charter and Match Group’s commitment
which covers ethical conduct, insider local and national regulations. to good governance, we’ve developed and implemented corporate
out of 10
trading, and fraud—and we expect governance guidelines. These guidelines formalize key good governance
our global workforce to uphold these principles and practices, such as maintaining an independent Chair
same standards. Independent of the Board. The guidelines, as well as our Committee charters, are
members of available on our Investor Relations website.
the Board
Match Group Impact Report 2023 36
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
STOCK OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES TAXATION misrepresentation, they can report ANTI-BRIBERY a highly adaptable team and a clearly
Aligned with best practices for We recognize that tax contributions them confidentially through our 24/7 Match Group expects all employees to defined set of goals. To ensure our
publicly listed companies, we have are a crucial component of local hotline and web-based reporting maintain strict compliance with our business can continue to operate
introduced a minimum stock community investment by public service, without fear of retaliation. Anti-Bribery Policy. The policy, which robustly in a threat scenario, we unified
ownership requirement for each of our bodies. Match Group seeks to make Our non-retaliation policy is included is included in our Employee Manual, our security systems to form a consistent
non-employee Directors and named appropriate tax contributions based in our Employee Manual and assures prohibits bribery and any other approach across all of our brands,
executive officers, including our Chief on our business operations and employees that retaliation for good improper payments, and provides integrating our data security and physical
Executive Officer, President and footprint. As a global business, we faith reporting of concerns or improper definitions of prohibited acts and security program into our disaster
Chief Financial Officer, Chief Business meet applicable local and national conduct is strictly prohibited and will practices, including bribery, facilitation recovery and emergency action plans.
Affairs and Legal Officer, and Chief tax requirements. not be tolerated. of payments, and false book and
We also have standards and baselines
Accounting Officer. Minimum stock recordkeeping. All employees aware of
Our independent reporting hotline for Emergency Response Plans for our
ownership requirements are disclosed POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS violations of the policy are encouraged
is managed by EthicsPoint, a offices and collaborate with our global
in our Proxy Statement, available on Match Group does not make any to report them to the Match Group
comprehensive and confidential offices to ensure consistency. This
our Investor Relations website. federal political contributions within Legal Department. In 2023, we plan to
reporting tool enabling all global includes notification systems that can
the U.S. expand our Anti-Bribery program to
employees to confidentially report any alert our employees worldwide in order
PUBLIC ADVOCACY include regular risk assessments and
We are proud technology pioneers, ETHICS AND WHISTLEBLOWING violation of our stated Code of Business anti-bribery specific training. to help make sure our people are safe.
continuously innovating and Our employees share a common Conduct and Ethics or our Harassment We also actively monitor and respond
collaborating to help make the responsibility to uphold the highest Policy, and other work-related concerns. ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING AND to any security risks or threats to our
internet safer for all. In the U.S. and standards of conduct. We require all We have a separate reporting process ANTI-CORRUPTION brands, employees, executives, and
around the world, Match Group works employees to certify their compliance for matters related to audits and other As a global business, we recognize physical office locations. And with the
closely with legislators and regulators with our core policies annually, financial issues. Employees can submit the need to expand our ethics new hybrid work environment across
in support of policy and legislation including the Code of Business reports by phone through a dedicated program to include an Anti-Money Match Group, we conduct training
that ensures all users are safe and Conduct and Ethics, Harassment hotline or online though Central. Laundering and Anti-Corruption and drills to ensure our employees are
protected. We supported efforts to Policy, Securities Trading Policy, and The Match Group Legal Department program. Expansion of this risk-based actively prepared and ready to respond
pass the Digital Services Act package whistleblower procedures. Employees reviews and manages all reports. program began in Fall 2022 and will to any emergencies on-site or at home.
in the EU which aims to create a safer can access our full Policies and be an ongoing effort. The program
HUMAN RIGHTS Further, we ensure that our brands can
digital space where the fundamental Procedures Manual through our will emphasize employee training,
We are committed to protecting provide consistent services to our users.
rights of users are protected. We also intranet site. Further, all U.S. employees transaction monitoring, and improved
human rights. Our brands are taking We use data centers and cloud services
advocated for enhanced online dating must complete annual harassment steps to restrict access to their services procedures and controls. providers with distributed sites across
safety laws in Utah to ensure users and prevention training. in Russia and will complete
the world. This geographic redundancy
members of the community are made their withdrawal from the Russian BUSINESS CONTINUITY AND
aware of potential safety threats. REPORTING HOTLINE market by June 30, 2023. PHYSICAL SECURITY ensures resilience against outages and
If employees have any concerns Maintaining strength against rapidly helps maintain business continuity.
about issues such as fraud or evolving and global threats requires
Match Group Impact Report 2023 37
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Data security and data privacy
Building best-in-class data protections
OUR VISION OUR APPROACH DATA SECURITY These certifications provide a trusted while our Red Team engages in
Making connections is a deeply We set high company-wide standards Data security is a significant risk to all framework annually certified by third proactive penetration testing of
personal experience for our members. for data security and data privacy and technology companies, and Match party ISO auditors and demonstrate our products and vendors across
Because our users entrust us with their continuously seek to improve in these Group is no exception. We take a our continual commitment to our our brands.
information, the security of our apps critical areas. company-wide approach at all levels members and our proactive approach
In addition, data breach detection and
and the privacy of their data is a top starting with Board-level oversight, to protecting their data. Match and
Data security and privacy efforts response practices are standardized
priority. Ensuring that we maintain a dedicated security teams, and Match Affinity Premium (OurTime
across Match Group’s portfolio are across all brands and are fed into
robust, transparent, and accountable regular security training for all of and BlackPeopleMeet) also achieved
report ed quarterly to the Audit event management tools, as we
security and privacy program is core our employees. the ISO/IEC 27001 certification in early
Committee of the Board. The full continually explore new ways to
to our commitment to our users. For 2022. We will continue to expand our
Board is also briefed periodically We are deeply committed to bolster how we protect against,
Match Group, protecting privacy and security compliance efforts to other
throughout the year. We’ve made continuously improving our data detect, alert, and respond to
securing user data is fundamental. Match Group brands as well.
significant strides to streamline security practices. In November, unauthorized data access.
We’re striving to build the best security
our data security and data privacy after extensive internal and external We aim to standardize data security
and privacy organization in the world. We take a multi-layered approach
reporting across the organization audits, Tinder became the first dating practices and processes across our
to security scans and audits. This
to ensure clarity and transparency app to achieve ISO/IEC 27001:2013 brands. In order to provide company-
includes robust, extensive external
at all levels of the company and certification for its Information wide expertise across product security
security audits with third-parties.
across brands. Security Management System (ISMS), and enterprise security domains, the
followed by ISO/IEC 27017:2015 in Match Group security organization
We also provide data privacy and
November 2021 for cloud security consists of 12 specialized teams.
security training for our employees
controls. In 2022, Tinder achieved Among them, our Governance, Risk,
during onboarding and throughout
®1 ISO/IEC 27701:2019 certification for and Compliance team develops
employment.
ISO 27001 Certified its Privacy Information Management and reviews our security policies,
System, another first in the industry. standards, and training programs
1 Tinder also achieved ISO 27017 and 27701.
Match Group Impact Report 2023 38
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
DATA PRIVACY We take a proactive approach This is all aligned with our focus on
Our brands implement strong data to data privacy, looking at best Privacy By Design, to ensure that ®
privacy standards globally. We collect practices for data governance, privacy is enabled and reinforced
only necessary and proportionate rather than only focusing on current from the outset as new features and
data, are transparent in the way we legal requirements. This reinforces services are developed by Match Tinder privacy program meets international
process it, obtain strong security and our commitment to setting and Group brands. certification requirements
confidentiality commitments from implementing the highest standards.
We also regularly update our user
our vendors, maintain channels for
privacy notices to make sure they In 2022, Tinder’s Privacy Management System was certified to
our users to contact us regarding We aim to strike the right balance of
accurately reflect our data processing meet international quality management standards (ISO 27701:2019
privacy inquiries and requests, and ‘future-proofing’ our privacy policies
practices. Most Match Group brands’ certification). An extension of ISO 27001, this certification specifies the
delete data when it is no longer and practices while making sure
user privacy notices have been requirements and guidelines to establish and continuously improve
necessary. We also provide data they remain grounded in today’s
updated in 2022 and users have been our Privacy Information Management System, including processing of
privacy training at onboarding and requirements and challenges.
notified of such changes. personally identifiable information (PII).
throughout employment at Match W hen ever one of our brands plans
Group. a new feature, the privacy team This certification covers the operations underlying the infrastructure,
works hand in hand with all relevant management, and administration of the Tinder mobile applications
We maintain data privacy as a
stakeholders to embed the necessary (both iOS and Android), Tinder Web (i.e., Tinder Online), as well
separate function to ensure our data
privacy principles into the feature, as Tinder’s intranet comprising internally-developed tools for the
processing aligns with applicable laws
from design to development and protection and the fair processing of user information.
and meets our own high standards.
eventually rollout.
Our central privacy team act s as a
joint center of excellence to support
our brands.
Match Group Impact Report 2023 39
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Read more & data tables
About this report
MORE INFORMATION
REPORTING APPROACH
Governance
This Impact Report includes all of Match Group, Inc.’s wholly- and
majority-owned subsidiaries where direct operational control was
exercised as of December 31, 2022. Where we have minority investments, Safety Code of Conduct
the performance of those businesses is not included in this report. Annual Report
Trust and Safety Center
Except as otherwise noted, all performance data included in this Proxy Statement
Safety Framework
report is based on the 2022 calendar year. Where appropriate for a
Modern Slavery Statement
fuller understanding, we’ve supplemented our performance with key Advisory Council
performance elements through March 2023. UK Tax Policy Statement
All performance data is measured, collected, and reported internally, Guidelines and Committee Charters
subject to our usual control and compliance procedures. Our goal is to be
accurate, complete, and comprehensive. Our non-financial performance
data is not externally audited or reviewed.
Privacy People
Privacy Principles Career Center
Match Group Impact Report 2023 40
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Awards
Recognition for our efforts
We are proud to have received a number of awards for
efforts at Match Group and across our brands.
Human Rights Campaign Mogul’s Top 100 Companies Victory of Human Capital Match Top 100 Place BC’s Best Places to Work, 2022 Fast Company’s World’s 2022 Built In’s Best Place to
“Best Places to Work for for Diverse Representation, Leaders, Silver Prize for CSR to Work in 2022 Plenty of Fish Most Innovative Companies – Work in Los Angeles, Tinder
LGBTQ+ Equality” Match Group Commitment, Meetic Social Media category, Tinder
Match Group
2022 Comparably’s 2022 Comparably’s 2022 Comparably’s 2022 Comparably’s 2022 Comparably’s 2022 Comparably’s 2022 Comparably’s 2022 Comparably’s
Best CEO for Diversity, Best Places to Work in Best Company for Best Company for Best Company for Best Company for Best Company for Best Company for
Tinder Lost Angeles, Tinder Compensation, Tinder Best Leader Teams, Career Growth, Perks & Benefits, Work-Life Balance, Diversity, Tinder
Tinder Tinder Tinder Tinder
Match Group Impact Report 2023 41
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Performance table
Our performance METRIC 2022 2021 2020
Total Revenue1 $3.2 billion $3.0 billion $2.4 billion
FINANCIAL
We measure our $1.1 billion $1.1 billion $897 million
Adjusted Operating Income2
progress using these key
performance indicators. Average Payers1,2 16.3 million 15.5 million 13.6 million
SAFETY5 Investment in Trust and Safety $125 million+ $125 million+ $89.6 million+
Employee engagement (favorability) 64% 70% 76%
PEOPLE5
Gender diversity in workforce 41% female 41% female 39% female
Gender diversity in leadership3 39% female 43% female 39% female
Gender diversity in tech teams 26% female 25% female 22% female
Ethnic diversity in workforce (U.S.) 44% non-white 42% non-white 38% non-white
Ethnic diversity in leadership (U.S.) 29% non-white 29% non-white 28% non-white
1 Metrics for the year 2022. Adjusted Operating Income is a non-GAAP financial measure
which is in addition to Operating Income, which is a financial measure presented in
accordance with U.S. GAAP. Adjusted Operating Income is not a substitute for, or superior Ethnic diversity in tech teams (U.S.) 48% non-white 47% non-white 43% non-white
to, Operating Income. See page 51 for a reconciliation of Adjusted Operating Income to
Operating Income.
2 “Payers’’ are unique users at a brand level in a given month from whom we earned Direct Gender diversity of the Board 50% female 45% female 45% female
Revenue. Direct Revenue is revenue that is received directly from end users of our services
GOVERNANCE4,5
and includes both subscription and à la carte revenue. When presented as a quarter-to-
date or year-to date value, Payers represents the average of the monthly values for the Independent members of the Board 7 out of 10 8 out of 11 8 out of 11
respective period presented. At a consolidated level, duplicate Payers may exist when
we earn revenue from the same individual at multiple brands in a given month, as we
are unable to identify unique individuals across brands in the Match Group portfolio. Our Employer and employee donations
global portfolio of brands includes Tinder®, Hinge®, Match®, Meetic®, OkCupid®, Pairs™, COMMUNITY5 $6.1 million $5.2 million $5.8 million
PlentyOfFish®, Azar®, Hakuna™, and more, each built to increase our users’ likelihood of and advertising space
connecting with others.
3 Reconciliation on Page 51.
4 It is at year end. ENVIRONMENT5 Grid electricity used 0% 0% 0%
5 Data prior to June 30, 2020, the date of Match Group’s separation from IAC/InterActiveCorp,
only reflects information regarding the company formerly known as Match Group, Inc.
prior to such separation.
Match Group Impact Report 2023 42
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
REPORTING STATUS:
Read more
Fully reporting
SASB report
Partially reporting
Not reporting
SASB CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC 2022 RESPONSE REPORTING STATUS
REPORTING APPROACH
This report includes all disclosures
as defined by the Sustainability TC-IM-000.A Entity-defined measure of user 16.3 million average total Payers as defined on page 43 of
Accounting Standards Board activity our Impact Report.
(SASB) framework for the Internet
Media & Services industry. Our TC-IM-000.B (1) Data processing capacity Omitted as privileged and confidential.
disclosures are based on the 2018-
(2) Percentage outsourced
10 version of the Standard, and,
except where otherwise noted, we
provide information for the 2022 TC-IM-000.C (1) Amount of data storage Omitted as privileged and confidential.
calendar year. (2) Percentage outsourced
We expect our SASB framework to
continue to evolve over time. Where ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT OF HARDWARE INFRASTRUCTURE
noted, in accordance with SASB
Standards Application Guidance TC-IM-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed (1) 63,874 GJ
section 2.2, certain information is
(2) Percentage grid electricity (2) <0.1%
not included in this appendix, to
the extent the information is not (3) Percentage renewable (3) 77%
considered material, is privileged Metrics for this SASB metric are limited to managed and
or confidential, or is not currently third-party data centers.
collected in a manner wholly
correlative with the related
TC-IM-130a.2 (1) Total water withdrawn Not reported.
SASB metric.
(2) Total water consumed,
percentage of each in regions
with High or Extremely High
Baseline Water Stress
Match Group Impact Report 2023 43
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
SASB CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC 2022 RESPONSE REPORTING STATUS
TC-IM-130a.3 Discussion of the integration of To address the impact of our third-party data center
environmental considerations providers, we are developing a strategy to engage with
into strategy planning for data providers on disclosing and reducing their emissions.
center needs Many of our data center providers have SBTi and Net
Zero targets that illustrate their commitment to reducing
these emissions.
DATA PRIVACY, ADVERTISING STANDARDS & FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION
TC-IM-220a.1 Description of policies and Our Privacy Principles are referenced in the Data Security
practices relating to behavioral and Data Privacy and Read More sections of our Impact
advertising and user privacy Report. They can be read in full in the Trust and Safety
center on our website, which includes a fuller description
of all our policies and practices related to user privacy,
including those related to advertising.
In addition to this, every Match Group’s specific data
processing operations are described in their respective user
privacy notices.
Match Group Impact Report 2023 44
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
SASB CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC 2022 RESPONSE REPORTING STATUS
TC-IM-220a.2 Number of users whose All of the purposes for which users’ personal information
information is used for secondary is processed are described in the Privacy Policy that users
purposes acknowledge when they join the service and is otherwise
publicly available at all time. The entity does not use
users’ data for any secondary purpose other than those
laid out in the Privacy Policy.
TC-IM-220a.3 Total amount of monetary losses There were no monetary losses as a result of legal
as a result of legal proceedings proceedings related to user privacy in 2022.
associated with user privacy
TC-IM-220a.4 (1) Number of law enforcement Omitted as data collection is not wholly correlative with
requests for user information this metric.
(2) Number of users whose
information was requested
(3) Percentage resulting in
disclosure
Match Group Impact Report 2023 45
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
SASB CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC 2022 RESPONSE REPORTING STATUS
TC-IM-220a.5 List of countries where core Given the nature of online dating services, certain of
products or services are subject our services or features have been blocked in certain
to government-required countries. In some instances we have placed restrictions
monitoring, blocking, content on our services in order to comply with U.S. sanctions
filtering, or censoring laws.
TC-IM-220a.6 (1) Number of government Omitted as data collection is not wholly correlative with
requests to remove content this metric.
(2) Percentage compliance with
requests
DATA SECURITY
TC-IM-230a.1 (1) Number of data breaches (1) No data breaches
(2) Percentage involving (2) Not applicable
personally identifiable
information (PII)
(3) Number of users affected (3) Not applicable
TC-IM-230a.2 Description of approach to Our approach for identifying and addressing data
identifying and addressing security risks is detailed in the Data Security and Data
data security risks, including Privacy section of our Impact Report.
use of third-party cybersecurity
standards
Match Group Impact Report 2023 46
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
SASB CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC 2022 RESPONSE REPORTING STATUS
EMPLOYEE RECRUITMENT, INCLUSION & PERFORMANCE
TC-IM-330a.1 Percentage of employees that are As of December 31, 2022, 11.7% of our U.S. employees were
foreign nationals foreign nationals.
TC-IM-330a.2 Employee engagement as a Employee participation rate of 83% in 2022, with an
percentage overall e ngagement s core of 64%.
See the Engaging Employees section of our Impact
Report for more information about our employee
engagement survey results and action plans.
Match Group Impact Report 2023 47
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
SASB CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC 2022 RESPONSE REPORTING STATUS
TC-IM-330A.1 PERCENTAGE OF GENDER GENDER DIVERSITY AT MATCH GROUP (WORLDWIDE)1
AND RACIAL/ETHNIC GROUP
(1) 39% female / 61% male / 0% not provided
REPRESENTATION FOR:
(2) 26% female / 74% male / 0% not provided
(1) Management
(3) 55% female / 45% male / 0% not provided
(2) Technical staff 13
(3) All other employees ETHNIC DIVERSITY AT MATCH GROUP (U.S. ONLY)
(1) 30% non-white / 58% white / 12% other
(2) 49% non-white / 41% white / 11% other
(3) 40% non-white / 50% white / 10% other
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION & COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR
TC-IM-520a.1 Total amount of monetary losses There were no monetary losses as a result of legal
as a result of legal proceedings proceedings associated with anti-competitive behavior
associated with anti-competitive regulations in 2022.
behavior regulations
1 Totals may not sum to 100% due to rounding.
Match Group Impact Report 2023 48
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Read more
TCFD index
OUR APPROACH overseeing ESG matters. This includes STRATEGY AND RISK MANAGEMENT METRICS AND TARGETS partners as we continue to look for
In 2021, we began assessing our climate-related topics inclusive Due to our limited physical footprint, In 2021, we set a goal to be carbon ways to reduce climate-related risks
environmental impact, as well as the of strategy and action plans to we do not believe we have material neutral. In 2022, we increased our level and seek opportunities to change our
risks and opportunities presented reduce risks and take advantage of exposure to high physical risks such of ambition by sourcing renewable operations in ways that benefit our
by climate change, in line with the opportunities identified across our as extreme weather or flooding. energy credits following Green-e users and the planet.
framework set out by the Financial operations. The Committee oversees However, we do face certain certifications and high-additionality
For additional information on our
Stability Board’s Task Force on processes for setting performance risks, which we have identified reforestation project credits. These
current efforts to reduce our GHG
Climate-related Financial Disclosures objectives, major capital expenditures, and are addressing as part of our credits mitigate the equivalent of
emissions, see the Environment
(TCFD). We are still at the beginning and progress against targets. commitment to the environment. Match Group’s 2022 Scope 1 and 2
section of this report.
of our journey but have made These include increased regulatory emissions.
The Vice President of Corporate Social
progress over the past year. In 2022, requirements around climate and
Responsibility, who reports directly Match Group committed to set near-
Match Group began working with GHG emissions affecting many of
to the President and Chief Financial term and long-term science-based
Watershed, an enterprise climate our global brands, new market and 2022 Greenhouse Gas Emissions
Officer, is responsible for actualizing targets to ultimately reach net-zero
platform, to develop an accurate, all agreed-upon ESG and climate- technological demands to offer low- value chain GHGs emissions by no (CO2e metric tons)1
audit-grade measurement of our carbon app and web-based platforms
related initiatives, as well as, assessing later than 2050 in line with the SBTi
2022 footprint that incorporates and shifts in consumer preferences
and managing new and existing Net-Zero Standard, submit it for SBTi 883
the latest climate science and which may impact our reputation
validation, and publish it, all within
projects.
audited methodologies. Along with both as a service provider and an
a maximum of 24 months. This
Scope 1 emissions
that, Match Group has committed The President and Chief Financial employer. These risks are impacting commitment provides Match Group
to setting targets in line with the Officer also contributes to the our business today, and we expect a clear path to reduce our emissions
Science Based Targets Initiative management of ESG and climate- them to continue to do so into the and overall impact on the global
(SBTi), ensuring we will do our part to related risks and opportunities by medium and long term, so we are actively climate crisis through a series of 5.2
achieve a 1.5ºC future. assessing financial impacts these managing them across Match Group. intentional operational changes.
aspects may pose to the company,
GOVERNANCE as well as where operational changes In the future, we plan to undertake Match is now part of the Business Scope 2 emissions
At the Board level, our Nominating may be implemented as a result of a climate risk assessment to further Ambition for 1.5°C campaign and will
and Corporate Governance climate opportunities. understand our exposure to climate also join the Race to Zero campaign.
Committee is responsible for risks and potential opportunities These organizations will be key
1 Match Group’s emissions inventory follows the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. Our Scope
1 and 2 inventory boundary includes owned buildings, leased buildings, and managed data centers.
Match Group Impact Report 2023 49
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Forward Looking Statements
Disclaimer
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER report, which are inherently subject operations and acquisitions, certain and results of operations may arise
THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION to uncertainties, risks, and changes risks relating to our relationship with from time to time. In light of these
REFORM ACT OF 1995 in circumstances that are difficult to IAC post-separation, the impact risks and uncertainties, these forward-
This Impact Report may contain predict. Actual results could differ of the outbreak of pandemics looking statements may not prove
“forward-looking statements” materially from those contained in such as the COVID-19 coronavirus, to be accurate. Accordingly, you
within the meaning of the Private these forward-looking statements the risks inherent in separating should not place undue reliance on
Securities Litigation Reform Act of for a variety of reasons, including, Match Group from IAC, including these forward-looking statements,
1995. All statements that are not among others: competition, our uncertainties related to, among which only reflect the views of Match
historical facts are “forward-looking ability to maintain user rates on other things, the tax treatment of Group management as of the date
statements.” The use of words such as our higher monetizing services, our the transaction, uncertainties related of this report. Match Group does not
“anticipates,” “estimates,” “expects,” ability to attract users to our services to the acquisition of Hyperconnect, undertake to update these forward-
“plans” and “believes,” among others, through cost-effective marketing including, among other things, the looking statements.
generally identify forward-looking and related efforts, foreign currency expected benefits of the transaction,
statements. These forward-looking exchange rate fluctuations, our ability any litigation arising out of or relating
statements include, among others, to distribute our services through to the transaction, and the impact
statements relating to: Match Group’s third parties and offset related fees, of the transaction on the businesses
future financial performance, Match the integrity and scalability of our of Match Group, and inflation and
Group’s environmental and social systems and infrastructure (and those other macroeconomic conditions.
initiatives, Match Group’s business of third parties) and our ability to Certain of these and other risks and
prospects and strategy, anticipated adapt ours to changes in a timely and uncertainties are discussed in Match
trends, and other similar matters. cost-effective manner, our ability to Group’s filings with the Securities
These forward-looking statements protect our systems from cyberattacks and Exchange Commission. Other
are based on management’s current and to protect personal and unknown or unpredictable factors
expectations and assumptions about confidential user information, risks that could also adversely affect Match
future events as of the date of this relating to certain of our international Group’s business, financial condition
Match Group Impact Report 2023 50
Welcome ESG strategy Safety People Community Environment Governance Read more
Forward Looking Statements
Disclaimer
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
This Impact Report includes Adjusted
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
Operating Income, which is a non-
GAAP financial measure. Adjusted
2022 2 021 2020
Operating Income is not a substitute
for, or superior to, Operating Income, (Dollars in thousands)
which is a measure of financial Net Earnings Attributable to Match
performance prepared in accordance Group, Inc. Shareholders $361,946 $277,723 $162,329
with U.S. GAAP. See the table to the
right for a reconciliation of Adjusted
Operating Income to Operating Net (loss) earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests (2,027) (1,169) 59,280
Income.
Loss (earnings) from discontinued operations, net of tax 2,211 (509) 366,070
TRADEMARKS Income tax provision (benefit) 15,361 (19,897) 43,273
MATCH GROUP, the MG Logo, the
MG Blue-Gradient Thread, Tinder, Other (income) expense, net (8,033) 465,038 (15,861)
Match, and Swipe are trademarks
Interest expense 145,547 130,493 130,624
and registered trademarks of
Match Group, LLC. Hinge, OkCupid,
Operating Income 515,005 851,679 745,715
PlentyOfFish, Chispa, BLK, Stir,
Upward, Ourtime, Twoo, Ablo, Meetic, Stock-based compensation expense 203,880 146,816 102,268
Pairs, Eureka, Hawaya, Hakuna,
Azar, and all other trademarks Depreciation 43,594 41,402 41,271
are trademarks and registered
Impairment and amortization of intangibles 366,257 28,559 7,525
trademarks of their respective
owners.
Adjusted Operating Income $1,128,736 $1,068,456 $896,779
Match Group Impact Report 2023 51
Impact Report 2023
CONTACT
Investor Relations
IR@match.com
Corporate Communications
matchgroupPR@match.com
www.mtch.com
