Living
Our
Purpose
2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Throughout this report, images showcase projects, grants and investments
made by MetLife and MetLife Foundation and the valuable contributions
of MetLife colleagues—and their families—who bring our purpose to life.
Photos on front cover include employees volunteering in Italy, Bangladesh,
Korea and New York City, a MetLife father and his daughter, and
employees participating in a beehive tour in Cary, North Carolina.
Photos on inside cover include a mangrove project MetLife has supported
in Mexico and employees volunteering in New York and Bridgewater.
All information presented in this report is as of December 31, 2023, unless
otherwise noted.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Sustainability at MetLife
8
14 For Our Colleagues
29 For Our Customers
40 Creating Value as an Investor
52 For the Environment
63 For Our Communities
71 Responsible Governance
85 Appendix
Letter from Our CEO
Our purpose at MetLife—Always with you, building a more confident future—is our
reason for being. It’s the anchor of our strategy, inspires our people and drives our
success in creating long-term value for our stakeholders and future generations.
MetLife’s legacy began when we sold our first • Our strong free cash flow management empowers us
insurance policies in 1868. Throughout our history, to deploy our capital to its highest and best use. We
carefully assess the use of capital to achieve a balance
we have reinvented ourselves several times over
between investing in responsible growth for the future
to meet the evolving needs of our stakeholders.
and returning capital to shareholders.
This was true in 1909 when we launched our
• As one of the world’s leading financial services
Visiting Nurse Service Program to care for our
companies, MetLife plays an important role in caring
policyholders and again during the Great Depression
for our communities. Last year, we marked a key
when MetLife established the Farm Rehabilitation milestone with MetLife Foundation reaching over
Program to rescue farms from foreclosure. Today, $1 billion in all-time giving for its work driving inclusive
economic mobility and addressing the needs of
we continue to build more confident futures for
underserved communities around the world. Our
all our stakeholders—our employees, customers,
employees are also passionate about volunteering and
shareholders and the communities we serve.
completed over 144,000 hours of community service
globally in 2023.
Our 2023 Sustainability Report shows how we are
In the report, you will read more about how our
bringing our purpose to life through the strength of
culture energizes our people to deliver for our
our people, products, services and investments:
customers, in turn creating value for shareholders and
• With a purpose-driven inclusive culture and focus allowing MetLife to invest in our communities and
on care, our employees continue to feel happy to support future generations to live prosperous lives.
be part of MetLife. We’ve seen this with our own
surveys resulting in record employee engagement Our purpose holds us accountable to meet our
scores well above benchmark. And externally, we
long-term sustainability commitments and to keep
have been included in Fortune magazine’s list of the
reinventing ourselves to deliver for our stakeholders.
100 Best Companies to Work For®, recognizing those
MetLife has been a responsible business and source
companies that relentlessly pursue a better work
experience for their employees. of stability for more than 156 years, and I believe we
will continue to grow our legacy of building a more
• Our diverse workforce brings different perspectives
together to meet the evolving needs of our customers. confident future for years to come.
For example, last year we expanded our end-to-end
financial wellness offering for customers in Nepal
and the United Arab Emirates, where we launched
360Health to help them better manage their health MICHEL A. KHALAF
and well-being. And, in Korea and China, we expanded President and Chief Executive Officer
our 360Future solution to help customers prepare MetLife, Inc.
earlier for retirement and to support them as they age.
4
40+ $600B+
Our Purpose—
global markets served in total assets under management (Total AUM),
including $420 billion+ of MetLife General
Always with you, Account (GA) AUM1,2
building a more
confident future.
~45,000 $86B+
MetLife contributes to a more confident future as an employees3 in total MIM-managed responsible
investments, including $58.5 billion+ of
employer, an investor and a provider of financial solutions
MetLife GA responsible investments4
and expertise. We bring our purpose to life by creating
shared value for our colleagues, our communities, our
customers and our shareholders.
ABOUT METLIFE
156+ years ~$44.5B
MetLife, Inc., through its subsidiaries and affiliates (MetLife), is
one of the world’s leading financial services companies, providing
insurance, annuities, employee benefits and asset management to of operation5 in policyholder benefits and claims6
help individual and institutional customers build a more confident
future. Founded in 1868, MetLife has operations in more than
40 markets globally and holds leading positions in the United States,
Asia, Latin America, Europe and the Middle East.
1. Please see Creating Value as an Investor and Explanatory Note to learn more about MetLife
Investment Management, LLC and certain of its affiliates (MIM) and our assets under
management (AUM). MIM is the institutional investment management business of MetLife, Inc.
2. At estimated fair value, as of December 31, 2023.
3. Employee headcount as reported in MetLife’s 2023 Form 10-K.
4. Represents total responsible investments managed by MIM at estimated fair value as of
December 31, 2023. Please see Responsible Investments to learn more.
5. As of March 24, 2024.
6. As reported by MetLife, Inc. in its 2023 Form 10-K.
5
Next Horizon Strategy
MetLife’s Next Horizon strategy directs resources to opportunities that create value for our
customers and lead to competitive differentiation. Delivering on our Next Horizon strategy
creates solutions that meet our customers’ evolving needs, energizes our talent, and generates
strong investment returns and capital to grow in a changing environment.
The pillars of our Next Horizon strategy are threefold:
Focus Simplify Differentiate
Generate strong free cash Simplify our business to Drive competitive advantage
flow by deploying capital and deliver operational efficiency through our brand, scale, talent
resources to the highest value and an outstanding customer and innovation.
opportunities. experience.
6
Raising the Bar
The success of our Next Horizon strategy gives us the foundation to advance
to the next level and pushes us to meet and exceed evolving stakeholder
expectations. While we can’t predict the future, if we proactively manage
what we can control, we can stay ahead of the curve. We take action to not
only anticipate change, but to embrace it. In 2023, we once again seized the
opportunity to “raise the bar”—to build on the progress we have already
made to reach new heights.
With Raising the Bar we are doubling down on the differentiation
pillar through:
Scaling excellence
Building on and leveraging our size and scale to a greater degree to
accelerate growth at a faster rate.
Employee care
Cultivating an environment that drives professional growth, purposeful work
and a supportive culture.
Customer care
Focusing on holistic solutions, effortless service and more meaningful
engagement with our customers.
7
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Sustainability at MetLife
OUR APPROACH
OUR SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENTS
8
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Our Approach
Sustainability at MetLife means managing business responsibly and sustaining people
throughout their lives. Our purpose—Always with you, building a more confident
future—drives our strategy and reflects the fundamental promise we make to our
customers, colleagues, shareholders and communities.
For customers, we offer products and services that support financial well-being and
health, and we make investments that help us keep our financial promises. For our Strategic Alignment
colleagues, we demonstrate employee care by providing opportunities for professional
with the Sustainable
growth, purposeful work and a supportive and inclusive culture. For our communities,
we help to create economic opportunity and prosperity.
Development Goals
By deploying the strength of our people, products, services and investments to deliver on
our promises to stakeholders, we drive long-term value for our shareholders. And for all To help drive progress toward a sustainable future for
stakeholders, we protect the environment as a way to improve overall health and well-being. people and our planet, we have aligned our sustainability
strategy with a subset of the 17 United Nations Sustainable
See Global Sustainability Governance for information about how we govern sustainability.
Development Goals (SDGs),1 given their relevance to our
business (see Appendix for examples):
MetLife has also been a UN Global Compact (UNGC)
participant since 2020. The UNGC provides a
principles-based approach to supporting a culture of
integrity with respect to human rights, labor, environment
and anti-corruption.
1. The content of this publication has not been approved by the UN and does not
reflect the views of the UN or its officials or Member States.
9
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Our Sustainability Commitments
2030 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Commitments
At MetLife, our purpose is to create a more confident future for all our stakeholders. Through our efforts, we aim to support the diverse customers and
communities we serve, now and in the future. MetLife’s 2030 DEI Commitments address the needs of underserved people through a mix of investments,
products and services, supply chain, volunteering and community initiatives.
Diverse Suppliers Investments Workforce Diversity
GOAL: Reach $5 billion in spend with GOAL: Drive $1 billion in investments that GOAL: Continue to advance workforce
diverse suppliers and annually report the advance diversity. diversity by aiming for top quartile
economic impact. positioning of officers3 across 1) ethnic
and racial diversity (ERD) (U.S.) and
✓ $1.4 billion+ invested between 2021 and 2023, achieving this
2) females (globally).
commitment several years early.2
✓ ~$3.9 billion spent since the inception of
MetLife’s Supplier Inclusion and Development ✓ In 2023, MetLife committed to make a $54 million investment
program in 2003.1 in a New York City multi-family development that includes ✓ 27.2% ERD for officers (U.S.)
30% affordable housing units with MAG Partners, an
✓ See MetLife’s Supplier Diversity Program ✓ 30.4% women for MetLife global officers
experienced woman-owned, urban real estate developer
2023 Economic Impact Report.
in the region. For more detail on our workforce data, see page 142.
1. Due to the long history of the program, spend figures from 2003
through 2007 are approximated. 2. Cumulative goal for this 2030 DEI Commitment: $1 billion between January 1, 2021 3. “Officers” are Vice President level and above.
and December 31, 2030.
Volunteer Hours MetLife Foundation Funding
GOAL: Commit 800,000 employee GOAL: MetLife Foundation committed $150 million
volunteer hours with a focus on DEI/ in funding to support underserved communities.
underserved communities.
✓ Since 2021, awarded $96.1 million in grants through Economic
Inclusion, Financial Health and Resilient Communities
✓ Contributed more than 315,000 hours of volunteer
portfolios. Some grants were awarded to organizations such
service by MetLife colleagues since 2021 in
as Laboratoria, Generation and The Opportunity Network to
communities where MetLife has a presence.
upskill and reskill talent to be competitive in a new economy.
✓ Volunteered with Food Bank For New York City to
✓ Also established strategic partnerships with Trickle Up and
mark MetLife Foundation’s milestone of $1 billion in
Village Capital focused on building the budgeting, savings,
all-time giving. Together, we packed 2,000 pantry
access to credit and fintech innovations that are needed to
boxes, totaling 18,000 meals for New Yorkers.
enable people with low incomes to build a more confident future.
10
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
2030 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Commitments
Solutions and Insights Research
GOAL: Provide solutions and insights to GOAL: Support research that
address the needs of the underserved. advances understanding of DEI issues.
✓ Launched MetLife Xcelerator in Latin America, ✓ Conducted a Legal Access Study,
a new platform that enables our partners to delivering insights into the benefits of
offer their customers access to a simple, fully legal plans for DEI initiatives, as well as
digital insurance experience. access to legal services for marginalized
or low-income groups.
✓ Offered home modification services for
the elderly in China through customers’ Par ✓ Gained insight on employees’ sentiments
Retirement Annuity policies. around belonging through an Inclusion Index
within MetLife’s annual MyVoice survey.
✓ Launched 360Future in Korea, a comprehensive
retirement solution that covers asset ✓ Participated in external surveys and studies,
management, health management and life care. such as McKinsey’s Race in the Workplace
and Women in the Workplace studies, as well
✓ MetLife Foundation and The Nippon Foundation
as Coqual’s Black Equity Index.
opened facilities for the elderly and after-
school centers for children in need in Japan, ✓ Increased understanding of stakeholder
as part of the “Better Life Better Place” for the needs by continuing to include DEI-focused
Elderly and Children program. questions in our U.S. Employee Benefit
Trends Study.
See Global Diversity, Equity and
Inclusion for additional examples
and more information on how, by
cultivating a purpose-driven and
inclusive culture, we’re able to
better meet the diverse needs of
our colleagues and the customers
and communities we serve.
11
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Our Sustainability Commitments
Net Zero Commitment
For years, MetLife has applied a diverse range of strategies to reduce emissions generated by
its environmental footprint. MetLife is making progress toward its interim targets, which support
our ambition to reach Net Zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions for its global operations and
General Account (GA) investment portfolio by 2050 or sooner,1 as part of MetLife’s
overall business strategy to create long-term value for colleagues, customers, shareholders,
business partners and communities around the world.
This commitment builds on our longstanding history of environmental stewardship, which entails working
toward an inclusive, resilient and thriving environment for present and future generations. To help reduce
emissions to as close to zero as possible in the coming decades, we are focusing on MetLife, Inc.’s
global owned and leased offices and vehicle fleets, employee business travel, supply chain and assets in
MetLife’s GA investment portfolio, which includes the general accounts of MetLife, Inc.’s wholly owned
insurance company subsidiaries.
MetLife has voluntarily produced and publicly disclosed an inventory of GHG emissions from
our operations for many years. While reliable methodologies and data sets pertaining to certain
emissions are not available at this time, we are committed to improving our data quality and tracking
capabilities as standards and methodologies continue to evolve. Emissions calculations are informed
by the GHG Protocol and Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF), unless otherwise
directed by regulators.
Our Approach
Responding to changes
Collaborating with
Reducing GHG emissions Financing solutions to in the market and striving
our stakeholders to
in alignment with the aims drive progress toward a to incorporate the latest
collectively work toward
of the Paris Agreement. low-carbon economy. climate science into
a Net Zero future.
our strategy.
1. See Explanatory Note for additional information about MetLife’s GA investment portfolio.
12
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Net Zero Commitment
2030 Interim Targets
(by 2030, unless otherwise indicated)
Global Operations General Account Investments
GOAL: Reduce Scope 1, 2 and 3 business travel GOAL: Reduce GHG emissions for real estate equity
emissions by 50% from 2019 baseline.1 investments by 50% from 2019 baseline.3
✓ Reduced emissions by 44% compared to 2019 baseline ✓ Reduced financed emissions by 11% between 2019 and
through measures such as increasing energy efficiency and 2022, by advancing MetZero™ across our real estate
reducing consumption at offices, greening vehicle fleets equity portfolio.
and reducing business travel, where possible.
✓ Updated emissions calculation methodology for real estate
✓ Installed new building management system at 13 of our equity investments, informed by PCAF.
largest offices in the U.S. to promote energy optimization,
resulting in 1,917 metric tons of carbon savings.
GOAL: Two-thirds of suppliers by spend set GOAL: Engage emitters responsible for at least
emissions-reduction goals aligned with the aims 50% of public corporate debt financed emissions
of the Paris Agreement.2 on climate annually.4
✓ Approximately 50% of suppliers by spend have set goals ✓ Engaged issuers responsible for 47% of financed emissions in
aligned with climate science. public corporate debt.
✓ Encouraged suppliers to set emissions reduction targets via ✓ Deepened credit analyst engagement on climate issues
the CDP Supply Chain Program. with portfolio holdings globally.
1. Applies to global owned and leased offices, global vehicle fleets (Scope 1 and 2 emissions) and employee business travel (Scope 3 Category 6).
2. Target measures MetLife suppliers that make public commitments to reduce GHG emissions by 2025 or later, aligned with limiting global temperature rise to 2°C above pre-industrial times. Spend represents procurable spend with
third-party suppliers. MetLife uses its own discretion for determining supplier alignment to the Paris Agreement based on supplier’s reported emissions reduction goal attributes, such as scope coverage, target year, base year and
reduction percentage. Evaluation occurs on an annual basis.
3. Applies to MetLife, Inc.’s financed emissions associated with its GA investment portfolio (Scope 3 Category 15). These are real estate equity assets, including several asset classes (offices, multifamily, industrial, retail, single family rentals,
hotels and other property types). Emissions calculations are informed by the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials and are associated with the underlying investment property’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions, and Scope 3 tenant
emissions (including power that is directly generated or consumed on-site) for real estate investments, where reliable data and methodologies are available. It should be noted that the Company generally recognizes the one-year lag
in emissions information available and that real estate investment emissions reported by MIM for MetLife’s GA portfolio are separate and distinct from the operational emissions reported by MetLife, Inc. for its corporate offices (both
owned and leased). See Explanatory Note for additional information about MetLife’s GA investment portfolio.
4. Applies to MetLife, Inc.’s financed emissions associated with its GA public corporate debt portfolio (Scope 3 Category 15), where reliable data and methodologies are available. Public corporate debt consists of public corporates,
emerging market debt and high yield. Percentage reflects engagement between the time this interim target was launched in June 2023 and December 31, 2023, based on emissions data and position data as of year-end 2022
(source: MSCI). Year-end 2022 emissions data available represents 88% of the relevant sectors based on book value. See Explanatory Note for additional information about MetLife’s GA investment portfolio. 13
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
For Our Colleagues
HIGHLIGHTS
OUR APPROACH
GOVERNANCE
A SUPPORTIVE CULTURE
TALENT AND SKILL DEVELOPMENT
BENEFITS AND WELL-BEING
COMPENSATION
ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TALENT
GLOBAL DIVERSITY, EQUITY
AND INCLUSION
14
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Certified Achieved
Great Place record scores
to Work® on culture, flexibility, well-being and
learning opportunities in our annual
in 11 markets. employee survey.
Women Launched
comprise Coaching@MetLife
53% to democratize coaching, support career
development and accelerate skill growth.
of our workforce.
Surpassed 97%
9,500
of colleagues
career development accessed MyLearning in 2023.
opportunities globally.
15
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Our Approach
MetLife’s commitment to building confident futures energizes colleagues
and creates an environment in which everyone feels like they belong and can
thrive. Our Employee Value Proposition (EVP), “All Together Possible,” is our
promise to deliver on this commitment through comprehensive and inclusive
benefits, services and experiences for our colleagues. All Together Possible is MetLife: A Certified
underpinned by three focus areas:
Great Place to Work®
• Guided By Empathy: At the heart of our culture lies a passion for people that
guides us in everything we do and connects us to our customers.
MetLife is proud to continue to be named among the
• Winning Together: We believe that an inclusive culture where unique attributes,
best workplaces globally. In 2023, all 11 MetLife markets
perspectives, voices and contributions are valued and respected—and where
that participated in the Great Place to Work® certification
everyone has access to what they need to succeed—enables us to win together.
process were certified, including:
• Driven By Growth: We empower our colleagues to build a career, perform at
their best and turn their ambitions into reality, all while focusing on our customers • Brazil; • Lebanon;
and growing our business. • Chile; • Mexico;
• China; • Romania;
MetLife’s 2023 U.S. Employee Benefit Trends Study (EBTS) found that
• Colombia; • United States; and
employee care—an employer’s genuine demonstration of interest in their
• Cyprus; • Uruguay.
employees’ overall well-being, both at work and outside of work—increases
• India;
several measures of employee health and productivity. Employers that care
The certification process considers a company’s culture,
for their employees promote financial wellness and holistic health across
innovation, diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives
the workforce, ultimately realizing better talent management outcomes and
and trust between employees and the company, asking and
increased business performance.
surveying employees about their experiences.
Our EVP is demonstrated through employee care which aims to better
Additionally, MetLife was named to Fortune magazine’s
connect our people to the suite of benefits, services and experiences
2023 list of the 100 Best Companies to Work For® and
that differentiate MetLife as an employer of choice.
to People Magazine’s 2023 PEOPLE® Companies that
Care list.
16
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Governance MetLife Leaders
Acknowledged for
Excellence
To drive the human capital strategy, including DEI efforts, MetLife’s Chief Human Resources
Officer (CHRO) reports directly to the CEO and consults regularly with and updates MetLife’s
Members of MetLife’s Global DEI Leadership Council,
Board of Directors and its committees on our human capital priorities. MetLife’s DEI efforts are
as well as other senior leaders, were recognized for
led by the Global Chief Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Officer, who reports directly to the CEO
their roles in shaping DEI within their industry, area
and the CHRO. The reporting structure underscores the importance of inclusion and Employee
of expertise or business broadly. The following are
Care to our culture and human capital strategy.
examples of this recognition:
GLOBAL DEI GOVERNANCE GLOBAL DEI LEADERSHIP COUNCIL • CEO Michel Khalaf was recognized by nonprofit NPower
for his significant contributions to creating a diverse
Strong governance underpins how we make Chaired by MetLife’s President and CEO,
and purpose-driven culture that gives everyone the
progress toward our 2030 DEI Commitments. Michel Khalaf, our Global DEI Leadership opportunity to change the world through their work.
This oversight helps maintain accountability Council is a 20-member senior leadership body.
• Global Chief Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Officer
and transparency in DEI performance. To The Council, which selects members based on
Dr. Cindy Pace was named one of the 2023 Most Influential
promote enterprise-wide collaboration on our their purpose-driven leadership and commitment
Executives in Diversity & Inclusion by Savoy Magazine.
commitments and initiatives, we’ve formalized to achieving results, drives DEI strategy and
• Prior to her retirement, CHRO Susan Podlogar was
the practices deemed necessary to drive business execution across businesses, functions and regions,
honored by the Red Shoe Movement with its Red Shoe
results and achieve an equitable, inclusive and provides strategic guidance and insight to
Leader 2023 Award, which recognizes individuals, projects
work environment. We have established improve performance.
or organizations that have had an impact on the issue of
guidelines, including:
gender inclusion.
In addition to responsibilities within MetLife,
• MetLife Pay Equity Statement; and members also participate in public events and • Head of Global Customer Service & Operations Merrilee
thought leadership forums. In 2023, these included Matchett was named as one of Digital Insurance’s Women
• MetLife Equal Employment Opportunity and
in Insurance Leadership honorees for 2023.
Anti-Harassment Policy MetLife’s Triangle Tech X (TTX) Conference; the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce Small Business Index; • MetLife Legal Plans CEO Ingrid Tolentino was named one
the Valor Games, a Paralympic sport competition of Latina Style Inc.’s Top 16 LATINA Corporate Executives
for disabled, wounded, ill or injured veterans and of the Year in the Latina Style50 Awards. She also received
a Silver Stevie® Award from the American Business
service members; the Black Professionals Network
Awards® in the Woman of the Year—Business Services
annual symposium; and the annual New York
Industries category.
University Tandon Veterans Future Lab Summit.
17
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
A Supportive Culture
MetLife’s 2023 U.S. EBTS found that a supportive culture is the most
consequential factor that contributes to employee care. This is why
MetLife devotes time and resources to promote connection, involvement
and dialogue among colleagues. A supportive culture means leaders are
accessible to their teams and intentional about nurturing inclusivity and
belonging, so employees feel they can bring their authentic voice, speak
up, be heard and have their ideas included in their work.
FOSTERING CONNECTION AND BELONGING
Culture of Care Supports
Now in its second year, MOMENTUM is MetLife’s global community of
employee-driven networks that drive office vitality, consistent employee
Life‑Saving Donation
experiences, connection and belonging. At a time when colleagues are
working in different ways—virtually, in-office or on a hybrid schedule—
MOMENTUM encourages participation in causes important to our In 2021, Tim Marcks (left), a Service Desk Manager for MetLife in Cary,
colleagues, including volunteerism, well-being and the environment. North Carolina, learned that his previously diagnosed stage 3 kidney
disease had progressed to stage 5. When he shared his need for a kidney
Colleagues can join or be an ally to one or multiple networks. These transplant on social media, a MetLife colleague Lynn Pattishall (right),
include green teams, wellness and volunteer champions and groups another Service Desk Manager who worked closely with Tim, saw the
dedicated to people with diverse abilities, veterans, families, rising post, and arranged with colleagues to undergo a kidney transplant
professionals, professional women, Black professionals, Latino professionals, compatibility test. Lynn was a match.
Asian professionals and LGBTQ+ professionals. Working with the Global
DEI team, MOMENTUM networks collaborate to co-create and evolve “[My colleague], Lynn made a huge sacrifice,” said Tim. “[She] gave me
the employee experience at MetLife. In the U.S., community ambassadors the gift of life. Did I ever think that was going to happen? No.” Tim and
at office locations drive further connection and belonging by planning and Lynn’s colleagues fostered a culture of belonging and care throughout the
promoting events and networking opportunities. transplant process and recovery. Tim noted, “the leadership at MetLife
was very supportive. [My management] told me—anything I needed;
ask.” While they were recovering, their colleagues stepped up to fill any
needs at the office. Lynn stated, “[MetLife] is more than just a company,
and I see it and feel it at work.”
Now, both Tim and Lynn are healthy, and the two colleagues regularly see
each other around the office. The MetLife community came together to
celebrate and further support them, featuring the two at a Let’s Talk Live
global town hall.
Learn more about Tim and Lynn’s story. 18
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
LISTENING TO AND RECOGNIZING COLLEAGUES We have always shared detailed team results with Throughout the year, we recognize employees through
senior-level people leaders, and in 2023 we expanded multiple global channels, including:
Listening to colleagues, gaining their perspective
access to those insights to approximately 1,000
on how we are working together and recognizing • Purpose Award, which recognizes colleagues who
additional leaders in more junior positions. To help
them when they advance our purpose is essential made extraordinary efforts to bring MetLife’s purpose
these managers interpret the results and act on
to nurturing our supportive culture. Colleagues to life (In 2023, 102 awards given);
the feedback, we introduced MyVoice Mentors, a
provide feedback on our work practices through program where senior leaders with experience in using • Above and Beyond Award, which recognizes
surveys, Let’s Talk, Live! forums (monthly, CEO-led, colleagues for their collaboration, experimentation and
feedback to drive engagement mentor colleagues who
global town halls) and virtual and in-person listening customer-focused achievements (In 2023, 1,132 awards
are accessing results for the first time.
sessions with leaders. given); and
The 2023 MyVoice survey had record engagement • Center Stage, a platform for sharing continuous
The MyVoice survey is our company-wide listening
from colleagues, and all benchmarked metrics equaled recognition, such as anniversaries, milestones
program that annually includes both a pulse and
or beat industry averages. Additionally, 44 out of and successes.
detailed survey. Sharing and actioning results is also
45 scores improved compared to 2022. The areas of
We believe that a supportive culture also inspires
a collaborative and inclusive effort. Our CEO shares
purposeful work, professional growth and supportive
innovation. The global Experimentation Fund gives
enterprise-wide results at Let’s Talk, Live!, leaders
culture scored above industry benchmarks in the
colleagues the opportunity to submit ideas to receive
review feedback with their teams, and a group
“very good” range, and we received positive feedback
funding for low-cost, quick experiments. As part of
of colleagues from all parts of MetLife reviews a
related to culture, flexibility and well-being. We also
the experimentation fund, we launched a campaign
summary of the written comments with the CEO
learned that we have an opportunity to improve
called “removing pebbles” to empower colleagues to
and CHRO. We use the results to determine focus
elements related to processes, workload and
challenge the status quo and identify opportunities
areas that are then integrated as priorities into annual
speed of execution.
to make things easier across MetLife. Since launch,
enterprise goals.
employees have successfully removed more than
MetLife’s recognition programs showcase our
250 pebbles, freeing up time to focus on meaningful
supportive culture in action, acknowledging employees
work and delivering for customers.
for their contributions to help fulfill our purpose.
Annual MyVoice Survey Results
Record Improvements on 74%
44 45
out of
engagement
answered favorably to “I believe
scores compared to 2022 meaningful action will be taken as a
score and at or above-average scores
result of this survey,” 12+ points above
for all benchmarked metrics
the industry benchmark
85% 82% ~85,000
response rate answered favorably to “How happy are comments, two to three times
you working at MetLife?” the industry average
19
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Talent and Skill Development
Professional growth is a prominent driver of well-being and performance. MetLife aims to give every LEARNING, DEVELOPMENT AND MOBILITY
colleague the tools, resources and opportunities they need to grow their career. We create personalized
Our approach to professional development incorporates
learning experiences through a combination of virtual, hybrid and in-person learning and development
structured feedback conversations, where colleagues and
opportunities, where colleagues can network, collaborate and learn from each other.
their managers discuss where the employee is most effective,
Across the company, we encourage colleagues to work with more agility. We encourage colleagues to areas they can improve and how the managers can be most
complete online Agile training, designed to help create stronger alignment across teams, enhance efficiency supportive. Colleagues and their managers then use our
and position ourselves to raise the bar for our people, customers and communities. online career development platform to set performance and
development goals and create career profiles that reflect
With ongoing artificial intelligence (AI) developments, we recognize how transformative technology is their experience and aspirations.
when combined with human oversight and direction. As a result, we are equipping our colleagues with AI
education and providing the upskilling needed to successfully drive a responsible AI strategy and prepare Our Growing@MetLife campaign showcases the many
for the roles of tomorrow. resources available to support colleagues’ development. In its
second year, Growing@MetLife emphasized the importance
of career conversations with managers that lead to skills-
based learning. We encouraged colleagues to identify
“focus skills” and create a corresponding development plan,
using the personalized resources generated in MyLearning.
Approximately 8,800 employees entered focus skills in
MyLearning in 2023, up 243% from 2022. Our career
development efforts contributed in part to career-related
Purposeful,
scores in MyVoice increasing two points year-over-year and
Personalized Learning scoring eight points higher than industry benchmarks.
In addition to direct manager support, MetLife colleagues
97% have access to resources that support formal and experiential
skill development and learning objectives. The MyLearning
platform provides access to digital learning resources such as
of colleagues accessed MyLearning in 2023
articles, books and videos, as well as webinars and courses.
When employees include focus skills in their MyLearning
456,000 profiles, the platform leverages AI-based recommendations
to personalize learning resources to meet their aspirations.
learning materials completed in 2023
20
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Our digital talent marketplace, MyPath,
provides employees experiential learning
opportunities and empowers them to manage
their development through strategic networking
In 2023,
and participation in projects. The platform uses
8,000+ new users
AI-based recommendations to match employees
to opportunities based on their skills, experiences
registered for MyPath, and
and ambitions, driving internal talent mobility and we surpassed
development. Now in its third year, MyPath is 9,500 project role
available globally and in seven languages.
assignments globally
To further personalize development, we piloted since implementation.
Coaching@MetLife, a program which certified
over 100 employees in 21 countries as internal
coaches. Coaching sessions have focused on
topics including skills development, career
exploration, problem solving and job transitions.
Coaching@MetLife will be implemented in 2024
to make quality coaching services available to
every employee.
Mandatory training also helps colleagues stay
up to date with the latest on our regulatory Forging a New Career Path
requirements; learn how to protect each
other, the company and our customers; with Help from MyPath
and drive key MetLife priorities. Please
see Responsible Governance for additional
Having spent several years in marketing, including two years in the field at MetLife, Caitlyn Wallace
mandatory training data.
(above) was pondering the question: What would make you want to come back to work after vacation?
After some soul searching, she knew the answer. “I wanted to shift my career,” Caitlyn said. “And I was
pretty sure I wanted that career to be in Human Resources (HR).” Caitlyn saw a perfect opportunity on
MyPath, but the position required the applicant to be in HR. Nonetheless, she decided to reach out to the
project owner to express her interest. They welcomed her to the project.
Caitlyn spent seven months on the project, working on areas such as workforce and succession planning,
mentoring and coaching employees. “Meeting with people in HR helped me to connect the dots,” she said.
“I knew I was interested in HR, but I wasn’t sure what I wanted to do.” She added that getting to know
employees from different teams was also a big help.
From there, she worked with her mentor to showcase her new skills in an application for a position in HR.
The rest is history, and today Caitlyn is an HR content lead on the Employee Experience and Care team.
21
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
BUILDING STRONG LEADERS
MetLife is committed to providing colleagues
a high-quality experience with their managers.
Our program to develop leaders, Leading the
Future, features a speaker series, on-demand
training, peer-to-peer networks and live
workshops. It supports over 5,500 people leaders.
Feedback from colleagues is a proven method
to help leaders understand their strengths and
opportunities for improvement. To strengthen
leadership development, we introduced
the Leader Expectations Tool, a survey for
MetLife people leaders to receive candid
feedback from their team members on how
well they demonstrated the behaviors critical to
engagement and performance. After a successful
pilot in 2022, we launched the tool to over
4,300 managers in 2023.
MetLife’s INDEAVOR program is an immersive
team-learning experience focused on tactics that
lead to greater trust, inclusion and collaboration.
INDEAVOR takes inclusion beyond the individual to
improve team performance. The program, available
to teams globally, now includes a psychological
safety module.
22
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Benefits and
Well-Being
Our extensive benefits and well-being resources form a key component
of our employee care approach. We know from MetLife’s 2023 U.S. EBTS
that employees who understand their benefits and experience a
supportive culture feel more cared for by their employers, which
translates to increased holistic health and improved business outcomes.
MetLife’s company-paid and company-subsidized healthcare, disability,
life insurance and retirement benefits are tailored to the needs of each
market. We provide competitive paid time off in all markets.
Year-round, MetLife strives to help colleagues experience the value of our MetLife Adoption Assistance
benefits programs through our BeWell platform, which provides access
Helps One of Our Own Bring
to health and wellness resources, support and leader tools. In addition,
we raise awareness of our benefits through storytelling, leader messages His Daughter Home
and awareness campaigns.
Our continued enhancements to mental health support benefits Marcus Munyon (above), a Senior Business Architect with
demonstrate progress toward our Thrive Global #MentalHealthPledge MetLife, and his husband Benjamin always knew they wanted
to prioritize the mental health and well-being of our colleagues. We to adopt. Not only to grow their family, but to help a child
provide multi-channel access to mental health care by covering out-of- who needed to be adopted as well as their birth family.
network office visits at high reimbursement levels in the U.S., employee
A firm believer that their baby would find them, Marcus
assistance programs in 19 countries and a variety of virtual mental health
says one of the biggest challenges to adoption was waiting.
care options. For example, to meet the unique needs and preferences
But MetLife’s adoption financial assistance benefit helped
of kids and teens, we’ve expanded our U.S. health benefits to include
keep the process on track. And when the time came for little
a digital mental health care program that offers coaching, therapy and
Kennedy to finally join their family, MetLife’s paid parental
medication maintenance.
leave meant that Marcus could enjoy special time with his
new daughter.
Marcus says the support he received from his manager and
other MetLife leaders made him feel the most comfortable
he’s felt with an employer at any time in his career.
23
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
We also focus on reducing mental health stigma. For colleagues who want to build or grow their
Following the success of Mental Health First families, we have introduced Maven, a resource
Aid training in the U.K., U.S. colleagues can that offers 24/7 virtual support, including
now become certified as mental health allies, counseling, resources and referrals related to
giving them skills to undertake mental health fertility, childbirth, adoption, surrogacy, parenting
conversations with colleagues confidently a newborn, returning to work and more.
and competently.
We’ve also rolled out new benefits to help
The Families at MetLife MOMENTUM network colleagues reduce stress and address challenges
connects and supports colleagues who are confidently. For example, U.S. colleagues now
navigating family and career by keeping have access to Aura identity theft protection
members apprised of available MetLife services through MetLife Legal Plans. The
resources, organizing learning events and service gives employees peace of mind that
activities and serving as a voice for caregivers. their personal information is protected online.
Find out more about MetLife’s benefits program.
Compensation
Our compensation practices are essential to We regularly review colleagues’ pay and our
delivering employee care and contributing pay practices to attract, motivate, engage and
to financial wellness. Total compensation at retain top talent, and we provide equal pay for
MetLife may include three primary components: equal work. As outlined in MetLife’s Pay Equity
base salary and annual and long-term incentives. Statement, we review our pay practices for any
We have a pay-for-performance philosophy, potential disparities that cannot be explained by
which means there is a direct link between a objective factors such as performance, experience
colleague’s compensation, their performance level, credentials or location and correct any
and MetLife’s performance. issues. We are committed to continuing to review
our practices to promote fairness and equity.
24
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Attracting and Retaining Talent
Our EVP, “All Together Possible,” helps position MetLife as an MetLife supports programs and partners that promote diversity in the
employer of choice, able to attract and retain strong, diverse and workforce and enhance the skills of young, diverse students. Our partners
passionate candidates. Our EVP continues to drive applicant flow, include INROADS, Hiring Our Heroes, Blacks in Technology and Women
with a 9% increase in 2023 over 2022. in Technology International. These partnerships enable career development
for existing colleagues by giving them more resources, as well as new social
One contributing factor to the increase in applicant flow is our new
networks that expand professional relationships.
Employee Advocacy Program in the U.S. The program, which makes
it easier for colleagues to discover and share MetLife content with Additionally, MetLife Foundation supports Girls Who Code, a nonprofit
their LinkedIn networks, empowers colleagues to grow their personal working to close the gender gap in tech, and Girls Who Invest, a nonprofit
brand and MetLife’s brand. In the pilot phase of the program, job organization dedicated to transforming the investment management industry
openings shared by ambassadors consistently saw an increase by attracting and advancing women investors, changemakers and leaders.
of two to three times the average applicant flow and employee With Girls Who Code, the Foundation launched a mentoring program that
referrals. Some of the most frequently shared content has included connects high-school students with college-aged mentors, supporting the
colleague spotlights, company news as well as content pertaining to development of older students. MetLife Investment Management, LLC
DEI, environmental sustainability and wellness. Program participants and certain of its affiliates (MIM) offers summer internships to Girls Who
mentioned increases in company pride after learning more about Invest students.
their colleagues and MetLife.
Our new talent relationship management platform is raising the
bar on recruitment by making it easier for employees and potential
employees to find new positions at MetLife that align to their career
INROADS recognized MetLife with
interests. Candidates are notified about open positions and can
its 2023 Frank C. Carr Corporate
promote their skills when applying for full-time positions. The platform
Partner of the Year Award,
works in harmony with MyPath to give colleagues an understanding
of the opportunities and experiences available. For hiring managers, which honors organizations that
the platform offers streamlined management and talent sourcing advance DEI in the workplace and
features that make it easier to find the right candidate.
communities. Michael Roberts,
We train recruiters and managers to consider diverse perspectives Chief Marketing Officer at MetLife
and to be aware of and avoid potential biases in the recruitment, and a former INROADS intern,
hiring, performance assessment and career development processes.
accepted the award, saying the
impact the organization had on
him was profound.
25
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Global Diversity,
Equity and
Inclusion
DEI at MetLife is a critical component of our business and
a driving force for innovation. Inclusive behaviors foster
collaboration, enhance team performance and expand the
breadth of ideas available for effective problem solving. With
enhanced internal belonging, we can deliver better solutions
for our customers and, in return, better outcomes for our
shareholders and communities.
MetLife helps create a culture of trust and inclusion by facilitating
honest conversations. Our podcast, Inclusion Begins with
Me: Conversations that Matter, hosted by our Global Chief
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Officer, Dr. Cindy Pace, examines
the role colleagues play in creating inclusive workplaces that
are built for the future. The podcast encourages important
conversations with our colleagues, customers, business partners
and communities. According to Apple podcast charts, Inclusion
Begins with Me is a top global performer in the business and
management categories in 33 markets.
WORKFORCE DIVERSITY
We are committed to being transparent about our progress and
accountable for our results as we aspire to become a global
employer of choice. We measure ourselves against industry
benchmarks and are aiming for top-quartile performance across
ethnically and racially diverse groups in the U.S. and top-quartile 1. The officer population is a subset of overall management that reflects the leadership of the organization. It comprises all MetLife colleagues at the
Vice President level or above.
performance in our female officer1 population globally. Our 2 Management population is defined as any active colleague who has at least one direct report.
3 Ethnic and Racial Diversity is the percentage of colleagues in the U.S. who identify as American Indian or Alaskan Native, Asian, Black/African American,
workforce data and Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO)-1 Hispanic/Latino, Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander and Two or More Races.
4. Nonmanagement population is defined as any active colleague who does not have any direct reports.
reporting provide more detail on our top-quartile progress.
26
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
CLOSING THE GENDER GAP TTX has also expanded its online community into an ongoing
virtual speaker series available to the public—named TTX Talks—
MetLife continues to support the development of our global women
that spotlights women making significant contributions to STEM.
leaders. At MetLife, women comprise:
MetLife has also launched the TTX LinkedIn Community, a
platform that promotes the advancement of women in STEM,
• 36% of the MetLife Inc. Board of Directors (2022: 38%)
connects professionals in STEM fields, and shares the latest
• 53% of our global workforce (2022: 53%)
trends and news from inspiring thought leaders.
• 30% of our Executive Leadership Team (2022: 25%)
Two of MetLife’s senior female leaders are members of the
• 43% of our managers (2022: 42%)
CEO Club of consulting firm Bain’s Stratos Academy, a
• 44% of our strategic advisory group1 (2022: 48%)
program for senior women leaders’ development in the financial
industry. Stratos Academy is available to MetLife women at the
Through MetLife’s Gender Equity Initiative, we offer leadership vice president level and above in Asia, Europe, the Middle East
development and a variety of career support programs, including and Africa to prepare them for CEO-level leadership by expanding
peer-mentoring groups, workplace policies and benefits that support their networks, spearheading thought leadership and advancing
work-life integration. their development via in-person and virtual training and events.
Our fifth annual Triangle Tech X (TTX) Conference theme—
“The Humanity Imperative: Achieving STEM Equity in the AI Age”—
examined the role of AI in bridging the STEM equity gap. Registered
attendees at TTX 2023 increased 39% compared with 2022.
Through networking events,
MetLife sponsors and participates in the Global Summit of Women
such as our annual Women
and is committed to the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles
in Sales summits, thought
and the UN Global Compact’s gender equality accelerator
leadership and training, MetLife
program, Target Gender Equality. MetLife Chile and Chile
offers women tools to grow and
ProVida are signatories to the Gender Parity Initiative, a public-
be successful in our industry
private partnership aimed at closing the economic gender gap.
and business generally.
1. The Strategic Advisory Group is a CEO-sponsored group designed to broaden the points of view shared with the
Executive Leadership Team and provide guidance and input.
27
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
ADVANCING INCLUSION THROUGH
PARTNERSHIPS AND SPONSORSHIPS
MetLife understands that our success can be
bolstered by the expertise of external stakeholders.
We host an external roundtable of experts in racial
equity and inclusion-related business disciplines,
academia and philanthropy. Named ADVANCE,
the roundtable has helped us understand MetLife’s
role in closing the racial wealth gap.
MetLife also participates in partner studies to
shape understanding of DEI in the workplace
globally. We contributed employment data to
McKinsey’s Race in the Workplace study,
which examined the experience of Asian, Black
and Latino frontline workers—a segment of the
workforce that has historically been disconnected
from advancement opportunities. We also shared
data for LeanIn.org and McKinsey’s Women in
the Workplace study, the largest study of women
in corporate America. Our data contribution to
Coqual helped develop its Black Equity Index, an
initiative for organizations to advance and measure
progress toward a more inclusive workplace.
28
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
For Our Customers
HIGHLIGHTS
OUR APPROACH
GOVERNANCE
SUPPORTING WELLNESS
SUPPORTING UNDERSERVED GROUPS
AND COMMUNITIES
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES THAT SUPPORT
THE ENVIRONMENT
DELIVERING CARE THROUGH THE
CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE
RESEARCH AND INSIGHTS
29
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Enhanced benefits Helped over
offerings 1M digital users
for institutional customers and increased in Asia access expert medical
utilization by their U.S. employees through support via our app, MetLife
several new collaborations and initiatives. 360Health.
Expanded Launched MetLife
360Future Xcelerator
in China and Korea to help customers in Latin America (LatAm) to enable our
prepare for retirement. partners to offer their customers access to
a simple, fully digital insurance experience.
Improved
financial inclusion
and customer
experience
globally through new apps and
digital services.
30
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Our Approach
MetLife Products and Services
As stakeholder expectations rise, MetLife made the MetLife offers a diverse range of products and services to align with
concept of care a core tenet of differentiation. Our institutional and individual customer needs. Examples include:
products, services and support help employers to
successfully demonstrate care for their workforce,
Accidental Death
Group Universal Life Long-Term Care
thus improving overall business outcomes. As the and Dismemberment
Insurance Insurance
needs of individuals and workforces evolve, we Insurance
continue to develop new products and services to
Group Variable
deliver for them, often when they need us most. Accident and Health Pension Risk
Universal Life
Insurance Solutions
Insurance
MetLife’s diverse solutions prioritize care and
Auto and Home
satisfaction. We continue to innovate through the
Insurance Health Savings and
Pet Insurance
lens of sustainability, including diversity, equity and (through Farmers Spending Accounts
inclusion (DEI). Affordability, simplicity, flexibility and Insurance)
access combine to support our customers’ physical,
Hospital Indemnity Retiree Life/Medical
mental and financial well-being. Cancer Insurance Insurance Benefit Solutions
Corporate-Owned
Life Insurance (COLI) Identity and Fraud
Stable Value
and Bank-Owned Protection
Life Insurance (BOLI)
Investment Management
Structured
Credit Insurance (MetLife Investment
Settlement Annuities
Management)
Critical Illness
Investment Products Term Life Insurance
Insurance
Variable Endowment
Dental Insurance Legal Plans
(investment-linked)
Disability and
Lifetime Income
Absence Vision Insurance
Annuities
Management
Employer-Sponsored Longevity
Retirement Plans Reinsurance
31
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Governance
MetLife’s global businesses operate in the U.S.; Asia; LatAm; and Europe, the
Middle East and Africa (EMEA). Each business head reports to the CEO.
MetLife is committed to putting our customers at the center of everything we
do and treating them fairly. Our Code of Business Ethics and our internal policies
and procedures require that we present our products and services, our company
and ourselves with honesty, integrity and in compliance with the law. We have
internal guidelines for product development, marketing, sales, underwriting,
policy administration and benefit payments to promote compliance with
applicable local regulations.
We consider the diversity of customer perspectives and evolving employer-
employee dynamics to develop products and solutions that support the needs
of today’s workforce and help employers deliver on their business priorities. We
continue to conduct market research among customers, their employees and
others in the industry to augment our insights and influence our strategies and
innovation pipeline.
We have trained our sales and marketing teams to provide complete and
accurate information to help facilitate customer decisions. The risks associated
with the failure of delivering on customer protection are identified, assessed,
managed and reported as appropriate to senior management through the
country, regional and global risk committees. MetLife’s Board of Directors also
receives periodic updates on customer protection risks.
In addition, MetLife Europe includes sustainability in our Product Oversight
and Governance process. Further, in EMEA, we also address environmental,
social and governance impacts in our Business Case template for the launch
of new products.
32
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Supporting Wellness
Part of building a more confident future is supporting our customers during difficult
times, particularly when the health and wellness of their family is at stake. We strive to
improve and evolve our products and services based on local market and customer
needs. Many of MetLife’s insurance products and services support wellness. These A Small Pill Box with
include dental, vision and health insurance, and products and services tailored to mental
a Big Impact on a
health, family care, accidents, disability and absence management, cancer and critical
illness. The following examples highlight some of our most innovative product offerings.
Customer’s Health
See our Sustainability Products and Services table for more information.
Concerned about her 80-year-old father’s tendency to
METLIFE 360HEALTH AND 360FUTURE
forget to take his daily medication for hypertension and
hyperglycemia, MetLife China customer Ms. Zhang learned
Created to help customers increase their healthspan, MetLife 360Health offers
from her MetLife agent that she received a discount on
solutions that address mental, physical, financial and social health through a focus
smart pill boxes through her 360Future membership.
on the five key aspects of managing critical illnesses: prevention, early diagnosis,
access to treatment, ongoing care and financial protection. Users can access services
She used the discount to purchase a pill box with
through the mobile app and online portals, including artificial intelligence (AI)-backed
28 compartments, providing enough storage for a week’s
health assessments, diabetes risk monitoring, exercise and nutrition tips, online doctor
worth of pills for her father. The box’s flashing lights and
consultations and prescription deliveries.
adjustable volume alert Ms. Zhang and her father when it’s
time for him to take his medication. It also sends mobile
We launched MetLife 360Health in Nepal and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in 2023,
notifications to each of them via WeChat. Ms. Zhang said that
joining existing markets Australia, Bangladesh, China and Korea. Across Asia, more than
her father’s blood pressure and blood glucose are now well
1 million digital users have downloaded the MetLife 360Health app, and it has won
controlled. “It’s amazing how much of a positive impact such
more than 30 awards since its launch. The UAE launch focused on mindfulness, health
a small device can have on our family’s health,” she said.
risk assessment, nutrition/calorie tracking, a symptom checker, guided meditations and
physical and mental health articles.
360Future helps customers prepare early for retirement and supports them as they
age, with retirement savings, insurance, health and wealth services. MetLife began
offering 360Future in Korea in 2023 with more than 30 services to help customers
enhance quality of life in retirement while providing healthcare support during illness.
In China, we expanded our existing 360Future services to include a personal pension
insurance product, women’s menopausal healthcare consultations and ophthalmic
screenings, in addition to support for medical appointments, home healthcare
guidance and retirement planning.
33
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
U.S. BENEFITS EMPLOYEE CARE ENHANCEMENTS • Empathy, a third-party provider helping families
navigate the experiences associated with loss.
According to research from MetLife’s 2023 U.S. As part of MetLife’s Beneficiary Claims Concierge
Employee Benefit Trends Study (EBTS), both Services, when employees enroll in MetLife’s group
employees and employers could benefit from life insurance, their beneficiaries have access to
clarity and understanding around benefits packages.1 Empathy’s bereavement care platform, providing
The study found: support to millions following the loss of a loved one.3
• 45% of U.S. employees say there are PET INSURANCE
elements of their benefits package they
do not fully understand; Pets are an important part of our families and can
contribute to an individual’s mental and physical
• 62% of U.S. employees say understanding
how to use their benefits would give them well-being. We’ve made it easier for pet parents
a greater sense of overall stability; and to manage their pet insurance through an app and
website with helpful tools and resources. In the app,
• 50% of U.S. employees say understanding
pet parents can submit and track claims, view their
how to use their benefits would make them
more loyal to their employer. policy, manage their personal profile and access a
live 24/7 chat with licensed veterinarians.4
MetLife Pet Insurance
To help with this problem, MetLife has teamed with
Nayya, a leading digital provider of benefits decision
Supports Pup’s Long‑
PUBLIC HEALTH PARTNERSHIPS
support and engagement. Nayya’s capabilities are
offered by MetLife for education purposes through As part of our commitment to public health and Term Shelter Stay
Upwise™, MetLife’s benefits engagement platform,
well-being, MetLife Mexico is part of the UN Good
which makes recommendations to employees
Health and Well-Being Working Group which Ginny, a five-year-old pit bull mix was at the
on their benefits.2 This strategic collaboration will
recently released the second edition of the Health Lexington Humane Society’s (LHS) shelter in
empower millions of employees to make the most of
and Wellness Best Practices Guide. Development Lexington, Kentucky, for 1,000 days, as LHS
employer offerings by choosing and using benefits
of this public resource, led by the Mexican Business struggled to find someone to adopt her. She was
that support their individual and evolving needs.
Coordinating Council and UN Global Compact, harder to place than other shelter dogs, requiring
We have expanded access to workforce mental highlights new approaches and recommendations on a family without children or other animals. But
health solutions, supporting employers to offer how to address the health of the workforce through fortunately, Ginny was finally adopted.
physical, mental and financial health.
employee assistance programs, including
Ginny’s long stay at the shelter was made
the following new collaborations:
possible by MetLife Pet Insurance’s
• Lyra Health, a provider of global workforce mental collaboration with shelters, through which we
health solutions. When a customer contracts directly 1. See the latest EBTS report. provide support, including sponsoring walks,
2. We are the exclusive insurance carrier to offer Nayya’s capabilities to employers with
with Lyra Health, MetLife can integrate our claims more than 1,000 U.S. employees. adoption events and long-stay residents. LHS
3. Empathy is not available for customers situated in New York, or principally located in
process so that, at time of claim, employees get New York. was one of the first shelters we teamed up with,
4. Virtual veterinary services are available through the MetLife Pet app and are provided
access to more comprehensive well-being services. entirely by AskVet, a third-party partner; MetLife is not responsible for any pet and we’ve been working together for 11 years.
guidance or advice provided or taken. Veterinarians providing virtual veterinary
services cannot prescribe medication or answer questions about the pet policy. Ginny’s successful adoption is one of many
happy stories from our shelter partners.
34
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Supporting Underserved
Groups and Communities
We are committed to developing solutions to address financial inequities, as well as offering these products to
underserved populations who often need them most.
PRODUCTS THAT DRIVE FINANCIAL WELLNESS AND INCLUSION
MetLife’s products help individuals access resources, care and financial support throughout their lives,
promoting greater financial stability and wellness. Through products, services and partnership programs,
MetLife’s Financial Wellness and Engagement group provides long-term solutions that bring financial wellness
and education to individuals while strengthening our relationship with employers. This includes understanding
the needs and financial behaviors of all communities. Learn more about financial wellness products.
• PlanSmart®, our multi-channel experience that We also offer services to provide support for the In addition, we focus on the accessibility and
focuses on behavioral change, offers tools and costs of education. Examples include: affordability of our products and services to provide
guidance that empower our customers’ employees options that help address the insurance coverage
to build financial literacy, confidence and well-being. • PNB MetLife Genius Plan, a savings plan that gap, including:
PlanSmart® includes financial tools and financial provides guaranteed benefits and allows customers to
education workshops provided by specially trained create a customized pay-out structure, helping parents • Rural Term Insurance: In Nepal, MetLife offers Rural
third-party financial professionals and administered via pay for education while balancing their financial Term Insurance to customers of local microfinance
webinar or in person.1 Many webinars are conducted protection needs; institutions and cooperatives.
for diverse audiences during celebratory periods, such
• My Child Education Protection Plan, an education • Mini Insurance: In Korea, MetLife provides multiple
as Women’s History Month.
insurance plan for parents in Bangladesh and Nepal to products that offer customers low-cost coverage
• We have made our Will Preparation and Digital prevent a child’s education from being hampered by (approximately USD $4.25 per year), while PNB
Estate Planning Services available to members financial hardship; and MetLife in India offers a government-backed,
enrolled in life insurance through MetLife Worldwide • Kids’ Dream, a variable universal life solution for low-cost insurance product for customers with low
Benefits, our business for globally mobile employees. customers in Korea, which can help parents grow their incomes, especially those who are unbanked or in
Members now have access to an extensive network of remote areas.
savings and their child’s education budget.
more than 18,000 participating plan attorneys for will
• khUshi: PNB MetLife introduced an app for
preparation and estate resolution needs.
customers to track fund value, make policy-related
changes and pay premiums, helping to eliminate the
need for in-person visits to branch offices.
1. The financial professionals providing financial education are not affiliated with MetLife but are providing the program under a service provider contract.
35
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
HOW OUR PRODUCTS SUPPORT DIVERSE NEEDS We also draw on findings from our annual U.S. EBTS
that focuses on the evolving workforce dynamics, trends
MetLife’s solutions, along with accessible education and resources, help diverse individuals from all
and challenges impacting today’s diverse workforce. For
backgrounds fulfill their purpose. We support inclusivity through our products and plans in three ways:
example, this includes the ways in which employers can
support women in the workforce.
1. Product and Pricing—We have one of the broadest portfolios of products that serve diverse
populations and unique needs;
MetLife offers several products targeted toward the
healthcare needs of women.
2. Access—We are committed to providing product access for all through inclusive benefit solutions
and services, including our broad provider networks, benefit price points and diverse service
• In Nepal, LifeCare—Beautiful was designed to cover nine
providers; and
women-specific diseases, including breast and cervical
cancer treatments, the two most common cancers for women
3. Customer Experience—We provide care and support to drive an inclusive experience (language
in the country.
support, digital servicing and accessibility, and customized communications).
• MetLife Brazil offers discounted group life insurance to
We seek to understand the diversity of our enterprise customers’ employees, analyzing data around companies with an employee base of at least 40% women and
product and benefit usage and translating that information to strengthen our product pipeline. According where women have an average salary greater than or equal to
90% of the average salary of men.
to our previous studies, DEI-specific features of our products resonate well with customers’ employees,
feel relevant to various populations and could be instrumental in enabling employers to achieve their • MetLife Mexico, in partnership with the National Financial
goals. We’ve instituted training and support for product teams, account executives, sales teams and Services Consumer Protection Agency and the National
other customer-focused colleagues to help them find new ways to address customers’ equity needs on Institute for Women, launched “Te Quiero Segura,” a web
a daily basis. platform with tools, information and solutions that promote
inclusion and financial security for Mexican women.
Other products have provisions and services intended to
support individuals who are seniors; lesbian, gay, bisexual,
transgender, queer and other (LGBTQ+); caregivers;
ethnically or racially diverse; veterans; and people
with disabilities.
• When customers are choosing providers, our diverse
networks for dental services and for MetLife Legal Plans
allow customers to choose providers and professionals who
speak their chosen language or align with other preferred
cultural competencies.
• Through a collaboration with Family First, MetLife Legal
Plans gives enrollees and their families who are struggling with
caregiver burnout access to expert care teams. These teams are
composed of nurses, physicians, social workers and mental
health professionals.
36
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Products and Services That
Support the Environment
MetLife’s products and services are a component of REDUCING RESOURCE USE THROUGH MetLife Uruguay
our environmental stewardship. We offer sustainable DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONS
delivered:
insurance and investment products and reduce the
In response to customer demand for MetLife to
waste associated with our products.
modernize communications, we are pivoting from paper 95%
to digital communications wherever possible, thereby
SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT PRODUCTS
reducing paper use and the waste associated with it.
of policies digitally in
In Bangladesh, we’ve invested in the country’s first December 2023,
In many of our regions and businesses, customers
compared to
internationally certified sustainability bond, issued by
can submit claims, make payments and access
74%
Runner Automobiles, which will use the proceeds to
documentation and other policy information online.
provide credit to customers buying low-emissions
In several cases we also tie tree-planting initiatives to
three-wheel vehicles. Runner also plans to use the funds customer engagement and sales (see Protecting Nature in December 2022.
to build a rooftop solar plant on its manufacturing facility.
and Biodiversity for more information on tree planting).
See our Sustainability Products and Services table for
Examples include:
information about our sustainable products and services,
including unit-linked insurance plans. • In Japan, to encourage adoption of our digital platform MetLife Chile
and to reduce the use of paper, we made donations to
the Children’s Forest Program, which resulted in increased digital
20,000 seedlings being planted by schoolchildren and
local communities in vulnerable areas of Indonesia. claims to:
• We invited MetLife China agents, customers and their
91%
families to join MetLife employees in the Green Hope
tree planting project which planted more than 5,000 trees
in 14 cities. in 2023,
compared to
81%
in 2022.
37
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Delivering Care Through
the Customer Experience
Delivering care through the customer experience is central to MetLife’s
product and service offerings. We deliver on our promise of care by
committing to exceptional service delivery through simple, timely and
effective solutions.
Team Springs into Action
MetLife has been on a journey with artificial intelligence (AI) for
several years, leveraging forms of AI such as machine learning to to Deliver Customer Care
drive innovation and efficiency across business functions, including
customer service, fraud detection and underwriting. AI technologies
Working on MetLife’s Global Customer Service and Operations
have enabled MetLife to gain deeper insights into customer behavior,
team can mean fielding routine customer calls, answering questions,
preferences and needs. Using these insights, we have been able to
replying to claim inquiries and showing empathy as a customer
personalize our offerings, provide targeted recommendations and
talks about the loss of a loved one. It can also mean being on the
deliver more tailored and seamless experiences to our customers. Read
line when a customer calls in extreme emotional distress. In such
more about MetLife’s Responsible Use of AI.
situations, our teams are trained to lead with empathy and great
Our 2023 Global Hackathon focused on customer care, bringing care, while following protocol.
together nearly 3,000 MetLife colleagues and contractors across
In Australia, the team’s Crisis Call Pathway Tool supports frontline
departments, functions and geographies to develop, finesse and pitch
staff in responding early and proactively to signs of distress. One
innovative ideas to heighten the customer experience. The four-week
of our case managers, along with strategy and recovery specialists,
challenge yielded more than 300 unique, tech-forward solutions that
activated the tool after they noted a change in a customer’s behavior
have the power to improve customer care. The winning project was a
and her comments that she was having trouble finding access to a
disability claims tracker that helps customers understand the progress
psychologist and a psychiatrist to support her. The tool helped the
of their claim. The winning team received additional funding through
team identify that the customer was at risk and prompted them to
MetLife’s Experimentation Fund to help implement their idea.
put a support plan in place. Through two crisis management calls
and a welfare check, the MetLife colleagues provided the customer
with details for a 24-hour suicide prevention helpline and worked
with her to download the 360Health app to make sure she could
find a service provider.
Following our team’s intervention, the customer later noted that she
was feeling better and was grateful for the care and support of the
MetLife Australia team.
38
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Research and Insights
MetLife publishes several annual studies and MetLife also shares insights through podcasts
short-form articles that help us and our stakeholders where we bring experts to discuss topics relevant
better understand important workforce dynamics to customers and employees.
and industry trends. For more information about our
• Putting Numbers to Work helps distill complex
research, please visit our website.
ideas from across the employee benefits research
• MetLife’s 2023 U.S. EBTS “The Advantages of landscape into lessons employers can put
Employee Care: Creating human-centric employee into action.
experiences and work environments” detailed • MetLife Chile’s Hablemos Seguros
the measurable impact of employee care on key (Let’s Talk Safety) video podcast discusses
business and employee outcomes, from productivity topics in the insurance industry, such as life
and engagement to feeling a sense of belonging and annuities, in simple, everyday language.
value at work.
• MetLife’s 2023 Legal Access Study found that
offering legal services improves holistic health and
productivity among U.S. employees and leads to them
feeling better mentally. Moreover, legal benefits may
help companies’ DEI initiatives, as they can support
those who are often disproportionately affected
by a lack of access to legal services caused by
unaffordability and a perceived lack of fairness in the
legal system. For more information about the study,
please visit our Legal Plans website.
39
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Creating Value as an Investor
HIGHLIGHTS
OUR APPROACH
GOVERNANCE
RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS
SUSTAINABLE INVESTING
METLIFE’S SUSTAINABLE
FINANCING FRAMEWORK
40
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
$420B+ $1.4B+
of MetLife General Account (GA) in investments made between
assets under management (AUM).1 2021 and 2023 that advance diverse
firms, achieving our commitment
several years early.2
$58.5B+ $166.5M+
in total MetLife GA responsible of impact investments originated since
investments, with a focus on the core 2020, with approximately 25% allocated
areas of infrastructure, green, municipal to climate change priorities.5
bonds, affordable housing and
impact investments.3,4
$12.2B+ total
new green investments since 2020
for MetLife GA, with nearly $2 billion
in annual investments in 2023.
1. As of December 31, 2023. At estimated fair value. See Explanatory Note.
2. As of December 31, 2023. Cumulative goal for this 2030 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Commitment: $1 billion between January 1, 2021 and December 31, 2030.
3. Represents MetLife GA responsible investments managed by MetLife Investment Management, LLC and certain of its affiliates (MIM) at estimated fair value as of
December 31, 2023.
4. For definitions of responsible investments, impact investments and green investments, please see the Glossary. MIM may periodically refine or otherwise modify its definitions
and the components thereof based on data availability or other factors.
5. Represents impact investments originated solely for the MetLife GA and MetLife Foundation.
41
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Our Approach Governance
MetLife’s investment portfolio helps finance job creation, business MetLife’s Chief Investment Officer oversees sustainability efforts related
growth and community development around the world. More importantly, to MetLife’s GA investments. The Investment Committee of MetLife’s
MetLife’s investments help us keep the financial promises we have made Board of Directors:
to our customers. MetLife’s General Account (GA) AUM of $423 billion1,2
• Oversees the management of MetLife’s investment activities;
is invested responsibly for the long term. We seek out investments that
are diverse, stable, secure and offer competitive, risk-adjusted returns. • Reviews management reports on MetLife’s investment activities and
We evaluate risks, including financially material environmental, social and performance, and on the conformity of those activities to authorizations and
guidelines; and
governance (ESG) factors, that we believe have an impact on investment
performance. How our sizable and diversified investments are made is • Oversees the management and mitigation of risks associated with the GA’s
integral in helping MetLife live our purpose. investment portfolio, including climate-related risks and opportunities, in
coordination with the Finance and Risk Committee.
As part of its 2030 DEI Commitments, MetLife pledged to originate
MetLife’s sustainability-related investment initiatives are reported to
$1 billion in investments that advance diversity by 2030. This was
the Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee of MetLife’s
achieved in 2023 with more than $1.4 billion invested between 2021
Board of Directors regularly.
and 2023, including investments in private equity, agricultural lending
and real estate debt and equity. As the institutional investment manager of MetLife, MIM applies
sustainability capabilities for MetLife’s GA, which are overseen
MetLife Investment Management, LLC and certain of its affiliates
by the Head of MIM.
(MIM)2, our institutional investment management business, manages
most of MetLife’s GA portfolio, as well as third-party institutional
client portfolios. MIM is a well-established global investment manager
MIM has been a signatory to
with specialist investment teams that support MetLife’s GA investment
objectives. This includes embedding ESG integration principles in the Principles for Responsible
decision-making and being a responsible investor as a means to a long- Investment (PRI) since 2019,
term, value-driven portfolio.
committing to adopt and
MIM acquired Affirmative Investment Management (AIM)2, a specialist implement PRI’s six principles.
global ESG fixed income investment manager with capabilities in impact See MIM’s 2023 PRI Transparency
investing, verification, reporting and engagement, to strengthen MIM’s
Report and Assessment Report for
ESG investment and reporting capabilities and provide deeper analysis
more information.
of sustainability and risk considerations across MIM’s core competencies
in public and private fixed income. See AIM’s 2023 Task Force on
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report to learn more about
AIM’s history of supporting the Paris Agreement and the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
1. As of December 31, 2023. At estimated fair value.
2. See Explanatory Note. 42
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Responsible Investments
1 METLIFE GA RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS
($ in millions)
$2,198 $256
For more than 150 years, MetLife has been committed to serving our stakeholders as set forth A INF VF EO SR TD MA EB NL TE SHOUSING I IM NVP EA SC TT M ENTS
in our Code of Business Ethics. As a responsible investor, MetLife maintains a long-term, value-
driven portfolio. MetLife’s responsible investments intend to achieve a market financial return while
considering social and/or environmental benefits that help create healthier communities and a
more sustainable environment. These investments focus on the core areas of infrastructure, green, $11,171
MUNICIPAL BOND
municipal bonds, affordable housing and impact investments.1 INVESTMENTS
$24,624
GREEN
Total INVESTMENTS
INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS
$58,549
MetLife invests in infrastructure projects that create jobs and economic benefits. These could include
building or upgrading airports, ports, roads, pipelines, transmission lines and power generation.
$20,300
In 2023, MetLife committed $44 million to a private infrastructure deal issued by Solek Chile, a INFRASTRUCTURE
INVESTMENTS
leading developer and sponsor of solar photovoltaic (PV) projects operating within Chile’s special
portfolio for distributed generation—the “PMGD” regime (from its acronym in Spanish, Pequeños
Medios de Generación Distribuida). The Private Placement debt market transaction comprises
26 distributed solar PV plants and one utility-scale PV plant (Leyda, in construction) located close
ANNUAL METLIFE GA RESPONSIBLE
to Santiago. The PMGD regime was created by the Chilean government in 2005 to incentivize the
INVESTMENTS2 ($ in millions)
development of greener and more distributed energy generation and reduce Chile’s environmental
footprint through updated technology. $66
$355
IMPACT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING INVESTMENTS
Learn more about MIM infrastructure strategies: INVESTMENTS
• Infrastructure Debt Delivers Reliable Returns;
• European Infrastructure Debt Aligns with ESG Goals; and $459
MUNICIPAL BOND $2,083
• Investing in Water Infrastructure. INVESTMENTS INFRASTRUCTURE
INVESTMENTS
Total
$4,960
$1,997
GREEN
INVESTMENTS
1. Please see the Glossary and page 140 for additional information on responsible investments.
2. Represents investments sourced in the year.
43
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
GREEN INVESTMENTS
MetLife invests in companies and projects that are
focused on the conservation of natural resources,
the production and discovery of alternative
energy sources, the implementation of clean air
and water projects, and other environmentally
conscious business practices.
One such investment is Intersect, a “creative
campus-style” office park in California that is a
joint venture between MetLife’s GA and Dutch
Pension Fund PGGM. The venture is installing
a 2.2 megawatt rooftop and car canopy solar
array and a 573 kilowatt-hour battery energy
storage system, which is designed to enable
and Washington, D.C. The proceeds of these AFFORDABLE HOUSING INVESTMENTS
74% of Intersect’s energy needs to be met by
investments can be used to finance or refinance
on-site production. The property also features MetLife invests in high-quality housing projects that
environmental, water and clean energy projects,
a large urban garden, sports facilities, wellness seek to build financial health and bring benefits to
as well as projects with anticipated positive social
trails and more. communities. These housing investments involve
outcomes, such as affordable public housing.
partnering with nonprofit organizations that provide
MetLife also invests in the Commercial Property
In 2023, MetLife invested $27 million in Single rental homes at below-market rents to low-income
Assessed Clean Energy (C-PACE) sector,
Family Mortgage bonds (social bonds) issued by earners, including teachers, nurses, council workers and
which finances property improvements such as
Colorado Housing and Finance Authority. Bond the elderly and infirm.
solar panels, water systems and HVAC system
proceeds were used to finance home loans for
upgrades to increase energy and water efficiency
low- and moderate-income families and provide
or resiliency to climate-related damage. In 2023, IMPACT INVESTMENTS
downpayment assistance. The bonds also align
MIM’s Private Capital team grew its C-PACE
with the International Capital Market Association’s MetLife has been in the impact investment market since
facility with Twain Financial Partners, bringing
Social Bond Principles of affordable housing, 1984. As part of MetLife’s effort to originate $500 million
the total facility size to $76.2 million across a
access to essential services and socioeconomic of new impact investments between 2020 and 2030,
portfolio of 13 commercial properties.
advancement and empowerment. MetLife’s Impact Investment program invests
approximately $50 million annually, primarily in support
In 2023, MetLife invested in over $190 million
MUNICIPAL BONDS of financial health and climate change priorities.
of State Housing Finance Agency bonds that
MetLife’s municipal bond investments support financed below-market-rate mortgage loans and MetLife’s impact investments are originated with
infrastructure, education and community services downpayment assistance to low- and moderate- the intent to generate positive societal benefits in
spanning over 450 communities in 44 states income families and first-time homebuyers. the markets where we live and work, creating value
for communities and catalyzing inclusion and equity.
44
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
These investments include projects that aim to Sustainable
mitigate and adapt to climate change, expand
racial equity, support women to become financially
independent and expand financial health services Investing
to the under- and unbanked through credit unions
and community-based organizations.
MetLife has made impact investments in the
Sustainable Investing is our broad investment approach that seeks
Blackstar Stability Distressed Debt Fund and
to deliver competitive risk adjusted market return by incorporating
Impact Investment Exchange’s Women Livelihood
financially material ESG assessments and stewardship into our
Bond VI (WLB6). The Blackstar Fund seeks to
investment process. It complements traditional financial analysis
address housing affordability and in-home security,
and portfolio construction techniques. Financially material ESG
and offers the potential for people to build wealth
considerations are an important part of MIM’s investment due
through enduring homeownership. WLB6 aims
diligence, which seeks to identify issues that may impact the
to use its $100 million capital raise to advance
reputation of a borrower, as well as its financial condition, credit
SDG #5—Gender Equality and SDG #13—Climate
rating and transaction pricing. When assessing the relevant risks
Action by investing in six sectors: agriculture,
associated with any investment opportunity, MIM conducts bottom-
water and sanitation, clean energy, affordable
up fundamental research and focuses on multiple factors.
housing, small- and medium-sized enterprise
lending, and microfinance. In doing so, the bond MIM believes that adhering to sound responsible business practices
seeks to promote the growth of women-focused can minimize financial risks such as controversy-triggered loss of
businesses, sustainable livelihoods, peace, customers, fines, penalties and environmental clean-up costs. Focused
prosperity and the planet. on engagement and managing public fixed income, private capital and
real estate assets, MIM aims to deliver strong, risk-adjusted returns
Learn more about how MetLife also makes impact
by building tailored portfolio solutions to meet clients’ long-term
investments through MetLife Foundation.
investment objectives.
MIM maintains brochures, policies and disclosures that guide and
communicate sustainability efforts within its investment processes.
MIM updates policies when necessary to reflect best practices and
prevailing market conditions. MIM’s policies and brochures include:
• MIM Sustainable • MIM Real Estate
Investment Policy Sustainable Investing
• MIM Stewardship Policy • MIM Commercial Mortgage
Lending ESG Policy
• MIM Public Fixed Income
Sustainable Investing • MIM Real Estate Equity
ESG Investment Policy
• MIM Private Capital
Sustainable Investing • MIM Agricultural Finance
ESG Awareness
45
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
MIM ENGAGEMENT MIM Fixed Income 2023 Engagement Activity
Engagement with company leadership is central
TOTAL COMBINED UNIQUE ISSUER ENGAGEMENTS: 361 TOTAL COMBINED ENGAGEMENT TOPICS: 880
to MIM’s approach to managing pecuniary
investment risk. Ongoing dialogue also helps to
raise awareness of responsible business practices.
Engagement provides MIM’s investment analysts
with an opportunity to better understand
material, relevant risk factors, be clear about our
expectations and improve data transparency.
MIM’s engagement conversations are guided by
and recorded in accordance with the International
Financial Reporting Standards’ Sustainability
Alliance’s Sustainability Accounting Standards
Board (SASB) sector-specific materiality matrix,
which identifies relevant industry-specific ESG
risks and opportunities for discussion. Further
details supporting our engagement practices can
be found within MIM’s Stewardship Policy.
MIM’s public and private fixed income teams have
developed proprietary engagement databases
designed to be fully integrated into each of their
respective research processes. MIM engages on
behalf of MetLife and third-party clients—see
chart for a range of topics MIM covered in 2023.
Case studies, offering examples and outcomes
from our engagement activity, are provided within
MIM’s Public Fixed Income and Private Capital
Sustainable Investing brochures.
46
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
In addition to direct engagement, MIM’s investment analysts leverage collective • CDP Non-Disclosure Campaign: MIM’s public and private fixed income teams participated
engagement initiatives as an opportunity to partner with peers and other like-minded in CDP’s annual Non-Disclosure Campaign, which is a collaboration with capital market
institutional investors to encourage transparency and increase access to more and signatories to engage with companies that have not yet disclosed through CDP’s annual
improved information from which investment decisions can be made. climate change, forests and/or water security questionnaires. The intent of these efforts is
to boost transparency and increase corporate disclosures. The companies with whom MIM
In 2023, MIM participated in several collective engagement initiatives that engaged successfully completed their inaugural CDP questionnaires.
aimed to encourage sustainability data and disclosure transparency and • PRI Advance: AIM’s sustainability research analysts are part of an ongoing PRI collaborative
standardization including: stewardship initiative referred to as PRI Advance. PRI Advance aims to advance human rights
and positive outcomes for people through investor stewardship. AIM’s participation in PRI
• Transition Pathways Initiative “Assessing Sovereign Climate-related Opportunities and
Advance has been primarily in support of our dedicated sustainability-focused strategies,
Risks” (ASCOR): MIM’s public fixed income team participated in the public consultation
specifically those to which their respective investment objectives are aligned with the SDGs.
period of the ASCOR framework launch. The consultation was the culmination of 18 months
of work by an international coalition of investors and investor networks. The result of that
effort was the first publicly available, independent and open-source investor framework and
database to assess the climate action and alignment of sovereigns. The ASCOR tool is now
available, aiming to help investors assess sovereign exposure to climate risk and to encourage
greater transparency between issuers, financial institutions and relevant stakeholders.
47
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
FIXED INCOME institutional investment management capabilities across
offices in the U.S. and international markets, including
MIM seeks to build long-lasting client relationships
Chile, Japan, Korea, Mexico and the U.K.
through a comprehensive approach to understanding
each client’s needs and objectives and constructing Managing Climate Impacts
a fixed income portfolio that best meets their goals. MetLife is supporting and financing solutions in the
Risk management is ingrained in MIM’s culture real estate sector that help manage risk, drive progress
and integrated throughout the investment process. toward a low-carbon economy and create sustainable
Financially relevant ESG risks and third-party ESG investment returns and outcomes.
risk ratings, as may be applicable and available, are
MetLife’s 2030 target to reduce GHG emissions
included as a part of MIM’s overall risk assessment.
associated with its real estate equity investments by
MIM executes on MetLife’s 2030 target to engage 50% from 2019 baseline on our path to Net Zero is a
emitters responsible for at least 50% of GA public continuation of this strong track record.2 To reduce
corporate debt financed emissions on climate emissions, MIM focuses on energy reduction and
annually as part of MetLife’s approach to Net efficiency strategies, procurement of on-site and off-site
Zero.1 By expanding on existing active engagement renewables and ongoing dialogue with stakeholders
strategies, MIM seeks information about board across the properties it owns and controls. Between
issuer accountability and oversight of climate risk, 2019 and 2022, financed emissions for MetLife’s GA
targets related to the goals of the Paris Agreement real estate equity investments have declined by 11%.
and availability of TCFD reports and/or climate
MIM is also a signatory of the Department of Energy’s
transition plans. MetLife uses this information to
(DOE) Better Buildings Challenge and Better Climate
better understand how issuers in the GA portfolio are
Challenge and the Urban Land Institute’s Greenprint
considering and managing climate change.
Net Zero Framework. MetZero™ is MIM’s approach
Learn more about public fixed income research and to systematically lower carbon emissions in the real
insights on topics such as transition finance and estate properties we invest in and the properties under
unlocking access to more sustainable energy sources. our operational control, including on behalf of MetLife
and third-party clients. Between 2016 and 2022, this
Learn more about real estate research and insights on
approach helped MIM achieve an 8% reduction in
REAL ESTATE
topics such as building a climate-aware portfolio and
portfolio energy intensity according to the Better
the impacts of a greening energy grid.
MetLife has been involved in real estate since 1878, Buildings Challenge.3
and MIM provides debt and equity origination and
1. Applies to MetLife, Inc.’s financed emissions associated with its GA public corporate debt portfolio (Scope 3 Category 15), where reliable data and methodologies are available. Public corporate debt consists of public corporates, emerging
market debt and high yield. Percentage reflects engagement between the time this interim target was launched in June 2023 and December 31, 2023, based on emissions data and position data as of year-end 2022 (source: MSCI). Year-
end 2022 emissions data available represents 88% of the relevant sectors based on book value. See Explanatory Note for additional information about MetLife’s GA investment portfolio.
2. Applies to MetLife, Inc.’s financed emissions associated with its GA investment portfolio (Scope 3 Category 15). These are real estate equity assets, including several asset classes (offices, multifamily, industrial, retail, single family rentals,
hotels and other property types). Emissions calculations are informed by the Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials and are associated with the underlying investment property’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions, and Scope 3 tenant
emissions (including power that is directly generated or consumed on-site) for real estate investments, where reliable data and methodologies are available. It should be noted that the Company generally recognizes the one-year lag in
emissions information available and that real estate investment emissions reported by MIM for MetLife’s GA portfolio are separate and distinct from the operational emissions reported by MetLife, Inc. for its corporate offices (both owned
and leased). See Explanatory Note for additional information about MetLife’s GA investment portfolio.
3. Metric reflects consumption reduction in energy use intensity across all participating MIM client accounts from 2016 to 2022, as calculated and reported by DOE Better Buildings Challenge public reporting on May 29, 2024.
48
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Creating Environmental and Social Benefits MIM’s commercial mortgage loan business
Through Real Estate provides in-depth market expertise across
MetLife leverages its core competencies as a multiple property types and locations. On behalf
responsible real estate investor to effectively of MetLife, MIM originated a $130 million
manage risk and support positive environmental commercial mortgage loan in 2023 on One65
outcomes while achieving investment objectives. Main, a LEED gold-certified apartment building
One Financial Center in Boston, for example, owned in Cambridge, Massachusetts. One65 Main
by a joint venture between MetLife GA and Norway’s enhances residents’ experience by offering a live-
sovereign wealth fund, has incorporated sustainable work-play-learn atmosphere. The property boasts
design strategies resulting in recognition as a high walk, transit and bike scores, electric vehicle
Biophilic Design Platinum winner for its lobby charging stations and sustainable design elements,
renovations and identification of energy savings including a cool roof, efficient water features
through its energy management program. and ENERGY STAR® appliances. Sixty-one of
the 300 residential units have been dedicated as
MIM offers MetLife, as well as its third-party
affordable housing in perpetuity.
clients and investors, strategies that seek to
achieve income growth and capital appreciation by In 2023, the Lee & White collection of 14 industrial
investing in competitively positioned properties in buildings along the Atlanta Beltline completed
markets with favorable demand drivers. Multiple redevelopment using a $45 million commercial
investment products have achieved five-star status mortgage loan made by the MetLife GA in 2020.
in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark. The project integrated several sustainability
features, including drought-resistant landscape
As part of MIM’s effort to locate attractive
design, a 3,000-gallon rain collection system for
investment opportunities with highly qualified
common area use, bike storage, electric vehicle
sponsors, including those that have more diverse
charging stations and the conversion of a former
backgrounds than the typical institutional real
asphalt parking lot into a green space accessible
estate investment partner, the MetLife GA
to the public, with areas for community gathering,
approved a $54 million preferred equity
physical activity and outdoor dining. The property
investment in a New York City multi-family
also supports the local community by serving as
development in 2023 with MAG Partners, an
a venue for local art and free meeting space for
experienced, woman-owned, urban real estate
community organizations.
developer in the region. This project includes
30% affordable housing units.
49
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
AGRICULTURAL LENDING
MetLife and MIM’s Agricultural Finance Group clients have provided long-term
debt capital for farmers, ranchers, agribusinesses, forest products facilities and
timberland owners for more than a century.1
In alignment with SASB’s framework, MIM’s Real Estate Debt and Agricultural
Lending teams have developed in-house solutions to collect sustainability-
related data from borrowers at the time of loan origination to expand the
universe of decision-useful information relevant to agricultural finance. MIM
seeks to work closely with clients on managing risk and creating strong
risk-adjusted returns by considering issues such as borrower character and
corporate governance, labor practices, animal welfare, water availability and
quality, and other topics and concerns related to the food industry.
MIM prioritizes lending to timber managers that employ a long-term timberland
investment approach and emphasize sustainability. Jamestown’s “Seedlings
to Solutions” mass timber project in Atlanta, Georgia, demonstrates how
Investing in Biodiversity
sustainably managed working forests can play a role in reducing the carbon
footprint of the built environment. The four-story mass timber building, known and Nature
as 619 Ponce, is being constructed using locally grown pine trees, including
trees harvested from Jamestown’s timberland near Columbus, Georgia. This
MetLife and MIM are proud to source investments that
timberland also serves as collateral for MIM Agricultural Finance loans.
advance sustainability and contribute to protecting
Currently, more than 90% of the acres serving as MIM Timber Regional Office biodiversity and generating nature-positive outcomes.
collateral are certified under either the Sustainable Forestry Initiative, the Forest This includes managing sustainable forestry, installing
Stewardship Council or the American Tree Farm System, which are the three drip irrigation for crops and supporting on-site
most widely recognized timberland sustainability certification programs. pollinator projects that help protect and promote bee
and other pollinator populations critical to supporting
See MIM’s Agricultural Finance ESG Awareness to learn more. our food system and fiber crops. MIM’s real estate
investment portfolio under management includes nine
properties with beehives.
Please see For the Environment to learn more about
beehives at MetLife’s corporate offices and MIM’s
green building practices and certifications.
1. Please see the Glossary to learn more about investments in sustainable agriculture.
50
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
MetLife’s Sustainable
Financing Framework
MetLife’s Sustainable Financing Framework facilitates alignment of our
business and investment activities to drive a sustainable future. The framework
guides our issuances of green, social and sustainable bonds, term loans,
preferred stock, subordinated notes and funding agreements by MetLife,
Inc. and its subsidiaries, including Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and
Metropolitan Tower Life Insurance Company.
MetLife’s Sustainable Financing Council, comprising members of
the Office of the Chief Investment Officer, Corporate Treasury and the
Sustainability function, meets regularly and is responsible for the review
and selection of eligible assets.
As part of the framework, MetLife has committed to publishing an annual
Sustainable Financing Report that includes a summary of outstanding
MetLife Sustainable Financing issuances, including issuance date, size,
maturity date, currency and format. MetLife publishes this report, which
includes a summary of the allocation of amounts equal to net proceeds of
the outstanding issuances to eligible categories of assets, as described in the
Framework, on our website.
51
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
For the Environment
HIGHLIGHTS
OUR APPROACH
GOVERNANCE
SUSTAINABLE OFFICES AND OPERATIONS
INSPIRING COLLEAGUES TO MAKE AN IMPACT
PARTNERSHIPS AND INDUSTRY ENGAGEMENT
PROTECTING NATURE AND BIODIVERSITY
DRIVING SUPPLY CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY
52
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
44% 1.6M+
decrease in greenhouse gas (GHG) trees planted since 2020.
emissions across Scope 1, 2 and 3
business travel from offices and operations
between 2019 and year-end 2023.
10,000+ ~50%
volunteer hours dedicated to the 2023 of suppliers (by spend) set
MetLife Extraordinary Litter Pickup. emissions-reduction goals aligned with
the aims of the Paris Agreement.
48% Achieved 2023
ENERGY STAR
of global offices are green or healthy
building certified.
Partner of the Year
for fifth consecutive year.
53
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Our Approach Governance
MetLife has had a longstanding commitment to environmental stewardship during The MetLife Board of Directors’ Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee
its 156-year history. We leverage our capabilities as a financial services provider to reviews policies and positions regarding environmental and social matters of
navigate life’s uncertainties, including those related to climate change and other significance to the company, including sustainability, climate action, human rights,
environmental issues. We recognize that environmental issues can impact our political and charitable contributions, and other corporate social responsibility issues.
customers’ and employees’ well-being and financial futures, and that protecting The MetLife Board of Directors’ Audit Committee is responsible for the oversight
human health and natural resources is core to doing business responsibly. of controls and procedures relating to financial information and non-financial
data, including environmental data, in the company’s disclosures. MetLife’s Chief
That is why we support the intentions of the Paris Agreement for managing and
Sustainability Officer and other senior leaders report progress on commitments
reducing GHG emissions and are pursuing an approach to reducing emissions over
and programs to the Board multiple times per year, and a Sustainability Reporting
the coming decades toward Net Zero GHG emissions for our global operations and
Steering Committee sponsored by our Chief Accounting Officer and Head of
GA investment portfolio by 2050 or sooner.1
Corporate Affairs oversees all sustainability regulatory and reporting disclosures and is
responsible for the consistency and appropriate control oversight of such disclosures,
We manage and monitor climate and other environmental risks and opportunities
including those focused on climate issues.
while collaborating on solutions that support the transition to a low-carbon
economy. Please see Our Net Zero Commitment and Environmental Initiatives
In addition, every MetLife line of business, function and region has one or more
Progress to learn more.
dedicated Climate Champions responsible for helping integrate environmental
stewardship strategies into the business and driving progress toward our short- and
long-term climate commitments. Champions launch and promote environmental
initiatives that engage customers and employees, collect metrics on performance and
meet bimonthly to discuss objectives, challenges and successes.
We maintain policies, guidelines and reports that provide information regarding
our environmental values and initiatives for colleagues, business partners and other
stakeholders. These documents include:
During Climate Week
• MetLife Environmental Policy;
NYC, MetLife and Climate
• MetLife Statement on Climate Change; and
Impact Partners hosted
• 2023 CDP Climate Change Report.
a collaborative session
on how to jump-start See Responsible Governance to learn more about Sustainability Governance.
corporate climate action.
1. Learn more about our approach to Net Zero.
54
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Sustainable Offices
and Operations
As part of our Net Zero goal, MetLife is working to decarbonize our global operations
as a top priority. This includes improving performance of our approximately 9.3 million
square feet of offices and reducing business travel, which simultaneously can save us
money, foster connection and community and improve workforce vitality. We have
decreased location-based emissions by 44% since 2019 and continue to promote
energy efficiency, implement green building practices and have maintained carbon
neutrality since 2016.1 Learn more about our carbon neutrality strategy. Sustainability
We have retrofitted systems to optimize energy use across 13 of our largest offices at MetLife Events
in the U.S., implementing, for example, automated air distribution, efficient air
conditioning and LED lighting. This has resulted in saving 1,917 metric tons of carbon
MetLife’s Global Event Operations team (MetLife Events) supports
dioxide equivalent (CO2e). In Chile, we improved the energy efficiency of our corporate
nearly 300 events every year that bring together thousands of people.
offices by adopting energy-efficient technologies, such as INVERTER air conditioning
During these events, we share our expertise, learn from and inspire
equipment technology and LED plate lighting.2 In Mexico, MetLife has incorporated
others and provide a forum to help companies and individuals grow.
hybrid engines for 37% of our vehicle fleet and has ambitions to increase this number
These events present several opportunities to reduce environmental
over the next few years.
impact and incorporate sustainability practices.
COMMITTED TO RENEWABLE ENERGY Since 2020, MetLife Events has prioritized waste reduction,
paperless conferences (using electronic signage and a mobile app
In addition to our emissions-reduction efforts, MetLife is committed to supporting for attendee communication), local sourcing and eco-friendly
the renewable energy market in the regions where we operate. Since 2009, we have alternatives. In addition, we measure our success and share the
procured renewable energy by purchasing Energy Attribute Certificates—issued when results with our peers around the world. The health and wellness
one megawatt-hour (MWh) of electricity is generated and delivered to the electricity of our attendees and colleagues also plays a part in conference
grid from a renewable energy resource—to match our global electricity consumption planning, with wellness events such as yoga and meditation, healthy
(see “GHG Emissions” and “Energy” data in ESG Scorecard). In Europe, we are food alternatives and exercise incorporated into program breaks.
generating our own on-site renewables through a solar array on our office in Madrid,
Spain, that should generate approximately 30 MWh per year. At events in 2023, we provided biodegradable name badges,
refillable water bottles and boxed and canned beverages to reduce
plastic. We partner with vendors that are likewise committed to
environmental sustainability and diversity, and request information
1. MetLife’s carbon neutrality efforts apply to global owned and leased offices, global vehicle fleets (Scope 1 and 2 emissions) and
regarding sustainability, such as asking about building certifications
employee business travel (Scope 3 Category 6).
2. Improvements have been made by our two companies in Chile, MetLife Chile and Chile ProVida. (e.g., Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design—LEED)
at host hotels.
55
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
We supplement emissions reductions and renewable of necessary waste. We’ve partnered with local food We prioritize using sustainable materials and
energy initiatives with a diverse portfolio of pantries and food recovery nonprofits in seven U.S. design in our buildings and providing high levels
high-quality, third-party-certified carbon offset cities to donate leftover food from our cafeterias. Eight of indoor air quality and natural light and amenities
projects that empower local economies and align of our offices compost food waste generated during such as bike storage, healthy dining options and
to the extent possible with the United Nations food preparation, while three of these sites have also sit-stand desks. In 2020, we began striving to
Sustainable Development Goals. Our offset partner introduced employee composting programs to collect reach 40% of our global offices’ square footage to
conducts enhanced due diligence on the projects food scraps, compostable cutlery and containers. be certified to green or healthy building standards
it purchases for MetLife. by 2030. Currently, 48% meets these criteria.
Please see our ESG Scorecard for information and data
regarding our energy, water use and waste diversion. MetLife certified four offices to Fitwel, a
REDUCING PLASTICS AND WASTE joint initiative of the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention and the General Services
We are committed to reducing our consumption of PROVIDING A HEALTHY WORKPLACE
Administration to enhance health and well-being
water, plastics, paper and other natural resources,
Sustainability measures implemented across our in buildings and communities, including three
and to minimizing the amount of waste we send to
offices and operations achieve the additional benefit offices in the U.S. and one in Sydney, Australia. The
landfills. In the U.S., for example, our dining and catering
of providing our colleagues with healthy spaces where certifications cover 1.14 million square feet of real
services no longer provide plastic bottles, cutlery or
they can thrive. Our approach to environment, health estate, including our global headquarters in New
other containers, and in India, MetLife has eliminated
and safety is built on the collaboration of colleagues York City. MetLife Investment Management, LLC
single-use cups entirely by providing reusable cups as
and business partners who champion environmental and certain of its affiliates (MIM) has also obtained
employee gifts.
stewardship, engage in environmental awareness Fitwel certifications for 33 properties held in its
We’re also tackling food waste, undertaking initiatives activities and uphold standards and procedures managed real estate equity investment portfolio as
to reduce the amount we throw away and finding ways designed to prioritize our colleagues’ health, safety of year-end 2023, an increase from 30 properties
to be more environmentally conscious when disposing and well-being while at work. at the end of 2022.
Achieving Green Building Certifications
We have achieved LEED certifications for approximately 43.3 million square feet—3.6 million of which
is attributed to the MetLife corporate office network and 39.7 million square feet of which is attributed
to properties managed by MIM. In addition to LEED, MetLife and MIM pursue ENERGY STAR, Fitwel,
Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) and other sustainable
building certification programs.
In 2023, MetLife and MIM achieved ENERGY STAR certifications at 79 properties, including 28 MetLife
corporate offices and 51 MIM properties. MetLife and MIM benchmark U.S. properties’ energy use against
similar buildings through the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) ENERGY STAR Portfolio
Manager tool to continuously measure, manage and improve building performance.
56
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Inspiring Colleagues
to Make an Impact
Each year, thousands of colleagues participate in our employee engagement program
to promote environmental stewardship, called Our Green Impact. The program offers
colleagues on-site and virtual environmental education and volunteer opportunities.
At our offices, volunteer Green Teams bring this program to life by organizing events,
campaigns and education sessions for colleagues.
In Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), we introduced MetLife Climate School,
an online learning opportunity comprising a series of short video modules that allow
colleagues to gain a better understanding of pressing environmental topics and actions
they can take to reduce their ecological and carbon footprints. Almost 1,000 colleagues
in the region enrolled in 2023. Based on its success in EMEA, MetLife Climate School
will be expanded to colleagues globally in 2024.
“MetLife Climate School was very interesting, with clear insights of the
impacts of climate change, and left me with a deep understanding on
how important it is to start taking small steps at an individual level.”
PARAMJIT KAUR,
Product Implementation Officer, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
57
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
2023 MetLife 2023
Extraordinary MetLife
Litter Pickup EcoChallenge
Our global litter pickup campaign Our annual two-week competition
centered around Earth Day: encouraging colleagues to adopt
green habits:
• Approximately 5,000
participants • 4,600+ participants
• 120+ events • 38 markets
• 10,000+ volunteer hours • 160,000+ actions taken
(more than double 2022) by colleagues
• Approximately
185,500 pounds of CO2
reduced, 338,000 gallons of
water saved and 19,000 plastic
containers prevented from
entering the landfill
58
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Partnerships and
Industry Engagement
MetLife seeks to use our resources and network to learn from others and
collaborate on impactful climate action around the world. We engage and
support several environmental advocacy, industry and enterprise groups that
convene leaders, advance research and lobby for environmental policies
aligned with MetLife’s climate change strategy. These organizations include
the UN Global Compact, 1t.org, the Climate Leadership Council, the U.S.
Green Building Council, GreenBiz Executive Network, EPA Green Power
Partnership, the Geneva Association and the Institute for International
Protecting Nature
Finance Sustainable Finance Working Group.
MetLife partnered for the second consecutive year with the Haas School
and Biodiversity
of Business at University of California, Berkeley, on the 15-week Cleantech
to Market accelerator program. The program pairs interdisciplinary
teams of Berkeley graduate students with promising startups to accelerate
commercialization of climate tech innovations. In addition to awarding
the top teams with MetLife Climate Solution Awards and providing MetLife’s commitment to environmental stewardship and responsible resource
financial support for the program, MetLife colleagues from around the management includes initiatives and programs that protect and enhance nature, plants
world contribute professional expertise to students as volunteer mentors and animals, including biodiversity and healthy ecosystems.
throughout the semester.
As a member of 1t.org, a global leadership platform to mobilize, connect and empower
MetLife launched a new climate solutions collaboration in 2023 with the global reforestation community to conserve, restore and grow 1 trillion trees by
MPOWERD, a B Corporation with a mission to transform lives with 2030, MetLife has made a pledge to plant 5 million trees around the world, prioritizing
thoughtfully designed, clean technology. Through this partnership, MetLife areas vulnerable to natural disasters. We undertake this pledge, in partnership with
provides inflatable solar-powered lights to climate-vulnerable communities our customers, colleagues and other stakeholders, to reduce carbon emissions in the
to help improve preparedness, response and relief for severe weather events atmosphere, enhance biodiversity and help reforest areas that have been decimated
and natural disasters. Supporting disaster relief has also been a key initiative by deforestation by humans and by natural disasters, including hurricanes, floods
for MetLife Foundation. and wildfires.
59
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Mangroves: An Outsized Impact
In 2023, we reached a major milestone in our
tree-planting commitment:
on Tackling Climate Change
1.6M+ trees planted
since 2020.
Mangroves are trees or shrubs that grow chiefly in tropical coastal
swamps that flood at high tide and are greatly important to biodiversity
and local ecosystems. They’ve adapted to live in harsh, high-salinity
MetLife and MetLife Foundation are making progress on this pledge
environments and promote shoreline stabilization and storm protection.
through financial support to large-scale reforestation programs in national
Mangrove forests serve as nurseries for many fish species, and the wood
and state forests, distributing trees to homeowners in communities
is resistant to rot and insects.
impacted by disaster and employee volunteer planting projects around
the world. In addition, we leverage our support of tree-planting projects
Due to the carbon-rich mud that mangroves inhabit, they store up to
to educate and engage our colleagues, customers and the community
four times more carbon than tropical forests and accumulate sediment
on the importance of trees in combating climate change and supporting
over time, increasing the soil’s carbon content and keeping it in place.
healthy ecosystems.
Over 35% of the world’s mangroves have been lost since 1980, however,
largely due to competing land use, pollution and sea level rise.
Some impactful tree-planting projects MetLife and MetLife
Foundation undertook throughout the year included:
In Mexico, MetLife is supporting the planting of 35,000 mangrove trees
in 2023 and 2024 through Climate Impact Partners’ Million Mangroves
• 25,000 trees planted in the Umpqua National Forest in Oregon,
program, helping to reverse mangrove degradation that has increased
via the Arbor Day Foundation, to protect at-risk species like the
soil salinity and depleted oxygen in the soil, leading to surrounding
northern spotted owl, as well as improve the forest’s resilience
against future fires; vegetation death. Local planting partners monitor new seedlings’ health
and make sure they receive enough water throughout the dry season.
• 5,000 seedlings planted in the Nazaré Paulista region of
Brazil, in collaboration with the Ipê Institute (Institute for
In addition to Mexico, we have supported mangrove projects in
Ecological Research), to improve the quality of the water supply to
Indonesia and Madagascar in partnership with Earthly.
the Greater São Paulo area;
• MetLife Foundation and the Shakti Foundation provided funding
to Dhaka North City Corporation to plant 17,600 trees in
Dhaka, Bangladesh, with the aim of improving
air quality and transforming abandoned land
into green, child-friendly public spaces; and
• MetLife Foundation provided support to the
Arbor Day Foundation to plant 100,000 trees
between 2022 and 2024 in forests and
communities in need across nine different
countries in EMEA.
60
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
In addition to reforestation and afforestation
efforts, we are committed to protecting
biodiversity more broadly. We have initiated a
three-year partnership with Australian Wildlife
Conservancy (AWC), whose mission is to
conserve Australian native animal species and the
habitats in which they live. MetLife’s partnership
with AWC will include financial support for its
reintroduction program, which aims to restore
threatened species that have disappeared from
Australian landscapes. AWC will also provide
education on biodiversity and climate change
to MetLife colleagues.
In an effort to promote the health of
pollinators, MetLife supports programs that
maintain beehives at some of our office
locations. At our Cary, North Carolina, and
Tampa, Florida, campuses we partner with Bee
Downtown to maintain honey beehives and
provide year-round employee engagement
opportunities. In North Carolina, these bees
produced 311 pounds of honey in 2023 (double
the state average), flying an estimated 17 million
miles in the process. MetLife also sponsors
beehives maintained by our partnership with
The Best Bees Company at MetLife Stadium
in East Rutherford, New Jersey, which seeks
to promote pollination in the surrounding
meadowlands’ ecosystem.
MetLife and MIM also originate investments that
support biodiversity and healthy ecosystems.
61
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Driving Supply Chain Sustainability
We seek to do business with suppliers that align with climate science.1 We look for opportunities for MetLife also prioritizes products that allow us
our values and work to mitigate climate risks, reduce innovation and collaboration with our suppliers on to consume less, operate more efficiently and
their carbon footprints and support our efforts to do shared environmental goals and encourage our top generate co-benefits such as cost savings, when
the same. MetLife’s Supply Chain Sustainability suppliers to disclose their climate risks, environmental possible. We purchase ENERGY STAR-certified
program engages suppliers on climate action, as well targets, GHG emissions and emissions-reduction equipment such as servers, monitors, laptops and
as principles of corporate responsibility and ethical activities through the annual CDP Climate desktops, sustainably sourced paper certified with
sourcing, throughout the procurement process. Change Questionnaire. the Forest Stewardship Council and the Sustainable
Among other things, we request sustainability Forestry Initiative, and green building materials
Our vendor managers across the globe are
information during the supplier onboarding process, aligned with requirements of LEED and Fitwel,
important ambassadors of the MetLife Supply Chain
encourage continuous improvement and incentivize among other sustainable products and services. In
Sustainability program, encouraging suppliers to
suppliers to reduce GHG emissions and negative the U.S., 100% of MetLife’s managed properties use
set targets to reduce emissions and learn about
environmental impacts in their operations. cleaning supplies certified by Green Seal, a nonprofit
environmental sustainability. Through an internal
that was a pioneer in the eco-labeling movement.
For nearly a decade, MetLife has worked with Global Procurement sustainability resource hub
suppliers to set climate-related goals. As we that contains webinars, guides and CDP Supplier To learn more about MetLife’s broader supplier
build on this engagement as part of our Net Zero Scorecards, we seek to educate our vendor management practices and efforts to foster supplier
Commitment, we aim to expand our understanding managers and equip them with information they diversity, see Supplier Management.
of where our suppliers stand on climate and have can use in conversations with our suppliers.
at least two-thirds of our suppliers (by spend) set
their own emissions-reduction goals aligned with
1. Target measures MetLife suppliers that make public commitments to reduce GHG emissions by 2025 or later, aligned with limiting global temperature rise to 2°C above pre-industrial
times. Spend represents procurable spend with third-party suppliers. MetLife uses its own discretion for determining supplier alignment to the Paris Agreement based on supplier’s
reported emissions reduction goal attributes, such as scope coverage, target year, base year and reduction percentage. Evaluation occurs on an annual basis.
104.8M $1.67B
In 2023, our Supplier
CDP Scorecard
metric tons in annual CO2e savings, in annual monetary savings from emissions
reported by suppliers reductions, reported by suppliers
results included:
80% 82%
of suppliers that responded to CDP of suppliers that responded to
are engaging their own suppliers on CDP reported having their own
climate issues forward-looking climate targets
62
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
For Our Communities
HIGHLIGHTS: METLIFE FOUNDATION
OUR APPROACH
GOVERNANCE
PRIORITIES
VOLUNTEERING EFFORTS
63
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
HIGHLIGHTS: METLIFE FOUNDATION
$1B+ $37.4M1
in MetLife Foundation giving in total grants globally in 2023.
since 1976.
$30M 144,000+
multi-year commitment to volunteer hours across 38 markets
Upstate New York, to build upon in 2023.
existing efforts in the region to
help all New Yorkers thrive.
$8.3M $96.1M
contributed in grants to environmental to support communities with low
causes since 2020. incomes since 2021.
1. This is inclusive of the $35.2 million in grants contributed in 2023 to support underserved communities.
64
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Our Approach Priorities
As one of the world’s leading financial services companies, MetLife plays MetLife Foundation seeks to drive inclusive economic mobility by addressing
an important role in caring for its communities. All MetLife regions, lines of the needs of people with low income around the world. Aligned with the
business and colleagues contribute to community engagement and outreach. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, MetLife Foundation makes
MetLife Foundation helps connect MetLife colleagues with nonprofits and grants across three strategic giving portfolios:
opportunities to make a difference through volunteerism, pro-bono work and
grantmaking. These efforts contributed to MetLife Foundation reaching over ECONOMIC INCLUSION
$1 billion in all-time giving in 2023. Supports efforts that upskill and reskill talent, develop an
entrepreneurial mindset and connect talent to paid employment
Governance with family-sustaining wages.
FINANCIAL HEALTH
Supports efforts that build financial health and resiliency through
As a separate legal entity, MetLife Foundation has its own Board of Directors,
budget management, savings and access to credit.
chaired by MetLife, Inc.’s Head of Corporate Affairs. MetLife Foundation’s
President and Chief Executive Officer reports directly to the Foundation’s
Board Chair. As a fully integrated role, MetLife Foundation’s President and
RESILIENT COMMUNITIES
CEO also serves as MetLife, Inc.’s Head of Corporate Giving and Employee
Supports efforts that open up and expand access to mental and
Volunteerism, a function overseen by the Governance and Corporate
physical well-being resources and environmental causes for a
Responsibility Committee of MetLife’s Board of Directors.
more resilient planet.
Examples throughout this section all tie to one or more of these priorities while
supporting other critical needs. Please visit MetLife Foundation’s website for a
full list of grants, resources and other information.
65
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
ADDRESSING WEALTH AND INCOME INEQUALITY IN THE U.S. STRENGTHENING COMMUNITIES THROUGH OUR GRANTMAKING
In 2023, MetLife Foundation launched a new initiative to address the growing MetLife and MetLife Foundation continue to support Historically Black
income and wealth divide in the U.S. The two-year, $10.5 million pledge supports Colleges and Universities (HBCUs). In 2023, MetLife Foundation
nonprofit organizations and leaders proximate to the issues who are on the supported multiple technology-focused programs and an entrepreneurship
front lines supporting people with low income in communities where MetLife challenge for HBCU students in North Carolina through a partnership with
has a presence. Pathway OZ. MetLife also partnered with Toyota HBCU Classic for the
second consecutive year. The football game featured Morehouse College
• Accelerating Commitment to Equity Innovation Fund (ACE Innovation Fund) is a
and Albany State University and brought together fans, students and alumni
$10 million commitment over two years that aims to democratize access to capital for
from more than 100 HBCUs to MetLife Stadium.
nonprofits addressing the income and wealth divide in communities that have been
historically disadvantaged. The Foundation selected 24 nonprofits across seven cities
MetLife Foundation works to close the income and wealth divide for people
to receive up to $400,000 each in grants to implement and accelerate programs
with low incomes through partnerships with nonprofit organizations. Since
that will work to dismantle systemic barriers to the income and wealth gap. MetLife
2022, MetLife Foundation has awarded NPower $1.85 million in grants
Foundation is partnering with Urban Institute and Community Resource Exchange to
to upskill and reskill young adults and military veterans and their spouses
measure impact and deliver technical assistance to the cohort of grantees.
to prepare for a career in technology through training, apprenticeships
• Community Impact Grant Program (CIGP) supports grassroots organizations
and connections to employment. MetLife Foundation’s support expanded
addressing essential needs of people with low income. MetLife Foundation awarded
technology training for a new site in Raleigh, North Carolina, trauma-
$491,000 in grants to 38 nonprofit organizations that provide vital services to more
informed teaching and mentoring, support for the Command Shift
than 100,000 people with low income in cities where MetLife has a presence.
Coalition—a program that accelerates women of color in tech—and
The full list of grant recipients for the CIGP and ACE Innovation Fund is available
ongoing alumni support and wealth tracking. This support will reach more
on MetLife Foundation’s website.
than 3,000 NPower trainees and alumni.
MetLife Remains a Strong Partner for New York
In 2023, MetLife and MetLife Foundation announced a five-year, $30 million pledge to Upstate New York,
with $5 million in philanthropic support and impact investments from the Foundation and $25 million in
impact investments from MetLife.
The Foundation has already made over $1.4 million in grants to local nonprofits, including Food Bank of
Central New York, Community Foundation of Herkimer & Oneida Counties and Munson.
66
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
$1 Billion and Beyond
Launched in 1976, MetLife Foundation has played an integral role in supporting communities where MetLife
has a presence through philanthropy, impact investments and employee volunteerism. In 2023, the Foundation
surpassed $1 billion in giving, making significant contributions to strengthen our communities. Examples of
these contributions are included below and throughout this chapter.
In recognition of the achievement and the Foundation’s work in New York City and New York State, Mayor Eric Adams and New York Representative
Brandon Williams issued proclamations, with the Mayor declaring September 14, 2023, MetLife Foundation Day in New York City.
ECONOMIC INCLUSION FINANCIAL HEALTH
Inspiring Girls BRAC
Inspiring Girls International is a global nonprofit dedicated Through a $1.8 million grant, MetLife Foundation funds BRAC’s Ultra
to raising the aspirations of young girls around the world by Poor Graduation (UPG) model, which enables 3,300 ultra-poor women
connecting them with inspiring female role models. MetLife and households in urban and rural areas of Bangladesh to develop
Foundation made a $242,000 grant for programs in Italy, Poland, socio-economic resilience and economic empowerment, improved
Spain and the U.K. MetLife women hosted schoolgirls as part of food security and nutrition, increased confidence and higher social
the “Inspiring the Women of the Future” program. The program inclusion. Women receive tailored, hands-on coaching and mentoring
allows the girls to hear from leaders directly and gain insights from UPG’s trained frontline staff throughout the program.
into the world of work, their careers and personal journeys, and
access to science, technology, engineering and mathematics
(STEM)-focused workshops.
RESILIENT COMMUNITIES
Nonprofit Enterprise Self-Sustainability Team (NESsT)
MetLife Foundation made a $100,000 grant to NESsT to contribute
to the growth of environment-focused social enterprises in the
Amazon Basin (Brazil) through mentoring, coaching and increasing
the technical capabilities of leaders. NESsT supports local enterprises
in areas of high biodiversity of the rainforest and contributes to a
transition toward sustainable forest management and land use.
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
GLOBAL SUPPORT FOR IMPACT INVESTMENTS
ENVIRONMENTAL CAUSES
Since 1984, MetLife Foundation has made impact
In 2020, MetLife Foundation pledged $10 million investments alongside traditional grants to
over 10 years to support environmental causes, generate positive societal benefits, create value
and, as of year-end 2023, $8.3 million had been for communities and catalyze inclusion and equity.
contributed. The Foundation’s 2023 partnerships To date, the Foundation has invested $90 million.
establish and expand collaborations aligned with
As part of its commitment to Upstate New York,
MetLife’s activities on biodiversity and nature-based
MetLife Foundation made a $1 million impact
solutions, some being:
investment in Launch NY Seed Fund II, LP, a fund
• The Nature Conservancy (TNC) MetLife that invests in high-growth startup companies
Foundation’s grant to TNC seeks to build climate to drive local employment and entrepreneurship
resiliency among Indigenous and traditional opportunities. Launch NY is the most active seed
communities by helping them restore healthy
fund in New York state by number of transactions.
landscapes in Brazil, Colombia and Mexico. The
program will reach at least 600 people highly Learn more about how MetLife also makes
vulnerable to climate impacts. impact investments through its General Account
• EcoRise, with support from MetLife Foundation, investment portfolio.
deployed its award-winning environmental
education program, Sustainable Intelligence, to
schools that disproportionately experience climate
change impacts and environmental stressors. The
program will reach more than 16,000 young people
across the U.S.
DISASTER RELIEF
MetLife and MetLife Foundation supported
disaster response around the globe in 2023. From
earthquake response efforts in Morocco and Turkey
to continued support for the people of Ukraine,
MetLife colleagues and MetLife Foundation
contributed $1.3 million to disaster response and
recovery efforts.
68
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Volunteering Efforts
MetLife encourages a culture of year-round volunteering. MetLife colleagues across
all regions and departments lend their time, talent and passion for their communities to
educational, environmental, mentoring, coaching, skills-based and pro-bono initiatives.
We offer employees in the U.S. and Asia one paid day off per year to volunteer.
These efforts support MetLife’s 2030 DEI Commitments of 800,000 employee
volunteer hours with a focus on underserved communities by 2030.
SKILLS-BASED AND PRO-BONO VOLUNTEERING
When they put their professional skills to use in a volunteer capacity, MetLife
colleagues have an outsized impact on nonprofits and their communities.
During the MetLife Leadership Team conference, a group of Village Capital founders
presented their business challenges to teams of MetLife senior leaders. They provided
pro-bono support by ideating and presenting solutions to the founders’ challenges.
MetLife Legal Affairs launched a pro-bono initiative in collaboration with Volunteers
of Legal Services, a MetLife Foundation grantee, and Debevoise & Plimpton LLP to
provide pro-bono legal services to low- and moderate-income small business owners
in New York City.
2023 Global Volunteering by the Numbers
144,000+ 43,000+ 38
employee volunteer hours acts of volunteering markets
69
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Volunteering with Purpose Around the World
ASIA EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST
AND AFRICA
In Korea, MetLife Foundation’s
“Buddy for Seniors” program MetLife colleagues separated
spanned 15 locations in six cities and organized food, and
and saw MetLife volunteers engage prepared food baskets for
330 seniors with outdoor activities Banco Alimentar in Portugal.
such as visits to local palaces and
botanical gardens.
LATIN AMERICA UNITED STATES
MetLife Foundation partner Planet MetLife colleagues volunteered
Water Foundation aims to transform with Food Bank For New York City
the health, productivity and economic in Grand Central Terminal to mark
well-being of communities in Mexico MetLife Foundation’s milestone of
by providing access to clean and $1 billion in all-time giving. Together,
safe water. MetLife colleagues have volunteers packed 18,000 meals for
helped build 17 AquaTower water New Yorkers.
filtration systems.
70
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Responsible Governance
HIGHLIGHTS
OUR APPROACH
GOVERNANCE
RISK MANAGEMENT
CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS
CYBERSECURITY AND DATA PRIVACY
SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT
HUMAN RIGHTS
GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
71
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Women comprise $180.3M
36%
diverse supplier spend in 2023.
of our Board of Directors and
43%
of our managers.
UN Global Dow Jones
Compact (UNGC) Sustainability
participant since 2020. Index
inclusion for eighth consecutive year.
Instituted our Colleagues completed an average of
13.5
Responsible
mandatory training courses
Artificial Intelligence
and an average of
13
(AI) Strategy.
total hours of learning per employee.
72
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Our Approach
Effective governance underpins MetLife’s ability to fulfill our purpose and deliver on our promise RESPONSIBLE USE OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
of customer and employee care. We are in a position to raise the bar on our performance because
The power of AI lies in how humans and machines can bolster
we have built a culture where colleagues take responsibility for their actions, adopt an ownership
each other’s strengths. We recognize that AI used in the right way
mindset and are empowered to speak up.
can be a force multiplier for MetLife. When combined with human
To maintain this culture, MetLife continuously improves governance practices and regularly adopts oversight and direction, AI can be transformative and has the power
and updates trainings, policies and codes, and resources for colleagues to uphold and promote in to positively change the way we do things in our personal and
their day-to-day practices. These resources include: professional lives. That’s why MetLife is committed to Responsible
Use of AI—a set of principles and guardrails governing how AI
• Antitrust Guidelines • Global Privacy and Data • MetLife Ethics & Fraud
systems should be developed and deployed to comply with ethics
Protection Policy (internal) HelpLine
• Code of Business Ethics and applicable laws to prevent harm to consumers, as well as
• Global Privacy & Information • MetLife Pay Equity Statement enabling effective use of these technologies.
• Directors’ Code of
Security Program
Business Ethics • MetLife Privacy Policies
The development and integration of AI tools aligns with our Next
• Global Sales Practices Policy
• Financial Management Code • MetLife Speak Up Tool
Horizon strategy, and our approach to Responsible Use of AI will
of Business Ethics • MetLife Environmental Policy (internal desktop app)
balance the need for swift deployment at scale, while managing
• Global Anti-Bribery and • MetLife Equal Employment • Raising a Concern (internal) risk and unintended consequences. To do so, our guiding principles
Corruption Policy Opportunity and Anti- • Supplier Code of around Responsible Use of AI include:
Harassment Policy
• Global Anti-Money Business Ethics
• Fairness, Transparency and Explainability—underpinned by processes
Laundering Policy
to manage unfair biases and increase transparency and the ability to
explain outputs;
• Privacy, Security and Data Governance—that respects privacy and
applies appropriate security controls with appropriate oversight in the use
of AI; and
• Accountability—define clear roles and responsibility with assigned
accountability in the use of AI across the enterprise.
73
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Governance
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MetLife’s Board of Directors oversees the following: the development and execution
of MetLife’s strategic and financial business plans; management succession plans;
risk management; corporate governance; MetLife’s information security program;
and MetLife’s sustainability strategy. It also oversees the CEO and the other
executive officers in their management of the company’s business. In performing
their general oversight responsibility, Directors apply their business judgment to
assure that the company’s executive officers manage the best long-term interests of
the company and its shareholders. We maintain a Directors’ Code of Business Ethics,
which requires each Director to annually review and sign an acknowledgment of
understanding and compliance.
Each of MetLife’s Board committees (with the exception of the Executive
Committee) is chaired by an independent Director with demonstrated expertise in
the responsibilities of such committee and strong leadership skills.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS DEMOGRAPHICS1
1. As of April 26, 2024. Includes only Director nominees named in MetLife’s 2024 Proxy Statement. Figures indicated are rounded down to the nearest whole number. For the definition of each of the Director Competencies, see “Director Competencies:
Skills and Experiences” in the MetLife 2024 Proxy Statement.
2. Based on tenure as of April 26, 2024. Includes only Director nominees named in MetLife’s 2024 Proxy Statement. Data rounded down to nearest year if less than one whole year as of the measurement date. For more information, please refer to
“Experienced and Diverse Board” in the MetLife 2024 Proxy Statement.
3. Ethnic and racial diversity is self-identified by each Director based on the following categories, used by institutional shareholder services: Asian (excluding Indian/South Asian); Black/African American; Caucasian/White; Hispanic/Latin American;
Indian/South Asian; Middle Eastern/North African; Native American/Alaskan Native; Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander; Other; and Prefer Not to Disclose.
74
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
ROLE OF THE BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEES GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
The Board and its committees oversee sustainability strategy and execution, including the assessment and Recognizing the continued importance of sustainability
management of various sustainability risks, opportunities and priorities. matters to both MetLife’s business and stakeholders, MetLife’s
sustainability efforts, including the monitoring and management
MetLife’s management provides regular updates to the Board and its committees on these and other relevant
of ESG risks and opportunities, are coordinated across the
sustainability and environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters.
enterprise. MetLife considers a broad array of factors, including
those related to sustainability, in evaluating business decisions.
Operationally, MetLife’s Sustainability function is part of
Audit • Controls and procedures related to financial information and non-financial data in the MetLife’s Corporate Affairs department and is dedicated
Company’s disclosures
Committee to sustainability strategy, management and reporting. The
• Information security and cybersecurity policies and controls Chief Sustainability Officer leads the Sustainability function,
• Guidelines and policies with respect to the process by which the Company undertakes coordinating with other senior executives to help drive progress
risk assessment and risk management
across the organization. MetLife’s Executive Vice President,
Compensation • Ensure that compensation programs do not encourage excessive or inappropriate Head of Corporate Affairs, who reports directly to the CEO,
risk-taking
Committee oversees the function.
• Assess company and executive performance, including progress on sustainability
objectives, and align pay outcomes
Additionally, MetLife’s leaders include sustainability in annual
• Govern compensation recoupment policies performance objectives as part of a shared goal for MetLife’s
Finance & Risk • Assessment and management of material risks, including privacy and climate risk Executive Leadership Team.
Committee • Policies, practices and procedures regarding risk assessment and management
MetLife colleagues are responsible for driving progress toward
Governance • Process for review of proposed CEO succession plans and proposed succession and
development plans for executive officers and Chief Actuary MetLife’s Next Horizon strategy, which includes making
Committee
progress on sustainability commitments. Please see For Our
• Emerging corporate governance issues
Colleagues to learn more regarding diversity, equity and
• MetLife Foundation strategies and initiatives
inclusion (DEI)-specific governance.
• Impact investment program in which loans and other investments are made to support
affordable housing, community, business and economic development, and healthcare
MetLife’s Sustainability function has responsibilities relating to,
services for low- and moderate-income communities
among other things:
• Policies and positions regarding sustainability, climate action, human rights, political
and charitable contributions, and other corporate social responsibility issues
• Directing and integrating MetLife’s sustainability strategy, target-
• Efforts to manage the Company’s reputation and culture setting activities, commitments, policies and key performance
Investment • Investment activities indicators across the enterprise;
Committee • Management and mitigation of risks associated with investment portfolios • Summarizing MetLife’s sustainability performance and metrics in
an annual report;
• Aligning disclosures to key reporting frameworks, including the
Global Reporting Initiative, Sustainability Accounting Standards
Board and Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures; and
• Managing and monitoring sustainability issues and opportunities
relevant to MetLife.
75
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
In addition to day-to-day management of MetLife’s
sustainability efforts and overseeing the publication
and governance of MetLife’s Sustainability Report, the
Sustainability function regularly reports to MetLife’s
Board of Directors and its committees on relevant
sustainability issues, the company’s progress toward
its goals and sustainability’s impact on the business,
as well as helping advance the Board’s collective
knowledge of sustainable development. MetLife’s
CEO has final sign-off on the publication of the annual
Sustainability Report, and the report is shared with the
Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee
of the Board of Directors annually.
Within the Finance function, MetLife has an ESG
Financial Reporting Controller focused on guiding
the company in accounting related to areas of
emerging regulation and promoting compliance and
transparency in regulatory reporting. The ESG Financial
Reporting Controller supports regulated and voluntary
reporting containing ESG information.
We have also established a Sustainability Reporting
Steering Committee that oversees sustainability
regulatory and reporting disclosures, and is responsible
for the consistency and appropriate control oversight
of such disclosures.
Government Relations tracks the development
of sustainability-related regulations across MetLife
markets and advocates for MetLife’s interests through
dialogue with policymakers. MetLife’s Compliance
and Legal teams lead preparations for implementation
of new sustainability regulations in partnership with
relevant partners across the company.
76
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Risk Management
MetLife is in the business of mitigating risk and second line of defense, providing strategic advisory • Governance and Corporate Responsibility:
protecting families and their futures. We manage services and effective challenge and oversight to management succession and reputation, as well
risk so that individuals and communities can realize the business and corporate functions in the first line as strategies, activities and initiatives related to
environmental and social matters;
their full potential. MetLife has a well-established of defense. Internal Audit serves as the third line
risk management framework that constantly evolves of defense, providing independent assurance and • Investment: portfolio risks; and
and is designed to address material financial and testing over the risk and control environment and
• Compensation: plan risks (e.g., avoiding incentives to
non-financial risks (including compliance risks) to our related processes and controls.
take excessive risk).
business. The program is led by an independent Global
The Finance and Risk Committee of the Board of The Board oversees the company’s sustainability
Risk Management organization headed by our Chief
Directors oversees the assessment, management matters, strategy and execution, including
Risk Officer, who reports directly to MetLife’s CEO.
and mitigation of material risks, as well as capital the assessment and management of various
MetLife operates under the “Three Lines of Defense” and liquidity management practices. Other Board sustainability opportunities, priorities and risks.
model. Under this model, each colleague has a role to of Directors committees also have significant risk MetLife’s management provides regular updates
play in risk management under the company’s risk and management oversight responsibilities: to the Board and its committees on various
control framework. The lines of business and corporate sustainability matters. For more information on the
functions are the first and primary line of defense in • Audit: internal controls, information security Board’s committees and risk management oversight,
and cybersecurity and relevant legal and
identifying, measuring, monitoring, managing and please refer to Board Committee Information and
regulatory compliance;
reporting risks. Global Risk Management forms the Board of Directors.
In addition to oversight by the Board and its
committees, MetLife has a management-level risk
oversight structure. Material risks, including ESG
risks, as appropriate, are within the purview of
multiple senior management committees. MetLife’s
Enterprise Risk Committee, a senior management-
level committee, oversees the identification,
measurement and management of material risks
on an enterprise basis.
77
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
MANAGING CLIMATE RISKS
Climate risks, both physical and transition risks, could
impact MetLife’s business operations, investments,
customers and supply chain. Climate change may increase
the frequency and severity of near- or long-term weather-
related disasters, public health incidents and pandemics,
and their effects may increase over time. Climate change
regulation may impact the value of investments we or our
counterparties, including reinsurers, hold, or increase our
compliance costs. Our regulators may also increasingly
focus their examinations on climate-related risks.
We consider how MetLife could be impacted by climate
risks across the business, both assets and liabilities, by
evaluating how risks could manifest across risk types,
including: credit, market, insurance, operational, legal and
compliance risks. We have conducted qualitative climate
risk identification exercises to determine potential climate
risks for key parts of the organization. In addition, we
have reviewed our organizational structure to adequately
manage climate risks across the three lines of defense.
MetLife continues to explore quantitative assessment and
scenario analysis methods for its investments to progress
our understanding of climate risks and the potential
impacts on our business, strategy and financial planning.
While climate risk modeling is still a nascent field with
many limitations, we continue to experiment with various
quantitative approaches.
We also stay up to date on policy trends and evolving
regulatory requirements globally, through engagement
with stakeholders.
78
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Code of Business Ethics
MetLife’s Code of Business Ethics helps us live our purpose with MANDATORY TRAINING
every customer every day. It helps us navigate a changing external
Code of Business Ethics courses form part of MetLife’s
environment while meeting the highest professional standards.
mandatory training program. Code-related topics in 2023
We regularly update the Code to reflect prevailing norms, market
mandatory training included anti-money laundering and
conditions and updates to internal policies, among other issues.
sanctions, privacy and data protection, fraud prevention,
The Code is the foundation for our Success Principles and gifts and entertainment, sales practices and ethical business
represents our core values for conducting business. Our Success conduct. We have enhanced our tracking of mandatory
Principles articulate the behaviors that MetLife colleagues are training to encourage on-time completion by colleagues. In
expected to exhibit and those that help us deliver on our purpose 2023, colleagues achieved a 99.4% completion rate across
and execute on our strategy. Our Code of Business Ethics is available mandatory courses, including:
in 18 languages and applies to all employees. Each year, colleagues
• 29 mandatory courses (10 global and 19 targeted);
pledge that they commit to and comply with the Code.
• 13.5 courses per employee on average; and
In the Code, we confirm our commitment to conducting business
• 13 hours of learning per employee
fairly, honestly and openly, and a zero-tolerance policy toward all
on average.1
forms of bribery and corruption that may be committed by MetLife
colleagues or a third party acting for or on behalf of MetLife. We also
maintain supplemental codes, including the Financial Management
Code of Business Ethics and the Supplier Code of Business Ethics.
Code of Business Ethics training encourages colleagues to have an
ownership mindset, and to speak up and escalate concerns when
they arise. More than 99% of employees completed the 2023 Code
of Business Ethics training—again exceeding our 95% target.
1. Data includes completions as of March 13, 2024, for courses assigned on or after
Saturday, January 1, 2023, and before Sunday, January 1, 2024.
79
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
RAISING CONCERNS AND SPEAKING UP
We understand that a supportive culture means cultivating MetLife takes all reported concerns seriously. Each one is reviewed,
an environment in which colleagues feel empowered to investigated and addressed, as appropriate. When warranted,
speak up. We encourage colleagues to lead by example, MetLife takes appropriate disciplinary or corrective actions,
holding themselves and others accountable by raising issues including termination of employment for employees and termination
and concerns. Colleagues can speak up using the reporting of a work assignment or other business association with MetLife for
channel that is most comfortable for them, and they can non-employees and other third parties. MetLife prohibits any form
report anonymously, unless otherwise required by law. of retaliation against a colleague for raising a concern in good faith
or assisting with an investigation regarding a potential violation of
Reporting channels include:
our Code, our policies, laws or regulations.
• Speak Up Tool, a desktop icon available to all colleagues;
• Global Investigations Unit;
• Ethics & Fraud HelpLine, available globally;
• Compliance Risk Management;
• Human Resources Business Partners and Employee Relations;
What Happens
Contact Support
• Direct supervisor, next-level supervisor and any other level
of management; and When I Report? You may raise a question, issue or concern to any member of
management or through any of the channels on the Speak Up tool.
• Local or Regional Helpline or Whistleblowing Contact. Reports will only be shared on a need-to-know basis, subject to
applicable laws and regulations. You may choose to raise concerns
Customer and external stakeholder concerns and anonymously to the extent permitted by law.
grievances can be reported through MetLife customer
service departments or the stakeholder’s relationship Review
manager. Anyone can report potential ethics, fraud or
Reports will typically be reviewed within 24–48 hours of receipt.
misconduct concerns through the Ethics & Fraud HelpLine— Your question, issue or concern will be directed to the appropriate
group(s) depending on the nature of the situation.
either online or by phone. Concerns are escalated, as
appropriate, to Human Resources, Legal, Risk, Compliance,
Investigation
the Executive Leadership Team or to MetLife’s Board
of Directors. You may be contacted by an investigator so that more information
can be gathered about your report. A full investigation may take as
little time as one week to several months.
Case Closed
When possible, you will receive an update that the report was
investigated and action was taken; however, due to privacy
concerns, you may not learn the outcome of the concern
you reported.
MetLife does not tolerate retaliation in any form. If you believe you have
experienced or been a witness to retaliation, report it immediately.
80
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Cybersecurity and Data Privacy
MetLife’s customers, employees and business • Protect against known and unknown threats or hazards
partners around the world provide us with their to the availability, confidentiality and integrity of personal
personal information and other confidential information and other confidential information; and
information every day. MetLife is committed to • Protect against loss or destruction or unauthorized
protecting, responsibly using and processing such access to personal information and other
information in compliance with applicable laws confidential information.
and regulations.
PRIVACY COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT
Our policies and procedures are designed to protect
the confidentiality and security of personal information MetLife’s Privacy Compliance Group, headed by
and create effective mechanisms to handle the Chief Privacy Officer, has oversight of MetLife’s
information appropriately worldwide, which includes Privacy Compliance Risk Program and is responsible
key areas such as safeguards and risk management, for establishing and maintaining the internal Global
monitoring, data incident response, cybersecurity Privacy and Data Protection Policy (Global Privacy
and e-discovery investigation, and threat intelligence. Policy), overseeing the implementation of, and
Our Global Privacy and Information Security ongoing compliance with, the Global Privacy Policy
Programs establish enterprise-wide principles and and advising business management on privacy risks.
global minimum standards, among other things,
The Global Privacy Policy establishes enterprise-wide
around the collection and use of personal information
principles and global minimum standards designed to
in compliance with applicable privacy laws and
facilitate compliance with applicable privacy laws and
regulations. The objectives of the programs are to:
regulations in the countries in which MetLife operates.
• Protect the privacy and security of individuals’ personal
information and our customers’ confidential information
by adopting and implementing administrative, technical
and physical safeguards;
81
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
CYBERSECURITY AND PRIVACY TRAINING INFORMATION SECURITY
Every year, we conduct mandatory cybersecurity We manage information security risk through,
and privacy training for all employees to raise and as part of, MetLife’s Information Security
awareness about potential threats and provide clear, (InfoSec) Program that management has instituted
actionable guidelines to inform everyday tasks and to maintain controls for the systems, applications
decision making. Every MetLife employee is required and databases of MetLife and our third-party
to complete yearly privacy training and comply providers. The primary goal of the program is to
with applicable privacy laws and regulations when protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability
processing personal data held by the company. of all data MetLife owns or possesses, as well as our
technology assets, through physical, technical and
MetLife raises awareness about the importance of
administrative safeguards. This includes controls
cybersecurity and provides employees with resources
and procedures for monitoring, detecting, reporting,
to protect themselves, our customers and MetLife.
containing, managing and remediating cyber threats.
We participate in industry cybersecurity groups and
The program aims to prevent data exfiltration,
events, such as Cybersecurity Awareness Month
manipulation and destruction, as well as system
each October, a national campaign sponsored by the
and transactional disruption.
Department of Homeland Security that was created
to raise awareness about cybersecurity and staying MetLife’s Enterprise Chief Information Security
safe. During the 2023 event, MetLife published Officer (CISO) manages the program, collaborating
thought leader articles internally, highlighting insider with lines of business and corporate functions.
risk, employee responsibility, identity protection and The Enterprise CISO is a senior-level executive
cybersecurity leadership. responsible for establishing and executing MetLife’s
information security strategy.
We have established reporting processes and
escalation pathways from our businesses and
functions to identify, assess and manage potential
personal data incidents in a timely manner—including
reporting to senior management, as needed.
82
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Supplier Management
Our Supplier Code of Business Ethics expresses THIRD-PARTY RISK MANAGEMENT (TPRM) MetLife’s Supplier Inclusion and Development
our desire to work with suppliers that model program, which is integrated within Global
MetLife’s TPRM program protects sensitive MetLife
MetLife’s principles and standards. This includes Procurement to help us interact with sourcing
and customer information. We require third parties
our commitment to conduct business ethically professionals and business stakeholders, supports
to comply with our TPRM program, including
and lawfully in markets where we operate across the inclusion of diverse suppliers in our supply
participating in a risk assessment prior to providing
our supply chain, and we expect the same of our chain, as well as supporting and sponsoring their
goods or services and in ongoing monitoring of our
suppliers. We expect suppliers to comply with all business development.2
business relationship.
applicable national, state and local employment,
We work with several external partners on supplier
equal opportunity, labor, immigration and wage
Through our TPRM program, we evaluate the
inclusion and development, including:
and hour laws, including those relating to humane
risk of third-party engagements and suppliers
treatment, child labor, minimum wage, overtime
before assigning them a risk rating and managing • Disability:IN;
compensation, mandated benefits and safe work
them accordingly.
• National LGBT Chamber of Commerce;
environments. We also expect suppliers to prioritize
respect for basic human rights within organizations, • National Minority Supplier Development Council;
including rights to health and safety, life and FOSTERING SUPPLIER DIVERSITY • National Veteran Business Development Council;
liberty and equality. We encourage suppliers to
As part of our 2030 DEI Commitments, MetLife • WEConnect International; and
actively participate in the MetLife Supply Chain
has committed to spending $5 billion with diverse
• Women’s Business Enterprise National Council.
Sustainability program.
suppliers by 2030 and to annually report the
economic impact of our diverse supply chain, which
MetLife’s Global Procurement organization supports
we do through our Economic Impact Report.
our Net Zero goal and interim commitments through
supplier engagement and greenhouse gas emissions
disclosure across the four major MetLife regions
(U.S.; Europe, the Middle East and Africa; Asia;
and Latin America). MetLife has set public supply
chain climate goals for itself since 2015, including
its latest supply chain interim target as part of its
Net Zero commitment.
~$3.9B $180.3M
spent since inception of the MetLife in spend with diverse suppliers in 2023.
Supplier Inclusion and Development
program in 2003.1
1. Due to the long history of the program, spend figures from 2003 through
2007 are approximated.
2. For definition of Diverse Suppliers, please see the Glossary.
83
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Human Rights Government Relations
As a UNGC participant, MetLife prioritizes human rights and upholds MetLife’s Government Relations team engages with policymakers and relevant
policies and regulations designed to prevent any abuses of human rights, stakeholders internationally, regionally and within individual markets to support
such as human trafficking or slavery, forced labor and child labor. our business, colleagues, customers and communities. In driving business
objectives, Government Relations also supports opportunities and activities
Although we believe governments hold the primary responsibility
that promote more confident futures for our customers and communities in
for safeguarding and protecting human rights, we also believe that
which we operate. In addition, MetLife’s CEO Michel Khalaf and the Executive
championing DEI and human rights within our businesses is core to our
Leadership Team often meet with policymakers to raise questions and advocate
purpose and in alignment with the International Labour Organization’s
for MetLife on legislation and regulations.
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
For example, we have been leading efforts to modernize state laws to enable the
Read MetLife’s Statement on Human Rights and our Slavery and Human
electronic execution of estate-planning documents. Most Americans die without
Trafficking Statements.
leaving a will in place, especially in minority communities. Passage of such
legislation can help ease the process of passing assets on to future generations
while serving the public interest and reducing the dockets of probate courts.
MetLife also works closely with U.S. federal and state policymakers to develop
proposals and laws that help increase access to and availability of paid family
medical leave (PFML). In the United States, nearly half of working Americans do
not have access to PFML, and MetLife seeks to narrow the PFML gap. Public-
private partnerships can lead to universal paid leave for workers, and establishing
paid leave for all is a leading public policy priority.
The Government Relations team also collaborates with MetLife’s Global
Sustainability function by engaging with regulators and other stakeholders
on sustainability goals. Together, we have worked directly and through trade
associations to provide input into the climate risk guidance issued by the New
York State Department of Financial Services, the deliberations on climate risk
by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and the International
Association of Insurance Supervisors’ consultations on climate risk, which aims
to promote a globally consistent supervisory approach to climate-related risks.
Outside the United States, MetLife Mexico is partnering with the Mexican
Association of Economic Development Secretaries (AMSDE), an organization
committed to promoting business activity and driving regional economic
development, to provide small and medium-sized enterprises with access to
best practices, tools and training in financial education and financial health.
84
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Appendix
GLOSSARY
CITATIONS
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
2023 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES PROGRESS
FRAMEWORKS
ESG SCORECARD
SUSTAINABILITY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
85
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Glossary
BeWell: A global physical, mental/emotional, financial Diverse Business Partner: A business that is majority Diversity: Leveraging our unique attributes
and social well-being program to convey a message owned, operated and controlled by ethnic minorities; and perspectives.
of support and empathy for our colleagues through women; lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and
EMEA: Europe, Middle East and African countries.
leadership engagement and outreach, virtual programs other (LGBTQ+) individuals; people with disabilities or
and the provision of relevant resources and tools. veterans, as well as federally recognized small businesses.
Energy Savings Performance Contracts (ESPCs):
Debt financings under which the U.S. government,
Building Research Establishment Environmental Diverse Business Partner Spend: Payments made
military or a government agency contracts with
Assessment Method (BREEAM): Established in to third-party suppliers that qualify as Diverse
a service provider to install equipment. The high-
1990, BREEAM is a global science-based suite of Business Partners, according to their diversity status
efficiency equipment comprises lighting, windows,
validation and certification systems for a sustainable at the respective year end, in exchange for goods and
heating/cooling equipment, plumbing fixtures or similar
built environment. services that are commercially feasible for negotiation
capital improvements. Once installed, the equipment
and are within Global Procurement’s scope according
Carbon Neutrality: Carbon neutral, or carbon neutrality, generates cost savings versus the equipment replaced.
to its policy.
means eliminating or offsetting all greenhouse gas The service provider raises debt capital to fund the
(GHG) emissions across a company’s operations. Diverse Supplier: A business that is at least 51% owned, capital expenditures, and the debt service is paid for
For MetLife, carbon neutrality efforts apply to global operated and financially controlled by one or more of by the contracting government entity in the form of
owned and leased offices, our global vehicle fleet the following: lower operating costs.
(Scope 1 and 2 emissions) and employee business
• Ethnic Minority Business Enterprises (MBE) certified ENERGY STAR: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
travel (Scope 3 Category 6).
by the National Minority Supplier Development backed program established to reduce GHG emissions
Carbon Offset: A tool for claiming “rights” to carbon Council (NMSDC); and other pollutants caused by the inefficient use of
emissions reductions generated somewhere else in • Women Business Enterprises (WBE) certified by the energy through cost-saving energy-efficiency solutions
the world through the buying and selling of certificates Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC); that protect the climate, improve air quality and protect
representing a specific volume of emissions. To offset public health.
• Veteran Business Enterprises (VBE) and Service-Disabled
the GHG emissions that we cannot reduce in the short Veteran Business Enterprises (SDVBE) certified by the
Engagement (for investments): Interactions between
term, MetLife supports a diverse portfolio of third- National Veteran Business Development Council (NVBDC);
the investor and current or potential investees on
party-certified emissions-reduction and renewable
• Disability-Owned Business Enterprises (DOBE) certified
environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues.
energy generation projects in certain markets where
by Disability:IN;
Engagement provides MetLife Investment Management,
we operate. MetLife seeks out and supports projects
• LGBT Business Enterprises certified by the National LGBT LLC and certain of its affiliates (MIM) investment
that empower local economies and align with the
Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC); and analysis with an opportunity to better understand
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
• Small businesses as defined by the Small Business material, relevant risk factors; be clear about our
Administration (SBA) of the federal government. expectations; and improve data transparency.
86
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Glossary
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG): A Green Bonds: Fixed income financial instruments used Impact Investments: Investments made with the
common term used to describe factors of sustainability to fund projects that have positive environmental and/ intention to generate positive, measurable social and
and corporate responsibility. For MetLife, sustainability or climate benefits. Responsible investments include environmental impact alongside a financial return (Global
is about managing business and responsibly delivering Bloomberg labeled green bonds. Impact Investment Network definition). This activity
long-term value for our stakeholders and achieving a includes both MetLife’s General Account and a smaller
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (or Carbon Emissions):
positive societal impact while improving the long-term volume of MetLife Foundation assets.
A GHG is any gas that has the property of absorbing
sustainability of the company.
infrared radiation (net heat energy) emitted from Earth’s Inclusion: Ensuring that through our interactions,
Equity: Providing opportunities for everyone to progress surface and reradiating it back to Earth’s surface. everyone is fully respected, recognized and valued.
in their careers at all levels, no matter their background. Carbon dioxide (CO2), methane and water vapor are
Infrastructure: Includes infrastructure investments
examples of GHG gases. MetLife reports GHG gases
Financial Wellness: Describes the health of one’s supporting airports, ports, transportation (roads,
in CO2 equivalents (CO2e). This is why sometimes
personal monetary affairs. There are many dimensions rail and bridges), transmission, energy management
“carbon emissions” is used as shorthand for describing
to financial health, including the amount of savings put systems, social infrastructure (stadiums, housing and
GHG emissions.
away for retirement and amount of income spent on courthouses), data centers, metering, telecom and water.
fixed or non-discretionary expenses. Green Investments: MIM currently defines green
International Labour Organization’s Declaration
investments to include 1) LEED, ENERGY STAR,
Fitwel: Created as a joint initiative led by the U.S. on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work:
BREEAM, NGBS, Fitwel certified real estate equity
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention together Adopted in 1998, the Declaration commits Member
investments; 2) commercial mortgage loans secured
with the General Services Administration, Fitwel States to respect and promote principles and rights in
by LEED and/or ENERGY STAR-certified real estate;
provides guidelines for designing, constructing and four categories, whether or not they have ratified the
3) renewable energy projects, including wind and solar;
operating healthier buildings. The Center for Active relevant Conventions. These categories are the following:
4) ESPCs; 5) public and private corporate green bonds
Design is the operator of Fitwel and responsible for the freedom of association and the effective recognition of
and loans; 6) Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE)
third-party certification. the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of forced
residential and commercial loans; and 7) sustainable
or compulsory labor, the abolition of child labor and the
agricultural loans.
Gender Equality: The state in which access to rights or
elimination of discrimination in respect of employment
opportunities is unaffected by gender.
IFRS Sustainability Alliance SASB Materiality Matrix: and occupation.
The Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark
LatAm: A MetLife market acronym for Latin
materiality matrix, now part of the International Financial
(GRESB): GRESB provides validated ESG performance
American countries.
Reporting Standards Sustainability Alliance, identifies the
data and peer benchmarks for investors and managers to
sustainability-related risks and opportunities that are most
improve business intelligence, industry engagement and
relevant to investor decision-making, including those that
decision-making.
are most likely to affect cash flows, access to finance and
cost of capital, by industry.
87
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Glossary
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design MyVoice: MetLife’s global employee survey Pay Equity: Providing equal pay for equal work.
(LEED): An internationally recognized green building that gives employees the opportunity to be heard
Portfolio Energy Intensity: The total amount of energy
certification system, providing third-party verification more frequently on topics that are relevant to our culture
used across our investment portfolio per million dollars.
that a building or community was designed and built and business and measures the behaviors that drive our
using strategies aimed at improving performance business strategy.
Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI): PRI
across energy savings, water efficiency, CO2 emissions
provides a voluntary and aspirational set of six
National Green Building Standard (NGBS): An
reduction, improved indoor environmental quality,
investment principles that offer a menu of possible
American National Standards Institute-approved,
stewardship of resources and sensitivity to their impacts.
actions for incorporating ESG issues into investment
third-party, residential building standard that provides a
practice. The Principles were developed by investors, for
MetLife Investment Management, LLC and certain flexible and affordable way to verify green construction
investors. In implementing them, signatories contribute
of its affiliates (MIM) is the institutional investment practices in single-family, multi-family, remodeling and
to developing a more sustainable global financial system.
management business of MetLife, Inc. MIM provides land development projects.
public fixed income, private capital and real estate
Public Corporate Debt: For the purposes of MetLife’s
Net Zero: The balance between the amount of
investment solutions to institutional investors worldwide.
Net Zero Commitment, the term “public corporate debt”
GHGs produced and the amount removed from the
refers to public corporates, emerging market debt and
MetLife’s Purpose Awards: An annual exclusive, atmosphere. While sometimes used synonymously with
high-yield asset classes within MetLife’s GA investment
selection-based award recognizing colleagues who went “carbon neutral,” a growing consensus behind “net zero”
portfolio, managed by MIM.
to extraordinary efforts to bring our purpose to life. is to reduce identified emissions in value chains and
economies to zero as quickly as possible through
Pro Bono Services: Professional work undertaken
MetZero™ Carbon Cascade™: Proprietary MIM
technical, policy and behavioral change. The transition
voluntarily and without payment.
approach focused on reducing greenhouse gas
to a net zero emissions future focuses on reducing
emissions while adding on-site renewable energy and
emissions as much as possible, without the purchase of Real Estate Equity: Real estate equity refers to assets
off-site green power procurement to MIM-managed and
offsets (see “carbon offset”) that balance GHGs emitted that are owned by MetLife or by MetLife with joint
controlled real estate equity investments.
elsewhere in the world through activities such as venture partners. These real estate assets are managed
burning fossil fuels. by MIM and include several asset classes, including
Municipal Bonds: Bonds or notes issued by or on behalf
office buildings, multifamily buildings, industrial, retail,
of U.S. states or territories or their political subdivisions,
Our Green Impact: MetLife’s signature environmental
hotels, single-family rentals and other property types.
or agencies or instrumentalities of states or territories,
employee engagement program that aims to promote
Many, but not all, of these real estate assets have a green
their political subdivisions or municipal corporations.
environmental awareness across the global enterprise
building certification such as LEED, BREEAM, ENERGY
Includes taxable and tax-exempt debt securities issued
and empowers employees to reduce environmental
STAR or Fitwel.
by entities exempt from income taxes under Section
impact at work, at home and in our communities.
501(c)(3) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.
Renewable Energy: Includes solar, wind, hydropower,
Paris Agreement: A legally binding international
biomass, geothermal resources and hydrogen derived
treaty on climate change. The agreement’s goal for
from renewable resources.
participating countries is to limit global warming to well
below 2, preferably to 1.5 degrees Celsius, compared to
pre-industrial levels. 88
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Glossary
Renewable Energy PACE Commercial Loans: • Forestry assets with recognized third-party sustainability UNGC: A voluntary initiative based on CEO
Property Assessed Clean Energy programs are an certifications such as Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) commitments to implement universal sustainability
innovative mechanism for financing energy efficiency or Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification principles to take steps to support UN goals.
and renewable energy improvements on private property. (PEFC), and the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI), which
is affiliated with PEFC; and Unit-Linked Insurance Plan: A multi-faceted product
They allow a property owner to finance the up-front
that offers both insurance coverage and investment
cost of energy or other eligible improvements on a • Climate-smart farm inputs such as biological crop
property and then pay the costs back over time through protection or drip irrigation; preservation or restoration exposure in equities or bonds.
a voluntary assessment. The unique characteristic of of natural landscapes.
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
PACE assessments is that the assessment is attached Sustainable Financing Framework: Guidance for future
(SDGs): The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development,
to the property rather than an individual. issuances of green, social and sustainable bonds, term
adopted by all United Nations Member States in 2015,
loans, preferred stock, subordinated notes and funding
provides a shared blueprint for peace and prosperity
Responsible Investments: Investments that intend
agreements (each a “MetLife Sustainable Financing”) by
for people and the planet, now and into the future. At
to achieve both a market financial return and promote
MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including Metropolitan
its heart are the 17 SDGs, which are an urgent call for
social and/or environmental benefits. Responsible
Life Insurance Company and Metropolitan Tower Life
action by all countries—developed and developing—in a
investments at MetLife include infrastructure,
Insurance Company.
global partnership.
green, municipal bonds, affordable housing and
Sustainable Investing: The broad investment
impact investments.
United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles: A
approach MIM takes that seeks to deliver competitive,
set of principles offering guidance to business on how to
Stewardship (for investments): The approach MIM risk-adjusted market returns by incorporating financially
promote gender equality and women’s empowerment in
takes to actively engage with companies and other material ESG assessments and stewardship into our
the workplace, marketplace and community.
entities. Our stewardship efforts seek to raise awareness investment process. Our sustainable investment
and improve data transparency and reporting. approach leverages both our traditional investing
U.S. Department of Energy’s Better Building
and sustainability expertise.
Challenge: An initiative to encourage institutions to
Sustainable Agricultural Loans: Investments that
improve building energy efficiency by at least 20% over
enhance ecosystem protection or restoration including: Target Gender Equality: A gender equality accelerator
10 years and share their strategies and results.
program for participating companies of the United
• Agriculture and fisheries assets with recognized third-party
Nations Global Compact (UNGC).
sustainability certifications such as USDA Organic, EU
Organic, Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) or
Rainforest Alliance;
89
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Citations
Page Third-Party Name / Reference Citation
9, 89, 98, United Nations Global Compact United Nations Global Compact. https://unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc. Accessed March 2024.
100–102, 131
10, 69 Village Capital Village Capital. https://vilcap.com/about-us. Accessed April 2024.
11, 28 McKinsey’s Race in the Workplace Study McKinsey & Company Race in the Workplace: The frontline experience. https://www.mckinsey.com/
featured-insights/diversity-and-inclusion/race-in-the-workplace-the-frontline-experience. Accessed
March 2024.
11, 28 Coqual’s Black Equity Index Coqual Black Equity Index. https://coqual.org/black-equity-index/. Accessed March 2024.
13, 48 MSCI MSCI Notice and Disclaimer for Reporting Licenses. https://www.msci.com/notice-and-disclaimer-
for-reporting-licenses. Accessed June 2024. Certain information contained herein (the “Information”) is
sourced from/copyright of MSCI Inc., MSCI ESG Research LLC, or their affiliates (“MSCI”), or information
providers (together the “MSCI Parties”) and may have been used to calculate scores, signals, or other
indicators. The Information is for internal use only and may not be reproduced or disseminated in whole
or part without prior written permission. The Information may not be used for, nor does it constitute, an
offer to buy or sell, or a promotion or recommendation of, any security, financial instrument or product,
trading strategy, or index, nor should it be taken as an indication or guarantee of any future performance.
Some funds may be based on or linked to MSCI indexes, and MSCI may be compensated based on the
fund’s assets under management or other measures. MSCI has established an information barrier between
index research and certain Information. None of the Information in and of itself can be used to determine
which securities to buy or sell or when to buy or sell them. The Information is provided “as is” and the
user assumes the entire risk of any use it may make or permit to be made of the Information. No MSCI
Party warrants or guarantees the originality, accuracy and/or completeness of the Information and each
expressly disclaims all express or implied warranties. No MSCI Party shall have any liability for any errors
or omissions in connection with any Information herein, or any liability for any direct, indirect, special,
punitive, consequential or any other damages (including lost profits) even if notified of the possibility of
such damages.
15, 16, 95 Great Place to Work Great Place to Work. https://www.greatplacetowork.com/solutions/certification. Accessed March 2024.
90
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Citations
Page Third-Party Name / Reference Citation
17 The Valor Games Bridge II Sports’ Valor Games Southeast. https://www.bridge2sports.org/valorgamesse/vgse-23-media-
alert-from-bridge-ii-sports-and-presenting-sponsor-metlife/. Accessed March 2024.
17 Red Shoe Movement Red Shoe Movement. https://redshoemovement.com/red-shoe-leader-award/. Accessed March 2024.
17 Hispanic Technology Executive Council Hispanic Technology Executive Council. https://www.hitecglobal.org/. Accessed March 2024.
17, 66 NPower (including Command Shift Coalition) NPower. https://www.npower.org/commandshift/. Accessed March 2024.
24 Aura Aura. https://www.aura.com/identity-theft-protection. Accessed March 2024.
24 Maven Maven. https://www.mavenclinic.com/. Accessed March 2024.
25 Girls Who Code Girls Who Code. https://girlswhocode.com/. Accessed March 2024.
25 Girls Who Invest Girls Who Invest. https://www.girlswhoinvest.org/. Accessed March 2024.
25, 95 INROADS INROADS. https://inroads.org/. Accessed March 2024.
27 Bain & Company Stratos Academy Bain & Company’s Stratos. https://www.bain.com/industry-expertise/financial-services/stratos/.
Accessed March 2024.
27 Gender Parity Initiative Chilean Gender Parity Initiative. https://www.gob.cl/en/news/ministry-women-coordinates-partnerships-
embassies-strengthen-gender-parity-initiative/#:~:text=The%20Chilean%20Gender%20Parity%20
Initiative%20%28IPG%20Chile%29%20is,and%20promote%20the%20participation%20and%20
progress%20of%20women. Accessed March 2024.
34 Nayya Nayya. https://www.nayya.com/platform. Accessed March 2024.
34 Lyra Health Lyra Health. https://www.lyrahealth.com/. Accessed March 2024.
34 Empathy Empathy. https://www.empathy.com/. Accessed March 2024.
34 Mexican Business Coordinating Council and the UN Global Compact. https://pactoglobal.org.mx/gta2030-salud-y-bienestar/. Accessed May 2024.
UN Global Compact’s Health and Well-Being
Working Group
91
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Citations
Page Third-Party Name / Reference Citation
37 Runner Automobiles The Daily Star. https://www.thedailystar.net/business/economy/industries/investments/news/metlife-
invests-tk-2575-crore-runners-sustainability-bond-3385496. Accessed March 2024.
42, 44 Intersect EnergyTech. “https://www.energytech.com/renewables/article/21282442/metlife-partners-with-dsd-
renewables-for-22-mw-solar-and-510-kwh-bess-project-at-california-campus.” Accessed February 2024.
43 Chile PMGD regime Willkie Farr & Gallagher. “https://www.willkie.com/-/media/files/publications/2020/09/
chiletoreformlegalframeworkfordistributedgeneratio.pdf.” Accessed February 2024.
47 Transition Pathways Initiative ASCOR ASCOR. “https://www.ascorproject.org/.” Accessed March 2024.
47 CDP (Non-Disclosure Campaign) CDP. “https://www.cdp.net/en/investor/engage-with-companies/non-disclosure-campaign.”
Accessed March 2024.
47 PRI Advance PRI. “https://www.unpri.org/investment-tools/stewardship/advance.” Accessed March 2024.
50 Seedlings to Solutions Seedlings to Solutions. “https://www.seedlingstosolutions.org/.” Accessed March 2024.
56, 87 U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Fitwel. “https://www.fitwel.org/.” Accessed March 2024.
and the General Services Administration Fitwel
59, 96 Haas School of Business at University of California, BerkeleyHaas Cleantech to Market. “https://haas.berkeley.edu/c2m/.” Accessed March 2024.
Berkeley Cleantech to Market accelerator
59, 96 MPOWERD MPOWERD. “https://mpowerd.com/pages/about.” Accessed March 2024.
59 1T.org 1T.org. https://www.1t.org/. Accessed March 2024.
60 Climate Impact Partners’ Million Mangroves program Climate Impact Partners’ Million Mangroves. https://millionmangroves.com/. Accessed March 2024.
60 Earthly Earthly. “https://earthly.org/en-US/about-us.” Accessed March 2024.
61 Australian Wildlife Conservancy Australian Wildlife Conservancy. https://us.australianwildlife.org/about-us/. Accessed March 2024.
62 Green Seal Green Seal. https://greenseal.org/mission/. Accessed March 2024.
92
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Citations
Page Third-Party Name / Reference Citation
67, 96, 99 Nonprofit Enterprise Self-Sustainability Nonprofit Enterprise Self-Sustainability Team (NESsT). https://www.nesst.org/amazonia.
Team (NESsT) Accessed March 2024.
67 Inspiring Girls Inspiring Girls. https://inspiring-girls.com/. Accessed March 2024.
67, 99 BRAC BRAC. https://www.brac.net/program/ultra-poor-graduation/. Accessed March 2024.
68 The Nature Conservancy The Nature Conservancy. https://www.nature.org/en-us/. Accessed March 2024.
68 EcoRise EcoRise. https://ecorise.org/our-work/sustainable-intelligence/. Accessed March 2024.
68 Launch NY Launch NY. https://launchny.org/. Accessed March 2024.
69 Volunteers of Legal Services VOLS. https://volsprobono.org/projects/microenterprise/. Accessed April 2024
Microenterprise Project
70, 97 Planet Water Foundation Planet Water Foundation. https://planet-water.org/about-us/. Accessed March 2024.
82 The Department of Homeland Security’s Cybersecurity Awareness Month. https://www.cisa.gov/cybersecurity-awareness-month.
Cybersecurity Awareness Month Accessed March 2024.
84 Mexican Association of Economic Mexican Association of Secretaries of Economic Development. https://amsde.mx/amsde-2/.
Development Secretaries Accessed March 2024.
84 International Association of Insurance Supervisors International Association of Insurance Supervisors. https://www.iaisweb.org/activities-topics/climate-risk/.
Accessed March 2024.
93
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Stakeholder Engagement
MetLife engages with a broad array of stakeholders on a regular basis. We deeply value the time and diverse input we receive from our stakeholders and the opportunities for dialogue.
Stakeholder Group Nature of Engagement Frequency
Board of Directors In-person meetings and other direct engagement. In 2023, the Board held five meetings, and Board
committees held 32 meetings. Additional interactions
with Board members occur on an ongoing basis
throughout the year.
Colleagues MetLife engages with our colleagues on an ongoing basis, including through new-hire Consistent, ongoing, daily information and dialogue
trainings, annual and other periodic surveys, internal communications, our intranet, throughout the year.
social media and on-site events. We also host a multitude of open forums such as
Town Halls with Senior Leaders, Coffee Hour check-ins and others.
Communities MetLife engages with our communities through MetLife Foundation-led activities, Occurs regularly on an ongoing basis.
corporate sponsorships and programs, volunteerism and social media, as well as events.
Customers and MetLife engages with customers throughout the year through a multitude of channels, Ongoing with consistent and sustained open dialogue
prospective customers including direct outreach and in-person and virtual conversations. throughout the year.
Governments MetLife’s engagement with government occurs on a continual basis at international, Occurs regularly on an ongoing basis.
national and local levels led by our Global Government Relations function.
Investors/shareholders MetLife engages with investors and shareholders in multiple ways, including annual Ongoing with consistent and sustained open dialogue
filings and reports, presentations, media and direct engagements throughout the year. throughout the year.
Non-governmental MetLife engages with NGOs on a regular basis in a variety of ways, including MetLife maintains ongoing dialogue with numerous NGOs.
organizations (NGOs) social media, in-person meetings, virtual sessions and volunteer events.
Prospective employees MetLife’s primary channels of engagement with prospective employees are through Occurs regularly on an ongoing basis.
social media, annual reports and our recruitment efforts.
Suppliers and MetLife engages our suppliers through annual scorecards, newsletters, events, Engagement occurs regularly—both through project work
business partners training and year-round correspondence. and other means.
94
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
2023 Awards and Recognition
CORPORATE CUSTOMERS
• Fortune magazine’s World’s Most • JUST Capital’s America’s 100 Most JUST Companies • American Business Awards®—Gold Stevie® Award—Website
Admired Companies • People Magazine—2023 PEOPLE® Companies for Legal Services; Silver Stevie® Award—Client Service Center;
That Care Bronze Stevie® Award—Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Council
(MetLife Legal Plans)
• J.D. Power—“Outstanding Customer Service Experience” for
WORKFORCE
Phone Support, (Retirement and Income Solutions Call Center)
• Bloomberg—Gender Equality Index • Hispanic Association on Corporate Social Responsibility • Pet Innovation Awards—Pet Insurance of the Year
• Chief Learning Officer—Learning in Practice Awards— (HACR)—Corporate Inclusion Index™ (U.S.) MetLife 360Health
(Gold) The Innovation Award, The Technology Award; • Human Rights Campaign Foundation—Corporate
• Best Financial Innovative Service of the Year (China)
(Silver) The Strategy Award Equality Index (U.S.)
• Digital Marketing Awards—Best App Marketing (Bangladesh)
• Corporate Excellence Award (BIDV MetLife, Vietnam) • INROADS—Frank C. Carr Corporate Partner of
• Digital Marketing Awards—Best Digital Performance
• Dave Thomas Foundation for Adoption—America’s the Year Award
Marketing (Bangladesh)
Best Adoption-Friendly Workplaces • LATINA Style Inc.—Top 50 Best Companies for Latinas
• Digital Marketing Awards—Best Use of Data & Analytics (Bangladesh)
• Disability Equality Index—Best Place to Work for to Work for in the U.S.
• Digital Marketing Awards—Best Use of Own Platform
Disability Inclusion (U.S.) • MindCare—Company Recognition
• Insurance Asia Awards—Marketing Initiative of the Year (Bangladesh)
• First Job—Best Internship Experience (MetLife Chile) • Nikkei Women—100 Best Companies Where Women
• Insurance Asia Awards—Mobile App of the Year (Bangladesh)
• Forbes—Accelerate DEI Index (MetLife Mexico) Actively Take Part (#13 in 2023), Promotion of Women
• Insurance Asia News Awards for Excellence—Insurtech Initiative
• Fortune Magazine’s 100 Best Companies to to Managerial Positions (#2 in 2023) (MetLife Japan)
of the Year
Work For® (U.S.) • People First—HR Excellence Award, Talent Acquisition
• Plan for Life Excellence Awards (Australia)—Best Overall Health
• Friendly Workplace Award (MetLife Poland) (PNB MetLife, India)
and Wellness Excellence Award including:
• Fundación Chile Unido & El Mercurio—Distinction • PwC, Chile Mujeres Foundation & LT Pulso—Impulsa
» Best Devices & Health Tracking
Seal—Best Organizations to Integrate Personal Life Award (MetLife Chile and Chile ProVida)
» Best Innovation—Program
and Work (MetLife Chile) • Ripplematch—Campus Forward Award (U.S.)
• G.I. Jobs—Military Friendly® Employers & Military • Seramount—Best Company for Multicultural
ENVIRONMENT
Friendly® Spouse Employers (U.S.) Women; Top Companies for Executive Women;
• Great Place to Work Certified™— Brazil, Chile, China, Global Inclusion Index (Australia, Brazil, Chile, China,
• Dow Jones Sustainability Index—North America
Colombia, Cyprus, India, Lebanon, Mexico, Romania, Colombia, France, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico,
• ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year—Sustained Excellence Award
U.S., Uruguay Portugal, Romania, Spain, United Arab Emirates and
the U.K.); U.S. Inclusion Index
COMMUNITY
• American Malaysian Chamber of Commerce—AmCham Cares
Award (MetLife Malaysia)
• The Harlem School of the Arts—Philanthropic Leadership Award
(MetLife Foundation)
95
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Environmental Initiatives Progress
(Initiatives to take place from 2020-2030, unless otherwise stated)
We leverage the strength of our people, products, Originating $25 billion of new General Account Planting 5 million trees, prioritizing areas vulnerable
services and investments to make progress in areas (GA) green investments and $500 million of impact to natural disasters, to help improve the health of
such as human health, water stewardship and investments (with 25% allocated to climate local ecosystems and communities and preserve
biodiversity. We are working toward: change priorities). biodiversity.
• Invested approximately $2 billion in environmentally • Over 1.6 million trees planted since 2020.
Maintaining carbon neutrality annually for our global
offices, vehicle fleets and employee business travel conscious companies and projects in 2023, reaching • 25,000 trees planted in the Umpqua National Forest
over $12.2 billion in GA green investments since 2020. in Oregon, via the Arbor Day Foundation, to protect
by supporting high-quality carbon offset projects that
• Nearly $66 million in impact investments in 2023, at-risk species like the northern spotted owl, as well as
align with United Nations Sustainable Development
amounting to over $166 million since 2020, with 25% of improve the forest’s resilience against future fires.
Goals to the extent possible and supporting
investments allocated to climate change priorities. • 5,000 seedlings planted in the Nazaré Paulista region
renewable electricity technologies by purchasing
renewable energy credits.1 Contributing $5 million to drive climate-related of Brazil, in collaboration with the Ipê Institute (Institute
for Ecological Research), to improve quality of the
partnerships and solutions.
• Achieved carbon neutrality in 2023, for the eighth
water supply to the Greater São Paulo area.
consecutive year. • Invested $730,000 to support climate action around
• MetLife Foundation and the Shakti Foundation
the world since 2020.
Prioritizing green and healthy buildings in our global provided funding to Dhaka North City Corporation to
• Partnered with UC Berkeley Haas School of Business
office portfolio (aiming for at least 40% of our square plant 17,600 trees across Dhaka, Bangladesh, with the
for second year running to support tech entrepreneurs
footage), including healthy and sustainable amenities aim of improving air quality and transforming abandoned
in delivering climate-related solutions through the
for our colleagues. land into green, child-friendly public spaces.
Cleantech to Market accelerator program.
• Achieved green and healthy buildings at 48% of our • MetLife Foundation provided support to the Arbor Day
• Launched partnership with MPOWERD and IOM to
global offices by square footage. Foundation to plant 100,000 trees between 2022 and
provide solar-powered lights to disaster preparedness
2024 in forests and communities in need across nine
Engaging colleagues, customers and our other and risk management programs in climate-vulnerable
different countries in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
diverse stakeholders on environmental stewardship. communities.
• Introduced MetLife Climate School, an environmental MetLife Foundation granting $10 million to
education program for colleagues. environmental causes.
• Hosted MetLife Extraordinary Litter Pickup and • Contributed $8.3 million in grants to environmental
EcoChallenge environmental campaigns. causes since 2020.
• 80% of core services transactions in five top markets in • Formed a multi-year partnership with NESst
Asia now executed digitally. Amazonia to contribute to the growth of a cohort
• Encouraged top suppliers to disclose environmental of environment-focused social enterprises in
information through the CDP Supply Chain Questionnaire. the Amazon.
1. MetLife’s carbon neutrality efforts apply to global owned and leased offices, global vehicle fleets
(Scope 1 and 2 emissions) and employee business travel (Scope 3 Category 6).
96
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
MetLife’s sustainability efforts focus on prioritizing five of the 17 SDGs, given their relevance to MetLife’s business. We leverage our products and services, workforce,
investments and community to drive progress of these five SDGs.
Goal How We Support the Goals
MetLife is securing people’s health and well-being.
MetLife was built to help people through stressful times, and as today’s society continues to grapple with growing financial, mental, social and physical
concerns, we are a leader in providing benefits that address evolving needs and expectations.
• Expanded MetLife 360Health to Nepal and the UAE, helping customers prevent and manage serious illnesses. Across Asia, more than 1 million digital users have
downloaded the 360Health app, and it has won more than 30 awards since its launch. The UAE launch focused on mindfulness, health risk assessment, nutrition/calorie
tracking, a symptom checker, guided meditations and physical and mental health articles.
• Expanded 360Future in Asia, helping customers in China and Korea prepare early for retirement and supporting them as they age. In Korea, more than 30 services
help customers enhance their quality of life in retirement while providing healthcare support during illness. In China, 360Future services include women’s menopausal
healthcare consultations and ophthalmic screening, in addition to support for medical appointments, home healthcare guidance and retirement planning.
• Helped colleagues realize the value of our employee benefits programs through our BeWell platform, which provides access to resources, support and leader tools.
• MetLife Foundation partner, Planet Water Foundation, aims to transform the health, productivity and economic well-being of communities in Mexico by providing
access to clean and safe water. MetLife colleagues have helped build 17 AquaTower water filtration systems.
• Certified/recertified three offices in the U.S. and one office in Australia to Fitwel, a joint initiative of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the General
Services Administration to strengthen health and well-being in buildings and communities.
• Conducted in-depth research into employees’ views and sentiments regarding benefits through the annual Employee Benefit Trends Study.
97
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
SDGs
Goal How We Support the Goals
MetLife is creating more economic stability and opportunity in the communities we serve.
We pay out tens of billions of dollars in benefits and claims every year to help create a more confident world for everyone, including enabling more resilient,
economically thriving communities.
• MetLife General Account has over $420 billion in assets under management (GA AUM)1, providing a vital source of capital for long-term economic growth and job creation.
• Sourced nearly $2.1 billion of private infrastructure investments and more than $450 million of investments in public municipal bonds in 2023, creating jobs, financial
security, economic growth, prosperity and greater opportunity.
• MetLife Foundation contributed over $1 billion since its founding in 1976 to strengthen communities.
• Continued participation in the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative.
• MetLife Foundation launched two new funding initiatives in the U.S. as part of a two-year, $10.5 million pledge dedicated to addressing wealth and income inequality.
• $180.3 million in diverse supplier spend in 2023. See MetLife’s Supplier Diversity Program 2023 Economic Impact Report.
MetLife is supporting a resilient and thriving environment.
We are proud to be carbon neutral for our operations2—a status we’ve maintained since 2016—and we have taken this commitment further with our
aspiration for Net Zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions for our operations and General Account (GA) investment portfolio by 2050 or sooner.3 We
will make progress toward this long-term goal with interim climate targets, which include reducing GHG emissions across our operations and engaging
suppliers and investee companies on the low-carbon transition.
• Reduced emissions by 44% across our offices and business travel between 2019 and 2023.
• Planted more than 1.6 million trees around the world since 2020 as part of our nature and biodiversity work.4
• Provided grants (MetLife Foundation) of more than $8.3 million total since 2020 as part of MetLife Foundation’s commitment to contribute $10 million by 2030.
• Sourced nearly $2 billion of new green investments5 allocated to MetLife’s GA, managed by MetLife Investment Management, LLC and certain of its affiliates,
bringing the total to more than $12.2 billion since 2020.
• Encouraged suppliers to set emissions-related goals aligned with climate science, with ~50% of suppliers by spend having set goals.
• Originated nearly $66 million of new impact investments,5 bringing the total to more than $166.5 million since 2020, with approximately 25% allocated to
climate change priorities.
1. As of December 31, 2023. At estimated fair value. See Explanatory Note.
2. MetLife’s carbon neutrality efforts apply to global owned and leased offices, global vehicle fleets (Scope 1 and 2 emissions) and employee business travel (Scope 3 Category 6).
3. Learn more about our approach to Net Zero.
4. Funded by MetLife and MetLife Foundation.
5. For a definition and additional information regarding MetLife’s green and impact investments, please see the Glossary.
98
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
SDGs
Goal How We Support the Goals
MetLife is committed to building a more inclusive and equitable workforce and society.
We are improving our leadership commitment and accountability, deepening our understanding of equity and equality and enhancing our ability to lead
inclusively in the future.
• Achieved above-median results on officer gender diversity globally and top-quartile results on ethnic and racial diversity for officers (U.S. only).
• Achieved 36% representation of women on MetLife’s Board of Directors as of December 31, 2023.
• Spent approximately $3.9 billion since the inception of our Supplier Inclusion and Development Program in 2003.1
• Expanded Triangle Tech X conference into an ongoing virtual speaker series open to the public, spotlighting women making groundbreaking contributions to science,
technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM).
• Committed to expanding opportunities for women and girls through MetLife Foundation partnerships that support financial health programs, careers in technology
and entrepreneurship.
• MetLife Foundation supported BRAC (Asia) Ultra-Poor Graduation Initiative (UPGI), which uses time-bound and sequenced integrated interventions to help more than
3,000 extremely poor women build resilience while placing them on an upward trajectory from poverty into sustainable livelihoods. BRAC UPGI provides holistic support,
including access to financial inclusion, livelihood support and social empowerment.
1. Due to the long history of the program, spend figures from 2003 through 2007 are approximated.
99
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
UN Global Compact (UNGC)
The UNGC is a voluntary framework for businesses to align their operations and strategies with Ten Principles covering human rights, labor, the environment and
anti-corruption. MetLife has been a participant of the UNGC since 2020 and is proud of the progress made in working toward its Ten Principles and the Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs). We not only uphold our basic responsibilities to shareholders and society as a company, but also consider these principles and goals for
creating long-term value success.
As a signatory to the UNGC, MetLife reconfirms its commitment to the Principles and submits a Communication on Progress to the UNGC on an annual basis. Please see
the table below for reference of how MetLife is bringing the UNGC Principles to life through our responsible business practices, initiatives and impact programs. Additional
information can be found on our UNGC public profile.
Principle or Goal Implementation of the Ten Principles / Contributions Toward Achievement of the SDGs
Contributions Toward SDGs
MetLife prioritizes the following SDGs: 2023 Sustainability Report >> Sustainability at MetLife >> Our Approach >> Strategic Alignment with the
#3—Good Health & Well-Being; Sustainable Development Goals
#5—Gender Equality;
2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> Frameworks >> UN Sustainable Development Goals
#8—Decent Work & Economic Growth;
#10—Reduced Inequalities; and
#13—Climate Action.
Ten Principles—Human Rights
Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect 2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Code of Business Ethics
the protection of internationally proclaimed human
2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Human Rights
rights; and
MetLife’s Statement on Human Rights
Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they 2023 Sustainability Report >> Creating Value as an Investor >> Our Approach
are not complicit in human rights abuses.
2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Supplier Management
2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Human Rights
MetLife’s Statement on Human Rights
Slavery and Human Trafficking Statements
100
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
UNGC
Principle or Goal Implementation of the Ten Principles / Contributions Toward Achievement of the SDGs
Ten Principles—Labour
Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of 2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Human Rights
association and the effective recognition of the right
MetLife’s Statement on Human Rights
to collective bargaining;
Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination 2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Human Rights
of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;
MetLife’s Statement on Human Rights
Slavery and Human Trafficking Statements
Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective 2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Human Rights
abolition of child labour; and
MetLife’s Statement on Human Rights
Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the 2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Human Rights
elimination of discrimination in respect of
2023 Sustainability Report >> For Our Colleagues >> Governance >> Global DEI Governance
employment and occupation.
MetLife’s Statement on Human Rights
MetLife Pay Equity Statement
MetLife Equal Employment Opportunity and Anti-Harassment Policy
Ten Principles—Environment
Principle 7: Businesses should support a 2023 Sustainability Report >> For the Environment >> Governance
precautionary approach to environmental challenges;
2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Code of Business Ethics
2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Supplier Management
MetLife Statement on Climate Change
MetLife Environmental Policy
MetLife Code of Business Ethics
MetLife Supplier Code of Business Ethics
101
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
UNGC
Principle or Goal Implementation of the Ten Principles / Contributions Toward Achievement of the SDGs
Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to 2023 Sustainability Report >> For the Environment
promote greater environmental responsibility; and
2023 Sustainability Report >> Creating Value as an Investor >> Responsible Investments
2023 Sustainability Report >> Creating Value as an Investor >> Sustainable Investing
2023 Sustainability Report >> Creating Value as an Investor >> MetLife’s Sustainable Financing Framework
2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Code of Business Ethics
2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Supplier Management
MetLife Statement on Climate Change
MetLife Environmental Policy
MetLife Code of Business Ethics
MetLife Supplier Code of Business Ethics
MIM Stewardship Policy
MIM Sustainable Investment Policy
MetLife Sustainable Financing Framework
MetLife’s Impact Investment Program
Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the 2023 Sustainability Report >> For the Environment
development and diffusion of environmentally
2023 Sustainability Report >> Creating Value as an Investor >> MetLife’s Sustainable Financing Framework
friendly technologies.
2023 Sustainability Report >> Creating Value as an Investor >> Responsible Investments
MetLife Statement on Climate Change
MetLife Sustainable Financing Framework
MetLife’s Impact Investment Program
Ten Principles—Anti-Corruption/Governance
Principle 10: Businesses should work against 2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Code of Business Ethics
corruption in all its forms, including extortion
2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Supplier Management
and bribery.
MetLife Code of Business Ethics
MetLife Supplier Code of Business Ethics
102
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board (SASB) Index
MetLife is reporting, in accordance with the SASB standards, to bring industry-specific rigor to our sustainability disclosure. We are reporting to the two “Financials” Sector
Standards most closely aligned with our business: Insurance and Asset Management & Custody Activities. Data is as of December 31, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
Asset Management & Custody Activities Sustainability Accounting Standard
Code/Metric 2023 Response
Transparent Information & Fair Advice for Customers
FN-AC-270a.1, (1) Number and (2) percentage of covered The breadth of this metric is beyond what MetLife tracks and discloses.
employees with a record of investment-related investigations,
consumer-initiated complaints, private civil litigations, or other
regulatory proceedings
FN-AC-270a.2, Total amount of monetary losses as a The breadth of this metric is beyond what MetLife tracks and discloses.
result of legal proceedings associated with marketing and
communication of financial product-related information to
new and returning customers
FN-AC-270a.3, Description of approach to informing MetLife Investment Management, LLC and certain of its affiliates (MIM)
customers about products and services Product and service communications occur through five primary channels:
• Face-to-face, e.g., sales and customer support teams: Sales enablement collateral includes presentation
decks and slip sheets. There is usually one standard deck per investment capability. With sales taking
anywhere from six months to three years on average, the number of meetings held depends on the prospect.
However, usually at least three meetings with the sales team and investment team occur, in addition to
request-for-proposal reviews and final presentation to the investment committee where Sales, Investments,
Compliance and Operations present processes and answer questions. These meetings are also forums to
discuss potential investment, operational and compliance risks and how they are monitored. Investment
consultants also play a part by acting as intermediaries primarily to pension plans, both public and corporate.
Therefore, MIM follows a path of informing investment consultants about our products, and they assign a
buy, hold, sell rating to the products. Prospects who use an investment consultant usually buy from us only if
our product is rated a “buy” by their investment consultant. MIM (through its appropriate legal entities) sells its
investment capabilities in Canada; Europe, the Middle East and Africa; Hong Kong; Japan; Korea; Malaysia;
Singapore; the U.S.; and a few other Asian countries.
103
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
SASB Index
Asset Management & Custody Activities Sustainability Accounting Standard
Code/Metric 2023 Response
Transparent Information & Fair Advice for Customers (continued)
FN-AC-270a.3, Description of approach to informing customers • Web (MIM): Separate sections for each MIM line of business (LOB) provide details on the value
about products and services proposition for each product, investment team members and support materials. We also have sections
on thought leadership divided by LOB and a section on environmental, social and governance (ESG).
• Conferences/events and webinars: Topically focused and typically delivered via panel discussion,
sponsored keynote address or hosted via ON24 or, if sponsored, via the host’s platform. A key part of the
in-person conferences is networking done by our sales team (we refer to them as the Institutional Client
Group). At conferences, they learn about the prospect’s asset allocation and which asset classes they are
currently looking at. Then, if we have an investment capability that matches their needs, the salesperson
will set up a time to meet after the conference to continue the discussion.
• Digital: Email, social (LinkedIn only) and banner/display covers both direct outreach, such as email, and
targeted communications.
• Advertising: In addition to the banner/display digital advertising, we also do some print advertising,
paid search advertising and sponsored content advertising.
The frequency of communication depends on the LOB, audience and nature of communications. During
the sales process, if a client is actively looking to buy investment capabilities in a certain asset class, then
the communication could be once every month, whereas if the prospect is just researching, then the
communication may be once per quarter. Once the prospect is a client, then there is significant communication
as they are onboarded and then receive reporting at a frequency of their choosing. We are currently
implementing a client portal where clients can access their accounts in one place and have full transparency
into their account. We understand that full transparency related to what is happening in the market, what
is driving performance and what is occurring in the investment portfolio is key. These communications are
typically conducted via reporting on a frequency demanded by the client (weekly, monthly, quarterly). We also
work with clients on quarterly portfolio reviews. Additionally, MIM is regulated by the Securities and Exchange
Commission and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) in the U.S. and by the local regulator in each
of the countries where it has a licensed investment management entity. We must have communications and
marketing materials reviewed by the investment compliance team to ensure information is transparent and not
misleading in any way. These materials are reviewed following a defined internal process and strictly adhere to
regulatory requirements, including risk/legal disclosures. MIM members undergo ongoing training and
monitoring of communications such as with FINRA registered agents. 104
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
SASB Index
Asset Management & Custody Activities Sustainability Accounting Standard
Code/Metric 2023 Response
Employee Diversity & Inclusion
FN-AC-330a.1, Percentage of gender and racial/ethnic group 2023 Sustainability Report >> ESG Scorecard >> Global Workforce Data
representation for (1) executive management, (2) non-executive
EEO-1 Report
management, (3) professionals, and (4) all other employees
Incorporation of Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG) Factors in Investment Management & Advisory
FN-AC-410a.1, Amount of assets under management, by asset 1. MIM is predominately a global fixed income and real estate investment manager. Our approach
class, that employ (1) integration of environmental, social, and to sustainable investment begins with an assessment of financially material risks and opportunities
governance (ESG) issues, (2) sustainability themed investing, as part of our fundamental, disciplined due diligence and monitoring processes. ESG factors and
and (3) screening insights, along with traditional investment risk and opportunity assessments, are incorporated in a
manner consistent with our asset classes and sustainability strategies, as are deemed relevant and
applicable. Currently, less than 5% of our Total Assets Under Management (Total AUM)1 is held in
index equity funds and other limited equity investments that are generally passively managed and
are not sustainably focused. The indices to which our index strategies are benchmarked are selected
in accordance with our mandates’ investment guidelines. As a result, as of December 31, 2023,
approximately $582.7 billion and $422.2 billion of Total AUM1 and General Account AUM (GA AUM)1,
respectively, employed ESG integration efforts. (See Creating Value as an Investor).
2. $58.5 billion1 in responsible investments holdings as of December 31, 2023, in MetLife’s GA investment
portfolio. (see Creating Value as an Investor >> Responsible Investments for more).
3. MIM applies specific guidelines as requested by our clients and client-directed investment screens
into our investment process, as applicable. The market value of MetLife GA corporate fixed income
assets to which screens are applied in accordance with the MetLife GA Investments Screens Policy is
approximately $136.1 billion, as of December 31, 2023.
FN-AC-410a.2, Description of approach to incorporation MIM Sustainable Investment Policy >> Our Approach to Sustainable Investment
of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors
2023 Sustainability Report >> Creating Value as an Investor >> Sustainable Investing
in investment and/ or wealth management processes
and strategies
1. As of December 31, 2023. At estimated fair value. See Explanatory Note.
105
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
SASB Index
Asset Management & Custody Activities Sustainability Accounting Standard
Code/Metric 2023 Response
Incorporation of Environmental, Social & Governance Factors in Investment Management & Advisory (continued)
FN-AC-410a.3, Description of proxy voting and investee MIM Stewardship Policy
engagement policies and procedures
Financed Emissions
FN-AC-410b.1, Absolute gross financed emissions, disaggregated The breadth of this metric is beyond what MIM tracks and discloses at this time. We are committed to
by (1) Scope 1, (2) Scope 2 and (3) Scope 3 improving our data collection, calculations and management over time.
FN-AC-410b.2, Total amount of assets under management The breadth of this metric is beyond what MIM tracks and discloses at this time. We are committed to
(AUM) included in the financed emissions disclosure improving our data collection, calculations and management over time.
FN-AC-410b.3, Percentage of total assets under management The breadth of this metric is beyond what MIM tracks and discloses at this time. We are committed to
(AUM) included in the financed emissions calculation improving our data collection, calculations and management over time.
FN-AC-410b.4, Description of the methodology used to See SASB-FN-IN-410c.4.
calculate financed emissions
Business Ethics
FN-AC-510a.1, Total amount of monetary losses as a result The breadth of this metric is beyond what MetLife tracks and discloses.
of legal proceedings associated with fraud, insider trading,
anti-trust, anti-competitive behavior, market manipulation,
malpractice, or other related financial industry laws or regulations
FN-AC-510a.2, Description of whistleblower policies MetLife has an Ethics & Fraud HelpLine and procedures for the handling of whistleblower concerns.
and procedures Anyone can raise a concern anonymously, to the extent permitted by law, through the Ethics & Fraud
HelpLine, which is managed by a third party and made available in 19 languages. See Raising Concerns
and Speaking Up and What Happens When I Report? for additional information.
106
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
SASB Index
Asset Management & Custody Activities Sustainability Accounting Standard
Code/Metric 2023 Response
Business Ethics (continued)
FN-AC-000.A, (1) Total registered and (2) total unregistered
Registered Unregistered Total
assets under management (AUM) ($ in millions) AUM1 AUM2 AUM3
General Account AUM3 $ 3,358 $ 419,691 $ 423,049
Institutional Client AUM3 58,282 119,518 177,800
Total Registered Assets and Unregistered Assets $ 61,640 $ 539,209 $ 600,849
FN-AC-000.B, Total assets under custody and supervision Total assets under custody and supervision are $636,188 million, comprised of Total Invested Assets and
Cash4 of $458,388 million plus Institutional Client AUM of $177,800 million.
1. Registered AUM include those subject to the regulations of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (1940 Act), such as mutual funds, managed under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), subject to the Undertakings for Collective
Investment in Transferable Securities Directive, or managed under the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s Commodity Pool Operator regulations.
2. Unregistered AUM are those that do not fall under the definition of the registered AUM.
3. At December 31, 2023. At estimated fair value. See Explanatory Note.
4. Total Invested Assets and Cash, represents Total Investments and Cash and Cash Equivalents from the 12/31/23 MetLife, Inc. consolidated balance sheet included in the 2023 Form 10-K.
107
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
SASB Index
Insurance Sustainability Accounting Standard
Code/Metric 2023 Response
Transparent Information & Fair Advice for Customers
FN-IN-270a.1, Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal The breadth of this metric is beyond what MetLife tracks and discloses.
proceedings associated with marketing and communication of insurance
product-related information to new and returning customers
FN-IN-270a.2, Complaints-to-claims ratio While this ratio is beyond what MetLife tracks and discloses, please see the National Association
of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) consumer website for closed confirmed complaints
reported to the NAIC for the United States and its territories.
FN-IN-270a.3, Customer retention rate This item is not disclosed publicly in financial filings.
FN-IN-270a.4, Description of approach to informing customers Employer voluntary benefit insurance products
about products MetLife’s employer voluntary benefit insurance products and services are available to businesses
with two or more employees. We provide existing and potential customers with information
about products, services and third-party relationships via web pages, webinars, presentations,
conferences, videos, newsletters, thought leadership reports, articles and electronic or
printed materials.
The development and review of materials includes legal, product subject matter experts and
compliance, communications and marketing teams to ensure compliance, accuracy and clarity,
and following of regulatory filing standards where appropriate and applicable, based upon
various regulating agencies and bodies, such as state departments of insurance, and FINRA
and ERISA guidelines for marketing material and plan filings. Information may include specific
product details, features, disclaimers, exclusions and other terms and conditions, as well as
general information about MetLife’s brand, corporate functions and financial performance.
108
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
SASB Index
Insurance Sustainability Accounting Standard
Code/Metric 2023 Response
Transparent Information & Fair Advice for Customers (continued)
FN-IN-270a.4, Description of approach to informing customers Custom communication campaigns
about products MetLife is committed to developing custom Group Benefits communications campaigns
tailored for each employer aimed to drive awareness, education and participation. We
recommend an omnichannel communications strategy, increasing focus on digital delivery and
using offline channels as an important secondary channel. Integrating messages across these
channels creates a “surround-sound” effect that enhances the employee experience. We also
have deep experience in building compelling communications for digital channels such as X,
LinkedIn, Facebook, microsites, online benefits fairs and emails—and we partner with each
employer to craft a step-by-step plan to meet employees’ needs and habits.
109
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
SASB Index
Insurance Sustainability Accounting Standard
Code/Metric 2023 Response
Transparent Information & Fair Advice for Customers (continued)
FN-IN-270a.4, Description of approach to informing customers Communication tactics
about products Product enrollment and service communications plans include:
• Personalized enrollment kits: Mailed to employees’ homes, in addition to announcement and
reminder email communications.
• Custom microsite: Serves as an educational resource center that employees can access.
• Employee video(s): Highlight the product details, the need for each benefit, plan benefits and
enrollment instructions.
• Benefit Decision Guide: Helps employees evaluate benefit needs by highlighting the value of
each benefit and what employees should consider when evaluating their individual and loved
ones’ needs.
• Benefit fairs: Hosted by qualified benefit counselors available through either a platform
hosted by the employer, through a Webex or teleconference that MetLife hosts, or in-person
at the employer’s site(s).
• Webinars: Live product presentations to employees with options for Q&A, recording, camera,
chat, polls and engagement activities.
• Brainshark presentations: Customized presentations with “voice over” audio that highlight
the benefits available.
• Human Resources (HR) team training sessions: Product training to HR representatives,
typically through webcast, focused on our products and highlights of the specific plan design,
as well as frequently asked questions from employees.
110
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
SASB Index
Insurance Sustainability Accounting Standard
Code/Metric 2023 Response
Transparent Information & Fair Advice for Customers (continued)
FN-IN-270a.4, Description of approach to informing customers During annual enrollment, MetLife provides real-time support through virtual engagement such
about products as chatting via a webinar, responding to questions submitted through a MetLife microsite or
calling during set office hours. We also accommodate requests for print material and giveaways,
if needed.
• Social media: Custom-designed specifically for employers to drive awareness of the plan,
direct employees to educational resources and highlight the need for the plan.
• Coordinator support: Custom training, brochures, FAQs, infographics and more.
• New-hire communications: With employers’ approval, MetLife mails a communication to
new hires at the time of employment to congratulate them on their new position, provide them
with details about each benefit of the plan and give them enrollment information and timeline.
• Call center and operations: Inbound calls for specific questions or support and/or
confirmation of account changes, such as beneficiaries. Frequency of communications
depends on the product, employer’s enrollment period, audience and nature
of communications.
111
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
SASB Index
Insurance Sustainability Accounting Standard
Code/Metric 2023 Response
Transparent Information & Fair Advice for Customers (continued)
FN-IN-270a.4, Description of approach to informing customers Retirement & Income Solutions (RIS)
about products Product and service communications occur through five primary channels:
• I n-person/Phone, e.g., Sales and Customer Support Teams: Sales enablement collateral
that includes presentation decks and slip sheets.
• W eb: A section for each RIS LOB with specific details on products, services, market insights
and support materials.
• C onferences/Events and Webinars: Topically focused and typically delivered via panel
discussion, sponsored segment or hosted Webex.
• D igital: Email, social (primarily LinkedIn) and banner/display covering both direct outreach,
such as with email, and targeted communications.
• C all Center and Operations: Inbound calls for specific questions or support and outbound
communications that are primarily direct mail and take the form of regulatory notifications,
benefit enrollment kits or confirmation of account changes such as beneficiaries.
The frequency of communication depends on the LOB, audience and the nature of
communications. RIS is regulated due to the nature of its products and adheres to applicable
ERISA requirements for specific product lines (e.g., with Lifetime Income Annuities that are
within a 401(k)). As such, all communications, regardless of channel or format, are legally
reviewed following a defined internal process and strict adherence to regulatory requirements,
including risk/legal disclosures and no investment advice. There is also ongoing training and
monitoring of communications such as with FINRA registered agents. To the extent available,
MetLife also provides real-time support for benefit administration through virtual engagement
via a MetLife microsite.
112
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
SASB Index
Insurance Sustainability Accounting Standard
Code/Metric 2023 Response
Incorporation of Environmental, Social & Governance Factors in Investment Management
FN-IN-410a.2, Description of approach to incorporation of MIM Sustainable Investment Policy
environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors in investment
management processes and strategies
Policies Designed to Incentivize Responsible Behavior
FN-IN-410b.1, Net premiums written related to energy efficiency MetLife does not measure or disclose this metric, as it does not apply to our business.
and low carbon technology
FN-IN-410b.2, Discussion of products and/or product features that 2023 Sustainability Report >> For Our Customers >> Supporting Wellness
incentivize health, safety, and/or environmentally responsible actions
Health & well-being incentives
and/or behaviors
MetLife believes it is important to provide our customers with tools and resources that benefit
their overall health and well-being. Please see the references below for examples of the actions
MetLife takes to incentivize healthy behaviors through our products. Examples include:
• MetLife 360Health: 360Health is a combination of insurance and health services available
across six markets, in Asia and the UAE. 360Health provides a unique perspective on helping
customers with solutions that address their mental, physical, financial and social health,
through a comprehensive focus on prevention, early diagnosis, access to treatment, ongoing
care and financial protection. 360Health is designed to directly address customer concerns
about serious illnesses and offers medically endorsed, end-to-end solutions to help people
increase their “healthspan,” or the number of healthy years in their overall lifespan.
113
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
SASB Index
Insurance Sustainability Accounting Standard
Code/Metric 2023 Response
Policies Designed to Incentivize Responsible Behavior (continued)
FN-IN-410b.2, Discussion of products and/or product features that Through 360Health, we incentivize healthy behavior in customers through services and
incentivize health, safety, and/or environmentally responsible actions capabilities provided on platforms such as mobile app, web and WeChat. The services offered
and/or behaviors include examples such as the 360Health App in Korea, a mobile application that measures
cardiovascular health risk and stress level with artificial intelligence-powered technology.
The app offers health and well-being tips for personal health management and enables
agents to engage with customers. Additionally in Korea, we also provide value-added service
(VAS) options specific to customer life stages. For example, seniors can access a senior
concierge service and senior tele-counseling services. Tele-doctor services and online health
assessments are popular with our customers in China. While services offered vary across
markets, they include a breadth of health VAS options such as free virtual doctor consultations,
special discounts on diagnostic tests, preferential access to specialists and beauty and
well-being benefits, to name a few.
• Japan VAS: In Japan we offer comprehensive health and well-being-oriented VAS free of
charge to support customers’ continuum of care. For example, we offer, via a health and
medical consultation service vendor: a 24/7 health hotline, a medical second-opinion service,
mental health support, support for returning to work post-cancer diagnosis and medical
check-up consultations. Selected customer service desks offer online chat consultations
through our customer portal. We also offer services to support customers with childcare,
nursing care, cancer, dementia, brain and heart disease prevention and more. Additionally, we
offer a “club off” program for customers that provides them with exclusive discounts to gyms,
restaurants and other wellness support services.
Please also see report section: For Our Customers >> Supporting Underserved Groups and
Communities >> How Our Products Support Diverse Needs for information on programs and
products designed specifically for women that incentivize healthy behavior.
114
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
SASB Index
Insurance Sustainability Accounting Standard
Code/Metric 2023 Response
Financed Emissions
FN-IN-410c.1, Absolute gross financed emissions, disaggregated by Absolute gross financed emissions for MetLife General Account (GA) real estate equity asset
(1) Scope 1, (2) Scope 2 and (3) Scope 3 class by scope (MTCO2e): (1) S1: 2,327 (2) S2: 15,679 (3) S3: 183,986. See Explanatory Note for
additional information about MetLife’s GA investment portfolio.
FN-IN-410c.2, Gross exposure for each industry by asset class The breadth of this metric is beyond what MetLife tracks and discloses at this time. We are
committed to improving our data collection, calculations and management over time.
FN-IN-410c.3, Percentage of gross exposure included in the financed The breadth of this metric is beyond what MetLife tracks and discloses at this time. We are
emissions calculation committed to improving our data collection, calculations and management over time.
FN-IN-410c.4, Description of the methodology used to calculate MetLife Insurance Investments (MII) GA investment portfolio financed emissions for the real
financed emissions estate equity asset class are calculated at the property level by taking total consumption of
natural gas, electricity and steam on each site as entered into ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager
and testing for completeness. For properties with missing, incomplete or unreliable data,
consumption is estimated by multiplying the Energy Information Administration’s Commercial
Building Energy Consumption Survey (2018) energy use intensities for the relevant property
type by property gross floor area. Consumption is divided between common area (Scope 1 and
Scope 2) and tenant area (Scope 3) based on GRESB 2022 average property type breakouts.
For properties where MII is not the managing member or the property has a triple net lease,
all emissions are assigned to Scope 3. Properties that are under construction or land have no
consumption calculated. Electricity consumption is multiplied by the eGRID regional emission
factor corresponding to the property’s location, and gas and steam consumption are multiplied
by EPA national emission factors, resulting in total emissions by property. As all MII properties
are treated as MetLife investments, property emissions are prorated by MII’s ownership
percentage to get the financed emissions attributable to MetLife. These financed emissions
are lastly aggregated at the portfolio level. All calculations are performed in accordance with
Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials and GHG Protocol Corporate Standard guidance.
115
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
SASB Index
Insurance Sustainability Accounting Standard
Code/Metric 2023 Response
Physical Risk Exposure
FN-IN-450a.1, Probable Maximum Loss (PML) of insured products from MetLife assesses and monitors physical risk from natural catastrophes qualitatively, given
weather-related natural catastrophes the nature of the Life & Health insurance business. Please see sections C2.2a, C2.3a and
C-FS2.2c in MetLife’s 2023 CDP Report for physical climate risk considerations for MetLife’s
insurance business.
FN-IN-450a.2, Total amount of monetary losses attributable to insurance As a life and health insurer, monetary losses from natural catastrophes are currently not
pay-outs from (1) modeled natural catastrophes and (2) non-modeled distinguished from losses from other factors. For MetLife’s disclosure on climate change-related
natural catastrophes, by type of event and geographical segment (net impacts on the cost of reinsurance, see Item 1A. Risk Factors of the 2023 Form 10-K.
and gross of reinsurance)
FN-IN-450a.3, Description of approach to incorporation of Specific to insurance product underwriting, to the extent impacts to ESG factors, including
environmental risks into (1) the underwriting process for individual those related to climate change, have influenced past mortality and/or claim morbidity, those
contracts and (2) the management of entity-level risks and impacts may inherently be in our pricing factors (such as area/regional factors), as our factors
capital adequacy are derived from historical claims experience.
Systemic Risk Management
FN-IN-550a.1, Exposure to derivative instruments by category: (1) total As of December 31, 2023 ($ in millions)
potential exposure to noncentrally cleared derivatives, (2) total fair value
of acceptable collateral posted with the Central Clearinghouse, and
(3) total potential exposure to centrally cleared derivatives General Account
As reported on the entity’s Schedule DB Amount1
(1) Total potential exposure to non-centrally cleared derivatives $ 4,597
(2) Total fair value of acceptable collateral posted with the Central Clearinghouse $ 117
(3) Total potential exposure to centrally cleared derivatives $ 6,320
1. FN-IN-550a.1 specifically targets disclosures “as reported on the entity’s schedule DB.” As such, amounts include only our insurance
companies that report Schedule DB for NAIC Statutory purposes.
116
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
SASB Index
Insurance Sustainability Accounting Standard
Code/Metric 2023 Response
FN-IN-550a.2, Total fair value of securities lending collateral assets For additional information regarding Securities Lending Transactions and Repurchase
Agreements, see the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2023 Form 10-K.
Securities Lending Transactions and Repurchase Agreements
Securities, Collateral and Reinvestment Portfolio
A summary of these transactions and agreements accounted for as secured borrowings
were as follows:
December 31, 2023 (in millions)
Securities1
Cash Collateral Reinvestment
Estimated Received from Portfolio at
Agreement Type Fair Value Counterparties2 Estimated Fair Value
Securities lending $10,510 $10,788 $10,553
Repurchase agreements $3,029 $2,975 $2,913
1. These securities were included within fixed maturity securities available-for-sale (AFS), short-term investments and cash equivalents at
December 31, 2023 and within fixed maturity securities AFS and short-term investments at December 31, 2022.
2. The liability for cash collateral is included within payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions.
FN-IN-550a.3, Description of approach to managing capital and Capital and liquidity risks associated with systemic non-insurance activities such as
liquidity-related risks associated with systemic non-insurance activities repurchase agreements, securities lending and written credit default swaps used in investment
management, are managed as part of our overall risk management framework. See Risk
Management for an overview of our risk management framework and 2023 Form 10-K,
Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Liquidity & Capital Resources for additional information. We set risk management
limits for these systemic non-insurance activities, where appropriate and include these activities
in our stress testing processes.
FN-IN-000.A, Number of policies in force, by segment: (1) property and Information regarding gross, ceded and assumed life insurance, accident and health insurance,
casualty, (2) life, (3) assumed reinsurance and property and casualty insurance in-force is disclosed in Schedule IV Consolidated
Reinsurance in the 2023 Form 10-K.
117
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Task Force on Climate-related
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index
MetLife is issuing a TCFD Index to enable comparable, decision-useful information for investors and other stakeholders regarding how we approach and manage climate risks and
opportunities. The following table indicates where readers can find disclosures within MetLife’s 2023 Sustainability Report and/or other publicly available documents that address
TCFD recommendations.
Disclosure Focus Area Recommended Disclosure 2023 Response
Governance
a) Describe the board’s 2023 Sustainability Report >> For the Environment >> Governance
oversight of climate-related 2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Governance
risks and opportunities. 2024 Proxy Statement >> Information about the Board of Directors >> Board’s Primary Role and
Responsibility >> Sustainability Oversight
2024 Proxy Statement >> Experienced and Diverse Board >> Director Competencies: Skills and
Experiences & Director Experience and Diversity Matrix (pages 22–23) and Director Nominees
(pages 25, 30 and 37). Directors self-select their four core board competencies. Three directors
selected sustainability—R. Glenn Hubbard, Cheryl Grise and Mark Weinberger. R. Glenn Hubbard
Disclose the organization’s
is on the board of “Resources for the Future,” a nonprofit research organization with a mission to
governance around climate-
improve environmental, energy and natural resource decisions through impartial economic research
related risks and opportunities.
and policy engagement. Cheryl Grise had extensive experience with sustainability issues through her
prior leadership roles at Northeast Utilities (now Eversource Energy), a public utility holding company
engaged in the distribution of electricity and natural gas. Mark Weinberger has extensive experience
with sustainability issues through his prior leadership roles at EY, a global professional services
organization, and his board position at Saudi Arabian Oil Company (Aramco), a petroleum and natural
gas company. These examples are not the exclusive sources of Board member expertise.
CDP Climate Change 2023 C1.1b
118
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
TCFD Index
Disclosure Focus Area Recommended Disclosure 2023 Response
Governance (continued)
b) Describe management’s 2023 Sustainability Report >> For the Environment >> Governance
role in assessing and 2023 Sustainability Report >> Creating Value as an Investor >> Governance
managing climate-related 2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Governance
risks and opportunities.
Disclose the organization’s
MIM Sustainable Investment Policy
governance around climate-
related risks and opportunities.
2024 Proxy Statement >> Information about the Board of Directors >> Board’s Primary Role
and Responsibilities >> Risk Oversight
CDP Climate Change 2023 C1.2
Strategy
a) Describe the climate-related CDP Climate Change 2023 C2.1, C2.1a, C2.1b, C2.2a, C-FS2.2b, C2.2c, C2.3a, C2.4a
risks and opportunities the
organization has identified
over the short-, medium-,
and long-term.
Disclose the actual and potential b) Describe the impact 2023 Sustainability Report >> Creating Value as an Investor
impacts of climate-related of climate-related risks 2023 Sustainability Report >> For the Environment
risks and opportunities on and opportunities on the
the organization’s businesses, organization’s businesses, CDP Climate Change 2023 C-FS2.2c, d, e, C2.3, C3.3
strategy and financial planning. strategy, and financial planning.
c) Describe the potential 2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Risk Management >> Managing Climate Risks
impact of different scenarios,
including a 2°C scenario, on CDP Climate Change 2023 C3.1, C3.2
the organization’s businesses,
strategy, and financial planning.
119
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
TCFD Index
Disclosure Focus Area Recommended Disclosure 2023 Response
Risk Management
a) Describe the organization’s 2023 Sustainability Report >> For the Environment >> Our Approach
processes for identifying and 2023 Sustainability Report >> Creating Value as an Investor >> Governance; Responsible Investments;
assessing climate-related risks. Sustainable Investing; MetLife’s Sustainable Financing Framework
2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Our Approach; Governance;
Risk Management
MIM Sustainable Investment Policy
CDP Climate Change 2023 C2.2, C2.2a, C-FS2.2c
Disclose how the organization b) Describe the organization’s 2023 Sustainability Report >> For the Environment
identifies, assesses and processes for managing 2023 Sustainability Report >> Creating Value as an Investor
manages climate-related risks. climate-related risks. 2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Our Approach; Governance;
Risk Management
CDP Climate Change 2023 C2.2, C2.2a
c) Describe how processes 2023 Sustainability Report >> For the Environment >> Our Approach
for identifying, assessing, and 2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Risk Management
managing climate-related
risks are integrated into MIM Sustainable Investment Policy
the organization’s overall
risk management. CDP Climate Change 2023 C2.2, C2.2a
120
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
TCFD Index
Disclosure Focus Area Recommended Disclosure 2023 Response
Metrics and Targets
a) Disclose the metrics 2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> ESG Scorecard >> Environmental Data
used by the organization to
assess climate-related risks CDP Climate Change 2023 C6.1, C6.2, C6.3, C6.5, C9.1
and opportunities in line
with its strategy and risk
management process.
Disclose the metrics and targets
b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, 2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> ESG Scorecard >> Environmental Data
used to assess and manage
and, if appropriate, Scope 3
relevant climate-related risks
greenhouse gas (GHG) CDP Climate Change 2023 C6.1, C6.2, C6.3, C6.5
and opportunities.
emissions, and the related risks.
c) Describe the targets used 2023 Sustainability Report >> Sustainability at MetLife >> Our Sustainability Commitments >>
by the organization to manage Net Zero Commitment
climate-related risks and 2023 Sustainability Report >> For Our Communities >> Global Support for Environmental Causes
opportunities and performance
against targets. CDP Climate Change 2023 C4.1, C-FS4.1d, C4.2, C4.3
121
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Index
MetLife’s 2023 GRI Index has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards Core option and represents performance data from calendar year 2023.
GRI Standard Disclosure Response / Reference
GENERAL DISCLOSURES
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
The Organization and Its Reporting
2-1 Organizational details MetLife, Inc., New York, NY
2-2 Entities included in 2023 Form 10-K, Exhibit 21 — Subsidiaries of the Registrant (this is not a comprehensive list as this is
the organization’s a list of our significant subsidiaries, as defined by SEC guidance); unless otherwise stated or implied in
sustainability reporting the 2023 Sustainability Report.
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and This content and data in this report primarily covers the period January 1, 2023, to December 31, 2023.
contact point MetLife reports on an annual basis. We invite your comments, questions and feedback on this report
by contacting us at gogreen@metlife.com.
2-4 Restatements of information Refer to ESG Scorecard for revisions to previously reported performance data.
2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> ESG Scorecard >> Financial Data
2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> ESG Scorecard >> Environmental Data
2-5 External assurance Our global Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 business travel greenhouse gas emissions have been
assured to ISO-14064-3 standards.
Activities and Workers
2-6 Activities, value chain and other MetLife, Inc., through its subsidiaries and affiliates (“MetLife”), is one of the world’s leading financial
business relationships services companies, providing insurance, annuities, employee benefits and asset management to
help individual and institutional customers build a more confident future. Founded in 1868, MetLife
has operations in more than 40 markets globally and holds leading positions in the United States,
Asia, Latin America, Europe and the Middle East. MetLife is also one of the largest institutional
investors in the U.S. with a general account portfolio invested primarily in fixed income securities
(corporate, structured products, municipals, and government and agency) and mortgage loans,
as well as real estate, real estate joint ventures, other limited partnerships and equity securities.
Reference: 2023 Form 10-K business overview and strategy. For more information about MetLife’s
supply chain, please see MetLife Global Procurement.
122
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
GRI Standards Index
GRI Standard Disclosure Response / Reference
2-7 Employees 2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> ESG Scorecard >> Workforce Data
2-8 Workers who are not employees Although MetLife receives services from workers employed by third-party vendors and/or service
providers, none of those services are rendered by workers who meet the definition of “other workers”
provided in the guidance associated with the Standard.
Governance
2-9 Governance structure MetLife, Inc. Corporate Governance Guidelines
and composition
2024 Proxy Statement >> Information About the Board of Directors
2-10 Nomination and selection of the 2024 Proxy Statement >> Information About the Board of Directors >> Board Composition >>
highest governance body Director Succession and Nomination Process
2-11 Chair of the highest 2024 Proxy Statement >> Information About the Board of Directors >> Board Composition >>
governance body Board Leadership Structure
2-12 Role of the highest governance 2024 Proxy Statement >> Information about the Board of Directors >> Board’s Primary Role and
body in overseeing the Responsibilities >> Sustainability Oversight
management of impacts
MetLife’s Compliance Risk Management Charter specifies the Enterprise Compliance Programs group
oversees the Code of Business Ethics, and the CEO, Executive Leadership Team and their respective
management groups have the ultimate responsibility for the business of MetLife and its affiliates to be
conducted in accordance with applicable laws, rules, regulations, MetLife policies and MetLife’s Code
of Business Ethics.
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for 2024 Proxy Statement >> Information about the Board of Directors >> Board’s Primary Role and
managing impacts Responsibilities >> Sustainability Oversight
2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Governance
2-14 Role of the highest governance 2023 Sustainability Report >> Sustainability at MetLife; Responsible Governance
body in sustainability reporting
2-15 Conflicts of interest Directors’ Code of Business Ethics
123
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
GRI Standards Index
GRI Standard Disclosure Response / Reference
2-16 Communication of Corporate Conduct
critical concerns
2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Governance
2-17 Collective knowledge of the 2024 Proxy Statement >> Proxy Statement Summary >> Experienced and Diverse Board >>
highest governance body Director Experience and Diversity Matrix
2-18 Evaluation of the performance 2024 Proxy Statement >> Information About the Board of Directors >> Board, Committee, and
of the highest governance body Director Evaluations
2-19 Remuneration policies 2024 Proxy Statement >> Director Compensation in 2023
2024 Proxy Statement >> Compensation Discussion and Analysis
2-20 Process to 2024 Proxy Statement >> Compensation Discussion and Analysis
determine remuneration
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio 2024 Proxy Statement >> Pay Ratio
Strategy, Policies and Practices
2-22 Statement on sustainable 2023 Sustainability Report >> Letter from Our CEO
development strategy
2-23 Policy commitments MetLife Code of Business Ethics
MetLife Statement on Human Rights
MetLife Equal Employment Opportunity and Anti-Harassment Policy
MetLife Supplier Code of Business Ethics
Global Anti-Bribery and Corruption Program
Global Anti-Money Laundering & Sanctions Policy
MetLife Environmental Policy Statement
124
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
GRI Standards Index
GRI Standard Disclosure Response / Reference
2-24 Embedding policy commitments 2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance
2-25 Processes to remediate 2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Code of Business Ethics
negative impacts
Code of Business Ethics
MetLife Ethics & Fraud HelpLine
Corporate Conduct
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice 2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Code of Business Ethics
and raising concerns
Code of Business Ethics
MetLife Ethics & Fraud HelpLine
Corporate Conduct
2-27 Compliance with laws While MetLife does not disclose monetary losses from proceedings, please see MetLife’s 2023 Form
and regulations 10-K Note 24 for details on material litigation and regulatory matters.
125
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
GRI Standards Index
GRI Standard Disclosure Response / Reference
2-28 Membership associations Some of the policy, research and trade associations with whom we engage include:
• American Council of Life Insurers
• Atlantic Council
• Business Council for International Understanding
• Business Roundtable
• Coalition of Service Industries
• Council of the Americas
• Geneva Association
• Institute of International Finance
• Japan Society
• Korea Society
• National Minority Supplier Development Council
• U.S. Chamber of Commerce
• Washington International Trade Association
• Women’s Business Enterprise National Council
Some of the sustainability associations with whom we engage include:
• CDP
• Center for Active Design
• Climate Leadership Council
• United Nations Global Compact
• United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment
• United Nations Women Global Innovation Coalition for Change
• United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles
• United States Department of Energy
• United States Environmental Protection Agency
• United States Green Building Council
126
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
GRI Standards Index
GRI Standard Disclosure Response / Reference
Stakeholder Engagement
2-29 Approach to 2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> Stakeholder Engagement
stakeholder engagement
2-30 Collective bargaining MetLife Legal Plans: 27%
agreements Asia: 5%
EMEA: 20%
LatAm: 14%
Some of our U.S. and non-U.S. (non-agency) employees are covered under collective
bargaining agreements.
MATERIAL TOPICS
GRI 3: Material Topics
3-1 Process to determine In order to appropriately address issues relevant to our business and stakeholders, we performed a
material topics traditional sustainability materiality analysis in 2020 using a data-driven process. The sustainability
materiality analysis was based on real-time analytics on strategic, regulatory and reputational risks and
opportunities. Implementing the analysis has strengthened our understanding of environmental, social
and governance (ESG)-related issues and enhanced our in-house capabilities to assess their evolution.
In addition, this data-driven process, along with feedback from various key stakeholders and
sources (e.g., ESG ratings/rankings, investors, MetLife senior executives, external perspectives, peer
benchmarking, etc.), allows us to develop a forward-looking sustainability strategy that helps us
continue to sustain customers, families and the planet.
See also 2023 Sustainability Report >> Sustainability at MetLife >> Our Sustainability Commitments >>
Net Zero Commitment and 2030 DEI Commitments for a summary of MetLife’s strategic approach to
ESG issues.
127
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
GRI Standards Index
GRI Standard Disclosure Response / Reference
3-2 List of material topics • Economic performance • Employment
• Indirect economic impacts • Training and education
• Anti-corruption • Diversity and equal opportunity
• Anti-competitive behavior • Non-discrimination
• Energy • Public policy
• Emissions • Marketing and labeling
• Waste • Customer privacy
• Supplier environmental assessment
3-3 Management of material topics 2023 Sustainability Report >> Sustainability at MetLife
2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance
128
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
GRI Standards Index
GRI Standard Disclosure Response / Reference
GRI 200: Economic
GRI 201: Economic Performance
3-3 Management of material topics See 2023 Form 10-K.
2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Risk Management
2023 Sustainability Report >> Creating Value as an Investor
201-1 Direct economic value See the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the
generated and distributed 2023 Form 10-K.
201-2 Financial implications and other 2023 Sustainability Report >> For Our Customers >> Our Approach
risks and opportunities due to
2023 Sustainability Report >> Creating Value as an Investor
climate change
2023 Sustainability Report >> For the Environment
2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Risk Management
2023 CDP Climate Change Report >> C2 Risks and Opportunities
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations See the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the
and other retirement plans 2023 Form 10-K.
129
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
GRI Standards Index
GRI Standard Disclosure Response / Reference
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts
3-3 Management of material topics 2023 Sustainability Report >> For Our Customers
2023 Sustainability Report >> For Our Colleagues
2023 Sustainability Report >> Creating Value as an Investor
2023 Sustainability Report >> For Our Communities
203-1 Infrastructure investments and 2023 Sustainability Report >> For Our Customers
services supported
2023 Sustainability Report >> For Our Colleagues
2023 Sustainability Report >> Creating Value as an Investor
2023 Sustainability Report >> For Our Communities
203-2 Significant indirect 2023 Sustainability Report >> For Our Customers
economic impacts
2023 Sustainability Report >> For Our Colleagues
2023 Sustainability Report >> Creating Value as an Investor
2023 Sustainability Report >> For Our Communities
GRI 205: Anti-corruption
3-3 Management of material topics Anti-Bribery and Corruption Program
Code of Business Ethics
130
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
GRI Standards Index
GRI Standard Disclosure Response / Reference
205-1 Operations assessed for risks MetLife operations globally are regularly assessed for bribery and corruption risk, in accordance with
related to corruption each operation’s bribery and corruption risk profile and local regulatory requirements, while ongoing,
risk-based monitoring and testing activities provide assurance that key anti-corruption controls
effectively mitigate corruption risk.
In 2020, we became the first U.S.-based insurer to join the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC),
the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative, which calls for companies to align their operations
and strategies with Ten Principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-
corruption. Moving forward, we will partner with the UNGC to not only elevate our efforts but also use
the Principles as important guides to prioritize and focus our work.
205-2 Communication and training The MetLife Global Anti-Corruption Policy has been communicated in local languages to MetLife
about anti-corruption policies employees globally. The policy is also available on MetLife’s global intranet sites for employees to
and procedures access. Third parties are also trained on MetLife’s policy through a brochure that is provided to third
parties we engage globally. In 2023, MetLife provided mandatory anti-bribery and anti-corruption
training to employees.
205-3 Confirmed incidents of MetLife cannot disclose this information due to confidentiality restraints.
corruption and actions taken
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior
3-3 Management of material topics Code of Business Ethics
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive MetLife discloses any material legal actions including anti-competitive behavior in its 2023 Form 10-K.
behavior, anti-trust, and
monopoly practices
131
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
GRI Standards Index
GRI Standard Disclosure Response / Reference
GRI 300: Environmental
GRI 302: Energy
3-3 Management of material topics 2023 Sustainability Report >> For the Environment
302-1 Energy consumption within 2023 Sustainability Report >> For the Environment >> Sustainable Offices and Operations
the organization
2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> ESG Scorecard >> Environmental Data
CDP Climate Change Report >> C8 Energy
302-2 Energy consumption outside of 2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> ESG Scorecard >> Environmental Data
the organization
CDP Climate Change Report >> C6 Emissions >> C6.5
302-3 Energy intensity 2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> ESG Scorecard >> Environmental Data
302-4 Reduction of 2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> ESG Scorecard >> Environmental Data
energy consumption
CDP Climate Change Report >> C8 Energy
132
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
GRI Standards Index
GRI Standard Disclosure Response / Reference
GRI 305: Emissions
3-3 Management of material topics 2023 Sustainability Report >> For the Environment
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> ESG Scorecard >> Environmental Data
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) 2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> ESG Scorecard >> Environmental Data
GHG emissions
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) 2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> ESG Scorecard >> Environmental Data
GHG emissions
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> ESG Scorecard >> Environmental Data
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 2023 Sustainability Report >> For the Environment >> Sustainable Offices and Operations
GRI 306: Waste
3-3 Management of material topics 2023 Sustainability Report >> For the Environment
306-1 Waste generation and significant 2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> ESG Scorecard >> Environmental Data
waste-related impacts
306-2 Management of significant 2023 Sustainability Report >> For the Environment
waste-related impacts
306-3 Waste generated 2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> ESG Scorecard >> Environmental Data
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal 2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> ESG Scorecard >> Environmental Data
306-5 Waste directed to disposal 2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> ESG Scorecard >> Environmental Data
133
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
GRI Standards Index
GRI Standard Disclosure Response / Reference
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment
3-3 Management of material topics 2023 Sustainability Report >> For the Environment
308-1 New suppliers that Environmental sustainability questions are part of MetLife’s standard Request for Proposal and Request
were screened using for Information templates and are also included in the Supplier Onboarding Process. Suppliers are also
environmental criteria expected to adhere to MetLife’s Supplier Code of Business Ethics.
308-2 Negative environmental 2023 Sustainability Report >> For the Environment >> Driving Supply Chain Sustainability
impacts in the supply chain
and actions taken
GRI 400: Social
GRI 401: Employment
3-3 Management of material topics 2023 Sustainability Report >> For Our Colleagues
401-1 New employee hires and 2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> ESG Scorecard >> Workforce Data
employee turnover
134
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
GRI Standards Index
GRI Standard Disclosure Response / Reference
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time MetLife provides benefits to U.S. full-time employees, and these plans/programs are generally
employees that are not available to part-time employees working 20 hours per week or more. These benefits include:
provided to temporary or • Medical coverage, including prescription drug and vision coverage
part-time employees • Dental coverage
• Short-term and long-term disability coverage
• Company-paid life insurance
• 401(k) plan
• Cash balance defined benefit retirement plan
• Healthcare and dependent day care flexible spending accounts
• Commuter program
• Back-up child-care, elder-care and college advising program
• Tuition assistance program
• Travel benefits: emergency services, travel accident and international medical coverage
• Opportunity to earn wellness dividend credited toward employee contributions for medical coverage
• Optional employee-paid life insurance (group term life, group variable universal life, dependent life,
voluntary accidental death and dismemberment insurance)
• Legal services plan
• Critical illness insurance
• Accident Insurance
• Paid Parental Leave
• Adoption and surrogacy financial assistance
• Employee assistance program
• Financial wellness program
• Virtual physical therapy, fitness programs, weight loss programs, mindfulness training and condition
management programs
• Personalized caregiver support program
• Educational support program for caregivers of neurodiverse children
• Menopause support program
• Hospital indemnity insurance
• Cybersecurity and identity theft protection
• Expert medical second-opinion service
135
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
GRI Standards Index
GRI Standard Disclosure Response / Reference
401-3 Parental leave 2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> ESG Scorecard >> Employee Benefits
Available for full-time and part-time employees other than variable part-time employees1
GRI 404: Training and Education
3-3 Management of material topics 2023 Sustainability Report >> For Our Colleagues >> Global Diversity, Equity and Inclusion;
Talent and Skill Development
404-1 Average hours of training per 2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> ESG Scorecard >> Workforce Data
year per employee
404-2 Programs for upgrading 2023 Sustainability Report >> For Our Colleagues >> Global Diversity, Equity and Inclusion;
employee skills and transition Talent and Skill Development
assistance programs
404-3 Percentage of employees For data on performance reviews, see 2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> ESG Scorecard >>
receiving regular performance Workforce Data >> 2023 Training Data and Performance Review.
and career development reviews
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
3-3 Management of material topics 2023 Sustainability Report >> For Our Colleagues >> Global Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies 2023 Sustainability Report >> Appendix >> ESG Scorecard >> Workforce Data
and employees
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and MetLife Pay Equity Statement
remuneration of women to men
1. Variable part time (VPT) employees are those who work less than 20 hours per week or 925 hours per year.
136
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
GRI Standards Index
GRI Standard Disclosure Response / Reference
GRI 406: Non-discrimination
3-3 Management of material topics 2023 Sustainability Report >> For Our Colleagues >> Global Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Code of Business Ethics
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and MetLife is strongly committed to equal employment opportunity and to administering all terms,
corrective actions taken conditions and privileges of employment fairly. We have policies prohibiting discrimination,
harassment and retaliation and provide employees with several avenues to submit complaints and
have robust procedures for investigating those complaints and taking appropriate action if warranted.
As a Fortune 50 employer with tens of thousands of employees, MetLife receives complaints from
time to time, which are investigated. If warranted, corrective action is taken.
GRI 415: Public Policy
3-3 Management of material topics 2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Government Relations
415-1 Political contributions MetLife forbids political contributions outside the United States without the express approval of the
Head of Global Government Relations.
We made no political contributions outside the United States in 2023.
Political Activity Report
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling
3-3 Management of material topics 2023 Sustainability Report >> For Our Customers >> Governance
See 2023 Form 10-K.
417-1 Requirements for product and Code of Business Ethics
service information and labeling
Please read our Code of Business Ethics for MetLife’s expectations around treating customers fairly
and communicating clearly.
137
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
GRI Standards Index
GRI Standard Disclosure Response / Reference
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance Material legal proceedings and significant fines, related to this indicator, if any, are disclosed in
concerning product and service 2023 Form 10-K, Note 24.
information and labeling
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance Material legal proceedings and significant fines related to this indicator, if any, are disclosed in
concerning marketing 2023 Form 10-K, Note 24.
communications
GRI 418: Customer Privacy
3-3 Management of material topics 2023 Sustainability Report >> Responsible Governance >> Cybersecurity and Data Privacy
Customer Privacy Policy
418-1 Substantiated complaints MetLife has a longstanding commitment to protect the security, confidentiality and integrity of
concerning breaches of personal information, and to comply with applicable privacy and data protection laws and regulations.
customer privacy and losses To this end, MetLife has a Global Privacy and Data Protection Policy that establishes enterprise-
of customer data wide minimum standards on the collection, use and protection of personal information. Like other
organizations, MetLife occasionally experiences data incidents, which may be described generally
as the unauthorized access, loss, disclosure or misdirection of personal information. Should one of
these incidents occur, MetLife has an incident response team that takes immediate steps to minimize
any impact on the data subject, follow applicable legal requirements, and investigate and correct the
root cause, if needed, to help prevent future incidents. The team includes privacy compliance and
information security professionals, lawyers and associates in our lines of business.
In addition, for disclosure on MetLife’s cybersecurity management, strategy and governance, please
see Item 1C. Cybersecurity of the 2023 Form 10-K.
138
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
ESG Scorecard
MetLife’s primary performance data across sustainability and environmental, social and governance (ESG) indicators.
2023 Financial Data
Total Assets Under Management (Total AUM)1 $ Billions Percentage of Total AUM
Mortgage Loans $ 109.3 18.2%
Public Corporates 106.5 17.7%
Structured Products 64.6 10.8%
Private Corporates 57.3 9.5%
U.S. Government and Agency 52.1 8.7%
Foreign Government 40.4 6.7%
Private Infrastructure 34.4 5.7%
Cash and Short-Term Investments 29.8 5.0%
Real Estate Equity 25.0 4.2%
Common and Preferred Equity 18.1 3.0%
Alternatives 17.1 2.8%
Municipals 14.4 2.4%
Emerging Market Debt 12.2 2.0%
Private Structured Credit 6.2 1.0%
Bank Loans 5.8 1.0%
High Yield 4.8 0.8%
Middle Market Private Capital 2.8 0.5%
Total $ 600.8 100.0%
1. As of December 31, 2023. At estimated fair value. Cash and Short-Term Investments includes cash equivalents. See Explanatory Note.
139
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
ESG Scorecard
Financial Data
MetLife General Account (GA) Responsible Investments1
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
(Estimated Fair Value—$ in millions)
Infrastructure $ 20,300 $ 17,216 $ 19,995 $ 18,732 $ 15,407
Green Investments2 24,624 21,240 20,538 17,703 10,296
Municipal Bonds3 11,171 12,152 14,213 13,722 12,886
Affordable Housing Investments 2,198 1,810 2,455 2,652 2,347
Impact Investments4 256 233 249 206 197
Total $ 58,549 $ 52,651 $ 57,450 $ 53,015 $ 41,133
Annual MetLife GA Responsible Investments1,5 ($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Infrastructure $ 2,083 $ 3,149 2,508 $ 1,936 $ 4,517
Green Investments2 1,997 3,810 3,902 2,579 515
Municipal Bonds3 459 2,260 1,092 2,116 1,731
Affordable Housing Investments 355 277 150 179 263
Impact Investments4 66 24 65 12 13
Total $ 4,960 $ 9,520 $ 7,717 $ 6,821 $ 7,039
1. Responsible Investments are defined as investments that intend to achieve both a market financial return and promote social and/or environmental benefits. Responsible investments at MetLife include infrastructure, green, municipal bonds, affordable housing,
and impact investments. MetLife Investment Management, LLC and certain of its affiliates (MIM) may periodically refine or otherwise modify its definition of responsible investments and the components thereof based on data availability and other factors. Values
represent Responsible investments within MetLife’s GA investment portfolio, managed by MIM. Total MIM-managed responsible investments, including those on behalf of third-party clients, was more than $86 billion as of December 31, 2023. Prior reports
included total MIM-managed responsible investments. The previously reported MIM-managed total responsible investment values (in millions) and percentage difference from the newly reported GA responsible investment values are: i) 2022: $77,338 and 32%
change, ii) 2021: $82,886 and 31% change, iii) 2020: $74,496 and 29% change; and iv) 2019: $58,445 and 30% change.
2. MIM currently defines green investments to include 1) LEED, ENERGY STAR, BREEAM, NGBS, Fitwel-certified real estate equity investments; 2) commercial mortgage loans secured by LEED and/or ENERGY STAR-certified real estate; 3) renewable energy
projects, including wind and solar; 4) energy-saving performance contracts; 5) public and private corporate green bonds and loans; 6) Property Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) residential and commercial loans; and 7) sustainable agricultural loans.
3. Municipal Bonds include bonds or notes issued by or on behalf of US states or territories or their political subdivisions, or agencies or instrumentalities of states or territories, their political subdivisions, or municipal corporations. Includes taxable and tax-exempt
debt securities issued by entities exempt from income taxes under Section 501(c)(3) of the US Internal Revenue Code.
4. Impact investments are investments made with the intention to generate positive, measurable social and environmental impact alongside a financial return (GIIN—Global Impact Investment Network—definition). This activity includes MetLife’s GA and a smaller
volume of MetLife Foundation assets.
5. Represents investments sourced in the year.
140
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
ESG Scorecard
Workforce Data (at December 31, 2023)
Global Workforce Data (#s) Total Female Male
EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT
Regular 42,072 22,106 19,966
Temporary 1,073 664 409
EMPLOYMENT TYPE
Full-time 42,814 22,529 20,285
Part-time 331 241 90
WORKFORCE BREAKDOWN
Employees 43,145 22,770 20,375
WORKFORCE BY REGION
United States/Canada 14,707 9,124 5,583
Latin America 8,265 5,234 3,031
Asia 16,446 6,241 10,205
Europe, the Middle East and Africa 3,727 2,171 1,556
141
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
ESG Scorecard
Workforce Data (at December 31, 2023)
Executive
Diversity Data Sales Non-Sales Board of Directors
Leadership Team
EMPLOYEE AND BOARD DIVERSITY (%)
Gender1
Female 41% 57% 30% 36%
Male 59% 43% 70% 64%
Age1
< 30 Years 11% 14% 0% 0%
30-50 Years 62% 61% 20% 0%
> 50 Years 27% 25% 80% 100%
Ethnicity and Race1,2
White3 82% 63% 87% 71%
Black or African American 5% 14% 13% 21%
Hispanic or Latino 8% 8% 0% 7%
Asian 2% 11% 0% 0%
American Indian or Alaska Native 0% 0% 0% 0%
Not Specified 0% 0% 0% 0%
Two or More Races 2% 2% 0% 0%
Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander 1% 0% 0% 0%
1. Gender, ethnicity/race and age do not include unidentified personnel in our system.
2. U.S. only. Due to rounding, figures may not add up to 100%.
3. Includes those individuals self-identifying their race and ethnicity as Middle Eastern / North African.
142
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
ESG Scorecard
Workforce Data (at December 31, 2023)
Diversity Data U.S. Latin America Asia EMEA
EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY BY REGION1 (%)
Gender1,2
Female 62% 63% 38% 58%
Male 38% 37% 62% 42%
Age1,2
< 30 Years 10% 13% 17% 14%
30-50 Years 54% 70% 61% 70%
> 50 Years 36% 17% 22% 16%
Ethnicity and Race1,2
White 64%
Black or African American 14%
Hispanic or Latino 8%
Asian 11%
American Indian or Alaska Native 0%
Not Specified 0%
Two or More Races 2%
Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander 0%
1. Due to rounding, figures may not add up to 100%.
2. Gender, ethnicity/race and age do not include unidentified personnel in our system.
143
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
ESG Scorecard
Workforce Data (at December 31, 2023)
Diversity Data 2023 2022
GENDER, ETHNIC AND RACIAL DIVERSITY
Global Female Management1 % 43.0% 42.3%
Global Female Nonmanagement2 % 54.4% 54.3%
U.S. Ethnically and Racially Diverse Management1 % 27.5% 26.6%
U.S. Ethnically and Racially Diverse Nonmanagement2 % 37.6% 36.4%
Gender Diversity for Officers3 (VP+)—Global 30.4% 29.4%
Ethnic and Racial Diversity for Officers3 (VP+)—U.S. 27.2% 26.1%
2023 Training Data and Performance Review
Employee Training and Performance Reviews Female Male
AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR4 (# OF HOURS)
Non-sales 14 16
Sales 10 7
EMPLOYEES RECEIVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE REVIEWS5 (% OF EMPLOYEES)
Non-sales 100% 100%
Sales 100% 100%
1. Management population is defined as any active employee who has at least one direct report.
2. Nonmanagement population is defined as any active employee who does not have any direct reports.
3. The Officer population is a subset of overall management that is a reflection of the leadership of the organization. It includes all MetLife employees at the Vice President level or above.
4. Employee training figures include only training activity captured in our Learning Management System, including skill-based training and compliance training. Data includes training courses taken online (virtual courses) and instructor-led courses.
5. Performance review figures reflect only employees who were in scope and active during the year-end assessment process and had ratings entered into the company’s ePerformance system. Performance feedback may be discussed separately from the online
system. Data does not include non-standard grades (local grades and most sales grades), employees with gender data not provided, employees on extended leave or employees hired/re-hired on/after October 1, 2023.
144
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
ESG Scorecard
2023 New Hires and Terminations Data
New Hires1,2 Female Male
TOTAL BY AGE GROUP (# OF HIRES) 5,192 3,823
< 30 Years 1,540 1,427
30-50 Years 3,151 2,110
> 50 Years 501 286
PERCENTAGE BY AGE GROUP (% OF HIRES) 58% 42%
< 30 Years 30% 37%
30-50 Years 61% 55%
> 50 Years 10% 8%
2023
U.S. ETHNIC AND RACIAL DIVERSITY3 (% OF HIRES)
Female 53%
Male 52%
Total 53%
1. Gender, ethnicity/race and age metrics do not include employees who have not self-identified or with missing data.
2. Employee hires (new employees who joined MetLife from outside of the company) and terminations (active employees who have left MetLife) exclude impacts due to acquisitions and divestitures, as applicable.
3. U.S. Ethnic and Racial Diversity is the percentage of employees in the United States who identify as American Indian or Alaskan Native, Asian, Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, and Two or More Races.
145
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
ESG Scorecard
2023 New Hires and Terminations Data
Terminations1,2 Female Male
TOTAL BY AGE GROUP (# OF TERMINATIONS) 4,954 3,924
< 30 Years 1,088 1,045
30-50 Years 3,134 2,258
> 50 Years 732 621
PERCENTAGE BY AGE GROUP (% OF TERMINATIONS) 56% 44%
< 30 Years 22% 27%
30-50 Years 63% 57%
> 50 Years 15% 16%
2023
U.S. ETHNIC AND RACIAL DIVERSITY3 (% OF TERMINATIONS)
Female 49%
Male 41%
Total 46%
1. Gender, ethnicity/race and age metrics do not include employees who have not self-identified or with missing data.
2. Employee hires (new employees who joined MetLife from outside of the company) and terminations (active employees who have left MetLife) exclude impacts due to acquisitions and divestitures, as applicable.
3. U.S. Ethnic and Racial Diversity is the percentage of employees in the United States who identify as American Indian or Alaskan Native, Asian, Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, and Two or More Races.
146
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
ESG Scorecard
Employee Benefits
Paid Parental Leave Benefits 8 weeks for “primary caregivers”; 2 weeks for “non-primary caregivers”; additional 6–8 weeks short-term
disability leave provided for childbirth and recovery
• Primary Caregiver is an individual who has the primary responsibility (more than 50%), during normal work
hours over the course of parental leave, for the immediate care and welfare of the newborn child or child
placed in the employee’s home for adoption.
• N on-Primary Caregiver is an individual who does not have primary responsibility, during normal work
hours over the course of parental leave, for the care and welfare of the newborn child or child placed in the
employee’s home for adoption.
Full-time and part-time employees who are scheduled to work a minimum of 20 hours a week, have at least one
year of continuous employment, and any of the following relationships are eligible for paid parental leave (PPL):
• Biological parent of a newborn child;
• A relationship to the birth parent or adopting parent through marriage, domestic partnership or civil union
at the time the employee requests PPL; or
• A dopting parent of an unmarried child up to age eighteen (18), or a child incapable of self-care up to
age twenty-one (21).
Employee Satisfaction
2023 2022 2021 2020
Percentage of Employees Participating in Annual MyVoice Survey 85% 85% 83% 84%
Percentage of Employees Indicating a Favorable Response to “How happy are you working at MetLife?" 82% 78% 78% 78%
147
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
ESG Scorecard
Environmental Data1
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (metric tons CO2e)2 2023 2019
Scope 1 Emissions 11,853 18,342
Scope 2 (location-based) Emissions 40,657 68,122
Scope 3 Emissions (global business travel)3 20,084 44,276
Total Operational Emissions: Scope 1 & 2 (location) and business travel3 72,594 130,740
Carbon Neutrality (metric tons CO2e)4 2023 2019
Scope 2 (market-based) Emissions2 7,687 30,776
Total Operational Emissions: Scope 1 & 2 (market) and business travel3 39,624 93,394
Carbon Offsets 39,624 79,834
Other Metrics 2023 2019
Global Property (million sq. ft.)5 11.0 13.4
MetLife Occupiable Area (million sq. ft.)5 9.3 11.0
Emissions Intensity (metric tons CO2e per sq. ft.) 0.006 0.008
Energy (MWh) 2023 2019
Total Energy (includes electricity, fuel oil, natural gas and fleet gasoline) 162,112 231,928
Total Electricity Consumption 115,461 169,928
Electricity Consumption from Renewable Sources 99,749 164,048
Energy Intensity (MWh per sq. ft.) 0.017 0.021
1. Historical energy, GHG emissions and square footage data was updated to account for structural changes, methodology enhancements and corrections in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Electricity consumption from renewable sources and carbon
offsets reflect the totals at the time of original reporting. The previously reported 2019 amounts and the percentage change to the revised 2019 amounts were: i) Scope 1 Emissions: 19,684 and 7% decrease, ii) Scope 2 (location-based) Emissions: 87,026 and 22%
decrease, iii) Scope 3 Emissions (global business travel): 25,183 and 76% increase, iv) Total Operational Emissions (Scope 1+2 and business travel): 131,893 and 1% decrease; v) Global Property (million sq. ft.): 14.6 and 8% decrease; vi) MetLife Occupiable Area
(million sq. ft.): 12.2 and 10% decrease; vii) Emissions Intensity (metric tons CO2e per sq. ft.): 0.009 and 11% decrease; viii) Total Energy (includes electricity, fuel oil, natural gas and fleet gasoline): 246,788 and 6% decrease; ix) Total Electricity Consumption: 180,213
and 6% decrease; and x) Energy Intensity (MWh per sq. ft.): 0.020 and 5% increase.
2. The inventory of GHG emissions from Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 business travel in 2023 for MetLife has been verified by Quantis according to ISO 14064-3. Please see the full statement for more information.
3. Converted to Global Business Travel, extrapolated historically where necessary due to limited data.
4. MetLife’s carbon neutrality efforts apply to global owned and leased offices, global vehicle fleets (Scope 1 and 2 emissions) and employee business travel (Scope 3 Category 6).
5. Property figures represent the year-end square footage of our real estate portfolio.
148
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
ESG Scorecard
Environmental Data
Green and Healthy Buildings1 2023
EPA ENERGY STAR (no. labeled buildings) 28
EPA ENERGY STAR (million sq. ft.) 2.7
LEED (no. certified buildings) 36
LEED (million sq. ft.) 3.6
Fitwel Buildings (no. certified buildings) 4
Fitwel Buildings (million sq. ft.) 1.1
Other Green Buildings (no. certified buildings) 7
Other Green Buildings (million sq. ft.) 0.2
Waste (lbs.)2 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Total Waste Generated 3,417,408 3,222,142 2,548,451 3,467,779 5,103,348
Total Waste to Landfill 1,682,658 1,478,615 1,033,121 1,339,314 2,182,607
Total Waste Recycled 1,734,750 1,743,527 1,515,331 2,128,466 2,920,740
Waste Diversion (% recycled) 51% 54% 59% 61% 57%
Enterprise-wide Food Donations to Local Communities (diversion from landfill) 7,176 3,320 78 451 2,092
Enterprise-wide E-waste 165,669 163,983 108,218 89,732 36,944
Water (kgals)3 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Total Water Consumption 37,612 34,547 28,153 38,087 54,288
Water Intensity (kgals per sq. ft.) 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01
1. MetLife occupied buildings. Does not include MIM managed or MetLife GA investment assets.
2. Due to metrics availability, waste diversion includes the following offices: Aurora, Bridgewater, Convent Station, Dayton, New York, Oriskany, Scranton, Tampa, Troy, Warwick and Whippany. Total weight recycled, reused and resold for sites listed above, and
enterprise-wide includes other sites (where data is available).
3. Due to metrics availability, water data includes the following offices: Aurora, Bridgewater, Convent Station, Cary, Cleveland, Dayton, New York, Oriskany, Scranton, Tampa, Troy, Warwick and Whippany.
149
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
ESG Scorecard
Environmental Data
2023 Scope 1 Emissions (Metric Tons CO2e)
GHG Type Fuel Oil/Gen Diesel Natural Gas Transport Fuel
CO2
Domestic 23 3,298 374
International 349 1,799 3,654
Total 372 5,097 4,028
CH4
Domestic 0.026 1.740 0.134
International 0.393 0.949 5.412
Total 0.419 2.689 5.546
N2O
Domestic 0.048 1.647 0.347
International 0.725 0.898 26.805
Total 0.773 2.545 27.152
2023 Energy Consumption by Type (MWh) 2023
Electricity 115,461
Fuel (fuel oil, natural gas, transport fuel, district heat and cooling) 46,651
Total Energy Consumption 162,112
150
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
ESG Scorecard
Community Data
MetLife Foundation Grants ($ in millions) 2023
Economic Inclusion $ 9.42
Financial Health $ 17.75
Resilient Communities $ 8.16
Employee Engagement $ 2.07
Total $ 37.40
MetLife Contributions by Source ($ in millions) 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
MetLife Foundation $ 37.40 $ 37.92 $ 30.34 $ 39.50 $ 39.94
Mexico and Korea Foundations 0.93 0.82 1.43 4.15 2.02
Corporate 2.12 2.03 2.03 2.86 3.37
Total $ 40.45 $ 40.77 $ 33.80 $ 46.51 $ 45.33
2023 Employee Volunteering Volunteers Acts Total Hours
VOLUNTEERING BY REGION
United States/Canada 15,498 50,986
Latin America 5,837 24,435
Asia 19,343 54,130
EMEA 2,742 14,583
Total 43,420 144,135
151
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
ESG Scorecard
Supply Chain Management
2023 2022 2021 2020
Total Diverse Business Partner Spend ($ in millions) $ 180 $ 192 $ 188 $ 203
Percentage of Suppliers Covered by a Supply Chain Code of Conduct1 100% 100% 100% 100%
Privacy Protection/Information Security
Number of Complaints Concerning Breaches of Customer Privacy Received from Outside MetLife has a longstanding commitment to protect the security, confidentiality
Parties and Substantiated by MetLife and integrity of personal information, and to comply with applicable privacy
and data protection laws and regulations. To this end, MetLife has a Global
Privacy and Data Protection Policy that establishes enterprise-wide minimum
standards on the collection, use and protection of personal information. Like
other organizations, MetLife occasionally experiences security breaches,
which may be described generally as the unauthorized access, loss, disclosure
or misdirection of personal information. Should one of these incidents occur,
MetLife has an incident response team that takes immediate steps to minimize
any impact on the data subject, follow applicable legal requirements, and
investigate and correct the root cause, if needed, to help prevent future
incidents. The team includes privacy and security professionals, lawyers and
associates in our lines of business.
For additional disclosure on MetLife’s cybersecurity management, strategy and
governance, please see Item 1C. Cybersecurity of the 2023 Form 10-K.
Risk Management
20232 20223 2021 2020
Percent of Employees Participating in Code of Business Ethics Training 99% 98% 98% 99%
1. MetLife’s Supplier Code of Business Conduct was published in 2020 and is available on the external MetLife Global Procurement website. The code refers to any third party and its personnel, including subcontractors providing goods, services and/or deliverables
to MetLife. MetLife does not require suppliers to perform attestation.
2. Data includes completions as of February 1, 2024 for courses assigned on or after Sunday, January 1, 2023, and before Monday, January 1, 2024.
3. Data includes completions as of March 13, 2023 for courses assigned on or after Saturday, January 1, 2022, and before Sunday, January 1, 2023.
152
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Sustainability Products and Services
Since 1868, MetLife has helped generations of people build a more confident future. Around the world, MetLife companies offer life, accident and health insurance,
retirement and savings products and other financial wellness solutions that help families (including pets), businesses and communities not just survive, but thrive. This
chart showcases examples of MetLife products and services that incorporate considerations for environmental and social issues, such as planning for natural disasters or
obtaining equal access to financial services, to help address our customers’ diverse and evolving needs and help create greater certainty in an uncertain world.
ESG Category Product Name Product/Service Description Sustainability Issue Markets
Social PlanSmart® A multi-channel experience that focuses on behavioral change, with tools Financial wellness U.S.
and guidance that empower customers’ employees to build financial
literacy confidence and well-being.
Social Met99 Flexible life insurance product designed to make financial planning Financial wellness Mexico
more accessible to low- and moderate-income government employees.
Customers can choose the protection they need from more than
20 benefits and can bring life and different kinds of protection for the
policyholder and their economic dependents within the same policy.
Social 360Health Helps customers with solutions that address their mental, physical, Financial wellness; Health Australia,
financial and social health, through a comprehensive focus on key aspects and well-being Bangladesh,
of managing critical illnesses to improve customers’ “healthspan.” China, Korea,
Nepal, UAE
Social 360Future Helps customers prepare early for retirement and supports them as they Financial wellness; Health China, Korea
age, with retirement savings, insurance, health and wealth services. and well-being
Social Simplified Issue New simplified issue version to complement existing Medical Care Financial wellness; Health Korea
Medical Care suite, which targets seniors and those who are rejected from standard and well-being
full underwriting. It is a 10- to 20-year renewable small ticket-size base
policy with accidental death benefit with multiple optional riders covering
diagnosis of various diseases, hospitalization surgery and treatment.
153
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Sustainability Products and Services
ESG Category Product Name Product/Service Description Sustainability Issue Markets
Social PNB MetLife Genius Plan Non-par savings plan that provides guaranteed benefits and allows Financial wellness India
customers to create a customized pay-out structure, helping parents pay
for education while balancing their financial protection needs.
Social My Child Education Upgraded education protection insurance with more comprehensive Financial wellness Bangladesh; Nepal
Protection Plan protection elements. The education insurance plan for parents in
Bangladesh and Nepal was created to prevent children’s education being
hampered by financial hardship.
Social Women’s Protect Designed for women and covers certain conditions related to female Health and well-being; Gulf Region
and Intuition health, including cancer treatments. Women’s Protect also offers Diversity, equity and inclusion
discounts on a variety of health and wellness benefits. Women who buy
this product will receive 15% to 50% off dental, optical and nutritional
services, as well as discounts on gyms and spa facilities.
Social Several products Customers can opt to pay their insurance premiums in monthly Financial wellness Italy
installments, without being charged with additional fees and/or costs. This
allows low- and moderate-income consumers to access insurance.
Social Life Insurance and Partner with local financial institution Serfinanza and specialized agents Financial wellness; Health and Colombia
Accident & Health to bring insurance to customers who would traditionally have trouble well-being; Diversity, equity
Insurance products accessing products. and inclusion
Social Rural Term Insurance Consists of a series of base products and optional riders covering major Financial wellness China
and minor critical illness benefit, extra benefit for cancer, waiver of
premium after critical illness, health management services and maturity/
death benefit. Customers can customize their health protection package
according to individual needs. The solution can also be upgraded over
time, making it more affordable for younger customers and allowing them
to enhance their protection as their income grows.
154
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Sustainability Products and Services
ESG Category Product Name Product/Service Description Sustainability Issue Markets
Social Mini Accident Insurance Covers death and fractures caused by accidents for one year with a small Financial wellness Korea
premium of around US$4.25/year. We introduced Smart and Easy MetLife
Mobile, an online platform that offers a simple purchase experience for six
Mini Insurance products.
Social Life Invest Yen-denominated variable insurance that provides protection and Financial wellness; Japan
asset-building functions at a reasonable monthly premium. One of its Health and well-being
objectives is to help seniors extend their health and wealth spans to live
well after retirement.
Social Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Partnered with India Post Payments Bank to launch the government- Financial wellness India
Jyoti Bima Yojana promoted, low-cost insurance. The product provides access to
low-income and underserved customers—especially those in remote
areas—by providing protection and financial security.
Social Dental Insurance Dental coverage for low- and moderate-income consumers offered Health and well-being Brazil
through an arrangement with the Itaú Unibanco bank and Inter Bank.
Social Dental Insurance One of the largest national preferred provider organization dental Health and well-being U.S.
networks featuring:
• Enhanced benefits and outreach for higher-risk populations (e.g., people
with diabetes or hypertension);
• Health data connected to products, utilizing an employer’s self-funded
medical data to tailor MetLife dental benefit offerings to strengthen the
oral health/overall health connection; and
• SpotLite on Oral HealthSM program identifies participating network
dentists whose practice patterns and cost profile indicate a focus on
disease prevention which results in improved oral health at lower costs
across the insured population.
155
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Sustainability Products and Services
ESG Category Product Name Product/Service Description Sustainability Issue Markets
Social Pension Fund Pension fund administration company, Chile ProVida, provides our Financial wellness; Chile
pension platform and has a number of resources to support our Diversity, equity and inclusion
customers. The company offers financial inclusion programs aimed at
women, giving them tools to contribute to their pensions and grow at
work. And a blog called “Tus Ahorros En Simple” (Your Savings In Simple
Terms) provides helpful information in simple, understandable terms.
Social LifeCare Beautiful Designed for women, against diagnosis of nine listed female-specific Health and wellness; Nepal
diseases that include breast and cervical cancer, along with loss of life. Diversity, equity and inclusion
Breast and cervical cancer are the two most common cancers affecting
women in Nepal.
Social For Women Critical illness for women, including coverage for certain conditions Health and wellness; Czech Republic;
related to female health, such as assisted reproduction, death through Diversity, equity and inclusion Slovakia
childbirth, pregnancy complications and congenital malformations
of newborns.
Social & Unit-linked Under a unit-linked insurance plan, policyholders make regular premium Financial wellness; Bulgaria,
Environmental Insurance Products payments for insurance coverage and as an investment. The plan then Climate change Czech Republic,
offers a combination of insurance and investment payouts. A unit-linked Hungary, India,
insurance plan can be used, for example, to provide life insurance, build Latin America,
wealth, generate retirement income and pay for education. In certain Slovakia, and U.S.
markets, MetLife has onboarded environmental, social and governance
(ESG)-focused funds as an option for customers.
Social MetaLife Mujer Universal Life product focused on savings and protection with tangible Financial wellness; Health and Mexico
benefits such as special assistance for issues affecting women. well-being; Diversity, equity
and inclusion
156
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Sustainability Products and Services
ESG Category Product Name Product/Service Description Sustainability Issue Markets
Social Vida Pension 57 Mujer Provides protection (against death or disability) for women up to the Financial wellness; Health and Colombia
age of 57 and also allows them to accumulate capital to supplement their well-being; Diversity, equity,
retirement (pension gap). and inclusion
Social Pet Insurance Plans for dogs and cats help reimburse customers for unexpected vet Financial wellness U.S.
bills. We provide insurance for pets of all ages—even seniors—and
customers can customize their deductible and reimbursement rates so
they work best for their pets’ needs and their budget.
157
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Forward-Looking Statements
This report may contain or incorporate by reference These factors include: (14) investment sales or lending difficulties;
information that includes or is based upon forward-
(1) economic condition difficulties, including risks (15) collateral or derivative-related payments;
looking statements within the meaning of the Private
relating to interest rates, credit spreads, declining
(16) investment valuations, allowances or
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
equity or debt markets, real estate, obligors and
impairments changes;
counterparties, government default, currency
Forward-looking statements give expectations or
(17) claims or other results that differ from our estimates,
exchange rates, derivatives, climate change, public
forecasts of future events and do not relate strictly to
assumptions or models;
health and terrorism and security;
historical or current facts. They use words and terms
(18) global political, legal or operational risks;
such as “anticipate,” “are confident,” “assume,” “believe,” (2) global capital and credit market adversity;
“continue,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “if,” “intend,” (19) business competition;
(3) credit facility inaccessibility;
“likely,” “may,” “plan,” “potential,” “project,” “should,” “will,”
(20) technological changes;
(4) financial strength or credit ratings downgrades;
“would” and other words and terms of similar meaning
(21) catastrophes;
or that are otherwise tied to future periods or future (5) unavailability, unaffordability, or inadequate
performance, in each case in all derivative forms. They reinsurance, including reinsurance risks that arise (22) climate changes or responses to it;
include statements relating to future actions, prospective from reinsurers’ credit risk, and the potential shortfall
(23) deficiencies in our closed block;
services or products, future performance or results of or failure of risk mitigants to protect against
current and anticipated services or products, future sales such risks; (24) goodwill or other asset impairment, or deferred
efforts, future expenses, the outcome of contingencies income tax asset allowance;
(6) statutory life insurance reserve financing costs or
such as legal proceedings, and future trends in (25) impairment of value of business acquired, value
limited market capacity;
operations and financial results. Many factors determine of distribution agreements acquired or value of
(7) legal, regulatory, and supervisory and enforcement
company results, and they involve unpredictable risks customer relationships acquired;
policy changes;
and uncertainties.
(26) product guarantee volatility, costs and
(8) changes in tax rates, tax laws or interpretations;
Our forward-looking statements depend on our counterparty risks;
(9) litigation and regulatory investigations;
assumptions, our expectations, and our understanding (27) risk management failures;
of the economic environment, but they may be (10) unsuccessful efforts to meet all environmental,
(28) insufficient protection from operational risks;
inaccurate and may change. We do not guarantee any social and governance standards or to enhance
future performance. Our results could differ materially our sustainability; (29) failure to protect confidentiality and integrity of data
from those we express or imply in forward-looking or other cybersecurity or disaster recovery failures;
(11) MetLife, Inc.’s inability to pay dividends and
statements. The risks, uncertainties and other factors (30) accounting standards changes;
repurchase common stock;
identified in MetLife, Inc.’s filings with the U.S. Securities
(31) excessive risk-taking;
and Exchange Commission (SEC), and others, may cause (12) MetLife, Inc.’s subsidiaries’ inability to pay
such differences. dividends to MetLife, Inc.; (32) marketing and distribution difficulties;
(13) investment defaults, downgrades or volatility;
158
Sustainability For Our For Our Creating Value For the For Our Responsible
Appendix
at MetLife Colleagues Customers as an Investor Environment Communities Governance
Forward-Looking Statements
(33) pension and other postretirement benefit assumption changes; MetLife, Inc. does not undertake any obligation to publicly correct or update any
forward-looking statement if MetLife, Inc. later becomes aware that such statement
(34) inability to protect our intellectual property or avoid infringement claims;
is not likely to be achieved.
(35) acquisition, integration, growth, disposition or reorganization difficulties;
Please consult any further disclosures MetLife, Inc. makes on related subjects in
(36) Brighthouse Financial, Inc. separation risks;
subsequent reports to the SEC. Additional information about MetLife’s General
(37) MetLife, Inc.’s Board of Directors influence over the outcome of stockholder
Account investment portfolio is available in MetLife, Inc.’s quarterly financial
votes through the voting provisions of the MetLife Policyholder Trust; and
materials, which may be accessed through MetLife’s Investor Relations web page
(38) legal- and corporate governance-related effects on business combinations. at https://investor.metlife.com.
Explanatory Note
The following information is relevant to an understanding of our assets under Classification of GA AUM by sector is based on the nature and characteristics of the
management (AUM) managed by MetLife Investment Management, LLC and certain underlying investments, which can vary from how they are classified under generally
of its affiliates (MIM). MIM is MetLife, Inc.’s institutional investment management accepted accounting principles. Accordingly, the underlying investments within certain
business. Our definitions may differ from those used by other companies. For additional real estate and real estate joint ventures that are primarily net commercial mortgage
information regarding MIM’s Total AUM and GA AUM respectively, please see our loans (at net asset value, net of deduction for encumbering debt) have been reclassified
Investment Fact Sheets. to exclude them from real estate equity and include them as net commercial
mortgage loans.
Total Assets Under Management (Total AUM) Total AUM is comprised of GA AUM
plus Institutional Client AUM (each, as defined below). Institutional Client AUM is comprised of SA AUM plus TP AUM (each, as defined
below). MIM manages Institutional Client AUM in accordance with client guidelines
General Account AUM (GA AUM) is used by MetLife to describe assets in its general
contained in each investment advisory agreement (Mandates).
account (GA) investment portfolio. GA AUM is stated at estimated fair value and
is comprised of GA total investments, the portion of the GA investment portfolio Separate Account AUM (SA AUM) is comprised of separate account investment
classified within assets held-for-sale, and cash and cash equivalents, excluding policy portfolios of MetLife insurance companies, which are managed by MIM and included in
loans, contract holder-directed equity securities, fair value option securities, mortgage MetLife, Inc.’s consolidated financial statements at estimated fair value.
loans originated for third parties and certain other invested assets. Mortgage loans,
Third-Party AUM (TP AUM) is comprised of non-proprietary assets managed by
net of mortgage loans originated for third parties (net mortgage loans), including
MIM on behalf of unaffiliated/third-party clients, which are stated at estimated
commercial (net commercial mortgage loans), agricultural (net agricultural mortgage
fair value. Such non-proprietary assets are owned by unaffiliated/third-party
loans) and residential mortgage loans) and real estate equity (including real estate and
clients and, accordingly, are generally not included in MetLife, Inc.’s consolidated
real estate joint ventures) included in GA AUM (at net asset value, net of deduction
financial statements.
for encumbering debt) have been adjusted from carrying value to estimated fair value.
159
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
200 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10166
L0624041262[exp0625][All States][DC,GU,MP,PR,VI]
© 2024 MetLife Services and Solutions, LLC
metlife.com/sustainability
