2023 ESG Report
TABLE OF CONTENTS 3 4 3
From Our CEO Climate
43 Climate Strategy
4 45 Our Climate Ambitions
45 Mobilize Capital Toward
Low-Carbon and Green Solutions
Introduction 45 Strive Toward Our Financed
Emissions Targets
4 Our Business
47 Maintain Carbon Neutral Operations
5 About This Report
48 C limate-Related Engagements
6 Our Approach to ESG
50 Climate Risk Management
7 2023 ESG Highlights
54 C limate Metrics and Targets
54 Financed Emissions
8
58 Operational Emissions
59 Looking Ahead
Sustainable Finance
6 0
8 Sustainable Finance Target
11 Institutional Securities
15 Wealth Management Governance and
20 Investment Management Risk Management
24 Community Development Finance
60 ESG Governance
26 Inclusive Ventures Lab
62 Stakeholder Engagement
27 Institute for Sustainable Investing
63 Governance and Business Ethics
64 Risk Management
2 8
6 7
Human Capital
28 Introduction Appendices
29 Building Our Workforce
67 2023 ESG Data
30 Investing in Our Workforce
72 2023 EEO-1 Data
33 Developing Our Workforce
73 S ASB Index
34 Workforce Diversity Data
79 T CFD Index
38 Supporting Our Communities
80 Approach to Transition Index
40 Institute for Inclusion
82 Financed Emissions Methodology
84 O perational Emissions Methodology
86 Workforce Diversity Data Methodology
88 H R Awards and Recognition
89 I ndependent Accountant’s
Review Report
92 D isclaimers
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
From Our CEO
2023 was marked by geopolitical tensions, higher and Morgan Stanley remains steadfast in its engagement
uncertain rate paths, and tighter credit conditions. to improve our communities. Our commitment to
This resulted in subdued activity at both the corporate doing so is highlighted through the more than
and investor level. Despite this challenging backdrop, 60,000 Morgan Stanley employees who spent over
Morgan Stanley delivered solid financial results 295,000 hours volunteering during our 2023 Global
and demonstrated continued capital and liquidity Volunteer Month. As part of the Morgan Stanley
strength. We remained focused on delivering durable Equity in Education and Career Consortium, which
results for our clients as we continued to invest in our helps provide scholarships, internships, and career
workforce and communities. readiness support to students from underserved
populations, Morgan Stanley has provided 45 fully
Morgan Stanley is committed to helping our clients
funded scholarships to Historically Black College and
achieve their various sustainability objectives,
University students. This number will grow to 60 fully
including the evolving considerations related to
funded scholarships in 2024. The Morgan Stanley
climate. Consistent with this standard, Morgan Stanley
Alliance for Children’s Mental Health, which I
has mobilized over $820 billion for sustainable
have the honor to Chair, is working to alleviate
solutions since 2018, putting us on track to meet our
the challenges of stress, anxiety, and depression
target of $1 trillion by 2030. We continue to work
facing our youth by providing funding and advice to
with our clients across sectors to help them navigate
nonprofit organizations. Thanks to an extraordinary
the complex sustainability issues they face with
Advisory Board and committed Morgan Stanley
thoughtful advice and innovative solutions.
professionals, these efforts are creating opportunity
Maintaining a first-class workforce is paramount to and effectuating lasting change for those involved.
Morgan Stanley’s ability to support clients. We strive
Morgan Stanley takes an integrated approach
to be inclusive across backgrounds, identities, and
to creating sustainable value for our clients, and I am proud of our continued progress. We are
perspectives, and to ensure all employees feel a
shareholders, communities, and employees. We focused on maintaining this momentum moving
sincere sense of belonging. We are most effective
do so by leveraging the expertise, networks, and forward. Our culture and core values to Do the Right
when Morgan Stanley is representative of our clients
resources from our 80,000 employees across Thing, Put Clients First, Lead with Exceptional Ideas,
and the communities in which we work, and we are
42 countries. These efforts and the associated Commit to Diversity and Inclusion, and Give Back
investing in our people and culture accordingly.
results for 2023 are detailed in this report, will be our guide as we progress.
We continue to work with our clients across sectors to help
them navigate the complex sustainability issues they face with TED PICK
Chief Executive Officer, Morgan Stanley
thoughtful advice and innovative solutions.
September 2024
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 3
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
O ur Business
Morgan Stanley is a leading global financial services firm, employing approximately 80,000 people, with offices in 42 countries.1
We maintain significant market positions in our three business segments—Institutional Securities, Wealth Management and
Investment Management. Our business activities and stakeholder relationships are guided by our core values: Do the Right Thing,
Put Clients First, Lead with Exceptional Ideas, Commit to Diversity and Inclusion, and Give Back.
INSTITUTIONAL SECURITIES WEALTH MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT
Institutional Securities provides a variety of products Wealth Management provides a comprehensive array Investment Management provides a broad range of
and services to corporations, governments, financial of financial services and solutions to individual investors investment strategies and products that span geographies,
institutions and ultra high net worth clients. Investment and small to medium-sized businesses and institutions asset classes, and public and private markets to a diverse
Banking services consist of capital raising and financial covering: Financial Advisor-led brokerage, custody, group of clients across institutional and intermediary
advisory services, including the underwriting of debt, administrative and investment advisory services; self- channels. Strategies and products, which are offered
equity securities and other products, as well as advice directed brokerage services; financial and wealth planning through a variety of investment vehicles, include equity,
on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings and project services; workplace services, including stock plan fixed income, alternatives and solutions, and liquidity
finance. Our Equity and Fixed Income businesses administration; securities-based lending, residential real and overlay services. Institutional clients include
include sales, financing, prime brokerage, market- estate loans and other lending products; banking; and defined benefit/defined contribution plans, foundations,
making, Asia wealth management services and certain retirement plan services. endowments, government entities, sovereign wealth
business-related investments. Lending activities include funds, insurance companies, third-party fund sponsors
originating corporate loans and commercial real estate and corporations. Individual clients are generally served
loans, providing secured lending facilities, and extending through intermediaries, including affiliated and non-
securities-based and other financing to customers. affiliated distributors.
Other activities include research.
Financial Performance
(Net Revenue, USD millions)
2021 2022 2023
$6,220 $5,375 $5,370
$29,833 $24,393 $23,060
$59,755 $53,668 $54,143
$24,243 $24,417 $26,268
Institutional Securities Wealth Management Investment Management Firmwide2
For more information, please see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2023 (2023 Form 10-K).
1 The data included in this report is as of December 31, 2023 unless otherwise stated.
2 Firmwide totals are inclusive of intersegment eliminations not represented in the table.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 4
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
About This Report3
The Morgan Stanley ESG Report provides an annual overview of the firm’s approach to and performance on environmental,
social and governance (ESG) topics.
This report’s data, content and narrative are informed The Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (GFANZ) The content included in this report covers activities
by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board transition planning guidance for financial institutions. during calendar year 2023 unless otherwise stated.
(SASB) standards for Investment Banking and
We are committed to transparency in our disclosure For more information on our ESG-related activities,
Brokerage, Asset Management and Custody Activities,
of ESG information. Our ESG Disclosure Committee, please visit our website to download complementary
and Commercial Banking. The climate section is
composed of senior leaders from across the firm, disclosures:
informed by the recommendations of the Task Force
provides input on, reviews and approves this report.
on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).4 • Morgan Stanley Sustainability Reports and Insights
This report’s appendices on SASB and TCFD map In this report, Morgan Stanley uses the terms “ESG”
• Morgan Stanley Diversity and Inclusion
certain Morgan Stanley disclosures related to these and “sustainability” interchangeably. Throughout this
frameworks’ indicators and recommendations. report, we also refer to both targets and goals, and • Morgan Stanley Investor Relations
Both frameworks are now a part of the International the attainment of these objectives may be impacted
• Morgan Stanley Corporate Governance
Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) under the by external factors that cannot be predicted at this
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) time, including geopolitical, macroeconomic and • Sustainability at Morgan Stanley Investment
Foundation. Morgan Stanley is a member of the IFRS market conditions; future legislation and regulations; Management
Sustainability Alliance and is monitoring the standards and the attainment of targets and goals by our clients.
• Morgan Stanley Wealth Management Investing
being developed by the ISSB. We have also included These external factors could impact our ability to
with Impact
an Approach to Transition index that maps the attain our targets and goals. For more information,
content in this report to the recommendations of please refer to the Disclaimers section.
3 T hroughout this report, we present metrics and statements, some of which are not subject to independent third-party limited assurance. Management’s assertion in the Appendix includes a complete listing of metrics
that were independently reviewed by a third party. See the Independent Accountant’s Review Report.
4 A lthough the disclosures in this report may be considered significant or material based on disclosure recommendations and broader definitions of “materiality” used by certain voluntary frameworks and reporting
guidelines or those in non-U.S. jurisdictions, this should not be read as equating to materiality as that concept is used in Morgan Stanley’s periodic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Please refer to the Disclaimers section of the report for more information.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 5
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Our Approach to ESG
At Morgan Stanley, our sustainability strategy is focused on helping our clients
achieve their own sustainability-related ambitions by providing advice, products
and solutions.
In 2021, Morgan Stanley set a goal to mobilize Key to our human capital strategy is our approach
$1 trillion for sustainable solutions by 2030, including to diversity, equity and inclusion, which focuses on
$750 billion toward low-carbon and green solutions. three tenets:
We have made significant progress, having now
• Our People: Create equitable opportunities
achieved over $820 billion. Morgan Stanley’s
for talent to thrive and power growth through
three business segments—Institutional Securities,
intentional investments to attract and advance a Furthermore, climate change is interconnected to the
Wealth Management and Investment Management—
diverse workforce underpinned by a culture of themes of biodiversity and natural capital, which have
contribute to our sustainable finance target and
inclusion and belonging. become more in focus in recent years. In addition
also offer a broader range of sustainability-related
to supporting our clients with commercial solutions
products and solutions to our clients. • Our Communities: Support underserved
(as described in the Sustainable Finance section), we
communities with philanthropy that drives social
Our ability to deliver an integrated firm allows us manage biodiversity and nature-related risks at the
justice and promotes racial/gender equity with a
to capture new opportunities that aim to bring firm level (see our Environmental and Social Policy
focus on educational attainment, the racial wealth
positive long-term results not only to our clients and Statement (ESPS). Throughout 2023, we engaged
gap, and health and wellness.
shareholders, but to the environment and society our clients and stakeholders on these topics through
at large. In order to do this, we need to ensure • Our Clients: Partner with clients to drive stronger thought leadership, client events and a collaboration
that relevant ESG topics are incorporated into our outcomes for underserved communities through with the Natural Capital Project at Stanford University
corporate policies, business activities and operations. our commercial practices, products, services, to develop a new, open-source ecosystem services
spending and thought leadership. foot-printing tool.
There are various ESG topics that are important to
the firm, with human capital, climate change and Climate Change: Climate change is one of the key Governance and Risk Management: Strong
governance being the three themes on which we global challenges of our time, and we can play an governance and risk management is critical to
primarily focus for the purposes of this report. important role in helping to mobilize the trillions the long-term success and sustainability of the
of dollars in capital required to transition to a low- firm and helps create trust among our clients and
Human Capital: Our human capital efforts are rooted
carbon economy. We also continue to work toward stakeholders. The Board of Directors (the “Board”)
in our core values and are structured to enhance the
our 2030 interim financed emissions targets, with has overall oversight of sustainability matters, with
employee and workplace experience. In doing so, we
the goal of reaching net-zero financed emissions by regular updates provided to the Board’s Governance
aim to ensure that we are supporting our teams to
2050. By working with our clients on their climate and Sustainability Committee. Our ESPS provides
best deliver strategic advice, solutions and services
transition plans, we can help achieve real-world a framework for evaluating potential transactions
to our clients. By focusing on the needs of our
decarbonization. Additionally, we continue to make to help ensure we are appropriately assessing
people and investing in employee development, the
our own operations more sustainable by reducing our environmental and social risks. We continue to
firm is able to attract and retain a high-performing
emissions, using renewable energy and buying offsets develop our ESPS, and this year, have incorporated
successful workforce, representative of the
for our operational emissions, and by incorporating additional considerations relating to methane
communities in which we live and work.
the physical and transition risks of climate into the abatement, human rights and a just climate transition.
firm’s risk management and governance processes.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 6
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
2023 ESG Highlights5
CLIMATE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE
CLIMATE GOALS WORKFORCE REPRESENTATION 7 SUSTAINABLE FINANCE TARGET
$820
Bn+
in capital mobilized toward our goal of $1Tn
40% 8%
by 2030, including $640Bn+ in low-carbon
Maintained carbon neutral status6 and
and green solutions
100% renewable electricity throughout 2023
of our global employees of our U.S. employees INSTITUTIONAL SECURITIES
are women are Black
$97
Bn+
ESG-labeled debt8 transactions in 2023*
Aiming to achieve net-zero financed emissions 9% 15%
by 2050 with 2030 interim sector targets for
our most carbon-intensive sectors in our INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT
corporate lending portfolio (compared to
the 2019 base year): $50
Bn+
of our U.S. employees of our U.S. employees
Auto Manufacturing • Energy • Power are Hispanic are Asian
in AUM with Sustainability Features*9
WEALTH MANAGEMENT
~$77
5 Unless stated otherwise, data on this page is as of December 31, 2023. Bn
This information was subject to Deloitte & Touche LLP’s review. See the Independent Accountant’s Review Report.
* All or a portion of the assets represented by this metric have been counted toward the firm’s Sustainable Finance Target.
in client assets invested on our
6 Please see the Maintain Carbon Neutral Operations section of this report for more information.
Investing with Impact Platform (IIP)*
7 Morgan Stanley’s definitions for Officers and racial/ethnic groups are outlined in Appendix 8: Workforce Diversity Data Methodology.
8 Debt instruments that seek to achieve certain environmental and/or social criteria, such as Green, Social, Sustainability,
and Sustainability-linked instruments.
9 This AUM figure includes funds and mandates with at least one of the following sustainability features: 1. impact objectives,
2. sustainability theme objectives, 3. tilts based on sustainability factors, 4. low-carbon or net-zero commitments.
Parametric Portfolio Associates LLC AUM is not currently included in this figure.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 7
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Sustainable S ustainable Finance Target
Across our businesses we continue to make progress toward mobilizing $1 trillion
Finance
in sustainable finance by 2030:
Morgan Stanley’s three business TO DATE BY 2030
$640Bn+ in low-carbon and green solutions
segments aim to support our clients’ $1
$820 Bn+ Tn
sustainability-related priorities by
driving innovation across global
capital markets and the financial
services industry. We strive to be our
clients’ financial services partner Progress toward our 2030 $1 trillion sustainable units and relevant committees across the firm in order
of choice for innovative solutions finance target and $750 billion low-carbon and to remain aligned with our firm ESG priorities as well
green subset is guided by our Sustainable Finance as changes in our business activities and products.
and advisory services designed to
Framework (the “Framework”). The Framework is In addition, the underlying data is subject to internal
deliver both competitive financial
maintained by the Global Sustainability Office (GSO), review and verification. Business segments, units and
returns as well as environmental which considers the United Nations Sustainable programs contributing to the target include Investment
or social benefits. Development Goals (U.N. SDGs) and industry Banking, Global Capital Markets, Public Finance,
frameworks and standards, such as the International Securitized Products Group, Commodities, Investment
Capital Markets Association’s (ICMA) Green and Social Management, Wealth Management, Community
Bond Principles, when evaluating the Framework Development Finance, the Inclusive Ventures Lab
on an annual basis to help ensure alignment with and the Morgan Stanley Sustainable Solutions
evolving industry best practices. The Framework is Collaborative. Eligible themes and products under the
further informed by input from contributing business Framework are shown on the next two pages.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 8
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Sustainable Finance Framework: Eligible Themes and Activities
TARGET CATEGORIES THEMES ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES
Renewables • Green/Pink Hydrogen • Biofuels • Battery Storage
Clean Energy and/or Grid Flexibility • Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage
Technology • Waste-to-Energy • Nuclear Energy
Electric Vehicles • Low-Carbon Transportation,
Clean Mobility
Transportation Technologies or Infrastructure • Mass Transit
Green Buildings • Energy Efficient Infrastructure and Retrofits •
Low-Carbon
Energy and Operational Efficiency Low-Carbon Materials (Green Steel, Green Cement, etc.) •
and Green Operational Process Efficiency
Solutions
Carbon Sequestration and Offsets • Carbon Removal Technologies
Carbon Reduction and Removal and Solutions • Other technologies and projects with direct GHG
($750 billion subset)
emissions reductions
Development and maintenance of infrastructure, ecosystems and/
Climate Adaptation or information systems that respond to climate change impacts
(existing and potential)
Sustainable Food and Farming • Water and Wastewater Management
Sustainable Other Environmental Solutions and Efficiency • Sustainable Natural Assets and Biodiversity • Circular
Economy • Pollution Prevention and Control, including plastic waste
Finance Target
($1 trillion) Affordable Housing Affordable Housing
Water, Sewage and Sanitation • Transportation Access •
Basic Infrastructure Affordable Clean Energy Access • Telecommunications Access •
Public Spaces • Humanitarian and Disaster Response
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Advancement of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Social
Education and Training Education • Child Care • Vocational Training
Access to Financial Services (individuals and small businesses) •
Financial and Economic Inclusion
Job Creation
Access to Preventive, Medical and Mental Health Care •
Health and Wellness
Access to Food and Nutrition • Elder Care • Safety Technologies
Note: Eligible transactions and investments will have passed all firm policies and procedures.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 9
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Unless otherwise noted, eligible transactions and Collaborative. Eligible investments may also include However, we reflect the firm’s commitment amounts
direct investments may be either ESG-labeled strategies incorporating certain sustainable or impact for term-loan and revolver-lending facilities, and
(i.e., having designated use of proceeds or key investing criteria. Only products from Morgan Stanley do not include transactions where Morgan Stanley
performance indicators aligned with eligible themes), and the firm’s consolidated subsidiaries are in scope. served as a co-manager for our Global Capital
entity-based (i.e., transactions without a designated Markets and Public Finance businesses. For all eligible
In calculating cumulative progress toward our goal,
use of proceeds, but that support a client entity that investment strategies distributed or managed, we
we reflect the full transaction value for eligible
has at least 90% of revenue or a primary product or reflect client assets or assets under management
financing, facilitation and advisory activities, as
service aligned with eligible themes) or specifically by Morgan Stanley as of December 31, 2023, which
opposed to the proportional value attributable to
eligible under certain programs such as the U.S. include changes due to asset flows and market
Morgan Stanley in most instances, in order to remain
Community Reinvestment Act and Morgan Stanley’s performance during the calendar year.10
consistent with the approach taken since we set
own Inclusive Ventures Lab and Sustainable Solutions
our initial low-carbon financing target in 2018.
CATEGORY IN-SCOPE PRODUCTS
Term Loans and Revolvers (new issuance only)
Financing
Tax Equity
Equity Capital Markets
Private Placements
Facilitation Debt Capital Markets (including Bonds & Comm. Paper)
Munis & Securitized Products (ESG-labeled only)
Syndicated Lending
Advisory Sell-side and buy-side M&A
Renewable power hedges & offtake agreements (e.g., PPAs and VPPAs)
Commodities
Transactions to enable retiring of verified, voluntary carbon offsets or credits across physical products
Direct investments
Investments (managed, distributed or held)
Investment funds
Morgan Stanley Sustainable Solutions Collaborative grants
Select Grants
CRA-eligible donations and grants
10 C urrently we do not include client assets at E*Trade and the Corporate Retirement Business or assets under management by Parametric Portfolio Associates LLC.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 10
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Institutional Securities
Institutional Securities uses the scale and speed of capital markets to support clients, including those that seek to drive
environmental and social benefits. Our commercial teams work collaboratively to design and provide financial solutions, including
those that enable our clients to meet their sustainability objectives. Our teams aim to contribute to Morgan Stanley’s long-standing
sustainable finance expertise, positioning the firm as an integrated investment bank that delivers superior innovative solutions
for our clients.
SUSTAINABILITY IN NUMBERS
Morgan Stanley was involved in the first corporate
green bond issuance in 2013, and has been active
in sustainable capital markets ever since.
In 2023, we supported:
$97Bn+
in ESG-labeled debt transactions*
* All or a portion of the assets represented by this metric have been counted toward the firm’s Sustainable Finance Target.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 11
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
2023 Sustainable Finance Transaction Highlights
€1.9Bn $750MM ~€1.55Bn
Joint global coordinator for renewable electricity A manager of Maersk’s $750 million green bond. The Sole financial advisor to JERA, Japan’s largest power
producer Hidroelectrica’s €1.9 billion IPO. net proceeds from the offering will be used to finance generator, through its subsidiary JERA Green, to
or refinance green assets such as clean transportation acquire 100% of Parkwind for ~€1.55 billion equity
$1.2Bn and green buildings. Maersk is a global integrator of value. Parkwind, an established European offshore
container logistics. wind developer, owner and operator, headquartered in
Belgium, will provide JERA with a significant platform
Joint placement agent for Northvolt on the $1.2 billion €1.5Bn upon which it will grow its renewables business
extension of the $1.1 billion convertible note issued globally, particularly in offshore wind.
in 2022. Northvolt is a Western battery producer
and is developing one of the world’s most innovative Advisor for H2Green Steel in securing a total of $349MM
batteries, through vertical integration, recycling and €1.5 billion in equity financing. Morgan Stanley
battery production, with 100% renewable power. advised H2 Green Steel on both the Series B1 and B2
rounds. H2Green Steel produces green steel, reducing Lead manager for the Battery Park City Authority
$576MM CO 2 emissions by up to 95% compared to traditional (BPCA) to finance projects to address sustainability
steelmaking. and resiliency goals. The financing for BPCA provided
for resiliency improvements, pile and seawall
Sole structuring agent and active bookrunner for €1Bn remediation, community center waterproofing,
telecommunications company Allo’s $576 million and upgrades and restoration to a park house and
inaugural sustainability labeled securitization playground.
issuance. Joint lead manager on the Republic of Cyprus’
inaugural €1 billion sustainable bond. The proceeds ~$200MM
$500MM will be used to finance or refinance projects and
activities that promote sustainability, combating
climate change and other environmental and social Co-lead manager for ~$200 million tax-exempt
Joint bookrunner and billing and delivery agent on purposes, as defined in Cyprus’ Sustainable Finance sustainability bonds issued by Freddie Mac,
Aegea’s $500 million sustainable and sustainability- Framework. a government-sponsored enterprise that supports
linked bond. The dual use of proceeds and key the U.S. housing finance system and helps ensure
performance indicator structure is linked to the a reliable and affordable supply of mortgage funds
achievement of social and environmental goals. across the country.
Aegea is the leading private provider of basic
sanitation services in Brazil.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 12
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Investment Banking and The role entails assisting investment-grade debt biodiversity-related data, providing intelligence for
issuers to assemble a team that incorporates diverse- the firm from both a risk management and revenue
Global Capital Markets
led broker-dealers within the syndicate, and serving opportunity perspective. In addition, the following
as a liaison during the book-building, pricing and teams within FID have an ESG focus:
Since 2020, our ESG Center of Excellence (the
allocations processes.
“Center”) has coordinated and driven our expanding • The Securitized Products Group works with global
client-focused sustainability activities across Global In 2023, the Morgan Stanley Global Capital Markets alternative investment managers to integrate ESG data
Capital Markets and Investment Banking. The Center team served as D&I coordinator for 16 investment- and climate risk considerations into their investment
convenes senior leaders from Investment Banking, grade bond transactions for several high-profile framework for the management of collateralized loan
Fixed Income Capital Markets, Equity Capital Markets, global brands, such as BP and Meta, leading to deal obligation transactions. Work in this area continued
Leveraged Finance, Structured Solutions and allocations to diverse-led broker-dealers in significant in 2023.
Municipal Finance, and has enabled us to accelerate debt offerings. In 2023, the team expanded this role
• The Commodities team makes markets, and structures
our leadership in ESG capital raising and advisory. to other activities, serving as the first D&I coordinator
bespoke environmental solutions to meet the needs of
on a liability management transaction exercise.
In 2023, our Investment Banking Division established its institutional and corporate clients. Morgan Stanley
the Energy Transition team to coordinate our is an active participant in the purchase and sale of
commercial activities that relate to climate transition Equities and Fixed Income carbon allowances, carbon credits, renewable energy
across our banking sector coverage teams globally, certificates and other environmental commodities
and with other relevant parts of the firm. Energy Our Institutional Equity Division (IED) continues to on behalf of our clients and the firm, as appropriate.
transition is a growing focus of our corporate and provide our asset manager, asset owner and corporate In 2023, the Commodities team structured hedging
investor clients, shareholders and regulators. While clients with customized sustainability solutions. The transactions and offtake agreements involving more
estimates vary, many forecasts anticipate $3 trillion suite of offerings includes thematic and stock-specific than 5.7 million MWhs of renewable energy, including
to $5 trillion per year11 will be necessary to enable ideas, events focused on sustainability themes, capital sources of power generated by wind, solar and
the clean energy transition and achieve the ambitions raises for fund launches, hedging solutions, thematic hydroelectric facilities.*
set out in the Paris Agreement. baskets and more. These products aim to help clients
• Morgan Stanley’s Public Finance Group has been a
identify and assess investment ideas that touch on
In 2023, Investment Banking and Global Capital leader in the labeled ESG U.S. municipal and not-for-
sustainability and climate themes. As one example,
Markets hosted the third annual climate-focused profit bond market for over a decade. In underwriting
in 2023, IED collaborated with the firm’s Sustainable
Spark Sustainability Conference. The conference senior managed green, social and sustainability
Insights Lab and Quantitative Investment Strategies
continues to be a key opportunity for private market bonds, we help bring environmental and social
Group to provide asset owner clients with customized
clients to feature solutions focused on climate benefits to communities. In 2023, our Public Finance
solutions for investing in the low-carbon transition.
transition and decarbonization. Group served as underwriter across thematic areas,
Separately, in 2023, we helped a large pension client
including affordable housing, renewable energy,
reallocate a portion of its equity exposure to include
Supporting Broker Dealers With climate resiliency and educational facilities. As part
climate transition metrics, in addition to traditional
Diverse Ownership of this process, we worked with municipal issuers to
factor exposure optimization.
enhance disclosure on green, social and sustainability
Morgan Stanley has acted as D&I coordinator for Morgan Stanley’s Fixed Income Division (FID) continues bond transactions, in line with the ICMA Principles and
48 transactions totaling more than $170 billion in to expand its ESG capabilities and solutions. For example, Guidelines. We also led affordable housing financings
investment-grade debt offerings since 2021. it partnered with the GSO to leverage geospatial in California, Illinois, Iowa, Maryland, Massachusetts,
datasets to assess climate risks, physical risks and New York, Rhode Island and Vermont.
11 T he Global Financial Markets Association (GFMA) and Boston Consulting Group (BCG), https://www.sifma.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/Climate-Finance-Markets-and-the-Real-Economy.pdf
* All or a portion of the assets represented by this metric have been counted toward the firm’s Sustainable Finance Target.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 13
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Research
Morgan Stanley Research supports sustainable
investing by conducting research across equities
and fixed income. Our Global Sustainability Research
team leads this work, in collaboration with our
strategists, economists and analysts, providing
actionable information to clients in many areas.
In 2023 Sustainability Research deliverables
included:
• Collaboration with stakeholders across Global
Research to publish on key areas of investor focus
such as energy transition, climate adaptation,
food, nature and biodiversity, governance, the
ESG data landscape, and quantitative investment
strategies.
• Publication of updates related to our proprietary
ESG Rate of Change framework, including
monitoring progress and status of a group of
stocks across Americas, Europe and Asia that we
believe are well positioned to create ESG impact
while providing significant return potential.
• Publication of global primers on carbon, carbon • Creation of our proprietary social framework and • Expansion of our Sustainable Solutions Interactive
offsets and key decarbonization technologies deep dives on social topics, including education, tool to include estimates on sustainable revenue
to help investors understand the rapidly changing artificial intelligence and obesity, to identify and capex.
landscape of both mandatory and voluntary underappreciated risks and opportunities.
• Engagement with external experts on a number
carbon markets.
• Analysis of the ESG-labeled bond market, to help of sustainability topics, providing investors with
• Assessment of the interconnected impacts of investors understand issuance and pricing trends, opportunities to have meaningful discussions with
climate change, helping investors understand how new structures, and potential implications on credit. leading experts on power transmission, artificial
the physical risk of climate change impacts the intelligence, data centers, regulation, biodiversity
• Analysis of regulatory developments, with timely
reinsurance market and infrastructure. and decarbonization technologies.
analysis and forward-looking expectations.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 14
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Wealth Management
For over a decade, Morgan Stanley Wealth Management’s Investing with Impact Platform (IIP) has provided clients with
innovative products and solutions tailored to their unique values, circumstances and goals. Now with nearly $77 billion in client
assets, the IIP allows our Wealth Management clients to align portfolios of any size and level of complexity with their unique
sustainability preferences.
SUSTAINABILITY IN NUMBERS
~ $77Bn
in client assets invested on the IIP across
360+ investment products*
> 336,000
clients served by the IIP12
~ $53Bn
in client assets with a Morgan Stanley Impact
Quotient® (Morgan Stanley IQ®) profile
* All or a portion of the assets represented by this metric have been counted toward the firm’s Sustainable Finance Target.
12 Investment Products on the IIP platform are deemed high-quality strategies by Morgan Stanley’s Global Investment Manager Analysis team and are available to all Morgan Stanley Wealth Management clients.
This AUM includes all investments in products on the IIP platform irrespective of the client’s investment rationale.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 15
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Our Three I’s of Impact Investing Model
INTENTIONALITY
Intentional investment process that seeks to generate market-rate returns alongside positive social and environmental impact in one or more of the following ways:
MINIMIZE OBJECTIONABLE IMPACT GENERATE TARGETED IMPACT
Restriction Screening ESG Integration Thematic Solutions
Reduce or seek to eliminate exposure to Consider environmental, social and governance Evaluate companies on revenue generated
companies that detract from intended factors in the investment process from products & services that seek to
positive impacts contribute to sustainability solutions
INFLUENCE INCLUSION
Modify the behavior of portfolio companies to seek better social and Diverse perspectives can help guide the intentional investment process
environmental outcomes and drive industry capabilities through: and engagement activities, or influence, through:
Active Ownership can be achieved through management dialogue, Diverse Firm Ownership13
strategy setting, proxy voting, resolution filing and filling board seats
and/or
Market Building seeks to influence the industry through collaborative
Diverse Representation Across Investment Professionals
affiliations and adopting global frameworks
Investing with Impact to seek to generate market-rate financial returns and applications, including Morgan Stanley IQ®.
alongside positive social and environmental benefits All 360+ Investing with Impact strategies, including
Framework
while supporting active ownership, market building separately managed accounts, mutual funds,
and diversity in our sector. exchange-traded funds and private market strategies,
Our Investing with Impact Framework guides
align with one or more of our Three I’s of Impact
our approach to sustainable investing for wealth The Investing with Impact Framework informs our
(see above).
management clients. It leverages the Three I’s of due diligence and manager selection process, as well
Impact—Intentionality, Influence and Inclusion— as how we construct portfolios and associated tools
13 M organ Stanley’s Global Investment Manager Analysis team defines diverse asset managers as those with 33% or greater ownership by women and/or racially/ethnically diverse individuals. The categories that make
up the racially/ethnically diverse individuals as defined by Morgan Stanley align with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission categories and includes: Hispanic or Latino, Black or African American, Asian,
American Indian or Alaska Native, or Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 16
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Investing with In 2023, client assets on the IIP totaled nearly management in a single unified managed account. As
$77 billion across 360+ financial products covering the sustainable investing field expands, we continue
Impact Platform
a wide variety of asset classes such as off-the-shelf to onboard solutions across asset classes and impact
and custom equity solutions, ETFs, mutual funds, themes, with a focus on impact alternatives and
In 2012, Morgan Stanley was the first major financial
separately managed accounts, alternative investments products from diverse-owned managers.
institution to launch a wealth management platform
and green, blue, social and sustainability-linked
dedicated to sustainable and impact investing. Since The IIP team continues to strengthen the platform’s
bonds. These offerings span a variety of sustainability
the launch of the IIP, Morgan Stanley has aimed to governance through processes such as the Investing
themes such as climate action, gender lens, racial
provide clients with innovative and holistic solutions with Impact Investment Committee, which provides
equity, faith-based approaches and more. IIP includes
to align their investments with their values. Today, centralized oversight for approving strategies on
Morgan Stanley Portfolio Solutions, which capture
the IIP has achieved widespread adoption across our the platform and maintaining communication across
the firm’s proprietary approach to asset allocation,
Wealth Management Financial Advisors. key teams.
manager selection, portfolio construction and risk
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 17
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Morgan Stanley Impact
Quotient®
MEASURING PORTFOLIO IMPACT POWERED BY
MORGAN STANLEY IQ® ANALYTICS
Morgan Stanley IQ® is an award-winning14 and
patented15 application that empowers clients to
The new impact reporting capabilities launched These new impact reporting capabilities
assess their portfolios’ alignment to their unique
in 2023 are for our Investing with Impact Portfolio contributed to Morgan Stanley winning the 2023
impact goals. The proprietary application harnesses
Solutions suite, which includes both Impact and Money Management Institute/Barron’s Industry
insights from multiple third-party data providers
Diversity Portfolios (the “Portfolios”). The Portfolios Award for Sustainable and ESG Investing16 and the
as well as our own analytics to provide clients,
pursue competitive risk-adjusted returns alongside 2024 Euromoney Global Private Banking Award
with a comprehensive menu of metrics, including
positive impact by leveraging Morgan Stanley’s for North America’s Best for Sustainability.17
nine impact themes and more than 100 social and
guidance around asset allocation, manager
environmental impact metrics.
selection and portfolio construction. The Portfolios
In 2023, we expanded Morgan Stanley IQ® draw on the full Investing with Impact product
capabilities by launching detailed impact reporting menu, address a range of environmental and
for the Investing with Impact Portfolio Solutions suite social themes, and are available to Morgan Stanley
leveraging the tool’s analytics. Morgan Stanley IQ® Wealth Management clients. These Portfolios were
analytics also power our Impact Signal quantitative originally launched in 2014, and we have worked
manager scoring tool, which is used by Financial to enhance them ever since.
Advisors to quantitatively assess investment
The new reporting capabilities powered by
strategies on the strength of their environmental
Morgan Stanley IQ® analytics provide clients
and social impact, and help to support portfolio
with transparency around portfolio impact by
construction decisions for clients.
illustrating:
• Activation to the Morgan Stanley’s Three I’s
of Impact
• Alignment with relevant impact solutions and
sustainable corporate practices
• Exposure to relevant issues of concern
• Alignment with the U.N. SDGs
14 Best private bank, ESG technology, North America, 2021 PWM Wealth Tech Awards, https://pwmwealthtechawards.com
15 U.S. Pat. No. 11,188,983
16 Money Management Institute, https://www.mminst.org/insight/money-management-institute-announces-winners-2023-mmibarrons-industry-awards
17 E uromoney, https://www.euromoney.com/article/2cu7f72p1rtk0ey5cq5ts/awards/private-banking-awards/north-americas-best-for-sustainability-morgan-stanley
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 18
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Wealth Management Themes • Firm Discretionary Portfolio Solutions
(Diversity Portfolios): Dedicated portfolios that
Investing with Impact has three main thematic pillars: leverage ESG criteria to advance D&I through
climate action, diversity & inclusion, and faith. products and solutions that support diverse
communities, such as investing in low-income
Climate Action housing and inclusive corporate practices, and
in companies with leading diversity records. In
Our Climate Action Investing Toolkit helps our Financial
addition, asset managers promote D&I issues
Advisors navigate the broad range of available climate
with portfolio companies, and work to advance
action investing strategies, and engage with their
diverse portfolio management in the industry. The
clients on the risks and opportunities of climate action
Diversity Portfolios include a charitable donation
investing. Leveraging Morgan Stanley IQ®, clients can
component based on assets raised, and, in 2023,
define a set of climate action goals and work with
Morgan Stanley Wealth Management announced
their Financial Advisors to incorporate investment
a total donation of $150,000 to organizations
products based on their unique objectives. As of year-
advancing D&I through this vehicle.18
end 2023, over 45% of our IIP strategies are either
low-carbon or align with environmental themes from • Innovative tools and analytics: Resources to Equipping Financial Advisors
Morgan Stanley Impact Quotient® like climate action, help Financial Advisors tailor investment advice
circular economy and conservation & biodiversity. to clients’ unique D&I goals, such as DEI Signal, The growth and success of the IIP are due to
our proprietary manager scoring tool that helps the quality of our people. The IIP team supports
Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) identify industry leaders in making their firms our Financial Advisors to better serve clients in
more diverse. pursuing their financial and impact objectives.
Diversity & Inclusion is a priority for Morgan Stanley Resources include an online curriculum, thematic
(see the Human Capital section of this report for more Our work on D&I initiatives, including the Diversity implementation guides and regular updates on
details). In Wealth Management, we partner with Portfolios, contributed to Morgan Stanley’s sustainable investing trends.
achievement of the Euromoney award for Best
clients to support their D&I goals and mobilize capital
Private Bank for ESG investing in North America.19 To further encourage excellence and leadership
to advance D&I across dimensions, including race,
among these colleagues, we provide an Investing
ethnicity and gender.
with Impact Director designation for impact-focused
Faith
Our wide-ranging efforts to advance D&I include: practitioners. To achieve this distinction, practitioners
In addition to our previously launched Catholic and must pass an exam and demonstrate a track record
• Robust menu of D&I investment options: 146
Jewish values primers, in 2023, we launched a in utilizing IIP products and solutions with clients, and
products on our IIP intentionally address D&I themes
Christian values guide that builds on Morgan Stanley must also meet continuing-education requirements.
or are from diverse-owned asset management firms,
Wealth Management’s long history of helping clients In 2023, we hosted our 11th annual cohort gathering,
30 of which were added in 2023. In addition, clients
align their investment and philanthropic portfolios which consisted of in-person and virtual events
can add screens to their existing portfolios to minimize
with their values. Faith-based investing includes the spread throughout the year to educate Impact
their exposure to D&I-related issues of concern.
management of investments as an extension of faith Directors on a variety of topics.
and as a complement to other activities such as
philanthropy.
18 D onation amount based on assets raised, funded by Morgan Stanley Wealth Management, and are not derived from fund assets. Nonprofit organizations will be vetted by a committee designated by
Morgan Stanley Philanthropy Management.
19 E uromoney, https://www.euromoney.com/article/2cu7f72p1rtk0ey5cq5ts/awards/private-banking-awards/north-americas-best-for-sustainability-morgan-stanley
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 19
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Investment Management
Morgan Stanley Investment Management (MSIM) provides broad-based specialization across a range of asset classes in
public and private markets worldwide to meet a wide range of client preferences, including relevant sustainability preferences.20
Our investment solutions include a range of active and customized strategies, alternatives and sustainability expertise.
MSIM’s investment teams are responsible for
SUSTAINABILITY IN NUMBERS
developing individual approaches to sustainable
investing as appropriate for each product or solution.
We believe that ESG factors can present investment
$50Bn+
opportunities and risks. Understanding and managing
these factors may therefore contribute to both
risk mitigation and long-term investment returns.
in AUM with Sustainability Features21*
Engagement and stewardship are a key part of this
understanding, where investment teams seek to
engage with the assets or companies they own, to
deliver long-term value and align with our objective
of ESG-related risks and opportunities as appropriate
to be responsible stewards of our clients’ capital.
for each investment strategy.
MSIM is characterized by our global reach, experience
We aim to create a culture that fosters independent
and reputation for providing customized high-quality
thought and innovation across our diverse investment
solutions to clients. We have a decentralized
approaches. This is demonstrated by our investment
approach to investment management, consisting of
offerings that range across geographies, investment
independent public- and private-markets investment
styles, asset classes and approaches to sustainability.
teams and asset class platforms. Our approach
allows investment teams to tailor their sustainability In 2023, MSIM continued to aim to deliver long-term
strategies using multiple factors, including, but not value for our clients in three main areas: 1) Deliver
limited to, the objectives of the product, asset class Global Depth and Breadth in Sustainable Investing
and investment time horizon, as well as the specific Expertise; 2) Offer Clients a Spectrum of Flexible
research and portfolio construction, philosophy and and Innovative Sustainable Investing Solutions;
process used by each team. Investment teams deploy and 3) Maintain High Standards of Governance and
their skill and judgment in assessing the materiality Stewardship.
20 M SIM refers to the investment management business segment of Morgan Stanley. MSIM is composed of a number of wholly owned subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley. Certain subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley in its investment
management business, including, but not limited to, Calvert Research and Management and Parametric Portfolio Associates LLC, may differ in their approach to sustainable investing. Accordingly, the discussion of
sustainable investing described herein may not be applicable to each Morgan Stanley affiliate or investment team. Further, some investment strategies may not consider ESG factors where it is not currently feasible or
appropriate to do so, e.g., passive investment strategies, certain asset allocation strategies or where requested by clients.
21 This AUM figure includes funds and mandates with at least one of the following sustainability features: 1. impact objectives, 2. sustainability theme objectives, 3. tilts based on sustainability factors, 4. low-carbon or
net-zero commitments. Parametric Portfolio Associates LLC AUM is not currently included in this figure.
* All or a portion of the assets represented by this metric have been counted toward the firm’s Sustainable Finance Target.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 20
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Deliver Global Depth and Breadth
in Sustainable Investing Expertise
Within certain MSIM investment teams, there are
designated sustainability specialists or individuals
responsible for particular aspects of sustainability.
These efforts are supported by the central MSIM
Sustainability team and other resources, as
discussed in our Sustainable Investing Policy.
Our investment teams assess material ESG risks
and opportunities in investment decision-making
processes, as appropriate, and according to
investment teams’ particular investment strategies.
Incorporation of such ESG risks and opportunities
may occur at various stages of the investment life
cycle, including due diligence and research, valuation,
asset selection, portfolio construction, and ongoing
engagement and investment monitoring. NEW PLATFORM SUPPORTS CLIMATE CHANGE MSIM’S GLOBAL LIQUIDITY SOLUTIONS—
MITIGATION IMPACT CLASS SHARES
Our investment teams seek to leverage their
1GT is a climate private equity platform focused on Launched in 2022, MSIM’s Impact Class Shares
assessment of ESG risks and opportunities, along with
investments in private growth-stage companies that are available in certain MSIM money market
other relevant information, in a way that is aligned
seek to collectively avoid or remove one gigaton of funds that enable interested clients to support
with the specific investment philosophy, asset class
carbon dioxide-equivalent emissions from the Earth’s community development while achieving their cash
and time horizon of a given strategy or product.
atmosphere from the date of investment through management objectives through MSIM’s partnership
2050. 1GT seeks to deliver attractive financial returns with the Opportunity Finance Network (OFN). The
Offer Clients a Spectrum of alongside its substantial climate goal by backing OFN is a leading national network of more than
Flexible and Innovative Sustainable companies across the hard-to-abate mobility, power, 400 community development financial institutions
sustainable food and agriculture, and circular- that facilitates lending and investment in markets
Investing Solutions
economy sectors. underserved by mainstream finance. MSIM will make
We aim to provide clients with sustainable investing a contribution from our own resources after the
In 2023, the platform co-led Series B funding for
solutions across asset classes in actively and passively end of each calendar year to select OFN charitable
Everstream, a supply chain and logistics software
managed vehicles that seek alignment with their return initiatives in an amount of at least 0.02% of the net
company that provides insights and risk analytics to
objectives, alongside their sustainability preferences, annualized AUM in each Impact Class. In March 2023,
customers, with the aim of creating a smarter, more
where relevant. Over $50 billion of our AUM22* has we made an inaugural contribution of $250,000 to
autonomous and sustainable global supply chain
at least one of the following sustainability features OFN’s Finance Justice Fund to support affordable
while reducing emissions for leading global brands.
promoted: 1) impact objective(s); 2) sustainability theme housing and other causes to help build vibrant
objectives; 3) tilts, based on sustainability factors; For more information on 1GT and its portfolio, visit communities.
and/or 4) low carbon or net-zero commitments. our website here.
22 Parametric Portfolio Associates LLC is currently not included in this figure.
* All or a portion of the assets represented by this metric have been counted toward the firm’s Sustainable Finance Target.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 21
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Governance and Stewardship sustainability-related processes and governance, activities ranging from meetings and discussions on a
and works with the sustainability leads from our particular issue to multiyear engagements on a range
Effective management of stewardship and
investment teams to coordinate global sustainable of topics specific to the company or asset. These
sustainability issues is an important component of
investing and stewardship initiatives. MSIM’s stewardship activities give us the opportunity to help
our business approach, which requires committed
Global Stewardship function, a part of the MSIM guide companies in which we invest toward better
leadership, strategic focus and appropriate checks
Sustainability team, helps investment teams ESG practices, which we believe may contribute to
and balances to enable overall accountability and
coordinate MSIM proxy voting and investee producing attractive long-term returns for our clients.
transparency. To that end, we have established
engagement activities.
governance systems, risk management and controls
Formalizing MSIM’s Fifth Engagement Theme:
to support and advance sustainable investing and
STEWARDSHIP Natural Capital and Biodiversity
stewardship across our business activities.
As active investors and active owners, MSIM has a In 2023, MSIM added Natural Capital and Biodiversity
duty to be a good steward of our clients’ capital. We as our fifth engagement theme, as shown on the next
GOVERNANCE
fulfill this duty by seeking to engage with selected page. This addition formalizes existing engagement
We believe effective management of sustainability
companies in which we invest, and by exercising our efforts and aligns overall themes to the process
issues is fundamental to the long-term success of
proxy voting and other rights as shareholders. Our laid out in the MSIM Engagement and Stewardship
our organization and our ability to deliver value
investment teams endeavor to engage in constructive Principles, and our MSIM Proxy Voting Policy, which
for our clients. We have governance systems, risk
dialogue with companies, which may encompass also addresses biodiversity.
management processes and controls that seek to
support the incorporation of relevant sustainability
considerations within our business activities.
The Sustainable Investing Policy was updated in 2023
to reflect our enhanced sustainability governance
structure, includes updated EU regulatory-related
disclosures, and introduces MSIM’s fifth engagement
theme, Natural Capital and Biodiversity. For more
information, download the Sustainable Investing
Policy here.
Sustainability governance within MSIM is led by
the MSIM ESG Committee and MSIM’s central
Sustainability team. The MSIM ESG Committee
oversees and guides MSIM’s support for the
sustainable investment strategies of each investment
business. Sustainability leads from our investment
teams work to help encourage incorporation of ESG
factors where relevant, in line with each team’s
investment philosophy and strategy. Led by
MSIM’s Global Head of Sustainability, the MSIM
Sustainability team supports MSIM’s collective
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 22
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
MSIM Engagement Themes23
DECARBONIZATION & DIVERSE & INCLUSIVE NATURAL CAPITAL & CIRCULAR ECONOMY & DECENT WORK &
CLIMATE RISK BUSINESS BIODIVERSITY WASTE REDUCTION RESILIENT JOBS
Supporting the transition to a Supporting business practices Supporting business models Supporting business models Supporting decent work
low-carbon economy in line that create a more just and that reduce negative impact that reduce impact on natural across the entire value chain
with Paris Agreement goals inclusive society on biodiversity in line with resources and that innovate to and making workforces
• Renewable energy and • Affordable access to the Post-2020 Biodiversity reduce waste generation, resilient in the face
clean tech essential services Framework with a focus on plastic waste of innovation and change
• E nergy efficiency • Investing in communities • Sustainable sourcing and use • Recycling and reuse • Automation and the
of resources workforce
• Physical impact adaptation • R acial justice • S ustainable sourcing
• Land and sea use change • Supply chain management
• J ust transition • P ay equity • Life cycle analysis
• D eforestation • Living wage
• Board and employee • Water stewardship
• P ollution reduction • Workforce wellbeing
diversity
23 I nvestment teams may also engage on other areas not limited to these five themes. MSIM recognizes that the U.N. SDGs were written by governments for governments, and therefore engagement themes with
corporates and the SDGs may not be perfectly aligned. The content of this publication has not been approved by the United Nations and does not reflect the views of the United Nations or its officials or member states.
See https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals for more details on the SDGs.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 23
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
C ommunity Development Finance
Morgan Stanley aims to create investment opportunities that attract both philanthropic and private capital to create lasting
positive changes in communities across the U.S., including low- to moderate-income communities.
Our U.S. Banks24 have consistently received
“Outstanding” ratings from the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency for their track
records in meeting community needs. We made
over $3 billion* in Community Reinvestment Act
(CRA) qualified community development loans
and investments in 2023. The CRA program
seeks to transform communities’ quality of life
through a focus on:
QUALITY MULTIFAMILY HEALTHY COMMUNITIES ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
• Primary Care Clinics • Capital for Small
• New Construction and Businesses
• Healthy Foods
Rehabilitation
• Equitable Transit-Oriented
• Preservation and Extension
Developments
of Affordability
• Resident Services
• Homelessness Prevention
• Capital for Public Housing
24 U.S. Banks: Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley
Private Bank National Association.
* All or a portion of the assets represented by this metric have
been counted toward the firm’s Sustainable Finance Target.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 24
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Community Development Finance 2023 Highlights
Keeping Housing Affordable Affordable Housing With Capacity Building for Nonprofits Economic Development That
Supportive Services in Rural Supports Small Businesses
New construction, preservation CDF provides grants and sponsorships
Markets
and rehabilitation of affordable to fund general operating support We work with Certified Development
housing are core components We work with mission-oriented and specific programs of nonprofit Companies and the U.S. Small
of our community development affordable housing partners to partners. Our grant program also Business Administration (SBA) to
strategy and a critical need across acquire multifamily rental properties supports capacity building to help provide small business owners with
the U.S. For example, in 2023, our and identify programs to support develop the next generation of leaders fixed rate, long-term commercial
Community Development Finance the needs of their residents and in the community development field. real estate loans—through SBA 504
(CDF) team made an investment to the surrounding communities. For As an example, together with the loans—to buy land or property to
support the substantial renovation instance, in 2023, Morgan Stanley Association for Neighborhood and help expand or remodel business
of an affordable housing property provided a loan to build affordable Housing Development in New York City property.
in Washington, D.C. that includes housing units for farm worker families and The Community Foundation of
permanent supportive housing units in Calexico, California, with select Utah in Salt Lake City, Morgan Stanley
for homeless individuals or families. units reserved for individuals with developed the Morgan Stanley
For more information, see our 2024 developmental disabilities. Community Development Fellowship
Social Bond Impact Report. Program to offer graduate students
in urban planning or public policy
an academic year internship with a
community development-oriented
nonprofit.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 25
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Inclusive Ventures Lab
The Morgan Stanley Inclusive Ventures Lab (the “Lab”) is an intensive, five-month, in-house accelerator designed to help further
develop and scale technology and technology-enabled startups, culminating in a showcase presentation and Demo Day to the
investor community. Morgan Stanley launched the Lab in 2017 to address inequities in funding of startup founders.
Through the Lab, Morgan Stanley makes direct
investments in early-stage technology and
technology-enabled companies, and supports
each founder’s growth and development through a
rigorous program and a global ecosystem of internal
and external partners. The Lab provides startups in
the program with much-needed access to capital,
as well as the tools, resources and connections to
grow and thrive.
To date, 92 companies have gone through the
program, reaching more than $1 billion in combined
valuation and raising over $200 million in funding
after participating in the Lab. Previous participants
have used the platform to secure additional funding
rounds, refine their strategy and expand their
business, and some have been acquired. The 2023 cohort members included: Adauris OKO (Israel), Oppos (Canada), Partsimony (U.S.),
(Canada), Automated Architecture (U.K.), Bidrento Ridelink (Uganda), serviceMob (U.S.), Stak Mobility
The 2023 cohort companies represented a range of
(Estonia), ByFusion (U.S.), Cult Mia (U.K.), DotLab (U.S.), Tall Poppy (U.S.), Twipes (U.S.) and Unfabled
industries, including health care, customer service,
(U.S.), eBanqo (Nigeria), Encounter AI (U.S.), FLUIX (U.K.). Learn more about the companies here.
supply chain, recruiting and cybersecurity, with AI
(U.S.), GigBridge (U.K.), Health in Her HUE (U.S.),
and sustainable solutions as cross-cutting themes. Read more about the Lab here.
Inicio AI (U.K.), MEDIjobs (U.S.), Nopalera (U.S.),
92 $200MM+ $1Bn+
companies have gone through raised in funding after participating in combined valuation to date of
the program in the Lab companies that participated
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 26
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Institute for Sustainable Investing
Established in 2013, the Morgan Stanley Institute for Sustainable Investing (ISI) aims to accelerate sustainable finance by
driving innovation, empowering investors with insights and supporting the development of the next generation of sustainable
investing leaders.
The ISI is guided by an advisory board of Sustainable Solutions Collaborative MycoTile, a startup from Kenya, is innovating
prominent leaders from business, academia and insulation materials made from agricultural waste
The 2023 cohort consists of the following
nongovernmental organizations. We publish regular bonded with mushroom mycelium.
organizations:
thought leadership on sustainable finance trends
Puraffinity, a startup based in the U.K., is tackling
and themes and also run a number of initiatives EarthEnable, a nonprofit headquartered in Rwanda,
the human health and environmental challenges of
including the Kellogg-Morgan Stanley Sustainable and operating across East Africa, is designing and
per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), also
Investing Challenge, Sustainable Investing building affordable housing products made from
known as “forever chemicals,” with a novel low-
Fellowship, Sustainable Finance Conference and local, natural materials.
carbon green chemistry approach that allows for
Sustainable Solutions Collaborative.
PFAS capture and reuse.
RECARBON, an Italian startup, creates innovative
1 3 products from recycled carbon fiber waste, with up
to 30% cost savings and at a fifth of the carbon
intensity of virgin carbon fiber products.
Sparxell, a U.K.-based startup, is leveraging
patented technology to develop the first bio-inspired,
fully biodegradable, nontoxic pigments, glitters,
sequins and films.
Learn more about this year’s program here and
read more about previous cohorts here.
2 4 5
Pictured are the 2023 Sustainable Solutions Collaborative recipients: 1. EarthEnable, 2. MycoTile, 3. Puraffinity, 4. RECARBON and 5. Sparxel.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 27
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Human Introduction
Built on our core values—Do the Right Thing, Put Clients First, Lead with Exceptional
Capital
Ideas, Commit to Diversity & Inclusion, and Give Back—our human capital strategy
powers Morgan Stanley’s ability to deliver strategic advice, solutions and services to
our clients.
We focus on the needs of our people through As the firm remains committed to providing best- workforce is critical to our continued success and
intentional investments in their development and in-class services, we continuously invest in our our ability to serve our clients. Diverse perspectives
wellbeing, helping to drive our employees’ ability workforce, and in the modernization of our technology from all backgrounds help to drive innovation, and
to reach their full potential. Employees at the firm platforms to enhance the employee experience, foster a sense of belonging where all employees
have access to benefits offerings, professional enabling our workforce to deliver exceptional ideas feel empowered to contribute. Supporting the
development opportunities, and a wealth of and solutions to our clients’ most complex challenges. rich heritage and diverse perspectives that our
intellectual capital and thought leadership resources. colleagues bring to their work every day is integral
Core to our human capital strategy is our commitment
Our compensation practices are fundamental to to our culture.
to diversity and inclusion. A diverse and inclusive
attracting talent in a highly competitive marketplace.
O ur Global Community25
AMERICAS EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA ASIA WORKFORCE REPRESENTATION 26
40% 8%
53K 10K 17K
employees employees employees of our global employees of our U.S. employees
are women are Black
9% 15%
of our U.S. employees of our U.S. employees
are Hispanic are Asian
25 Unless stated otherwise, data on this page is as of December 31, 2023.
This information was subject to Deloitte & Touche’s review. See the Independent Accountant’s Review Report.
26 M organ Stanley’s definitions for Officers and racial/ethnic groups are outlined in Appendix 8: Workforce Diversity Data Methodology.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 28
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Building Our Workforce
Morgan Stanley’s recruitment efforts are marked by a commitment to attract
top talent across a variety of disciplines.
With a global presence and a reputation for excellence and Career Consortium (EECC) Partners, America
in the financial services industry, Morgan Stanley Needs You and Braven, the firm is able to build
employs a multifaceted approach to recruitment, recruitment relationships while exposing students to
utilizing campus outreach programs, job fairs, careers in financial services and providing mentorship.
internships and digital platforms to identify and
Morgan Stanley is one of the top sources of mentors
cultivate prospective candidates. Individuals from
for these organizations. The firm is proud to have
all backgrounds and perspectives contribute
employees who build meaningful mentorship
to Morgan Stanley’s diverse and dynamic work
relationships with students as they enter our industry.
environment. Through rigorous selection processes
Braven also partners with Spelman College and
and comprehensive training programs, Morgan Stanley
Delaware State University, two historically Black
aims to build a workforce equipped to tackle the their skills and experience. Those who successfully
colleges and universities (HBCUs) that are a direct
challenges of the ever-evolving financial landscape. complete the program are eligible to receive a full-time
part of the firm’s campus recruiting strategy pipeline,
offer of employment.
allowing us to continue expanding relationships with
Campus Recruiting and Early Career
rising talent and build a workforce that is reflective Morgan Stanley is committed to supporting veterans
In 2023, over 1,700 undergraduate students joined of the communities where we live and work. through our partnership with the Department of
the firm as summer analysts to experience working Defense’s Hiring Our Heroes program. This initiative
full time in financial services for 10 weeks. Summer Hiring Experienced Professionals reflects our commitment to diversity and inclusion by
analysts collaborate with employees across the supporting transitioning veterans while leveraging
At Morgan Stanley, we aim to hire individuals
business to develop the skills they need for their first their transferable skill sets.
who inspire, innovate and collaborate, and have a
years in the workforce, and to build their professional
tangible impact in all areas of our business. We take The firm’s Experienced Professionals Program attracts
networks. Upon completion of the summer program,
a broad-based approach in recruiting experienced high-achieving professionals from a broad range of
many of our summer analysts receive full-time offers
professionals. We source candidates from a wide industries, offering new opportunities to explore careers
to join the firm.
range of backgrounds and through a variety of in financial services. Those hired for the program
Our 2023 full-time campus hires hailed from over sources, and continuously update our online job participate in an immersive experience, learning about
460 colleges and universities in over 22 countries, portal where all are welcome to apply. In addition, our our sector, developing new skills to thrive, and building
including undergraduate and graduate majors in dedicated programs for experienced professionals relationships across the firm as they grow their career
finance and accounting, science, technology, math offer a variety of pathways to start or restart a career at Morgan Stanley.
and liberal arts. in the corporate workforce.
Our non-profit community partners, such as iRelaunch,
Morgan Stanley’s Return to Work Program focuses on Hispanic Association on Corporate Responsibility,
Next Generation Talent
experienced professionals who have taken a career Hiring Our Heroes, the National Association for Black
break for one year or more, and who want to return Accountants, the National Black MBA Association, the
The firm’s relationships with our valued community
to the workforce. Currently available in nine locations Association for Latino Professionals of America, Afro Tech,
partners provide important connections to future
globally, this 12- to 16-week paid program places Lesbians Who Tech and Wall Streets Friends, plus many
generations preparing to enter the workforce. Working
participants in areas of the business that complement others help support our experienced hiring efforts.
alongside two Morgan Stanley Equity in Education
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 29
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Investing in Our Workforce
At Morgan Stanley, employees have access to a wide array of resources to support their personal and professional wellbeing.
From comprehensive benefits to employee networks, the firm prioritizes the needs of our people to ensure they thrive.
Our Compensation Practices
Morgan Stanley is committed to responsible and
effective compensation programs. The firm’s
compensation philosophy is fundamental to our
goals of attracting, retaining and motivating
our workforce in a competitive market. Our
compensation philosophy provides the guiding
principles that drive compensation-related decisions:
• Deliver pay for sustainable performance
• Align compensation with shareholders’ interests
• Mitigate excessive risk-taking
• Attract and retain top talent
The Compensation, Management Development, and
Succession (CMDS) Committee of the firm’s Board of
Directors continually evaluates the firm’s executive
and broad-based compensation programs with a
view toward balancing the following key objectives,
all of which support the firm’s culture and values, CMDS Committee evaluated firm and individual management performance factors, including
and shareholders’ interests. performance in light of these preestablished conduct risk, in making compensation decisions.
performance priorities. Performance priorities that
For 2023, a number of quantitative and qualitative For more information, including on our named
relate to ESG focus areas include culture, leadership,
performance priorities were set by the Board’s CMDS executive officer compensation decisions, please
reputation, workforce resilience and diversity.
Committee and the Board at the beginning of the see the Compensation Governance and Risk
year. The performance priorities are established The Board’s CMDS Committee is also committed Management section, the Compensation Discussion
based on a directional assessment made in light to driving strong risk management practices in and Analysis, and the 2024 Summary Compensation
of the market environment and the firm’s strategic compensation decisions and supporting strong Table sections in our 2024 Proxy Statement.
objectives, and their attainment or non-attainment governance. The firm maintains strong risk For more information on how our compensation
does not correspond to any specific compensation management policies and considers the risk attributes governance helps ensure equitable rewards for
decision. To inform its decision-making process for of the firm’s incentive compensation arrangements, employees globally, there are region-specific
senior officers’ compensation for 2023, the Board’s and incorporates financial and nonfinancial risk reports available on the Morgan Stanley website.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 30
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Benefits and Wellbeing 2023 BENEFITS HIGHLIGHTS
• Expanded on-site mental health counseling in our
Our comprehensive benefits support the physical,
core locations. Nearly half our global workforce
mental and financial wellbeing of our employees
now has free mental health support at the office.
and their families, and provide us with a competitive
advantage in attracting and retaining top talent from • Introduced mental health awareness training
all backgrounds. We take a three-prong approach to through “Open Minds” training developed in
employee wellbeing through education, prevention partnership with experts to equip employees
and access to quality care. with the knowledge and resources to safeguard
their mental wellbeing. A separate module helps
We continue to offer core health plans globally
managers promote positive mental health on
with additional services that vary by region such
their team. In addition, our Institutional Securities
as specialized care for certain conditions, care
business implemented interactive training using
advocates to navigate health care complexities,
real-life scenarios illustrating proactive steps
second opinions for employees’ extended family,
employees and managers can take to promote
and a travel and lodging benefit so all employees
awareness, mitigate risks associated with
receive the care they need. For example, in the U.S.,
mental health, and contribute to a positive
our primary and preventative care offering includes
organizational culture.
easy access to high-touch, in-person and 24/7
virtual medical care for children and adults. In India, • Expanded our family support programs globally
our Health360 program covers health checks for with the launch of extensive services to help
employees, and family members, including parents, employees plan for and raise children. Experts
may consult with specialists in 20-plus disciplines. provide care and guidance, from pregnancy,
In the U.K., we enhanced firm-funded health screens adoption and surrogacy, to newborn care Our benefits initiatives were recognized with the 2023
to better detect risks. (including breastfeeding and sleep) and supporting Best Employers “Excellence in Health & Well-being
teenagers. In the U.S., these new programs Award” and “Excellence in Global Health & Well-being
The firm’s robust mental health benefits streamline
complement our existing $75,000 family-building Award” by the Business Group on Health.27
access to support and resources. U.S. employees
benefit to defray the costs of fertility, adoption and
and dependents each receive 16 annual sessions Our Global Wellbeing Board, composed of senior
surrogacy. Employees also have access to expert
with mental health coaches and therapists, at no firm leaders, continues to help shape our wellbeing
guidance to navigate the processes.
cost. In other locations, the firm sponsors employee strategy, contributing sponsorship, oversight and
assistance programs and gives employees worldwide • Launched educational campaigns, including accountability. And our network of over 500 global
accounts to a leading mindfulness application. WorkWell that introduce principles and Wellbeing Influencers amplify programming and
Our principal locations around the globe have on- technology tips to facilitate healthy work habits. connect colleagues with firm resources.
site health centers, mental health counseling, fitness Other resources include toolkits to prevent burnout
centers, physical therapy and restorative suites. and start a conversation about mental wellbeing.
27 h ttps://www.businessgrouphealth.org/en/newsroom/news%20and%20press%20releases/press%20releases/2023%20be%20winners
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 31
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
AN INCLUSIVE APPROACH TO HEALTH EQUITY Employee Networks
Our global benefits strategy is informed by
As a vital part of our culture, our employee networks
employee feedback, program outcomes, as well as
drive engagement, cross-business connectivity and
benchmarking and research to ensure we address
idea sharing. They empower colleagues to share their
the needs of our global workforce. Our benefits
distinct experiences and perspectives, learn and
offerings are developed with the firm’s diversity
develop professionally, support one another, and give Our Employee Networks
and inclusion priorities in mind, ensuring that
back to their communities through philanthropic and
all groups have access to health care, including
volunteer efforts. Active engagement and dialogue
gender-affirming care, reproductive health and GLOBAL
with network members are also invaluable in helping
menopause support (varies by country). We partner • Enable Employee Network
better understand the needs of diverse employees
with diverse vendors, and ensure their providers • Family Network
and broader diverse communities, and in shaping our
are trained to deliver culturally competent care. • Employee Sustainability Forum
overall diversity efforts.
• Pride and Ally LGBT+ Employee Network
SUPPORTING FINANCIAL WELLNESS
LAUNCHING THE INTERFAITH FORUM IN THE U.S. • Women’s Business Alliance
Among the many benefits of working at
In 2023, Morgan Stanley launched a new Interfaith
Morgan Stanley is a suite of retirement, investment,
Forum in the U.S., the latest addition to our suite of AMERICAS
cash management and lending products, many
Employee Networks. This network provides educational • Asian Employee Network
with discounted employee pricing. Highlights in the
and awareness programming to employees, and is • Black Employee Network
U.S. include 401(k) and employee stock purchase
open to employees of all faiths and backgrounds. • Faith Forums
plans, student loan refinancing and residential
mortgages; employees also can meet with The Interfaith Forum was created in partnership with • LatinX Employee Network
money coaches to develop personalized plans to the firm’s employee-led Christian, Hindu, Jewish and • Veterans Employee Network
budget, save and manage debt, and attend weekly Muslim Faith Forums, which are open to people of
webinars on money topics. Our latest financial all faiths and backgrounds. The Interfaith Forum ASIA
wellness benefit is a tax-efficient program in the complements the faith-specific employee networks • Multicultural Alliance
U.K. which promotes electric and hybrid vehicles. and their programming, enabling a growing platform
to address and discuss religious diversity in the
EMEA
workplace.
• African and Caribbean Business Alliance
• EMEA Military Network
• Glasgow Cultural Awareness Network
• Net EastAsia
• Net SouthAsia
• Net-Éire
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 32
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Developing Our Workforce
Morgan Stanley provides employees with a robust suite of resources to succeed in their chosen career paths. From development
and mobility opportunities to a modern performance management practice, the firm encourages employees to pursue excellence
and drive their own growth. In addition to an enhanced performance evaluation process, our leadership programs and manager
trainings, the firm offers specialized programs for enrichment, internal and external educational resources, and development
courses to learn and hone skills.
Supporting the Growth of EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DEVELOPMENT SERIES guidance, one-on-one and small group coaching,
Future Leaders The Executive Director Development Series supports opportunities to meet senior leaders, peer networking,
high-performing executive directors in refining their and manager-specific programming to help support
leadership brand. Participants gain insights from underrepresented employees.
MORGAN STANLEY LEADERS PROGRAM
senior leadership, attend experiential skill sessions,
The Morgan Stanley Leaders Program is the firm’s In Europe and Asia, our Platinum Program offers a
and network across divisions.
signature, six-month global development program highly customized, six- to eight-month development
designed to support high-performing Managing program for women executive directors. Programs
Directors through their transition to broader WOMEN’S MANAGING DIRECTOR (MD), EXECUTIVE are tailored in each region, but generally include
DIRECTOR (ED) AND VICE PRESIDENT (VP)
leadership roles. The program includes individualized LEADERSHIP PROGRAMS leadership assessment, professional coaching and
development opportunities, one-on-one coaching, Built for high-performing, rising talent, the Women’s leadership development workshops.
one-on-one communication training, and small MD, ED and VP Leadership Programs focus on
group networking. enhancing the impact and effectiveness of our A Focus on Workforce Diversity
senior leaders when working cross-divisionally and
At Morgan Stanley, diversity and inclusion is deeply
managing career growth.
embedded across the full ecosystem of the firm, and
The firm’s leadership development programs for help to deliver stronger solutions for our employees,
Women MDs provide additional opportunities to clients and communities. We have committed to
deepen relationships across the firm, and share ideas improving representation among underrepresented
and experiences, as well as identify ways to take groups to help ensure that our workforce reflects our
their businesses to the next level. clients and society. As a result of our efforts, in 2023,
we made meaningful progress toward this ambition.
Through intentional investments to attract, retain
TALENT ACCELERATOR PROGRAM
and advance a diverse workforce, we are creating
The Institute for Inclusion’s Talent Accelerator
sustainable impact and equitable opportunities for
leadership programs support career advancement
all talent to grow and thrive.
for underrepresented vice presidents and
executive directors. Program elements include
self-assessments, skill-building workshops, career
Employment decisions at Morgan Stanley are based on merit and do not discriminate against any individual on the basis of their race,
gender or other protected status.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 33
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Workforce Diversity Data28,29
In 2023, we continued our long-standing focus on diversity across our workforce. As a result of our efforts, we continue to see meaningful progress, but there is still
more to do. We will continue to invest in efforts to create a workforce that reflects the depth of diversity and talent that exists globally.
GLOBAL SENIOR LEADERSHIP GLOBAL WOMEN U.S. ETHNICALLY DIVERSE
WOMEN 2022 2023 FIRMWIDE 2022 2023 U.S. BLACK 2022 2023
Board 29% 31% Overall 40% 40% Overall 8% 8%
Operating Committee 20% 23% Officers 28% 29% Officers 4% 4%
Management Committee 21% 27% AMERICAS 2022 2023 U.S. HISPANIC 2022 2023
Overall 39% 39% Overall 9% 9%
ETHNICALLY DIVERSE 2022 2023
Board 29% 31% Officers 28% 28% Officers 6% 6%
Operating Committee 33% 31% EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST U.S. ASIAN 2022 2023
AND AFRICA 2022 2023
Management Committee 34% 27% Overall 15% 15%
Overall 38% 39%
Officers 16% 16%
Officers 28% 29%
ASIA 2022 2023
Overall 42% 43%
Officers 31% 32%
CAMPUS RECRUITING
GLOBAL WOMEN 2022 2023 U.S. HISPANIC 2022 2023
Full-time 47% 48% Full-time 14% 15%
Summer 50% 51% Summer 18% 15%
U.S. BLACK 2022 2023 U.S. ASIAN 2022 2023
28 The 2023 Workforce Diversity Data was subject to Deloitte & Touche
Full-time 14% 13% Full-time 28% 31% LLP’s review. As such, Deloitte & Touche expresses a conclusion
only with respect to 2023 data. See the Independent Accountant’s
Summer 14% 15% Summer 29% 33% Review Report for more information.
29 M organ Stanley’s definitions for Officers and racial/ethnic groups are
outlined in Appendix 8: Workforce Diversity Data Methodology.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 34
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
A Global Workforce
Morgan Stanley is a global firm, where employees
collaborate across the globe to deliver exceptional
ideas and solutions to the world’s most complex
challenges.
SPOTLIGHT
LATIN AMERICA
Firm leaders in Latin America
support and foster the development
of their employees locally, with
support from the Morgan Stanley
Institute for Inclusion.
EARLY CAREER EXTERNAL PARTNERSHIPS EDUCATION
The Brazil internship program offers numerous In 2023, Morgan Stanley Brazil sponsored events With a focus on creating an inclusive workforce,
positions annually to candidates selected exclusively with student minority groups at Brazilian education the Diversity Marathon Brazil brings distinguished
on demonstrated talent and potential. Details such institutions to help develop the next generation of speakers and immersive experiences to
as university attendance, geography and academic talent and expose students to careers in financial Morgan Stanley employees to encourage
background are excluded from applications and do services. Events included career fairs; financial meaningful conversations.
not influence the selection process. education conferences for women; and the
Juntos Conference, the largest Brazilian event
empowering Black talent.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 35
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
SPOTLIGHT
EUROPE, THE MIDDLE EAST
AND AFRICA
Morgan Stanley leaders in Europe,
the Middle East and Africa continue
to prioritize the firm’s core values in
their efforts across the business.
UPDATES ON REPRESENTATION We continue to measure our U.K. gender pay gap. diverse and LGBT+ employees. The program has
Morgan Stanley continues to work in alignment with Since we first reported in 2017, we have narrowed expanded to include a comprehensive Business
the U.K. Women in Finance Charter and U.K. Race at our median pay gap from 35% to 27%. The gender Acumen Series, empowering participants to advance
Work Charter towards increasing gender and ethnic pay gap is the average pay difference between men their career and build relationships across the firm.
representation at all levels, with a mission to increase and women across an organization, regardless of
the diversity within our senior leadership. Progress role, level or span of responsibilities. The gender pay SOCIAL MOBILITY SURVEY
is measured against our representation objectives: gap is different to equal pay, which ensures women In 2023, in partnership with the Bridge Group, we
increase senior management representation for and men are paid equally for the same or similar role, launched a survey across the U.K. workforce to
women to 35%, U.K. ethnically diverse officers to or for work of equal value. self-identify their socioeconomic backgrounds.
30%, and U.K. Black officers by 40%. We conduct Socioeconomic inclusion further impacts our ability
divisional diversity reviews with leadership to ensure SUPPORTING CAREER ADVANCEMENT to attract, retain and progress talent. The data
ownership and accountability of these objectives. Retention and career advancement remains a key collected will be used to focus, inform and evaluate
We have seen year-over-year progress for female priority. The EMEA Institute for Inclusion Talent the impact of our diversity and inclusion strategy.
representation from promotion and hiring efforts, Accelerator Program is dedicated to developing and
with our 2024 female Managing Director promotions coaching our high performing women, ethnically
at a five-year high.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 36
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
SPOTLIGHT
ASIA
Our leaders in Asia foster a culture
of respect and accountability that
reverberates globally, and supports a
high-performing, healthy workplace
for our colleagues.
STRENGTHENING A DIVERSE TALENT PIPELINE STEP INTO STEM SCHOLARSHIPS CONTINUING OUR COMMITMENT TO LGBT+
INCLUSION
In 2023, we hosted the fourth Future Female Traders With the Institute for Inclusion’s Step into STEM
event series, which aims to attract women interested scholarships, the firm is able to support women In Asia, Morgan Stanley was awarded a Gold
in pursuing a career in sales and trading. This from underserved communities pursuing science, Standard30 across the Hong Kong, Singapore,
flagship event connects students from across the technology, engineering or mathematics (STEM) Japan and India LGBT+ Inclusion indexes for 2023.
region with the opportunity to experience working degrees, and to grow the pipeline of female talent These LGBT+ indexes evaluate an organization’s
on a trading desk in a simulated environment. This entering these fields. The scholarships were originally policies and guidelines, corporate culture, strategy,
program is a key talent pipeline for Morgan Stanley, offered in Hong Kong only; however, the firm is now leadership and effective inclusion practices,
as many students maintain relationships with the extending them to women in India in 2024 to continue benchmarked against peers and best practice
firm through campus programs. addressing structural underrepresentation of women recommendations.
in STEM career fields.
30 https://www.communitybusiness.org/sites/default/files/uploads/2023_hk_index_pr.pdf
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 37
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Supporting Our Communities
To help underserved communities thrive, we partner with nonprofit organizations,
small businesses and suppliers to help ensure equal access to our firm’s offerings
and resources.
Supporting Communities Our Focus on Supporting Children
Where We Live and Work
Though we support a range of charitable causes,
we focus on children’s mental and physical health
Giving back is deeply rooted in our culture.
by addressing food insecurity, creating safe and
Morgan Stanley has actively supported communities
accessible places to play, and helping kids grow
around the world for more than 80 years,
and thrive.
financially and through employee engagement. The
Morgan Stanley Foundation and Morgan Stanley Amid the mental health crisis, the Morgan Stanley
International Foundation lead these efforts, bringing Alliance for Children’s Mental Health (the “Alliance”)
to life our core values of giving back and committing is actively addressing the critical challenges of
to diversity and inclusion. Our approach is rooted stress, anxiety and depression in young people.
in creating significant and meaningful impact for The Alliance supports organizations through growth
people in the communities in which we live and capital, nonprofit capacity building, seed funding
work, both by collaborating long term with leading and thought leadership. Launched in 2020, Alliance
nonprofit organizations and by mobilizing our programs have reached over 37 million children, The Morgan Stanley Alliance
employees to leverage their talents. In 2023, our caregivers and educators globally, many of whom for Children’s Mental Health
firm, foundations and employees together donated are from diverse and underserved groups.
is actively addressing the
more than $160 million to nonprofit organizations
In 2023, the third annual Innovation Awards, a
around the world. program of the Alliance that aims to fund and critical challenges of stress,
advance transformative mental health care solutions
anxiety and depression in
for children and young adults across the United
States, received nearly 750 applications. The young people.
Alliance also introduced a new Leadership Learning
Series to invite a broader group of nonprofits beyond
the five winners to join expert-led sessions and
networking opportunities.
The Alliance continues to research and discuss
important topics within the youth mental health field,
including the impact of the metaverse on mental
wellbeing, how children’s mental health affects
parents, and parenting in the digital world.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 38
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Employee Volunteering Strategy Challenge: This annual pro bono program providing grants to help grow innovative programs and
in New York and London harnesses our employees’ deepening our impact through employee volunteering.
We are committed to making a difference in the
professional skills and expertise to provide strategic Examples include: in the United States, our decade-
communities where our employees live and work.
advice that is important to helping local nonprofits plus partnership with Feeding America® includes
Our employees engage in the firm’s philanthropic
scale their missions. Team recommendations have helping at food banks across the country, and in 2023,
programs year-round by volunteering, donating
led to more effective business models, expanded we celebrated the 20th anniversary of NewYork-
funds and collaborating with their colleagues to
services and improved productivity, delivering Presbyterian Morgan Stanley Children’s Hospital and
increase our collective impact.
145,000 hours of pro bono service, valued at over committed an additional $15 million to help create a
$28 million,31 since inception in 2009. world-class neurologic neonatal intensive care unit.
2023 HIGHLIGHTS INCLUDE: In the United Kingdom, employees volunteer regularly
Philanthropic Incentives: In 2023, we granted
Global Volunteer Month: This annual cornerstone with The Felix Project, a food redistribution charity, and
over $2 million in support to hundreds of nonprofit
program brings our employees together to volunteer, Morgan Stanley has supported Great Ormond Street
organizations where our employees serve as
and has provided over 2.8 million hours to local and Hospital Children’s Charity for over 15 years.
dedicated volunteers or governing board members.
international nonprofits since its inception in 2006.
We also ran charitable giving and matching programs Crisis Response: In 2023, we hosted employee giving
In 2023, over 60,000 employees, nearly 75% of our
for employees in all of our regions, increasing the and matching campaigns in response to natural
firm, in 34 countries devoted over 295,000 hours
impact of their giving. disasters in Turkey, Hawaii, Morocco and Libya, as well
to local organizations addressing hunger relief,
as provided humanitarian support for people affected
environmental conservation, education and more. Nonprofit Partners: We form long-term partnerships
by violence in Israel and Gaza.
with local, national and international nonprofits,
SUSTAINABILITY IN NUMBERS
$160+ million
donated by the firm, its charitable foundations
and employees in 2023
2.8+ million
employee hours volunteered during Global Volunteer
Month since its inception in 2006
37+ million
reached by the Morgan Stanley Alliance for
Children’s Mental Health since its inception in 2020
31 According to standards developed by the Taproot Foundation.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 39
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
The Morgan Stanley
Institute for Inclusion
The Institute for Inclusion (IFI), launched in 2020,
supports investments in underserved communities
and helps to accelerate our own internal diversity
efforts. The IFI brings our employees, communities
and clients together in a shared commitment to
creating a more equitable society.
Our investment in high-impact opportunities,
philanthropic investments in underserved
communities and accountability to internal D&I
commitments is exemplified through many of the
IFI’s efforts. The IFI is led by an independent advisory
board composed of prominent leaders in business,
academia and nonprofit organizations, as well as
Morgan Stanley Board members. The advisory board
guides the work and strategic priorities of the IFI.
Built on the three pillars below, the IFI is a
catalyst for our commercial, philanthropic and
talent-focused efforts.
OUR PEOPLE OUR COMMUNITIES OUR CLIENTS
We aim to create sustainable impact and equitable We support underserved communities with We partner with clients to ensure equal access for
opportunities for all talent to thrive and power philanthropy that drives social justice and promotes underserved communities through our commercial
growth through intentional investments to attract equity with a focus on educational attainment, the spending and thought leadership.
and advance a diverse workforce underpinned by wealth gap, and health and wellness.
a culture of inclusion and belonging.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 40
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
The Equity in Education and
Career Consortium 32,000
In partnership with the Morgan Stanley Foundation,
the IFI’s EECC helps fuel the success of eight partner
students served through the EECC
organizations that provide students from underserved
communities access to internships, scholarships
700+
and jobs. Through the firm’s investment in funding,
programming and employee volunteerism, students
receive skills-based training, mentoring and career
employee volunteer hours
readiness support.
In 2023, the EECC marked its second year and
continued to expand programming for students
and employees, helping to contribute to stronger
outcomes for an estimated 32,000 students
through over 700 volunteer hours from employees.
“ The Morgan Stanley Institute for Inclusion has facilitated dozens of workshops for our scholars, exposing them to a variety of
professional positions within the financial sector, an increased understanding of financial knowledge, and skills to address imposter
phenomenon and improve wellbeing to help them sustain their success as they graduate into the professional world.” SEO
EDUCATION AND CAREER CONSORTIUM COMMUNITY PARTNERS
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 41
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Institute for Inclusion Global Hispanic Scholarship Fund The Supplier Diversity Program allows
Scholarship Portfolio Morgan Stanley’s commitment to The Hispanic Morgan Stanley to broaden its supplier pool to
be more inclusive. In this regard, we train our
Scholarship Fund helps to support students of
Morgan Stanley is working to help eliminate barriers sourcing professionals; maintain a supplier database
Hispanic heritage and alleviate the financial
to degree completion for students from underserved with vendor diversity certifications; and include
burdens of attending college. Scholars are selected
communities. Through Morgan Stanley’s direct specific supplier diversity language in our Global
based on merit and financial need. Recipients also
scholarships and partnerships with external Procedures for Supplier Selection and Engagement
receive career guidance, mentorship, leadership
organizations, the firm is delivering financial support and Supplier Code of Conduct. We review our
development, knowledge building and wellness
and wraparound services to help students achieve diverse supplier engagements periodically to
training.
social and economic mobility. identify opportunities to ensure equal access to
the firm.
Asian Pacific Islander American Scholars (APIA)
THE FIRM’S CURRENT SCHOLARSHIP
The APIA program is a multiyear scholarship for Learn more about our Supplier Diversity partners
OFFERINGS INCLUDE:
Asian and Pacific Island American students, and here.
The Morgan Stanley HBCU Scholars Program
directly supports 20 scholars over two academic
The Morgan Stanley HBCU Scholars Program years. One-hundred percent of scholarship SMALL BUSINESS ACADEMY
provides needs-based four-year scholarships for recipients are first-generation college students,
Resource constraints and a lack of experience
students at Howard University, Morehouse College and 70% come from households with an annual
in navigating an organization often prevent
and Spelman College, HBCUs in the United States. income of $30K or less.
small businesses from gaining a foothold in the
Currently in its third year, the retention rate for
marketplace. The Small Business Academy (the
scholars in the program is 97%. Richard B. Fisher Scholarship
“Academy”) helps bridge this gap by equipping
The Morgan Stanley Richard B. Fisher (RBF) entrepreneurs with the expertise they need to
U.K. Future Generation Scholarship Program
Scholarship Program helps to attract candidates win business.
The Future Generation Scholarship supports from historically underrepresented groups to the
Launched in 2022, the Academy empowers
up to 25 students annually from socially mobile financial services industry. Since its founding in
small-business leaders through education, sharing
backgrounds in the United Kingdom with an 1993, the RBF Scholarship Program has distributed
best practices and mentorship. The Academy helps
internship and financial aid to meet their university close to $11 million in scholarships to over 750
U.S. and U.K. small businesses to stand out in the
fees and associated living costs. students across the United States.
procurement process, strengthen their business
knowledge and build their professional network.
Supporting Diverse Businesses
The 12-week virtual, instructor-facilitated program
includes interactive workshops, coaching sessions
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY and a capstone project. Graduating firms receive
Our Supplier Diversity Program seeks out businesses ongoing support from Morgan Stanley. In 2023,
owned by ethnically diverse individuals, women, 14 small businesses participated in our second
veterans, individuals with disabilities, members of cohort, up from 10 in our first cohort.
the LGBT+ community, and small businesses
to supply many of our offices worldwide. This
diverse vendor base helps provide opportunities to
underrepresented business owners and to support
the communities where we operate.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 42
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Climate Climate Strategy
Morgan Stanley recognizes that climate change is one of the most complex issues of our time, and we consider
climate change throughout our business, operational and risk management activities. To support this work,
we have developed our four-part climate strategy:
The growing impacts of
climate change underscore the 1 2 3 4
importance of working to reduce
global emissions. Morgan Stanley
leverages its expertise to help
TRANSITION TO A CLIMATE RISK OPERATIONS TRANSPARENCY
clients decarbonize, aiming to LOW-CARBON ECONOMY
support the global economy’s
We have goals to reach Firm Risk Management Morgan Stanley We publish climate-
transition to a more sustainable net-zero financed (FRM), in partnership achieved carbon related disclosures in
future. We also consider the emissions by 2050 and with other areas of neutrality32 across our Morgan Stanley’s
to mobilize $750 billion the firm, focuses on global operations annual ESG Report.
impact of transition and physical
to support low-carbon identifying, measuring, in 2022.
risks on our business, and aim to
and green solutions managing and
reduce the carbon intensity of by 2030. monitoring climate-
our own operations. related financial risks.
32 See Maintain Carbon Neutral Operations section of this report for more details.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 43
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Guiding Principles for
the Climate Transition
We have long been focused on both the risks of a
changing climate and the opportunities presented by
the low-carbon transition. Our strategy and associated
goals will continue to be thoughtful, independent
and pragmatic, with the best interests of our clients,
shareholders and other stakeholders in mind. We
recognize the importance of balancing the need to
quickly reduce GHG emissions with the realities of
the social, economic and geopolitical landscape.
The following principles inform how we approach
the climate transition:
• Prioritize Real-World Decarbonization.
Morgan Stanley will focus on working with our clients
across sectors as they develop decarbonization
plans that seek to reduce their own emissions
and thus contribute to decarbonizing the global
economy. In some cases, lending to companies that
are transitioning may, for a period of time, result • Provide Transparency. Morgan Stanley will Morgan Stanley recognizes the potential for
in an increase in our financed emissions. However, continue to be transparent in communicating our climate change to impact our clients, investments,
we believe that this approach will ultimately climate change strategy and progress toward our operations, employees, local communities and the
facilitate the transition to a lower-carbon world. climate ambitions to clients, shareholders and global economy. Effective action on climate change
other stakeholders. will require a broad transformation of sectors and
• Support Our Clients. As a global leader in financial
economies, and careful management of the impacts
services, we will continue to develop and distribute • Deliver Strong Internal Governance. We will
on workers and communities. A complex and just
innovative products and solutions that serve our continue to implement internal oversight, controls
transition to a low-carbon economy will require
clients and help them achieve their climate-related and coordination to ensure a robust and consistent
incremental efforts by governments, businesses and
ambitions. This includes mobilizing capital toward approach to climate-related risks, opportunities,
individuals. We are pleased to contribute our expertise
low-carbon solutions and providing clients with activities and commitments.
to our clients in support of their own transitions.
climate-focused thought leadership and research.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 44
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Our Climate
Ambitions
Mobilize Capital Toward
Low-Carbon and Green
Solutions
As a global financial services firm, we have an • Investment Management provides clients with In addition, it is important to note that our financed
important role to play in helping to direct capital investment solutions across asset classes that seek emissions targets are premised on the global economy
toward low-carbon and green solutions. Working alignment with their return objectives alongside limiting warming to 1.5°C above preindustrial levels.
with clients to scale low-carbon opportunities is a their sustainability preferences, including climate, However, we must recognize that current policies,
key component of our $1 trillion sustainable finance as appropriate. For example, see our feature of the technology adoption and consumption habits are
target, which includes $750 billion toward low-carbon climate-focused 1GT platform here. not yet aligned with this outcome. Without sufficient
and green solutions by 2030. In line with this target, change in the aforementioned factors in the coming
we work to provide capital toward clean energy, years, our clients, and our firm, may not meet
Strive Toward Our Financed
climate adaptation, carbon removal and reduction, net-zero aligned targets.
among other themes. See the Sustainable Finance Emissions Targets
That said, we remain committed to engaging with
Target section of this report for more information.
clients on climate transition strategies to help move
We remain focused on making progress toward our
In addition, each of our business segments has a the world to net-zero emissions by 2050. Critical
2030 financed emissions targets by contributing to
focus on climate solutions for clients: to this is providing our clients with advice and
real-economy decarbonization efforts. We aim to
solutions related to low-carbon opportunities, which
• I nstitutional Securities provides capital to reduce our financed emissions by providing our clients
our Institutional Securities business is focused on
companies, including those that seek to drive with the advice and capital required to transform
(see more here).
climate solutions. Supporting low-carbon business models and reduce their own carbon
solutions that help reduce our clients’ greenhouse intensity. We have a number of processes to help us
gas (GHG) footprints helps us to reduce our own monitor our progress toward 2030 interim targets
We recognize that the path toward our financed
financed emissions and make progress toward our including: 1) annual updates to our Climate Strategy
emissions targets will not be a straight line. We will
net-zero targets. Assessment Framework (CSAF) profiles to reflect
continue to consider our clients’ approaches to climate
incremental disclosures or additional business
• Wealth Management has developed a Climate transition in our corporate portfolio lending decisions
activity; 2) business unit reviews of corporate loans
Action Investing Toolkit that helps our Financial but, in some cases, lending to companies that are
within our interim target sectors, incorporating
Advisors navigate the broad range of available transitioning may result in temporary increases in
financed emissions lending intensity (FELI) metrics
climate action investing strategies, and engage our financed emissions. We are also aware of the
and CSAF profiles; and 3) periodic reports to the
with their clients on the risks and opportunities unintended consequences of withdrawing financing
management-level Firm ESG Committee and, as
of climate action investing. from transitioning clients and sectors too rapidly,
necessary and appropriate, to the Board’s
and the need to balance climate considerations with
Governance and Sustainability Committee.
real-time energy security needs.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 45
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Climate Strategy Assessment
Framework CLIMATE STRATEGY ASSESSMENT FRAMEWORK (CSAF)
Morgan Stanley’s proprietary CSAF provides us with
a data-driven assessment of our clients’ climate EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS CLIMATE CHANGE RELATED- TRANSITION ACTIONS &
TARGETS GOVERNANCE PROGRESS
strategies, to help us better engage with our clients
and inform business decisions.
For example: For example: For example:
Net-Zero Target and Board Oversight and Management Emissions Performance,
As first outlined in our 2022 ESG Report, the CSAF
2030 Targets of Climate-Related Risks Capital Expenditures
leverages data from public sources, and may
be supplemented by discussions with clients, as
appropriate. We assess a range of quantitative and
LOW MEDIUM HIGH
qualitative factors, including clients’ net-zero and
interim targets, climate-related governance, actions
taken toward meeting targets and GHG emissions
reduction goals. The CSAF ultimately classifies clients • Worked toward introducing CSAF for credit We assessed the transition plans and climate
into one of six categories, including limited actions, evaluation purposes within the Energy, Power and commitments for all lending clients in our three
transition-aligned and green. Auto Manufacturing sectors and informing credit interim target sectors (Auto Manufacturing, Energy
rating assessments. and Power), subject to data availability. Some key
As expressed in our Guiding Principles, we are
highlights from our assessments to date include:
committed to working with our clients to advance their • Began developing CSAF profiles for clients in
decarbonization goals and strategies, no matter the additional high-carbon sectors in order to better • Approximately 80% of our total committed
current maturity of their climate approach. The CSAF inform the firm’s broader climate-related risk financing to these sectors is tied to companies
provides a forward-looking perspective on transition management. that we consider to have a medium or high-quality
readiness, which is additive to the measurement of a transition plan in place.
• Educated investment banking coverage officers
client’s current carbon intensity, as reflected in our
for the sectors on the CSAF and how it can be • More than half of our clients across these three
FELI metric. Together, CSAF and FELI provide a more
used within our business decisions. sectors have long-term operational (scopes 1
holistic view of our clients’ transition progress and
and 2) targets to reach net-zero by 2050, while
help us have a more informed view on where we, and It is important to note that while the CSAF provides a
approximately two-thirds of our clients have
our clients, are headed relative to our stated financed forward-looking view of a client’s climate strategy, it
near-term emissions-reduction targets.
emissions reduction targets. reflects the current status of a client’s climate efforts,
many of which are nascent. We expect companies • Over 60% of our Power clients have explicit
In 2023, we embedded the CSAF further into our business
to continue to set climate-related targets, as well as targets to increase renewable generation capacity
activities and risk management processes. The firm:
improve disclosure on their strategies, particularly as and/or phase down (or eliminate) coal-fired
• Completed an initial CSAF profile for all corporate forthcoming regulations across many regions require generation capacity.
lending portfolio clients in the interim 2030 target incremental climate-related disclosures.
• All of our Automobile Manufacturing clients have
sectors of Energy, Power and Auto Manufacturing,
If a client does not have a fully developed climate plan plans to increase production of electric vehicles
subject to data availability.
today, it does not mean that the client is not advancing (EVs), with many targeting to have >50% of global
• Added CSAF to the list of several factors that toward a low-carbon future. Updating CSAF profiles sales from EVs by 2030 or sooner.
inform corporate client lending decisions, helping annually enables us to understand the ways in which
• Approximately half of our Energy clients have
us understand how each loan may affect progress clients are evolving, as well as how the firm can help
targets to reduce or nearly eliminate methane
toward our 2030 interim targets. them with decarbonization-related solutions.
emissions by 2030 or sooner.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 46
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Maintain Carbon Neutral
Operations
Morgan Stanley is focused on the sustainability of
our operations, including maintaining our carbon
neutral status33 and 100% renewable electricity
throughout 2023 with the following strategies:
• Securing renewable electricity through our virtual
power purchase agreement (VPPA), on-site solar
arrays, unbundled green electricity tariffs, and
unbundled RECs.
• Purchasing carbon offsets to compensate for our
remaining operational emissions, in accordance
with the following strategy:
- Our carbon offset portfolio follows a governance
process to help ensure quality and credibility.
- Our strategy prioritizes removing carbon from
the atmosphere, with removal credits accounting
for approximately 81% of our portfolio in 2023.
- Projects are certified by an internationally
recognized carbon standard.
- We pursue projects that deliver benefits
supporting the U.N. SDGs.
- We remain committed to pursuing high-quality
offsets and exploring the use of offset purchases
to spur development in new technology.
We also support the development of market-based
instruments that help promote decarbonization
technologies, including Sustainable Aviation
Fuel certificates through our membership in the
Sustainable Aviation Buyers Alliance (SABA).
33 The firm’s carbon neutral status reflects the actions above. For any given year the determination of carbon neutrality is based on the best available data at the time of such determination. This data and related
methodologies are evolving and improving so that information for prior periods is subject to change and revision.
Carbon neutral status is a management-determined metric that may be viewed or calculated differently by others who may use the same “carbon neutral” terminology. Morgan Stanley has determined that the boundary
around our carbon neutrality status is scope 1, scope 2 location-based emissions, scope 3 business travel and downstream leased assets, carbon offsets purchased from the voluntary carbon market, green power
contracts, and market instruments (e.g., renewable energy certificates (RECs), energy attribute certificates (EACs)). There are instances where green power contracts and instruments that we accept for our purposes
to meet carbon neutrality do not align with the criteria required to reflect those purchases in our scope 2 market-based figure in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting
Standard (Revised Edition) (“GHG Protocol”). For our GHG emissions table aligned with the GHG protocol, please see the Operational Emissions section.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 47
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
C limate-Related industry groups and trade associations to provide In the European Union, we regularly engage
substantive, expert feedback to inform effective with policymakers in the European Commission,
Engagements global and national climate policies. Council and Parliament, via our trade associations,
in order to provide our substantive feedback on
Morgan Stanley is a member of the Center for Climate
the development of ESG requirements. Topics
and Energy Solutions’ Business Environmental
include the development of due diligence reporting
Leadership Council, the largest U.S.-based group
Climate Policy requirements and corporate sustainability reporting
of corporations focused on addressing climate
requirements, both of which include climate
challenges and supporting climate policy.
Morgan Stanley supports the Paris Agreement while change-related requirements. In the U.K., we
recognizing that significant global policy action is In 2023, policymakers continued to refine their work with policymakers and supervisors, via our
required to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050 and approach to climate regulation and policy, and trade associations, to provide commentary on the
mobilize the capital necessary to hit this milestone. we were pleased to provide our input. Upon their development of policy and technical provisions,
As a financial services firm with global reach, we invitation, we engaged with the Board of Governors including a wide range of disclosure requirements,
recognize that we have a role to play in helping of the Federal Reserve regarding climate scenario ways to mobilize capital to help advance the
to inform national and global climate policies that analysis, and with U.S. Treasury climate leadership net-zero agenda, and preparatory work on the
help support an orderly transition to a low-carbon regarding their Principles for Net-Zero Financing development of a potential green taxonomy.
economy. We support science-aligned and market- and Investment.
based policies, and engage with policymakers,
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 48
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Trade Associations
TRADE ORGANIZATION CLIMATE GROUP MEMBERSHIP
We work with our leading trade associations to
U.S. Chamber of Commerce Climate Action Task Force; Climate Solutions Working Group
promote positions that support common sense and
Financial Services Forum Climate Risk Working Group
cost-effective policies on a wide range of issues,
Bank Policy Institute Climate Working Group
including climate policy. These associations include the
American Bankers Association Climate Task Force
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association,
the Financial Services Forum, the Bank Policy Institute Institute of International Finance Sustainable Finance Policy Expert Group
and the Institute of International Finance, among others. Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association Sustainable Finance Task Force
A list of the principal U.S. trade associations of which Association for Financial Markets in Europe Sustainable Finance Steering Committee
Morgan Stanley is a member can be found here. Asia Securities Industry & Financial Markets Association Sustainable Finance Committee
Our participation in trade associations helps further U.K. Finance Sustainability Committee
Morgan Stanley’s work as a global financial services
firm; however, it does not imply that we always align
with their positions on all aspects of climate policy.
We provide our independent view as a member and
seek alignment where feasible and appropriate. Employee Education and with the Environmental Defense Fund, and key
takeaways from COP28 with Morgan Stanley leaders
Climate-focused trade organization working groups Engagement
who participated in the global summit.
of which we are a member are listed on the right.
Our climate strategy includes educating our We launched a firmwide foundational training on the
employees on the impacts of climate change and firm’s sustainability strategy and governance. We will
Industry Memberships
helping to equip them with the skills and resources continue to provide guidance going forward to help
they need to understand its impacts on the firm equip our employees with the knowledge to make
Morgan Stanley is a member of the Partnership for
and our clients. We have several initiatives that are climate-informed decisions.
Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) and the
relevant and available to employees across the firm,
Net-Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA). The frameworks In addition, the firm supports employee-driven
in addition to business unit-specific training.
and methodologies of these two expert organizations forums where individuals can organize and
help inform our thinking toward setting climate-related For example, in 2021, we created an in-house participate in events, networking opportunities
targets and measuring our progress. platform, now known as the Sustainability Knowledge and volunteer activities to engage in sustainability
Hub, to help employees make well-informed, climate- topics. Through a firmwide network with regional
Morgan Stanley publicly supported the Energy
related business decisions in a rapidly shifting global forums across the globe, employees have the
Transition Accelerator (ETA) when it launched at
landscape. The online platform provides a suite opportunity to learn more about sustainable finance
COP28 in December 2023. The ETA aims to develop an
of trainings, tools and resources. These learning and incorporate sustainability into their daily lives.
innovative carbon finance platform to catalyze private
modules are complemented by a speaker series in For example, the firm organizes programming every
investment to support energy decarbonization in
which internal and external experts provide relevant April for Sustainability Month, which encourages
developing and emerging markets.
and timely insights on topics ranging from climate employees to adopt sustainable behaviors inside
While it is important for us to consider industry best policy to technological solutions. Examples include a and outside of the office.
practice, we continue to make our own independent webinar on sustainable aviation fuel featuring SABA,
decisions regarding our climate strategy. a session on methane mitigation and management
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 49
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Climate Risk Management
Climate change may lead to financial risks for organizations, with consequences ranging in nature, severity and frequency.
As such, it is important for financial institutions to understand how their business and clients may be affected. Firm Risk
Management (FRM), in partnership with other areas of the firm, continues to focus on identifying and managing financial
risks related to climate change in order to limit their potential impact to Morgan Stanley.
Defining Climate Risks Such increased financial risks could increase higher average temperatures, rising sea levels and
our expenses and adversely impact our business long-term droughts. Such events could disrupt our
As informed by the TCFD, as well as various strategies, including by limiting our ability to pursue operations or those of our clients or third parties on
non-governmental organizations and regulators, certain activities or offer certain products and which we rely, including through direct damage to
Morgan Stanley categorizes the risks associated services. physical assets and indirect impacts from supply-
with climate change into two groups: transition risks chain disruption and market volatility. These events
Physical Risks: The physical impacts of climate
and physical risks. The timing, severity and impact could impact the ability of certain of our clients or
change include harm to people and property arising
of these risks are difficult to predict at this time. customers to repay their obligations, reduce the
from acute climate-related events such as hurricanes,
value of collateral, increase costs, including the cost
Transition Risks: Risks associated with the move heatwaves, droughts, floods or wildfire, and chronic,
or availability of insurance coverage, and result in
to a low-carbon economy generally fall into one of longer-term shifts in climate patterns, such as
other adverse effects.
three categories:
1 Policy and legal changes, such as local, national
or international regulation of carbon emissions
2 Technology advancements, such as replacement
of existing products with lower-emission options
3 Market developments, such as changes in
consumer and business sentiment or impacts
resulting from public perception of an
organization’s action or inaction on climate change
Depending on the nature, speed and breadth of these
changes, transition risks may pose varying degrees
of financial, reputational, regulatory, compliance or
other risks to Morgan Stanley as well as our clients or
third parties on which we rely. Negative impacts of
transition risks on certain clients, such as decreased
profitability or asset write-downs, could lead to
the firm experiencing increased financial risks.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 50
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Managing Climate Risks RISK IDENTIFICATION
The first step in managing climate risk requires Morgan Stanley monitors external developments
Morgan Stanley continues to expand its capabilities
correct identification of the climate risks that may and tracks the latest science to understand the
for identifying and managing the risks associated
impact Morgan Stanley’s products, business lines climate risks posed to the firm. FRM continues to
with climate change. To that end, FRM is responsible
and physical footprint. As with other types of risk evolve its centralized risk identification inventory
for overseeing the management of Morgan Stanley’s
identification, climate risk identification is critical to identify appropriate climate-related risks.
climate-related financial risks. FRM’s Central
to the measurement, monitoring and mitigation
Climate Risk team is responsible for working with
of financial risks to Morgan Stanley.
stakeholders in FRM and across the firm to identify,
monitor, mitigate and report on the climate-related
financial risks that the firm may face. Given the
global nature of climate risk, the Central Climate Risk
Morgan Stanley’s Risk Management Framework
team includes members in regions around the world
where Morgan Stanley has a significant presence,
including the Americas, EMEA and APAC.
Morgan Stanley manages climate risk through the application of its standard risk management
Morgan Stanley views climate risk not as a stand-
framework. This framework is divided into four steps:
alone risk type, but as an overarching risk that can
impact other risk types, such as credit risk, market
risk, operational risk and liquidity risk. As climate
risk is interconnected with other risk types, we have
1 2
developed and continue to enhance processes
to embed climate risk considerations into our risk
management strategies and governance structures. Identify Measure
Morgan Stanley’s 2022 ESG Report describes the
risk types overseen by FRM and the means by
which they may be impacted by climate risks
(see the “Climate Risk Management” section of
Morgan Stanley’s 2022 ESG Report).
4 3
Communicate Manage
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 51
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Scenario Analysis the Network of Central Banks and Supervisors for those we have identified as having concentrations
Greening the Financial System (NGFS) for guidance in geographies impacted by the physical risk
In order to measure, manage and communicate and best practices when designing transition risk being analyzed.
climate risks, we leverage scenario analysis, which scenarios. Transition risk scenarios are used to
In addition, Morgan Stanley’s Operational Risk
utilizes a variety of approaches to identify potential analyze the firm’s vulnerabilities, emerging changes
Department runs scenarios to assess and quantify
vulnerabilities in our business and to measure the in policies (such as carbon pricing) and the potential
potential losses that Morgan Stanley’s operations
resulting impact.34 We leverage Morgan Stanley’s economic impact of such policy changes. Scenarios
may incur as a result of climate-related physical
internal risk inventory and materiality assessments may be conducted for different time horizons and
risks. Supported by Fusion Response, which
to inform the design of our climate scenarios, which severities, and consider exposure concentrations by
researches the potential threats to operations, the
emphasize either transition risk or physical risk. sector and industry.
Operational Risk Department identifies and ranks
Morgan Stanley continues to enhance its scenario To conduct the analysis, FRM leverages existing the key physical risks for each of our main office
analysis capabilities, with a focus on areas in which economic scenario forecast models as a starting locations.
there is a greater degree of uncertainty as compared point to develop climate scenario forecasts. This
The physical risks are assessed in terms of damages
to established stress testing frameworks, such as the approach allows FRM to capture key macroeconomic
to Morgan Stanley’s physical assets as well as
quality of forward-looking climate data and climate and financial market variables across regions and
incremental losses incurred to maintain operations.
scenario modeling over longer-term time horizons. sectors. Climate-specific variables are then taken
As part of the assessment, the scenarios consider
Such uncertainties may be considered when using from widely recognized industry sources, such
the potential occurrence of severe weather events.
scenario analysis in the risk management process, as NGFS, or through input from Morgan Stanley
and the firm will continue to update its scenario Research. These variables are then incorporated
TIME HORIZONS FOR SCENARIO ANALYSIS
analysis processes as these data quality and into the macroeconomic scenarios.
analytical frameworks mature over time. Both transition and physical risks can materialize
over different time horizons. For example, episodic
PHYSICAL RISK SCENARIO ANALYSIS
extreme hurricanes present near-term physical
Physical risk scenario analysis helps Morgan Stanley
risks to vulnerable regions and populations, while
understand the potential impact that acute or chronic
Design scenario Run scenario transition risk measures, such as carbon taxes,
weather events could have on our business. Physical
Identify risks based on and analyze present longer-term challenges as economies adjust
identified risks results risk scenarios leverage internal inputs and models,
to increased costs and market or technological
and adjust them for climate-specific factors based
changes stemming from the implementation of
on the scenario narrative. The scenarios in focus
a potential tax on carbon. Institutions, such as
may be informed by the firm’s vulnerabilities or the
Morgan Stanley, therefore face the challenge of not
outcome of our risk identification process.
TRANSITION RISK SCENARIO ANALYSIS only identifying climate risks to their business, but
Transition risk scenario analysis helps Morgan Stanley Morgan Stanley has analyzed the potential financial also analyzing the likely timing, duration and severity
understand how a transition to a low-carbon economy consequences of climate events of varying degrees of each physical and transition risk they face.
may create financial risks to the firm. Morgan Stanley of impact, including acute events such as severe
leverages regulatory scenarios and scenarios from weather. The portfolios in scope are generally
34 Unlike established scenario frameworks for other risk categories (e.g., credit, market, and liquidity risks), scenario analyses for climate risk, covering a much longer time period and including varying assumptions regarding
mitigation, are still developing as data quality and analytics are enhanced. While the outcome of a climate risk scenario may be helpful to show trends over time or as one input in the risk management process, such
outcomes continue to be inherently uncertain and not comparable among companies.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 52
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Climate Risk Scores
FRM has developed climate-related scores to
assess the climate risk of sub-industries and
geographies. The scores are used in a number
of climate risk management-related processes,
including risk identification, scenario analysis
and credit risk ratings.
We categorize obligors and counterparties with
similar climate risk profiles into climate sub-
industries. Each climate sub-industry is assigned
a score for physical risk and transition risk using
climate data from external vendors, such as
historical damage losses and emissions intensity.
Climate Risk Governance
We maintain a governance process to regularly
communicate climate risk updates to key internal
stakeholders and committees. This process helps
ensure appropriate oversight and transparency.
The Climate Risk Committee (CRC) reports to the
Firm Risk Committee and subsequently the Board
Risk Committee, and oversees matters relating to and the firm’s exposure to physical and transition The CRC also receives reports from a number of
the firm’s financial and nonfinancial exposure climate risk. The CRC oversees the FRM Climate business unit and regional ESG committees on
to climate risk, including the integration of climate Steering Committee, which is responsible for climate risk-related matters, as reflected in ESG
risk considerations into firm decision-making reviewing climate risk-related matters within FRM. Governance here.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 53
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Climate Metrics and Targets
Metrics and targets are important to our climate strategy and help the firm track progress toward our climate-related goals.
Financed Emissions35,36
We announced initial 2030 interim financed 2030 Interim Financed Emissions Reduction Targets
emissions reduction targets in 2021. We track
progress toward them using our FELI metric.
For an in-depth explanation of this metric, please
Percent reduction in lending intensity metric compared to the 2019 base year
see the Methodology for Morgan Stanley’s 2030
Interim Financed Emissions Targets on the Path SECTOR 2030 REDUCTION TARGET
to Net-Zero.
Auto Manufacturing -35%
Energy -29%
Power -58%
35 The 2022 Absolute Financed Emissions information was subject to Deloitte & Touche LLP’s review. As such, Deloitte & Touche LLP expresses a conclusion only with respect to 2022 Absolute Financed Emissions.
See the Independent Accountant’s Review Report. The FELI data and 2030 interim financed emissions targets were not subject to Deloitte & Touche LLP’s review. As such, Deloitte & Touche LLP does not express a
conclusion with respect to the FELI data nor the 2030 interim financed emissions targets.
36 Morgan Stanley’s financed emissions methodology is described in Appendix 6.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 54
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Financed Emissions Lending Intensity
The following FELI metrics represent the amount of carbon emitted by clients for each $1 million in corporate lending committed by the firm as of year-end. We are disclosing
2022 FELI metrics for the first time in this report. There is a one-year time lag, as client emissions data is often unavailable until 12-18+ months after the fiscal year-end.
SECTOR (tCOe /$MM) 2019 2020 2021 2022
2
Auto Manufacturing 1,473 1,260 1,789 1,561
(Scope 1 + 2) 31 25 24 22
(Scope 3) 1,442 1,235 1,765 1,539
Energy 2,010 2,456 2,691 2,951
(Scope 1 + 2) 194 205 209 197
(Scope 3) 1,816 2,251 2,482 2,754
Power 1,320 1,105 1,127 1,153
(Scope 1 + 2) 821 673 711 783
(Scope 3) 499 432 416 370
SECTOR ATTRIBUTION ANALYSIS Energy: FELI increased by 10% from 2021. The from 2021 to 2022, FELI would have decreased by 1%
year-over-year increase was primarily driven by a versus the prior year. This highlights the challenges of
Several different factors can affect year-on-year
loan to a new client in 2022 whose business involves both considering delayed data when making lending
changes in our FELI metric including:
short-term ownership of a high volume of fuels. decisions and the lack of comparability of emissions
• Portfolio mix of corporate lending commitments
There was a significant underlying change in the data over time.
• Fluctuations in enterprise value, including cash reporting methodology for the client’s emissions from
Power: FELI increased by 2%. Increases in client EVIC
(EVIC) 2021 to 2022, resulting in a substantial increase in
values were offset by shifts in the client mix for 2022;
• Methodologies used to calculate a corporate emissions data reported by the third-party data vendor
however, the carbon emissions of existing clients
lending client’s estimated emissions when they for this client in 2022. If the reporting methodology
stayed relatively constant.
are not reported by the company for the client’s emissions had remained unchanged
• Changes in a corporate lending client’s actual
emissions
Please note that data in the FELI and AFE tables:
• Change in scope of emissions reported by a
• Were calculated using third-party data inputs, which include estimates, and Morgan Stanley does not guarantee the accuracy of such
corporate lending client information. While Morgan Stanley believes the data has been reasonably determined based on current practices, methodologies and
standards in this area continue to evolve and may change. Third-party data providers may restate such information from prior years
Auto Manufacturing: FELI decreased by 13% at which may cause us to restate prior-period emissions. See also Use of Third-Party Information and Estimates.
December 31, 2022, compared to December 31, • Are not comparable to financed emissions data of other financial institutions, which may have different business models and lending
practices, and may use different accounting methodologies and data to determine financed emissions.
2021. This was mainly due to increases in client EVIC
• May vary from year to year based on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Morgan Stanley introduced its interim targets
values and decreases in client carbon emissions. at the end of 2021 and did not manage FELI exposure from 2019-2021. Readers are cautioned not to use year-over-year results to make
conclusions on future progress toward interim targets, but to consider trends over a longer period of time.
• Were also not prepared in accordance with, and not meant to comply with, any current proposed or future regulatory
disclosure requirements.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT • Please also see “How Carbon Emission Data Challenges Impact our Target Reporting” on page 53 of our 2022 ESG Report. 55
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Absolute Financed Emissions (AFE)
Our 2030 targets are based on emissions intensity. However, we recognize that absolute emissions provide helpful additional context, and so we also report them,
using guidance from PCAF.
SECTOR (tCOe) 2019 2020 2021 202237,38
2
Auto Manufacturing 38,101 16,298 4,120 95,039
(Scope 1 + 2) 1,591 410 80 1,164
(Scope 3) 36,510 15,888 4,040 93,875
Energy 1,473,781 2,362,679 1,144,234 3,602,827
(Scope 1 + 2) 165,401 207,880 125,511 209,604
(Scope 3) 1,308,380 2,154,799 1,018,723 3,393,223
Power 882,542 394,107 843,878 861,149
(Scope 1 + 2) 484,811 264,409 350,646 492,157
(Scope 3) 397,731 129,698 493,232 368,992
METHODOLOGY NOTES Figures are reported as gross, and do not account Auto Manufacturing: For the Auto Manufacturing
for any use of offsets or removals by clients. sector portfolio, our AFE results demonstrate a
Our AFE calculations are informed by PCAF’s
substantial increase in 2022. This is primarily due to
methodology for business loans. We calculate AFE Per PCAF methodology, we only calculate AFE on
a change in the composition of borrowers and the
related to relationship and event-driven loans for loans that were drawn as of the last day of the
amount they have drawn on their facilities at year end.
three sectors within our corporate lending portfolio. year. Using drawn exposure amounts, rather than
Where financing is provided to entities that are committed exposure as used for our FELI-based Energy: For the Energy sector portfolio, the total
developing Power- or Energy-related projects, we targets, increases the variability of the metrics. amount that companies have drawn on their facilities
calculate financed emissions once the project is increased in 2022.
A small number of loans may not have financial
operational, and only for the operational emissions of
information available (for example, if the borrower Power: For the Power sector portfolio, 2022 AFE
those projects (i.e., we do not calculate the lifetime
has entered bankruptcy, or prior to operationalizing increased slightly due to an increase in the total
emissions of the projects nor the development-
a project). For 2022, excluded loans represented 3% amount that companies in this portfolio have drawn
related emissions while the project is being built).
of our lending on a total committed exposure basis. against their facilities.
Our AFE includes all three emissions scopes of our
There are no additional exclusions from our calculated
lending clients.
AFE population based on data, materiality or other
methodological issues.
37 The 2022 Absolute Financed Emissions information was subject to Deloitte & Touche LLP’s review. As such, Deloitte & Touche LLP expresses a conclusion only with respect to 2022 Absolute Financed Emissions.
See the Independent Accountant’s Review Report.
38 Morgan Stanley’s financed emissions methodology is described in Appendix 6.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 56
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
PCAF Data Quality Scores
Morgan Stanley’s calculation of data quality given emissions scope. For example, if a company
Data Quality Scores40
scores for our financed emissions reporting is reports emissions for just one single scope 3
informed by the PCAF guidance, but also based on category, the overall data quality score for scope 3
the methodology of our third-party data vendor. would only reflect that data has been reported,
This includes use of third-party data inputs, and despite emissions being estimated for other scope FINANCED EMISSIONS LENDING INTENSITY
sometimes requires estimates and assumptions 3 categories. This results in a data quality score
based on the availability of data. These scores that may imply higher quality data than had the YEAR SCOPE 1 + 2 SCOPE 3
indicate the quality of the source of the emissions estimation component also been considered.
data underlying our calculations, on a scale from 1 Morgan Stanley does not guarantee the accuracy 2019 2.5 2.9
to 5, with 1 being the highest quality. For example, of such information and methodologies as
company reported emissions are scored as higher standards in this area continue to evolve and 2020 2.4 2.8
data quality as they are specific and may be third- may change, which may also cause us to restate
party verified, whereas economic activity-based prior-period data quality scores in the future. 2021 2.3 2.8
emissions factors, which are used to estimate
The data quality scores for FELI and AFE differ. This
company emissions, are considered lower data 2022 2.3 2.5
is because FELI uses committed exposure and thus
quality. PCAF guidance recommends calculating a
includes all clients within our lending portfolio,
data quality score for scopes 1 and 2 separate from
whereas the AFE metric only includes clients that
a score for scope 3. For more information on the
have drawn exposure at year end. Data quality
PCAF methodology document.39
scores have improved year-on-year for both FELI
ABSOLUTE FINANCED EMISSIONS
Application of our third-party data vendor’s and AFE. However, we continue to see an overall
methodology may result in data quality scores which lower level of reported scope 3 emissions data
YEAR SCOPE 1 + 2 SCOPE 3
are not reflective of all emissions data within any from companies compared to scopes 1 and 2.
2019 3.4 3.5
2020 3.2 3.5
2021 3.2 3.6
2022 3.0 3.4
39 The PCAF Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard is not considered a part of or incorporated by reference into this Report.
40 The AFE and FELI PCAF Data Quality Scores information was not subject to Deloitte & Touche LLP’s review. As such, Deloitte & Touche LLP does not express a conclusion with respect to this information.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 57
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Operational Emissions
During 2023, location-based and market- of business travel and incremental electricity Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (“DEFRA”)
based emissions increased compared to 2022. consumption across our real estate footprint. emissions factor for commercial air travel and
Approximately half of the increase in location- The remainder of the year-over-year change was refinements of our estimation methodology
based emissions was due to higher volume driven by a change in the U.K. Department for and organizational boundary.
GHG Emissions Data
(Base Year)
EMISSIONS (mtCOe) 2012 2022 202341,42
2
Scope 1 28,098 27,268 24,201
Scope 1: Real Estate 24,005 22,805 19,694
Scope 1: Mobile Combustion 4,093 4,463 4,507
Scope 2 Location-Based 331,917 196,553 229,954
Scope 2 Market-Based 345,738 40,150 31,804
Total Location-Based: Scope 1 & 2 360,015 223,821 254,155
Total Market-Based: Scope 1 & 2 373,836 67,418 56,005
Scope 3 Total Category 6 & 13 113,349 57,268 98,289
Scope 3: Category 6 Business Travel 112,921 57,057 96,031
Scope 3: Category 13 Downstream Leased Assets 428 211 2,258
Total Location-Based Emissions 473,364 281,089 352,444
Total Market-Based Emissions 487,185 124,686 154,294
41 The 2023 Operational Emissions information was subject to Deloitte & Touche LLP’s review. See the Independent Accountant’s Review Report. Deloitte & Touche LLP previously performed a review engagement over the
2022 Operational Emissions information. See the Independent Accountant’s Review Report in the Morgan Stanley 2022 ESG Report. The 2012 Operational Emissions Base Year information was not subject to Deloitte &
Touche LLP’s review; accordingly, Deloitte & Touche LLP does not express a conclusion or any form of assurance on such information.
42 Morgan Stanley’s operational emissions methodology is described in Appendix 7.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 58
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Looking Ahead
Our approach to our net-zero ambition will evolve as methodologies, frameworks, science and data improve over time. As we
continue to enhance our climate strategy, we plan to take the following steps:
1 2 3
During 2024, we intend to set new sector Over time, we will include capital markets We will continue to develop our transition
interim targets that increase the scope of activities in our targets. We will assess plan as methodologies, frameworks and
financed emissions covered for our corporate our facilitated emissions and update our the policy environment evolves. This report
relationship lending portfolio. We will also methodology as appropriate. contains an Approach to Transition Index, that
revise our target methodology. We expect is informed by the Glasgow Financial Alliance
to release our new interim lending targets and (GFANZ) guidance for financial institutions.
provide details on the related methodology
changes in late 2024.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 59
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Governance ESG Governance
We believe Morgan Stanley’s governance and business practices help foster client
and Risk
and stakeholder trust, and mitigate risk. ESG governance starts with leadership
from the top and is embedded in committees and other governance bodies, policies
Management
and procedures across the firm. In 2023, Morgan Stanley continued enhancing our
firmwide ESG governance framework, as illustrated below.
ESG Governance Framework
Morgan Stanley Board
Governance
Risk Audit CMDS
and Sustainability
Committee Committee Committee
Committee
Firm ESG Firm Risk
Committee Committee
Firm ESG
Climate Risk
Franchise Disclosure
Committee
Committee Committee
Franchise ESG
Subcommittee
FRM U.S. Banks
ISG ESG MSWM ESG MSIM ESG Asia ESG Japan ESG EMEA ESG
Climate Steering Climate Risk
Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee
Committee Committee43
Board Level Committees Firmwide Oversight Committees Firmwide ESG Committees ESG Committees, including key Subcommittees/Working Groups
43 Separately reports up through the appropriate U.S. Banks Risk Committee chain.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 60
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Board Oversight and
Experience
Our Board committees have explicit oversight Operations and Technology Committee assists the consider director candidate qualifications in the
responsibilities for ESG across the firm. The Board’s Board in its oversight of operational risk, including context of the Board’s overall composition, with a
Governance and Sustainability Committee has business disruption, resilience and cybersecurity view toward experience in overseeing the firm’s
overseen ESG initiatives since 2011. The Board’s risks. The full Board is briefed on topics across each business and the challenges it faces, and toward
Risk Committee oversees climate risks. The Board’s theme, as appropriate. reflecting the diversity of the firm’s workforce and
CMDS Committee assists the Board in its oversight of clients, and the communities it serves.
Morgan Stanley believes that an effective board
strategies, policies and practices related to human
features individuals with a diverse set of skills and Additional information about our directors are
capital, including diversity and inclusion. The Board’s
a range of tenures. The Board, and the Governance included on pages 17-25 of our 2024 Proxy
Audit Committee oversees the firm’s voluntary public
and Sustainability Committee specifically, regularly Statement.
sustainability and climate disclosures. The Board’s
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 61
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Stakeholder Engagement
We engage with stakeholders on a range of ESG topics, as illustrated below.
STAKEHOLDER GROUP FORMS OF ENGAGEMENT 2023 EXAMPLES
• Ongoing dialogue with institutional investors Our GSO, Diversity & Inclusion, and Environmental and Social Risk Management
• Use of investor-focused voluntary ESG reporting frameworks to inform teams joined Investor Relations in engagements with institutional shareholders
this report on ESG topics throughout 2023. Discussions covered climate change and
biodiversity, diversity and inclusion, firmwide strategy, governance and
Shareholders • Responses to inbound questions and surveys compensation practices, among other topics.
• Events and analysis on sustainable investing and finance topics We held a number of ESG conferences for clients and other stakeholders
• Collaboration on new product development to meet client ESG needs globally, including the Morgan Stanley Sustainable Finance Summit.
Sustainability-focused business units from across the firm hosted the four-
• Ongoing dialogue with clients
day event attended by corporates, investment managers and allocators.
Clients • Responses to inbound questionnaires, requests for proposals, surveys Key topics included the clean-energy transition, AI and ESG data, the evolving
ESG reporting landscape, and DEI initiatives.
• Employee networks, events and campaigns (see Employee Networks) The Employee Sustainability Forum in Glasgow partnered with Women in
• Company intranet, which includes articles and other resources Technology to host a panel discussion on the Future of U.K. Energy to discuss
the need for sustainable, affordable and reliable energy sources to reach the
• Employee surveys
U.K.’s net-zero target of 2050.
Employees
• Morgan Stanley events The Morgan Stanley Institute for Sustainable Investing and World Wildlife
• One-on-one or small-group dialogues on sustainability topics, risks or Fund hosted a roundtable about the opportunities and challenges of investing
emerging issues in nature, which gathered company executives, investors, development
finance institutions and more. The discussion encompassed the importance of
Non-Governmental • Direct involvement in collaborative initiatives and membership standardizing “nature-positive” investing, the need to identify viable investing
Organizations (NGOs) organizations (see Key Memberships and Affiliations below) models, and the actions that public and private sectors can take to catalyze
and Civil Society investing in nature. For more information, visit our website.
KEY MEMBERSHIPS AND AFFILIATIONS
• Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) • Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN) • Net-Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA)
• Center for Climate and Energy Solutions (C2ES) • HRC Corporate Equality Index • One Planet Summit—Asset Managers Initiative
• Catalyst CEO Champions for Change • International Capital Market Association (ICMA) • Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF)
• Corporate Eco Forum (CEF) • The IFRS Sustainability Alliance • Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI)
• CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion • Impact Investing Institute (III) • Sustainable Markets Initiative
• Ceres • Impact Capital Managers • Sustainable Aviation Buyers Alliance (SABA)
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 62
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
G overnance and Business Ethics
For decades, Morgan Stanley’s governance framework and reputation for integrity have helped reduce business risk and
provided a foundation for success. Our core values underpin this culture and drive our efforts to meet client needs, deliver value
for investors, and help contribute to an inclusive and equitable society.
Ethical Business Conduct Promoting a Harassment-Free
Workplace
As a global financial institution, our ethical
standards are an integral part of our governance
Morgan Stanley supports a professional work
framework. We reinforce our focus on integrity
environment where equal opportunity, dignity and
through our Code of Conduct and Code of Ethics
respect are prioritized. We expect every manager
and Business Conduct, which together guide the
and employee to recognize diverse points of view,
day-to-day behavior of the approximately 80,000
make decisions based on merit and lead with
members of our workforce. Every employee is
integrity. Our workplace policies set the tone, guiding
required, upon hire and annually thereafter, to
employee conduct and actions. These policies
certify that they have read, understand, are in
include our Code of Conduct, Non-Discrimination
compliance with, and agreed to abide by our
and Anti-Harassment policies, and Global Speaking
Code of Conduct.
Up and Reporting Concerns policies. We also
empower our people to express their concerns
Combating Corruption through our confidential Integrity Hotline,
available worldwide.
Morgan Stanley prohibits all forms of bribery and
corruption. To combat such practices, we have
Political Activity
implemented policies, procedures and internal
controls that are reasonably designed to comply
Morgan Stanley’s Corporate Political Activities Policy
with applicable anti-corruption laws and regulations
Statement is approved by the Board’s Governance
in the jurisdictions where we operate. Our Global
and Sustainability Committee, and sets out our
Anti-Corruption Policy, updated annually, lays out
policies on U.S. political contributions, lobbying
rules to mitigate corruption risk, and all employees
activities and trade association participation.
receive related training at least once a year. We also
In accordance with the policy, we do not make
provide additional, targeted training for relevant
corporate contributions at the U.S. federal, state
employees, and conduct risk-based monitoring
and local levels.
and testing to encourage and assess employee
compliance. For more information on our anti-
corruption program, see our Code of Conduct.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 63
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Risk Management
Risk is an inherent part of financial services, and effective risk management is vital to the success of our firm.
Our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework the ERM framework, and five key principles comprise and related policies and procedures. ESRM also
integrates the diverse roles of risk management into this philosophy: integrity, comprehensiveness, conducts due diligence on relevant transactions and
a holistic enterprise structure and incorporates risk independence, accountability and transparency. clients, engages with stakeholders, and monitors
assessment into firm decision-making processes. certain emerging risks and developments in
For more information on risk management, including
partnership with our business units, GSO and other
We have policies and procedures in place to identify, governance priorities, see our 2023 Form 10-K and
relevant control functions.
measure, monitor, escalate, mitigate and control the our 2024 Proxy Statement.
principal risks facing our three business segments Morgan Stanley regularly engages with external and
and the larger firm. These risks are financial and non- Addressing Environmental and internal stakeholders on environmental and social
financial, and include market (including non-trading topics. We review our policies annually and update
Social Risk
risks), credit, liquidity, model, operational (including them as necessary to reflect our strategy and key
cybersecurity), compliance (including conduct), Our due diligence and risk management processes developments.
financial crime, strategic and reputational risks. are designed to identify, assess and, as appropriate,
As a result of this year’s review of the Environmental
Strategic risk is integrated into our business planning, address potentially significant environmental
and Social Policy Statement, we have revised our
embedded in the evaluation of all principal risks and and social issues relevant to our business. Our
due diligence considerations to include our clients’
overseen by the Board. Environmental and Social Risk Management (ESRM)
methane reduction and abatement plans for oil and
Group provides internal subject matter expertise
The cornerstone of our risk management philosophy gas transactions, and provided additional details on
on environmental and social risk, and manages
is the pursuit of risk-adjusted returns through our approach to human rights due diligence and a
the development and implementation of our
prudent risk-taking that protects our capital base and just climate transition.
Environmental and Social Policy Statement (ESPS)
franchise. This philosophy is implemented through
SUMMARY OF MORGAN STANLEY’S ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL POLICY
SCOPE GOVERNANCE SECTOR APPROACHES CROSS-SECTOR APPROACHES
The Policy is applied globally across the The Policy Statement is reviewed annually Morgan Stanley has tailored approaches We also have tailored approaches to
following types of transactions: and updated as necessary. Any proposed to certain sectors and activities including: certain cross-sector environmental and
• Lending amendments are presented to the Global • P ower generation (Coal, Hydropower, Nuclear) social issues, including:
• Debt and equity underwriting Franchise Committee for approval, and • M ining (Thermal Coal Mining, Metals Mining) • Climate change
• Private placements material amendments are presented to the • Oil and Gas (Arctic Oil and Gas, Oil Sands, • H uman rights
• Investment banking and capital markets Governance and Sustainability Committee Ultra Deepwater Oil and Gas, Shale Oil and Gas, • Indigenous Peoples
advisory assignments of the board of directors for approval. Oil and Gas Transportation Pipelines, Liquefied • Biodiversity, critical habitats and
• Investment management activities related Natural Gas (LNG) Export) critical cultural heritage
to private equity, private real assets and • Forestry
private credit investing • Agricultural Commodities
• Other transactions or activities as
applicable and appropriate
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 64
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
REVIEWING TRANSACTIONS For more information on ESRM’s process and tailored Operational Resilience
approaches to certain sectors and thematic issues
Transactions that pose potential environmental and
Morgan Stanley’s critical processes and businesses
such as climate change and biodiversity, please refer
social risks are reviewed by the relevant business
could be disrupted by events including cyberattacks,
to our Environmental and Social Policy Statement.
units and the ESRM Group as outlined in the ESPS.
failure or loss of access to technology and/or associated
Our due diligence processes may include review
data, military conflicts, acts of terror, natural disasters,
of a company’s policies and practices, operations, HUMAN RIGHTS
severe weather events, and infectious diseases. We
track record and management of specific risks, Morgan Stanley acknowledges its corporate
maintain a resilience program designed to provide for
engagement with the client and/or reports by responsibility to respect human rights, as described
operational resilience and enable us to respond to and
or consultation with independent third parties, in the International Bill of Human Rights and the
recover critical processes and supporting assets in the
as appropriate. Transactions that carry potential International Labour Organization’s Declaration on
event of a disruption impacting our people, technology,
franchise risks associated with environmental Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and
facilities and third parties. The key elements of the
and social issues may also be escalated to senior associated conventions. Our approach is informed
firm’s resilience program include business continuity
management and/or our Regional and Global by the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business
management, technology disaster recovery, third-
Franchise Committees. and Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for
party resilience and key business service resilience.
Multinational Enterprises.
Resilience testing is performed both internally and with
2023 Transactions by Industry As outlined in the Environmental and Social critical third parties to validate recovery capability in
Policy Statement, we conduct due diligence for accordance with business requirements. The firm’s
Reviewed by the ESRM Group
transactions with potentially heightened human resilience program is applied consistently firmwide
rights risks, including modern slavery, adverse and is aligned with regulatory requirements.
INDUSTRY44 COMPLETED IN 2023
impacts on Indigenous Peoples and vulnerable
Utilities 166
communities, involuntary resettlement and NAVIGATING GEOPOLITICAL RISKS
Industrials 98
operations in conflict-affected areas. When Geopolitical risks are top of mind for our business
Energy 90
human rights-related impacts are identified during and sector, as they can impact our ability to serve our
Materials 80 due diligence, Morgan Stanley engages with clients, disrupt business and operations, and threaten
Consumer Discretionary 58 clients to understand how such issues are being our ability to protect firm data.
Financials 42 addressed, including plans for remediation and
The firm’s crisis response teams lead efforts to protect
stakeholder engagement. Based on our assessment,
Consumer Staples 30
the firm’s people, operations and assets, and prepare
certain transactions may be escalated to senior
Information Technology 24 for the effects of geopolitical risks to our business
management.
Real Estate 23 through its Significant Event Readiness process. This
Communication Services 21 For more information on our approach to human includes analytical deep dives into risks, focused on
rights, see Morgan Stanley’s Environmental and where our staff live and operations take place, and
Health Care 16
Social Policy Statement, Statement on Human Rights, country- and office-specific analyses to further assess
648
TOTAL Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement, risks to the firm and its clients. The team then works with
and the Supplier Code of Conduct. regional and local firm and business unit management
to monitor, assess and prepare for ongoing risks,
including through enhanced planning activities and
frequent intelligence summaries on risk trends.
44 The industry categories presented in this table are based on The Global Industry Classification Standard® sector classification.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 65
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
COMBATING NATURAL DISASTERS Cybersecurity
Climate and attendant weather-related events
Our business and the broader financial services
have the potential to impact our facilities around
industry face an increasingly complex and evolving
the world. Together, our Corporate Services and
threat environment. We have made and continue
crisis response teams evaluate and prepare for the
to make substantial investments in cybersecurity
potential effects on our direct operations.
and fraud prevention technology, and employ
Fusion Response, which is part of our Cyber Data experienced talent to lead our Cybersecurity and
Risk & Resilience Division, combines risk intelligence, Information Security organizations and program,
event detection and monitoring, and cyber, crisis under the oversight of the Board and the Operations
management and technology expertise to enable and Technology Committee (BOTC) of the Board.
effective collaboration in managing climate-related
As part of our ERM framework, we have implemented
events that could significantly disrupt our business.
and maintain a program to assess, identify and
In 2023, the Fusion Response team monitored 80
manage risks arising from the cybersecurity threats
weather and other natural hazards, and reacted to
confronting the firm (Cybersecurity Program). Our threat intelligence function within the
26 of these events, including hurricanes, wildfires,
Our Cybersecurity Program helps protect our Cybersecurity Program actively engages in private
blizzards and tornadoes.
clients, customers, employees, property, products, and public information sharing communities, and
We most recently implemented recovery strategies services and reputation by seeking to preserve leverages both commercial and proprietary products
in 2023 when wildfires resulted in poor air quality the confidentiality, integrity and availability of to collect a wide variety of industry and governmental
across the northeast United States and southern information, enable the secure delivery of financial information regarding the latest cybersecurity
Canada. Our top concern was for the health and services, and protect the business and the safe threats, which informs our cybersecurity risk
safety of our staff in the impacted areas, which operation of our technology systems. We continually assessments and strategy. In addition, we maintain a
included major cities such as New York and Montreal. adjust our Cybersecurity Program to address the robust global training program on cybersecurity risks
Our crisis response teams ran Command and Control evolving cybersecurity threat landscape and comply and requirements, and conduct regular phishing email
for the incident, coordinating air intake settings with extensive legal and regulatory expectations. simulations for our employees and consultants.
for impacted buildings, communicating with firm
At least annually, the BOTC or the Board reviews and
management on work-from-home guidance, and Data Protection and Client Privacy
approves the Global Cybersecurity Program Policy,
distributing talking points to managers to share with
the Global Information Security Program Policy,
Our business maintains physical, technical and
staff, among other required actions.
the Global Third-Party Risk Management Policy,
administrative safeguards that help protect the
For more on how we address climate risks facing our and the Global Technology Policy. We periodically confidentiality and privacy of our clients’ information.
business, see the Climate Risk Management section assess the design of our cybersecurity controls Our global data-protection and privacy policies and
of this report. against the Cyber Risk Institute Cyber Profile, which procedures govern the collection, storage, access,
is based on the National Institute of Standards and
use and disclosure of such information. Senior leaders
Technology Cybersecurity Framework for Improving
from our Legal and Compliance and Risk Management
Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity, as well as
teams oversee these standards.
global and local cybersecurity regulations, and
develop improvements to those controls in response Morgan Stanley also informs clients and employees
to that assessment. Senior management discuss about how and why it collects personal information.
cybersecurity developments with the chair of the For more information, see our Privacy Pledge.
BOTC between Board and committee meetings,
as necessary.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 66
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Appendices
Appendix 1: 2023 ESG Data
OUR BUSINESS DATA AS OF YEAR-END 2023
Total Employees 80,000
Number of Countries With Office Locations 42
CLIMATE GOALS
Carbon Neutrality Maintained carbon neutral status45 and 100% renewable electricity throughout 2023
Financed Emissions Aiming to achieve net-zero financed emissions by 2050, including 2030 interim sector targets
for our most carbon-intensive sectors in our corporate lending portfolio (compared to the 2019
base year):
• Auto Manufacturing (-35%)
• Energy (-29%)
• Power (-58%)
HUMAN CAPITAL
Global Senior Leadership
% Women 31%: Board
23%: Operating Committee
27%: Management Committee
% Ethnically Diverse46 31%: Board
31%: Operating Committee
27%: Management Committee
45 See Maintain Carbon Neutral Operations section of this report for more details.
This information was subject to Deloitte & Touche LLP’s review. See the Independent Accountant’s Review Report.
46 E thnicity for our Board, Operating Committee and Management Committee is represented globally..
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 67
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
HUMAN CAPITAL DATA AS OF YEAR-END 2023
Global Women
Firmwide 40%: Overall
29%: Officers47
Americas 39%: Overall
28%: Officers
Europe, Middle East and Africa 39%: Overall
29%: Officers
Asia 43%: Overall
32%: Officers
U.S. Ethnically Diverse48
U.S. Black 8%: Overall
4%: Officers
U.S. Hispanic 9%: Overall
6%: Officers
U.S. Asian 15%: Overall
16%: Officers
Campus Recruiting
Global Women 48%: Full-time
51%: Summer
U.S. Black 13%: Full-time
15%: Summer
U.S. Hispanic 15%: Full-time
15%: Summer
U.S. Asian 31%: Full-time
33%: Summer
This information was subject to Deloitte & Touche LLP’s review. See the Independent Accountant’s Review Report.
47 M organ Stanley’s definitions for Officers and racial/ethnic groups are outlined in Appendix 8: Workforce Diversity Data Methodology.
48 I bid.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 68
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
CLIMATE
Operational GHG Emissions Data49
(Base Year)
EMISSIONS (mtCOe) 2012 2022 202350
2
Scope 1 28,098 27,268 24,201
Scope 1: Real Estate 24,005 22,805 19,694
Scope 1: Business Travel 4,093 4,463 4,507
Scope 2 Location-Based 331,917 196,553 229,954
Scope 2 Market-Based 345,738 40,150 31,804
Total Location-Based: Scope 1 & 2 360,015 223,821 254,155
Total Market-Based: Scope 1 & 2 373,836 67,418 56,005
Scope 3 Total Category 6 & 13 113,349 57,268 98,289
Scope 3: Category 6 Business Travel 112,921 57,057 96,031
Scope 3: Category 13 Downstream Leased Assets 428 211 2,258
Total Location-Based Emissions 473,364 281,089 352,444
Total Market-Based Emissions 487,185 124,686 154,294
Financed Emissions Lending Intensity51 Absolute Financed Emissions52
SECTOR (tCOe/$MM) 2019 2020 2021 2022 SECTOR (tCOe) 2019 2020 2021 202253
2 2
Auto Manufacturing 1,473 1,260 1,789 1,561 Auto Manufacturing 38,101 16,298 4,120 95,039
(Scope 1 + 2) 31 25 24 22 (Scope 1 + 2) 1,591 410 80 1,164
(Scope 3) 1,442 1,235 1,765 1,539 (Scope 3) 36,510 15,888 4,040 93,875
Energy 2,010 2,456 2,691 2,951 Energy 1,473,781 2,362,679 1,144,234 3,602,827
(Scope 1 + 2) 194 205 209 197 (Scope 1 + 2) 165,401 207,880 125,511 209,604
(Scope 3) 1,816 2,251 2,482 2,754 (Scope 3) 1,308,380 2,154,799 1,018,723 3,393,223
Power 1,320 1,105 1,127 1,153 Power 882,542 394,107 843,878 861,149
(Scope 1 + 2) 821 673 711 783 (Scope 1 + 2) 484,811 264,409 350,646 492,157
(Scope 3) 499 432 416 370 (Scope 3) 397,731 129,698 493,232 368,992
49 See Operational Emissions for additional contextual information, as well as Appendix 7 for Morgan Stanley’s operational emissions methodology.
50 The 2023 Operational Emissions information was subject to Deloitte & Touche LLP’s review. See the Independent Accountant’s Review Report. Deloitte & Touche LLP previously performed a review engagement
over the 2022 Operational Emissions information. See the Independent Accountant’s Review Report, page 111 in the Morgan Stanley 2022 ESG Report. The 2012 Operational Emissions Base Year information was not
subject to Deloitte & Touche LLP’s review; accordingly, Deloitte & Touche LLP does not express a conclusion or any form of assurance on such information.
51 Carbon data is also significantly lagged, which means that we do not obtain new client carbon data sets until 12-18+ months after the underlying emissions-generating activities have taken place.
52 I bid.
53 The 2022 Absolute Financed Emissions information was subject to Deloitte & Touche LLP’s review. As such, Deloitte & Touche LLP expresses a conclusion only with respect to 2022 Absolute Financed Emissions.
See the Independent Accountant’s Review Report.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 69
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
SUSTAINABLE FINANCE DATA AS OF YEAR-END 2023
Firmwide Goal
$1 Trillion Sustainable Finance Target $820Bn+ to date, including $640Bn+ in low-carbon and green solutions
Institutional Securities
ESG-Labeled Debt Facilitated $97Bn+ in 2023*
D&I Coordinator Transactions 16 large-scale investment-grade bond transactions in 2023
Transactions In Renewable Assets ~5.7MM MWhs of renewable energy, including sources of power generated by wind, solar and
hydroelectric facilities in 2023
Wealth Management
Investing With Impact Client Assets54 ~$77Bn*
Number of Investing With Impact Strategies 360+
Number of Clients Served by the IIP 336,000+
Morgan Stanley IQ Client Assets $53Bn+ in assets with a Morgan Stanley IQ® profile
% IIP Products That Are Either Low Carbon or Align With Environmental Themes From 45%
Morgan Stanley Impact Quotient®
IIP Products That Intentionally Address D&I Themes Or Are From Diverse-Owned 146
Asset Management Firms
Investment Management
AUM With Sustainability Features $50Bn+*
Community Development Finance
CRA-Qualified Community Development Loans and Investments Over $3Bn in 2023*
Inclusive Ventures Lab
Participants 2017-2023 92
Valuation of Inclusive Venture Lab Companies 2017-2023 ~$1Bn
* All or a portion of the assets represented by this metric have been counted toward the firm’s Sustainable Finance Target.
54 Client assets invested on a Morgan Stanley platform dedicated to sustainable and impact investing.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 70
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
RISK MANAGEMENT DATA AS OF YEAR-END 2023
Number of Weather and Other Natural Hazard Events the Firm Reacted to in 202355 26
2023 Transactions by Industry Reviewed by ESRM Group 166: Utilities
98: Industrials
90: Energy
80: Materials
58: Consumer Discretionary
42: Financials
30: Consumer Staples
24: Information Technology
23: Real Estate
21: Communication Services
16: Health Care
648: Total
55 S uch as triaging events with local subject matter experts or sending communications to potentially impacted individuals.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 71
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Appendix 2: 2023 EEO-1 Data56
Each year, the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) requires all companies that meet specific criteria to
complete an EEO-1 survey. The annual survey requires that a company’s U.S. employment data be categorized by race/ethnicity
and gender in EEOC-defined job categories.
Morgan Stanley recognizes the value of public disclosure of standardized data across companies and industries and,
as a result, we have committed to releasing our U.S. EEO-1 data annually.
HISPANIC MALE FEMALE
Native American Native American
Black or Hawaiian Indian or Two Black or Hawaiian Indian or Two
African or Pacific Alaska or More African or Pacific Alaska or More
EEO CATEGORY Male Female White American Asian Islander Native Races White American Asian Islander Native Races TOTAL
Executive/Senior Officials
and Managers 33 12 773 35 115 0 2 6 254 28 77 0 0 4 1,339
First/Mid Officials
and Managers 473 387 4,775 429 2,097 10 22 120 2,750 454 1,289 4 14 87 12,911
Professionals 1,259 1,405 6,104 1,108 1,692 22 24 279 6,548 1,409 1,754 38 33 303 21,978
Sales Workers 689 210 9,603 202 453 12 19 141 2,179 67 308 6 5 50 13,944
Administrative Support 53 167 192 66 55 1 2 9 445 203 94 2 1 26 1,316
TOTAL 2,507 2,181 21,447 1,840 4,412 45 69 555 12,176 2,161 3,522 50 53 470 51,488
56 The 2023 EEO-1 Data was not subject to Deloitte & Touche LLP’s review. As such, Deloitte & Touche LLP does not expresses a conclusion with respect to the 2023 EEO-1 Data.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 72
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Appendix 3: SASB Index57
The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) guidance for 1) Investment Banking and Brokerage, 2) Commercial
Banking, and 3) Asset Management and Custody Activities helps inform the content, narrative and data included in this report.
The following table highlights sections of the report and other public disclosures that include information related to SASB’s
metrics as of the year ending December 31, 2023.
The SASB standards are now a part of the ISSB under the IFRS Foundation. Morgan Stanley is a member of the IFRS Sustainability
Alliance, and is monitoring the standards being developed by the ISSB. We aim to provide investors with useful, relevant and
meaningful sustainability information within the context of our businesses, and may evolve our disclosure on these topics over time.
SASB CODE SASB METRIC MORGAN STANLEY RESPONSE58
Topic: Employee Diversity & Inclusion
FN-IB-330a.1 Percentage of 1) gender, and 2) diversity group representation We disclose global gender representation and U.S. diversity representation; see the Workforce
FN-AC-330a.1 for (a) executive management, (b) non-executive management, Diversity Data section on page 34 as well as our 2023 EEO-1 Data in Appendix 2.
(c) professionals, and (d) all other employees
Topic: Incorporation of Environmental, Social and Governance Factors
FN-IB-410a.1 Revenue from (1) underwriting, (2) advisory, and (3) securitization Morgan Stanley does not disclose ESG revenue metrics at this time.
transactions incorporating integration of ESG factors, by industry
FN-IB-410a.2 (1) Number, and (2) total value of investments and loans Various teams across the firm incorporate ESG factors into loan and investment decisions. For
incorporating integration of ESG factors, by industry example, we are committed to mobilizing $1 trillion toward sustainable solutions by 2030, which
is inclusive of investments, loans and other products. Since 2018, we’ve mobilized $820 billion+
in capital toward our $1 trillion goal, including $640 billion+ in low-carbon and green solutions.
See the Sustainable Finance section for more information.
For information on transactions that were reviewed in accordance with our Environmental and
Social Policy Statement: (industry and number), see the Environmental and Social Risk Management
(ESRM) section.
FN-IB-410a.3 Description of approach to incorporation of ESG factors in Institutional Securities’ sustainability activities are provided in the Sustainable Finance section.
investment banking and brokerage activities Our approach to integrating climate considerations into lending decisions and credit evaluation is
outlined in the Climate Strategy section.
The ESRM review process and the number of transactions reviewed by the ESRM Group by industry
can be found in the Addressing Environmental and Social Risk section, as well as our Environmental
and Social Policy Statement.
57 T he SASB Index was not subject to Deloitte & Touche LLP’s review. As such, Deloitte & Touche LLP does not expresses a conclusion with respect to this Index nor its alignment to the SASB Standards.
58 I f a metric is not addressed in the report, we have provided links to public disclosures that include relevant information.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 73
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
SASB CODE SASB METRIC MORGAN STANLEY RESPONSE58
Topic: Incorporation of Environmental, Social and Governance Factors
FN-CB-410a.2 Description of approach to incorporation of ESG factors in credit FRM, in partnership with other areas of the firm, continues to focus on identifying and managing
analysis financial risks related to climate change to limit their potential impact on Morgan Stanley. See the
Climate Risk Management section on pages 78-79 of our 2023 Form 10-K.
FN-AC-410a.1 Amount of assets under management, by asset class, that employ Wealth Management
(1) integration of environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues, Investing with Impact Client Assets by Asset Class:
(2) sustainability themed investing, and (3) screening • Equity: ~$32Bn
• Fixed Income: ~$7Bn
• Cash Equivalents: ~$73MM
• Other59: ~$37Bn
• Total: Nearly $77Bn*
Investment Management
Over $50 billion in AUM with Sustainability Features60*
FN-AC-410a.2 Description of approach to incorporation of ESG factors in Overview of our Wealth Management processes are provided in the Wealth Management section.
investment or wealth management processes and strategies For more information, see our Investing with Impact brochure. Overview of Morgan Stanley
Investment Management processes is provided in the Investment Management section. For more
information, see our Sustainable Investing Policy.
FN-AC-410a.3 Description of proxy voting and investee engagement policies Overview of Morgan Stanley Investment Management engagement practices related to ESG are
and procedures provided in the Investment Management section. In addition, see Morgan Stanley Investment
Management’s Proxy Voting Policy and Procedures, Calvert’s Global Proxy Voting Guidelines and
Parametric’s Corporate Governance Principles.
Topic: Business Ethics
FN-IB-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings Material legal proceedings for the firm are disclosed on pages 125-129 of our 2023 Form 10-K.
FN-CB-510a.1 associated with fraud, insider trading, anti-trust, anti-competitive
FN-AC-510a.1 behavior, market manipulation, malpractice, or other related
financial industry laws or regulations
FN-IB-510a.2 Description of whistleblower policies and procedures Please review the Raising Legal and Ethical Concerns and Reporting Misconduct section of our
FN-CB-510a.2 Code of Conduct that defines the firm’s policies and procedures.
FN-AC-510a.2
59 Other includes Third-Party Multi-Asset products, Custom Graystone + Dual Contract and Alternative Impact Products.
60 This AUM figure includes funds and mandates with at least one of the following sustainability features: 1.impact objectives, 2. sustainability theme objectives, 3. tilts based on sustainability factors,
4. low-carbon or net-zero commitments. Parametric Portfolio Associates LLC AUM is not currently included in this figure.
* All or a portion of the assets represented by this metric have been counted toward the firm’s Sustainable Finance Target.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 74
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
SASB CODE SASB METRIC MORGAN STANLEY RESPONSE58
Topic: Professional Integrity
FN-IB-510b.1 (1) Number, and (2) percentage of licensed employees and Morgan Stanley does not disclose this metric at this time.
identified decision-makers with a record of investment-related
investigations, consumer-initiated complaints, private civil
litigations, or other regulatory proceedings
FN-IB-510b.2 Number of mediation and arbitration cases associated with Morgan Stanley does not disclose this metric at this time.
professional integrity, including duty of care, by party
FN-IB-510b.3 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings Morgan Stanley does not disclose this metric at this time. The firm’s legal expenses are disclosed
associated with professional integrity, including duty of care on page 126 of our 2023 Form 10-K.
FN-IB-510b.4 Description of approach to ensuring professional integrity, Our Code of Conduct and Code of Ethics and Business Conduct describe our ethical business
including duty of care practices, guiding the day-to-day behavior of our employees worldwide. We require every
employee to certify his or her adherence to, and understanding of, the Code of Conduct when
joining the firm, and on an annual basis thereafter.
Topic: Systemic Risk Management
FN-IB-550a.1 Global Systemically Important Bank (G-SIB) score, by category See pages 54 and 56 of our 2023 Form 10-K.
FN-CB-550a.1
FN-IB-550a.2 Description of approach to integrate results of mandatory and See page 57 as well as additional references to stress testing within our 2023 Form 10-K.
FN-CB-550a.2 voluntary stress tests into capital adequacy planning, long-term Separately, with respect to climate change, Morgan Stanley is conducting scenario analyses in the
corporate strategy, and other business activities two major categories identified by TCFD: transition risk and physical risk. For more information,
see the Climate Risk Management section.
Topic: Employee Incentives & Risk-taking
FN-IB-550b.1 Percentage of total remuneration that is variable for Material Risk Our MRT policies and procedures align with regulatory principles and requirements, and are
Takers (MRTs) overseen by the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee of the
Board. In 2023, an average of 60% of total compensation was variable for material risk-takers,
of which 38% was subject to cancellation or clawback provisions. Employees who violate
firm policies may be subject to disciplinary action, including cancellation and clawback of
compensation, reduction of cash bonuses, or termination of employment.
FN-IB-550b.2 Percentage of variable remuneration of MRTs to which malus or See above.
clawback provisions were applied
FN-IB-550b.3 Discussion of policies around supervision, control and validation Morgan Stanley does not disclose this metric at this time.
of traders’ pricing of Level 3 assets and liabilities
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 75
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
SASB CODE SASB METRIC MORGAN STANLEY RESPONSE58
Topic: Data Security
FN-CB-230a.1 (1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage that are personal For security and privacy reasons, Morgan Stanley does not disclose this metric. Review the
data breaches, (3) number of account holders affected Data Protection and Client Privacy section for more details.
FN-CB-230a.2 Description of approach to identifying and addressing data Overview of our activities regarding data security risk are provided in the Cybersecurity section as
security risks well as the Cybersecurity section of our 2023 Form 10-K, pages 26-27.
Topic: Financial Inclusion & Capacity Building
FN-CB-240a.1 (1) Number, and (2) amount of loans outstanding that qualify for We made over $3 billion* in Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) qualified community
programs designed to promote small business and community development loans and investments in 2023. For more information, see the Community
development Development Finance section.
FN-CB-240a.2 (1) Number, and (2) amount of past due and nonaccrual loans or Morgan Stanley does not disclose this metric at this time.
loans subject to forbearance that qualify for programs designed to
promote small business and community development
FN-CB-240a.3 Number of no-cost retail checking accounts provided to previously This metric is not applicable due to Morgan Stanley’s business model.
unbanked or underbanked customers
FN-CB-240a.4 Number of participants in financial literacy initiatives for unbanked, This metric is not applicable due to Morgan Stanley’s business model.
underbanked or underserved customers
Topic: Transparent Information & Fair Advice for Customers
FN-AC-270a.1 (1) Number, and (2) percentage of licensed employees and Morgan Stanley does not disclose this metric at this time.
identified decision-makers with a record of investment-related
investigations, consumer-initiated complaints, private civil litigations,
or other regulatory proceedings
FN-AC-270a.2 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings Material legal proceedings for the firm are disclosed on pages 125-129 of our 2023 Form 10-K.
associated with marketing and communication of financial
product-related information to new and returning customers
* All or a portion of the assets represented by this metric have been counted toward the firm’s Sustainable Finance Target.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 76
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
SASB CODE SASB METRIC MORGAN STANLEY RESPONSE58
Topic: Transparent Information & Fair Advice for Customers
FN-AC-270a.3 Description of approach to informing customers about products Each business unit is responsible for setting and managing appropriate policies and processes
and services related to their marketing activities, which are subject to supervisory review in accordance with
applicable promotion laws and regulatory obligations. We aim to manage risks in marketing and
sales pursuant to the following guidelines:
• C ommunications to clients and the public must be fair and balanced, without exaggerated or
misleading statements.
• Employees must use approved marketing materials and messaging systems when conducting
the firm’s business.
• F inancial Advisors must follow a compliance manual of internal sales practice standards, as well
as adhere to all applicable laws and regulations.
• T he firm monitors customer complaints. These are dealt with in accordance with relevant
internal policies.
Please also refer to our Code of Conduct
Topic: Financed Emissions
FN-CB-410b.1 Absolute gross financed emissions, disaggregated by (1) Scope 1, We disclose absolute gross financed emissions related to relationship and event-driven loans
FN-AC-410b.1 (2) Scope 2, and (3) Scope 3 for three sectors within our corporate lending portfolio, the Energy sector, Power sector and
Auto Manufacturing sector. Separately, we disclose our financed emissions lending intensity
metric for these three sectors, as that guides our 2030 interim targets. Please review the
Climate Metrics and Targets section for more details.
FN-CB-410b.2 Gross exposure for each industry by asset class Morgan Stanley does not disclose this metric at this time.
FN-AC-410b.2 Total amount of assets under management (AUM) included in the Morgan Stanley does not disclose this metric at this time.
financed emissions disclosure
FN-CB-410b.3 Percentage of gross exposure included in the financed emissions Morgan Stanley does not disclose this metric at this time.
calculation
FN-AC-410b.3 Percentage of total assets under management (AUM) included in Morgan Stanley does not disclose this metric at this time.
the financed emissions calculation
FN-CB-410b.4 Description of the methodology used to calculate financed We disclose our methodology under the Climate Metrics and Targets section.
FN-AC-410b.4 emissions
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 77
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
SASB CODE SASB METRIC MORGAN STANLEY RESPONSE58
Activity Metrics
FN-IB-000.A (1) Number, and (2) value of (a) underwriting, (b) advisory, and See page 37 of our 2023 Form 10-K.
(c) securitization transactions
FN-IB-000.B (1) Number, and (2) value of proprietary investments and loans Institutional Securities Loans and Lending Commitments are disclosed by industry on page 71 of
by sector our 2023 Form 10-K.
FN-IB-000.C (1) Number, and (2) value of market-making transactions in Morgan Stanley does not disclose this metric at this time.
(a) fixed income, (b) equity, (c) currency, (d) derivatives, and
(e) commodity products
FN-CB-000.A (1) Number, and (2) value of checking and savings accounts by This metric is not applicable due to Morgan Stanley’s business model.
segment: (a) personal, and (b) small business
FN-CB-000.B (1) Number, and (2) value of loans by segment: (a) personal, Small-business loans that incorporate sustainability factors are discussed in the Community
(b) small business, and (c) corporate Development Finance section. Our Investment Banking activity, which includes corporate lending,
is discussed in the Investing Banking and Global Capital Markets section. We disclose loan
portfolios by type; for more information, please see page 116 of our 2023 Form 10-K.
FN-AC-000.A Total assets under management (AUM) We disclose fee-based client assets under Wealth Management and Morgan Stanley Investment
Management AUM; see page 39 and 43, respectively, of our 2023 Form 10-K.
FN-AC-000.B Total assets under custody and supervision Total Client Assets, representing Wealth Management client assets and Morgan Stanley
Investment Management AUM are provided in our 2023 Form 10-K, page 31.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 78
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Appendix 4: TCFD Index
The Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) was established by the Financial Stability Board following
a mandate from the Group of Twenty (G20). The TCFD’s recommendations aim to help companies provide actionable
information on portfolios, client relationships and operations to investors, lenders and insurers.61 TCFD recommends that
companies organize disclosures into four categories: Governance, Strategy, Risk Management, and Metrics and Targets.
The following index highlights where content related to the TCFD Framework can be found in this year’s report.
The TCFD Framework is now a part of the ISSB under the IFRS Foundation. Morgan Stanley is a member of the IFRS
Sustainability Alliance, and is monitoring the standards being developed by the ISSB. We aim to provide investors with
useful, relevant and meaningful sustainability information within the context of our businesses, and may evolve our
disclosure on these topics over time.
REPORT SECTION DISCLOSURE LOCATION
a. Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. ESG Governance; Climate Risk Management
Governance
b. Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities. ESG Governance; Climate Risk Management
a. D escribe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, Climate Risk Management
medium and long term.
b. Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, Climate Strategy; Our Climate Ambitions;
Strategy
strategy and financial planning. Climate Risk Management
c. Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related Climate Risk Management
scenarios, including a two-degree-or-lower scenario.
a. Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks. Climate Risk Management
b. Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks. Climate Risk Management
Risk Management
c. Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated Climate Risk Management
into the organization’s overall risk management.
a. D isclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line Our Climate Ambitions; Climate Metrics and
with its strategy and risk management process. Targets; Sustainable Finance
Metrics and Targets b. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 GHG emissions, and the related risks. Climate Metrics and Targets
c. Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and Climate Metrics and Targets
performance against targets.
61 https://www.fsb-tcfd.org/about/
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 79
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Appendix 5: Approach to Transition Index
The following index highlights content in this report that relates to the recommendations of The Glasgow Financial Alliance for
Net Zero (GFANZ) transition planning guidance for financial institutions.
Guidance on transition planning for financial institutions is still developing. We have leveraged the GFANZ recommendations
to guide our disclosures as they are most aligned with the recommendations of the TCFD, and our membership in the Net-Zero
Banking Alliance. We will continue to monitor the advancement of voluntary frameworks, as well as any forthcoming
regulatory developments on this topic.
COMPONENT(S) RECOMMENDATIONS LOCATION
Objectives and priorities: • Climate Strategy
• Define the organization’s objectives to reach net-zero by 2050 or sooner in line with science-based • Net-Zero Targets Methodology
pathways to limit warming to 1.5 degrees C. • Climate Metrics and Targets
Foundations
• State clearly defined and measurable interim and long-term targets and strategic timelines. • Sustainable Finance Target
• Identify the priority financing strategies of net-zero transition action to enable real-economy emissions
reduction.
Products and services: • Sustainable Finance
• Use existing and new products and services to support and increase clients’ and portfolio companies’ • Mobilize Capital Toward Low-Carbon and
efforts to transition in line with 1.5 degrees C net-zero pathways. Green Solutions
• Include accelerating and scaling the net-zero transition in the real economy, providing transition-related • Strive Toward Our Financed Emissions Targets
education and advice.
• Support portfolio decarbonization in accordance with the institution’s net-zero transition strategy.
Activities and decision-making: • ESG Governance
Implementation
• Embed the financial institution’s net-zero objectives and priorities in its core evaluation and decision-making • Climate Risk Management
Strategy
tools and processes to support its net-zero commitment.
• This applies to both top-down/oversight structures and bottom-up tools and actions.
Policies and conditions: • Environmental Social Policy Statement (ESPS)
• Establish and apply policies and conditions on priority sectors and activities, such as thermal coal, oil and • ESRM
gas, and deforestation.
• Include other sectors and activities that are high-emitting, or otherwise harmful to the climate, to define
business boundaries in line with the institution’s net-zero objectives.
(continued on next page)
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 80
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
COMPONENT(S) RECOMMENDATIONS LOCATION
Clients and portfolio companies: • Climate Strategy
• Proactively and constructively provide feedback and support to clients and portfolio companies to • Strive Toward Our Financed Emissions Targets
encourage net-zero-aligned transition strategies, plans and progress with an escalation framework with
consequences when engagement is ineffective.
Industry: • Climate Policy
Proactively engage with peers in the industry to: • Trade Associations
Engagement
• As appropriate, exchange transition expertise and collectively work on common challenges, and • Industry Memberships
Strategy
• Represent the financial sector’s views cohesively to external stakeholders, such as clients and governments.
Government and public sector: • Climate Policy
• Direct and indirect lobbying and public-sector engagement should, in a consistent manner, support an • Trade Associations
orderly transition to net-zero, and, • Industry Memberships
• As appropriate, encourage consistency of clients’ and portfolio companies’ lobbying and advocacy efforts
with the institution’s own net-zero objectives.
Metrics and targets: • Climate Metrics and Targets
• Establish a suite of metrics and targets to drive execution of the net-zero transition plan and monitor progress • Our Climate Ambitions
of results in the near, medium and long term. • Sustainable Finance Target
Metrics and Targets Include metrics and targets focused on: • Climate Risk Management
• Aligning financial activity in support of the real-economy net-zero transition
• Executing the transition plan, and
• Measuring changes in client and portfolio GHG emissions.
Roles, responsibilities and remuneration: • ESG Governance
• Define roles for the board or strategy oversight body and senior management, ensuring they have • Climate Risk Management
ownership, oversight and responsibility for the net-zero targets.
• Assign appropriate individuals and teams to all aspects of both design and delivery of the transition plan.
Use remuneration incentives for all roles, where possible.
• Review the transition plan regularly to ensure material updates/developments are incorporated, challenges
are reviewed as an opportunity to correct course, and implementation risks are properly managed.
Governance
Skills and culture: • Employee Education and Engagement
• Provide training and development support to the teams and individuals designing, implementing and • Climate Policy
overseeing the plan so that they have sufficient skills and knowledge to perform their roles (including at the
board and senior management levels).
• Implement a change management program and foster open communication to embed the net-zero transition
plan into the organization’s culture and practices.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 81
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Appendix 6: Financed Emissions Methodology62
Calculation Formulas
For our Absolute Financed Emissions (AFE) metric, we apply the following For our Financed Emissions Lending Intensity (FELI) metric,63 we apply the
calculation approach: following calculation approach:
∑ Lending Outstanding Amount C x Annual GHG Emissions ∑ Lending Commitment C x Annual GHG Emissions
C Enterprise Value including Cash (EVIC) C C Enterprise Value including Cash (EVIC) C
C C
Total Sector Lending Commitment
C denotes company within sector portfolio S
Note: Total Company Debt + Total Company Equity is used in place of EVIC for private companies.
C denotes company within sector portfolio
S denotes sector portfolio
Note: Total Book Equity + Debt is used in place of EVIC for private companies.
Please refer to our Methodology for 2030 Interim Financed Emissions Targets for additional information on the FELI metric target design.
Consolidation Approach
For the purpose of accounting and reporting GHG As informed by the Business Loans asset class based on the client data available as of the date
emissions, Morgan Stanley adopts the Operational guidance within the PCAF Global GHG Accounting of our AFE calculation as well as based on the
Control approach as defined by the GHG Protocol and Reporting Standard (2022), AFE related to these methodology of our third-party data vendor. For
for consolidating GHG emissions. Under this outstanding facilities are attributed to Morgan Stanley example, the number of clients’ outstanding shares
approach, Morgan Stanley accounts for 100% of the on the basis of our share of lending relative to the utilized in the determination of EVIC represent the
GHG emissions from operations over which it has client’s company value for public companies (i.e. most current shares publicly available as of the
operational control. Morgan Stanley accounts for the Enterprise Value Including Cash (EVIC) (based on our end of the reporting year (e.g. December 31, 2022),
firm’s proportional share of the emissions associated third-party vendor’s methodology)) or total company which may differ from the actual outstanding shares
with outstanding relationship and event-driven client debt plus total company equity for private companies at that point in time. Furthermore, certain of our
lending facilities, for which the firm does not have (based on Morgan Stanley’s methodology), as clients have a fiscal year end which is different than
operational control, as absolute financed emissions applicable, generally as of December 31 of each the calendar year end used as our reporting period.
(AFE) within Scope 3, Category 15. The lending reporting year. However, the client company In such instances, we utilize the information from
facilities included in our AFE calculation are limited to value inputs may not always be directly aligned to the client’s most recent annual financial reporting
those within the Auto Manufacturing, Power, and December 31 of the reporting year and may vary within our calculation without adjustment.
Energy sectors within our corporate lending portfolio.
62 The information within this appendix was subject to Deloitte & Touche LLP’s review with the exception of the FELI metrics and the associated information herein. As such, Deloitte & Touche LLP does not express a
conclusion with respect to the FELI metrics or associated information herein. See the Independent Accountant’s Review Report.
63 Ibid.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 82
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Greenhouse Gases Revision Policy Base Year
Morgan Stanley receives carbon emissions values There may be instances in which we identify Morgan Stanley’s base year for its financed
for our clients from a third-party data vendor. The changes to previously reported data due to emissions inventory is 2019, the earliest year for
data vendor aggregates all constituent gases which restatements in third-party or client data, error which AFE and FELI were calculated and reported.
are reported by companies, which could include: corrections, or changes in our calculation The Revision Policy as outlined on this page, is
CO (Carbon Dioxide), CH (Methane), N O (Nitrous methodology. We quantify the change to the applicable to any potential calculation changes to
2 4 2
Oxide), HFCs (Hydrofluorocarbons), PFCs, SF , or reported data metrics, and in accordance with reported base year data.
6
NF . In instances where carbon emissions data is Morgan Stanley’s Financed Emissions Disclosure
3
not provided by the companies nor by the data Revision Policy, we will publicly revise the data Data Limitations
vendor, carbon emissions are estimated using a point if the change is determined to be +/- 5% of
revenue-based industry-specific carbon intensity total reported Absolute Financed Emissions (AFE) The use of client emissions data continues to have
proxy. This proxy is derived by the data vendor on for the reporting year, and may publicly revise if the significant limitations and challenges. Please refer
a CO2-equivalent emissions through application of change is determined to be +/- 5% of the reported to our 2022 ESG Report, “Climate Data Limitations
the global warming potentials (GWPs) from the IPCC sector Financed Emissions Lending Intensity (FELI) and Challenges” section for a detailed discussion
Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) to the non-carbon value for the reporting year. on issues which remain relevant to our AFE and FELI
greenhouse gases. We thus report our AFE and financed emissions calculations.
FELI metrics on a CO2-equivalent basis. Biogenic
emissions are not applicable to our financed
emissions calculations at this time.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 83
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Appendix 7: Operational Emissions Methodology
For the purpose of accounting and reporting GHG are not applicable to our business. Emissions of factors developed from Commercial Buildings
emissions, Morgan Stanley adopts the Operational non-CO greenhouse gases are calculated as CO2- Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS), according
2
Control approach as defined by the GHG Protocol equivalent emissions by applying the global warming to building type and region. For data centers,
for consolidating GHG emissions. Under this potential (GWPs) from the IPCC Fourth Assessment estimation intensity factors for Scope 2 emissions
approach, Morgan Stanley accounts for 100% of Report (AR4), IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5), are based on consumption of electricity to operate
the GHG emissions from operations over which it and EPA Emissions Hub 2023 (2023). information technology hardware using data center
has operational control. This includes all owned or facility power usage effectiveness ratio. Landlord
GHG emissions are calculated using third-party
leased facilities that the company occupies, and all overhead emissions at data centers were calculated
software, with factors applied based on location
vehicles that the firm owns or leases and operates. and determined to be Scope 3 Category 8 emissions,
and emission source (see table below). There are
Morgan Stanley equity method investments, along which are not reported by Morgan Stanley.
exceptions for some GHG emission calculations,
with investment funds and other managed entities
which are performed external to the third-party Scope 2 market-based emissions are calculated
and their respective portfolio companies and assets,
software, including scope 1 mobile combustion and including the impact from Renewable Energy
are excluded under this boundary.
scope 3 category 6 (business travel) emission sources Certificates (RECs) from our Virtual Power Purchasing
Morgan Stanley’s base year for its GHG inventory and their related GHG emissions. Emission source Agreement (VPPA) and Energy Attribute Certificates
is 2012, the earliest year for which we had reliable activity and the related GHG emissions calculations (EACs) from renewable power systems.
data. The location-based results have been used as a that take place external to the third-party software
For scope 3 category 6 (business travel) and scope 1
proxy to calculate scope 2 market-based emissions have their results loaded into the software to maintain
mobile combustion, data is collected from suppliers
for the 2012 base year as the firm cannot calculate a single record of GHG emissions for all scopes.
and publicly available emission factors are used to
market-based results for that year. Morgan Stanley
In most instances, the most up-to-date emission estimate emissions. Scope 3 category 13 (downstream
will follow the guidelines in the Climate Leaders
quantification factors are sourced from international leased assets) emissions are derived through the
Greenhouse Gas Inventory Protocol Design Principles
and national environmental authorities across the allocation of the tenant’s (lessee) portion of Scope 1
(US EPA, 2005) for adjusting the base year GHG
globe (including but not limited to the International and Scope 2 emissions where Morgan Stanley (lessor)
inventory. The base year inventory will be adjusted in
Energy Agency (IEA), United States Environmental does not have operational control. The tenant’s
response to any structural or methodology changes
Protection Agency (EPA), United Kingdom Department allocated portion is determined using information
if the resulting adjustment is more than 5% of the
for Environmental, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA), and from either sublease agreements, activity data from
Operational Emissions’ total base year emissions
others) and applied to respective regions. local metering, or activity data from invoices.
disclosed. Adjustments less than this threshold are
considered insignificant and will be decided case Where available, Morgan Stanley gathers actual As data is collected, there will be instances where
by case. emission source activity data such as utility invoice data may be missing due to delays in data availability.
data or local meter readings. In 2023, estimation When data is not available to perform necessary GHG
On an annual basis, Morgan Stanley calculates
intensity factors were updated for both offices and calculations due to invoice delays by utility vendors
the firm’s GHG emissions inventory: CO (Carbon
2 data centers. For office facilities where activity data or similar third parties, estimates are made using the
Dioxide), CH (Methane), N O (Nitrous Oxide), HFCs
4 2 is not available, Morgan Stanley estimates emissions estimation methodology described above to bridge
(Hydrofluorocarbons). The firm currently has no
by adopting the method of energy use intensity gaps in measured data.
emissions from PFCs, SF , or NF . Biogenic emissions
6 3
The information within this appendix was subject to Deloitte & Touche LLP’s review. See the Independent Accountant’s Review Report.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 84
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Emission Factor Sources for 2023 Reporting Period
EMISSION SOURCES/COVERED ACTIVITIES EMISSION FACTOR SOURCES
SCOPES FOR 2023 REPORTING PERIOD (PUBLISHED DATE)
Stationary Combustion: EPA GHG Emission Factors Hub 2023 (2023)
Natural Gas, Diesel, Propane
Mobile Combustion: EPA GHG Emission Factors Hub 2023 (2023)
Scope 1 Gasoline, Diesel, Jet Fuel
Refrigeration/AC Equipment Use: 100-year GWPs from IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5), (2014)
R-22, R-134, R-134a, R-407a, R-407c, R-407f, 100-year GWPs from IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4), (2007)
R-410a, HFC-227ea (FM 200)
Location-Based Electricity U.S.: EPA eGRID 2021 database (2023)
Canada National Inventory Report (2023)
United Kingdom: DEFRA 2023 (2023)
Australia: National Greenhouse Gas Accounts (NGA) Factors 2023 (2023)
Other International: IEA Emission Factors 2021 (2023) national factors
Fuel cell emission factor determined by fuel cell natural gas consumption multiplied by natural gas
factor from EPA Emissions Hub Factors 2023 (2023) divided by electricity produced
Scope 2 Market-Based Electricity Association of Issuing Bodies Residual Mix 2021 & 2022
Other International: IEA Emission Factors 2021 (2023) national factors
Fuel cell emission factor determined by fuel cell natural gas consumption multiplied by natural gas
factor from EPA Emissions Hub Factors 2023 (2023) divided by electricity produced
Purchased Steam EPA GHG Emission Factors Hub 2023 (2023)
Purchased Cooling Chilled Water: 2006 Building Energy Data Book—Commercial Equipment Efficiencies, applied to
the local electric grid emissions factor from sources listed under Scope 2
Natural Gas EPA GHG Emission Factors Hub 2023 (2023)
Air Travel, Chartered Flights, Rail Travel, EPA GHG Emission Factors Hub 2023 (2023)
Scope 3: Car Services, Car Rentals, Reimbursed Mileage, Greenhouse Gas Reporting: Conversion Factors DEFRA (2023)
Category 6 Business Travel Public Transportation
UK DEFRA, Table 13—Indirect emissions from the supply chain. March 2014.
Scope 3: Emissions from electricity consumption Region-specific emission factors from sources listed in Scopes 1 and 2
Category 13 Downstream
Leased Assets
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 85
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Appendix 8: Workforce Diversity Data Methodology
Management’s Assertion 4 Racial/ethnic group representation for its Note 1 of Management’s Assertion
U.S. employees, disclosed as percentages,
The Workforce Diversity Data subject matter The criteria which the subject matter is evaluated
by the following categories:
shall be defined as: against as of December 31, 2023 is defined as
• U.S. Black,
the following:
1 Gender representation for its global senior • U.S. Hispanic, and
leadership, disclosed as percentages, • Morgan Stanley shall categorize the gender of
• U.S. Asian
by the following leadership categories: its employees as female or male, based on data
• Board members, 5 Gender and racial/ethnic group representation collected from employees.
for its campus recruiting participants, disclosed
• Operating Committee, and • Employees mean full time equivalents (FTE).
as percentages, by (1) full-time campus recruits,
U.S. employees are FTEs employed by legal
• Management committee
and (2) summer interns across the following
entities registered in the U.S.
2 Racial/ethnic group representation for its global groupings:
• Employees who do elect to not disclose gender,
senior leadership, disclosed as percentages, • Global Women,
race, or ethnicity are excluded from the Workforce
by the following leadership categories:
• U.S. Black,
Diversity Metric subject matter.
• Board members,
• U.S. Hispanic, and
• Officers include employees who hold the title of
• Operating Committee, and
• U.S. Asian
managing directors, executive director, and vice
• Management committee
president.
3 Gender representation for its global employees,
• Board members are individuals who are elected
disclosed as percentages, by (1) overall
to Morgan Stanley’s Board of Directors. The roster
employees and (2) officers, across the
of this group is maintained by and confirmed with
following regions:
the Corporate Secretary.
• Americas,
• Europe, Middle East and Africa,
• Asia Pacific and Japan, and
• a Firmwide total (continued on next page)
The information within this appendix was subject to Deloitte & Touche LLP’s review. See the Independent Accountant’s Review Report.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 86
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
• Operating committee members are full-time • The category of campus recruiting comprises of • For the Workforce Diversity Data subject matter
employees that are appointed by the CEO to the full-time campus hires and summer interns. Full-time described above, excluding campus recruiting,
Firm’s Operating Committee. The roster of this campus hires are full-time employees that join the firm gender and racial/ethnic group representation
group is maintained by and confirmed with the through Morgan Stanley’s annual campus recruiting shall be disclosed in percentages, where the
Office of the CEO. program. Summer interns are employees that join percentage shall be calculated as the number
the firm for a prescribed, temporary amount of time of FTE employees of the female gender or each
• Management committee members are full-time
through the firm’s annual campus recruiting program. racial/ethnic group in each employee/leadership
employees that are appointed by the CEO to the
Summer interns are excluded from all other metrics. category divided by the total number of FTE
Firm’s Management Committee. The roster of this
employees in the respective employee/leadership
group is maintained by and confirmed with the • For the campus recruiting Workforce Diversity Data
category, as defined within this criterion.
Office of the CEO. subject matter, gender and racial/ethnic representation
shall be disclosed in percentages, where the
• Morgan Stanley shall categorize the racial/ethnic
percentage shall be calculated as the number of
group of its U.S. employees and global leadership
campus recruiting hires of the female gender or each
as defined in the table below.
racial/ethnic group divided by the total number of
campus recruiting hires, as defined below.
MORGAN STANLEY DISCLOSURE CATEGORIZATION DEFINITION
The following categories as defined by the 2023 EEO-1 Component 1 Data Collection Instruction Booklet: American
Board members—percent ethnically diverse Indian or Alaska Native; Asian; Black or African American; Hispanic or Latino; Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander;
and Two or More Races
The following categories as defined by the 2023 EEO-1 Component 1 Data Collection Instruction Booklet: American
Operating Committee—percent ethnically diverse Indian or Alaska Native; Asian; Black or African American; Hispanic or Latino; Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander;
and Two or More Races
The following categories as defined by the 2023 EEO-1 Component 1 Data Collection Instruction Booklet: American
Management Committee—percent ethnically diverse Indian or Alaska Native; Asian; Black or African American; Hispanic or Latino; Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander;
and Two or More Races
U.S. Black—percent
Black or African American, as defined by the 2023 EEO-1 Component 1 Data Collection Instruction Booklet
(Disclosure applies to U.S. FTEs and U.S. Campus Recruiting)
U.S. Hispanic—percent
Hispanic or Latino, as defined by the 2023 EEO-1 Component 1 Data Collection Instruction Booklet
(Disclosure applies to U.S. FTEs and U.S. Campus Recruiting)
U.S. Asian—percent
Asian, as defined by the 2023 EEO-1 Component 1 Data Collection Instruction Booklet
(Disclosure applies to U.S. FTEs and U.S. Campus Recruiting)
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 87
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Appendix 9: HR Awards and Recognition
ORGANIZATION OR PUBLICATION AWARD
Black Enterprise Media 2023 Best Company for Diversity
Bloomberg Gender Equality Index Gender Equality Index Participant
Catalyst CEO Catalyst CEO Champions for Change
Coqual Black Equity Index Participant
Forbes Best Employer for Diversity
Hispanic Association on Corporate Responsibility Corporate Equality Index 5 Stars
Human Rights Campaign (HRC) Corporate Equality Index Equality 100 Company
Latina Style 50 Top 50 Company
Military Friendly Employer
Military Friendly Companies
Military Spouse Friendly Employer
2023 Inclusion Index Leading Company
Seramount
Top Company for Multicultural Women
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 88
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
Independent Accountant’s Review Report
We engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP (“Deloitte”) to perform a review engagement on management’s assertion that (1) the Absolute
Financed Emissions for the Auto Manufacturing, Energy and Power sectors for the year ended December 31, 2022 included within the
Morgan Stanley 2023 ESG Report (referred to as “Absolute Financed Emissions”) are presented in accordance with the Greenhouse
Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition) published by the World Resources Institute/World
Business Council for Sustainable Development (the “GHG Protocol”), (2) the Scope 1, Scope 2, Scope 3, Category 6 (Business travel)
and Scope 3, Category 13 (Downstream leased assets) Greenhouse Gas Emissions metrics for the year ended December 31, 2023
included within the Morgan Stanley 2023 ESG Report (referred to as “Operational Emissions”) are also presented in accordance
with the GHG Protocol, and (3) the Workforce Diversity Data as of December 31, 2023 included within the Morgan Stanley 2023
ESG Report, are presented in accordance with Morgan Stanley management’s criteria outlined in Note 1 of Management’s Assertion
in Appendix 8: Workforce Diversity Data Methodology (the “Workforce Diversity Data criteria”). The Absolute Financed Emissions,
Operational Emissions, and Workforce Diversity Data are collectively referred to as the subject matter (the “subject matter”).
The GHG Protocol and Workforce Diversity Data criteria are collectively referred to as the criteria (the “criteria”).
Management’s Assertion
Information outside of the subject matter, including goals, progress against goals, and linked information subject matter. Management is also responsible for
linked information, was not subject to Deloitte & was not subject to Deloitte & Touche LLP’s review the collection, quantification and presentation of the
Touche LLP’s review and, accordingly, Deloitte & and, accordingly, Deloitte & Touche LLP does not information included in the 2023 ESG Report and
Touche LLP does not express a conclusion or any express a conclusion or any form of assurance on for the selection of the criteria, which management
form of assurance on such information. Further, any such information. See Deloitte’s report starting on believes provide an objective basis for measuring
information relating to periods prior to the latest the next page. and reporting on the subject matter. Management of
period presented for the subject matter within the Morgan Stanley asserts that the subject matter are
Management of Morgan Stanley is responsible for
Morgan Stanley 2023 ESG Report, or information presented in accordance with the criteria.
the completeness, accuracy and validity of the
relating to forward-looking statements, targets,
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 89
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
DDeellooiittttee && TToouucchhee LLLLPP
30 Rockefeller Plaza
New York, NY 10112-0015
DD UDDeeee SAlllloooo iiiitttttttteeee &&&& TTTToooouuuucccchhhheeee LL LLLLLLPPPP
3300 RRoocckkeeffeelllleerr PPllaazzaa
NNeeww YYoorrkk,, NNYY 1100111122--00001155
UUSSAA
IINNDDEEPPEENNDDEENNTT AACCCCOOUUNNTTAANNTT’’SS RREEPPOORRTT
To Those Charged with Governance:
IIIINNNNDDDDEEEEPPPPEEEENNNNDDDDEEEENNNNTTTT AAAACCCCCCCCOOOOUUUUNNNNTTTTAAAANNNNTTTT’’SS’’SS RR RREEEEPPPPOOOORRRRTT TT
We have reviewed the assertions of Morgan Stanley management as follows: (1) its Absolute Financed
TToo TThhoossee CChhaarrggeedd wwiitthh GGoovveerrnnaannccee::
Emissions for the Auto Manufacturing, Energy and Power sectors for the year ended December 31, 2022
included within the Morgan Stanley 2023 ESG Report (referred to as “Absolute Financed Emissions”) are
WWee hhaavvee rreevviieewweedd tthhee aasssseerrttiioonnss ooff MMoorrggaann SSttaannlleeyy mmaannaaggeemmeenntt aass ffoolllloowwss:: ((11)) iittss AAbbssoolluuttee FFiinnaanncceedd
presented in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting
EEmmiissssiioonnss ffoorr tthhee AAuuttoo MMaannuuffaaccttuurriinngg,, EEnneerrggyy aanndd PPoowweerr sseeccttoorrss ffoorr tthhee yyeeaarr eennddeedd DDeecceemmbbeerr 3311,, 22002222
Standard (Revised Edition) published by the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for
iinncclluuddeedd wwiitthhiinn tthhee MMoorrggaann SSttaannlleeyy 22002233 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt ((rreeffeerrrreedd ttoo aass ““AAbbssoolluuttee FFiinnaanncceedd EEmmiissssiioonnss””)) aarree
Sustainable Development (the “GHG Protocol”), (2) its Scope 1, Scope 2, Scope 3, Category 6 (Business
pprreesseenntteedd iinn aaccccoorrddaannccee wwiitthh tthhee GGrreeeennhhoouussee GGaass PPrroottooccooll:: AA CCoorrppoorraattee AAccccoouunnttiinngg aanndd RReeppoorrttiinngg
travel) and Scope 3, Category 13 (Downstream leased assets) Greenhouse Gas Emissions metrics for the
SSttaannddaarrdd ((RReevviisseedd EEddiittiioonn)) ppuubblliisshheedd bbyy tthhee WWoorrlldd RReessoouurrcceess IInnssttiittuuttee//WWoorrlldd BBuussiinneessss CCoouunncciill ffoorr
year ended December 31, 2023 included within the Morgan Stanley 2023 ESG Report (referred to as
SSuussttaaiinnaabbllee DDeevveellooppmmeenntt ((tthhee ““GGHHGG PPrroottooccooll””)),, ((22)) iittss SSccooppee 11,, SSccooppee 22,, SSccooppee 33,, CCaatteeggoorryy 66 ((BBuussiinneessss
“Operational Emissions”) are also presented in accordance with the GHG Protocol, and (3) its Workforce
ttrraavveell)) aanndd SSccooppee 33,, CCaatteeggoorryy 1133 ((DDoowwnnssttrreeaamm lleeaasseedd aasssseettss)) GGrreeeennhhoouussee GGaass EEmmiissssiioonnss mmeettrriiccss ffoorr tthhee
Diversity Data as of December 31, 2023 included within the Morgan Stanley 2023 ESG Report, are
yyeeaarr eennddeedd DDeecceemmbbeerr 3311,, 22002233 iinncclluuddeedd wwiitthhiinn tthhee MMoorrggaann SSttaannlleeyy 22002233 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt ((rreeffeerrrreedd ttoo aass
presented in accordance with Morgan Stanley management’s criteria outlined in Note 1 of Management’s
““OOppeerraattiioonnaall EEmmiissssiioonnss””)) aarree aallssoo pprreesseenntteedd iinn aaccccoorrddaannccee wwiitthh tthhee GGHHGG PPrroottooccooll,, aanndd ((33)) iittss WWoorrkkffoorrccee
Assertion in Appendix 8: Workforce Diversity Data Methodology (the “Workforce Diversity Data criteria”).
DDiivveerrssiittyy DDaattaa aass ooff DDeecceemmbbeerr 3311,, 22002233 iinncclluuddeedd wwiitthhiinn tthhee MMoorrggaann SSttaannlleeyy 22002233 EESSGG RReeppoorrtt,, aarree
The Absolute Financed Emissions, Operational Emissions, and Workforce Diversity Data are collectively
pprreesseenntteedd iinn aaccccoorrddaannccee wwiitthh MMoorrggaann SSttaannlleeyy mmaannaaggeemmeenntt’’ss ccrriitteerriiaa oouuttlliinneedd iinn NNoottee 11 ooff MMaannaaggeemmeenntt’’ss
referred to as the subject matter (the “subject matter”). The GHG Protocol and Workforce Diversity Data
AAsssseerrttiioonn iinn AAppppeennddiixx 88:: WWoorrkkffoorrccee DDiivveerrssiittyy DDaattaa MMeetthhooddoollooggyy ((tthhee ““WWoorrkkffoorrccee DDiivveerrssiittyy DDaattaa ccrriitteerriiaa””))..
criteria are collectively referred to as the criteria (the “criteria”). Morgan Stanley management is
TThhee AAbbssoolluuttee FFiinnaanncceedd EEmmiissssiioonnss,, OOppeerraattiioonnaall EEmmiissssiioonnss,, aanndd WWoorrkkffoorrccee DDiivveerrssiittyy DDaattaa aarree ccoolllleeccttiivveellyy
responsible for its assertion. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the subject matter based on
rreeffeerrrreedd ttoo aass tthhee ssuubbjjeecctt mmaatttteerr ((tthhee ““ssuubbjjeecctt mmaatttteerr””)).. TThhee GGHHGG PPrroottooccooll aanndd WWoorrkkffoorrccee DDiivveerrssiittyy DDaattaa
our review.
ccrriitteerriiaa aarree ccoolllleeccttiivveellyy rreeffeerrrreedd ttoo aass tthhee ccrriitteerriiaa ((tthhee ““ccrriitteerriiaa””)).. MMoorrggaann SSttaannlleeyy mmaannaaggeemmeenntt iiss
rreessppoonnssiibbllee ffoorr iittss aasssseerrttiioonn.. OOuurr rreessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy iiss ttoo eexxpprreessss aa ccoonncclluussiioonn oonn tthhee ssuubbjjeecctt mmaatttteerr bbaasseedd oonn
Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute
oouurr rreevviieeww..
of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). Those standards require that we plan and perform the review to
obtain limited assurance about whether any material modifications should be made to the subject matter
OOuurr rreevviieeww wwaass ccoonndduucctteedd iinn aaccccoorrddaannccee wwiitthh aatttteessttaattiioonn ssttaannddaarrddss eessttaabblliisshheedd bbyy tthhee AAmmeerriiccaann IInnssttiittuuttee
in order for it to be presented in accordance with the criteria. The procedures performed in a review vary
ooff CCeerrttiiffiieedd PPuubblliicc AAccccoouunnttaannttss ((AAIICCPPAA)).. TThhoossee ssttaannddaarrddss rreeqquuiirree tthhaatt wwee ppllaann aanndd ppeerrffoorrmm tthhee rreevviieeww ttoo
in nature and timing from and are substantially less in extent than an examination, the objective of which
oobbttaaiinn lliimmiitteedd aassssuurraannccee aabboouutt wwhheetthheerr aannyy mmaatteerriiaall mmooddiiffiiccaattiioonnss sshhoouulldd bbee mmaaddee ttoo tthhee ssuubbjjeecctt mmaatttteerr
is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the subject matter is presented in accordance with the
iinn oorrddeerr ffoorr iitt ttoo bbee pprreesseenntteedd iinn aaccccoorrddaannccee wwiitthh tthhee ccrriitteerriiaa.. TThhee pprroocceedduurreess ppeerrffoorrmmeedd iinn aa rreevviieeww vvaarryy
criteria, in all material respects, in order to express an opinion. Accordingly, we do not express such an
iinn nnaattuurree aanndd ttiimmiinngg ffrroomm aanndd aarree ssuubbssttaannttiiaallllyy lleessss iinn eexxtteenntt tthhaann aann eexxaammiinnaattiioonn,, tthhee oobbjjeeccttiivvee ooff wwhhiicchh
opinion. Because of the limited nature of the engagement, the level of assurance obtained in a review is
iiss ttoo oobbttaaiinn rreeaassoonnaabbllee aassssuurraannccee aabboouutt wwhheetthheerr tthhee ssuubbjjeecctt mmaatttteerr iiss pprreesseenntteedd iinn aaccccoorrddaannccee wwiitthh tthhee
substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had an examination been
ccrriitteerriiaa,, iinn aallll mmaatteerriiaall rreessppeeccttss,, iinn oorrddeerr ttoo eexxpprreessss aann ooppiinniioonn.. AAccccoorrddiinnggllyy,, wwee ddoo nnoott eexxpprreessss ssuucchh aann
performed. We believe that the review evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a
ooppiinniioonn.. BBeeccaauussee ooff tthhee lliimmiitteedd nnaattuurree ooff tthhee eennggaaggeemmeenntt,, tthhee lleevveell ooff aassssuurraannccee oobbttaaiinneedd iinn aa rreevviieeww iiss
reasonable basis for our conclusion.
ssuubbssttaannttiiaallllyy lloowweerr tthhaann tthhee aassssuurraannccee tthhaatt wwoouulldd hhaavvee bbeeeenn oobbttaaiinneedd hhaadd aann eexxaammiinnaattiioonn bbeeeenn
ppeerrffoorrmmeedd.. WWee bbeelliieevvee tthhaatt tthhee rreevviieeww eevviiddeennccee oobbttaaiinneedd iiss ssuuffffiicciieenntt aanndd aapppprroopprriiaattee ttoo pprroovviiddee aa
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORW T e are required to be independent and to meet our other ethical requirements in accordance with the 90
rreeaassoonnaabbllee bbaassiiss ffoorr oouurr ccoonncclluussiioonn..
Code of Professional Conduct issued by the AICPA. We applied the Statements on Quality Control Standards
established by the AICPA and, accordingly, maintain a comprehensive system of quality control.
WWee aarree rreeqquuiirreedd ttoo bbee iinnddeeppeennddeenntt aanndd ttoo mmeeeett oouurr ootthheerr eetthhiiccaall rreeqquuiirreemmeennttss iinn aaccccoorrddaannccee wwiitthh tthhee
CCooddee ooff PPrrooffeessssiioonnaall CCoonndduucctt iissssuueedd bbyy tthhee AAIICCPPAA.. WWee aapppplliieedd tthhee SSttaatteemmeennttss oonn QQuuaalliittyy CCoonnttrrooll SSttaannddaarrddss
The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgment. In performing our review, we
eessttaabblliisshheedd bbyy tthhee AAIICCPPAA aanndd,, aaccccoorrddiinnggllyy,, mmaaiinnttaaiinn aa ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee ssyysstteemm ooff qquuaalliittyy ccoonnttrrooll..
performed analytical procedures, inquiries, and other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. For a selection of the subject matter, we performed tests of mathematical accuracy of
TThhee pprroocceedduurreess wwee ppeerrffoorrmmeedd wweerree bbaasseedd oonn oouurr pprrooffeessssiioonnaall jjuuddggmmeenntt.. IInn ppeerrffoorrmmiinngg oouurr rreevviieeww,, wwee
computations, compared the specified information to underlying records, or observed the data collection
ppeerrffoorrmmeedd aannaallyyttiiccaall pprroocceedduurreess,, iinnqquuiirriieess,, aanndd ootthheerr pprroocceedduurreess aass wwee ccoonnssiiddeerreedd nneecceessssaarryy iinn tthhee
process.
cciirrccuummssttaanncceess.. FFoorr aa sseelleeccttiioonn ooff tthhee ssuubbjjeecctt mmaatttteerr,, wwee ppeerrffoorrmmeedd tteessttss ooff mmaatthheemmaattiiccaall aaccccuurraaccyy ooff
ccoommppuuttaattiioonnss,, ccoommppaarreedd tthhee ssppeecciiffiieedd iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn ttoo uunnddeerrllyyiinngg rreeccoorrddss,, oorr oobbsseerrvveedd tthhee ddaattaa ccoolllleeccttiioonn
pprroocceessss..
DDeellooiittttee && TToouucchhee LLLLPP
30 Rockefeller Plaza
New York, NY 10112-0015
USA
IINNDDEEPPEENNDDEENNTT AACCCCOOUUNNTTAANNTT’’SS RREEPPOORRTT
To Those Charged with Governance:
We have reviewed the assertions of Morgan Stanley management as follows: (1) its Absolute Financed
Emissions for the Auto Manufacturing, Energy and Power sectors for the year ended December 31, 2022
included within the Morgan Stanley 2023 ESG Report (referred to as “Absolute Financed Emissions”) are
presented in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting
Standard (Revised Edition) published by the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for
Sustainable Development (the “GHG Protocol”), (2) its Scope 1, Scope 2, Scope 3, Category 6 (Business
travel) and Scope 3, Category 13 (Downstream leased assets) Greenhouse Gas Emissions metrics for the
year ended December 31, 2023 included within the Morgan Stanley 2023 ESG Report (referred to as
“Operational Emissions”) are also presented in accordance with the GHG Protocol, and (3) its Workforce
Diversity Data as of December 31, 2023 included within the Morgan Stanley 2023 ESG Report, are
presented in accordance with Morgan Stanley management’s criteria outlined in Note 1 of Management’s
Assertion in Appendix 8: Workforce Diversity Data Methodology (the “Workforce Diversity Data criteria”).
The Absolute Financed Emissions, Operational Emissions, and Workforce Diversity Data are collectively
referred to as the subject matter (the “subject matter”). The GHG Protocol and Workforce Diversity Data
criteria are collectively referred to as the criteria (the “criteria”). Morgan Stanley management is
responsible for its assertion. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the subject matter based on
our review.
Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute
of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). Those standards require that we plan and perform the review to
obtain limited assurance about whether any material modifications should be made to the subject matter
in order for it to be presented in accordance with the criteria. The procedures performed in a review vary
in nature and timing from and are substantially less in extent than an examination, the objective of which
is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the subject matter is presented in accordance with the
criteria, in all material respects, in order to express an opinion. Accordingly, we do not express such an
opinion. Because of the limited nature of the engagement, the level of assurance obtained in a review is
INTRODUCTION SUSsTuAbINstAaBnLtEia FlIlNy AlNoCwEe r t h a n HthUeM AaNs sCuArPaInTAceL t h a t w oCuLIlMd AThEa v e b e e n G OoVbEtRaNinAeNdC Eh AaNdD aRnIS Ke MxaAmNAinGaEtMioEnN Tb e e n APPENDICES
performed. We believe that the review evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a
reasonable basis for our conclusion.
We are required to be independent and to meet our other ethical requirements in accordance with the
Code of Professional Conduct issued by the AICPA. We applied the Statements on Quality Control Standards
established by the AICPA and, accordingly, maintain a comprehensive system of quality control.
The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgment. In performing our review, we
performed analytical procedures, inquiries, and other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. For a selection of the subject matter, we performed tests of mathematical accuracy of
computations, compared the specified information to underlying records, or observed the data collection
process.
The preparation of the subject matter included within the Morgan Stanley 2023 ESG Report requires
management to interpret the criteria, make determinations as to the relevancy of information to be
included, and make estimates and assumptions that affect reported information. Measurement of certain
amounts and metrics may include estimates and assumptions that are subject to substantial inherent
measurement uncertainty, including for example, the accuracy and precision of conversion factors or
estimation methodologies used by management. Obtaining sufficient appropriate review evidence to
support our conclusion does not reduce the inherent uncertainty in the amounts and metrics. The selection
by management of a different but acceptable measurement method, input data, or model assumptions,
may have resulted in materially different amounts and metrics being reported.
Information outside of the subject matter was not subject to our review and, accordingly, we do not express
a conclusion or any form of assurance on such information. Further, any information relating to periods
prior to the latest period presented for the subject matter within the Morgan Stanley 2023 ESG Report, or
information relating to forward-looking statements, targets, goals, progress against goals, and linked
information was not subject to our review and, accordingly, we do not express a conclusion or any form of
assurance on such information.
Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the subject
matter in order for it to be presented in accordance with the criteria.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
September 4, 2024
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 91
INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE FINANCE HUMAN CAPITAL CLIMATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT APPENDICES
DISCLAIMERS
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS MATERIALITY Given the inherent uncertainty of the estimates, assumptions
Certain statements herein, including expectations related The disclosures included in this report are being provided to and timelines contained in this report, we may not be able
to targets, goals, aspirations or objectives such as financed the public in an effort to provide transparency into our ESG to anticipate whether or the degree to which we will be able
emissions targets, including interim targets, commitments, initiatives and to further enhance our collective understanding to meet our plans, targets, goals, aspirations or objectives
representation objectives and the achievement thereof, may be of ESG issues. Our approaches to the disclosures included in in advance. Morgan Stanley also cannot guarantee that the
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe this report differ in significant ways from those included in data provided in its reports will be consistent year over year,
harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act mandatory regulatory reporting, including under SEC rules and as data quality, particularly climate-related data, improves.
of 1995. Actual results or actions may differ from anticipated regulations. This data should not be interpreted as any form of guarantee
g l oo ro o a sk tl is an, t g ea mp stp ear nto e ta smc oeh fne cts s u .a r T rn ehd ne t ts a cer o g s ne t dats t ite s iome nt e sf n ,o t br st u h a t ri ien n snt th o ee t a hf do i s ar tw ro ea r i br cd aa- sl efa dc ts I p gn e lf oo r bsr p am le a rc et ti go iv un e l aw o tri ot h i rn sin .m It nh o pi rs e a r rde tiep cto uar li at l rtm ,h waa ny h idb leie s tcp hlr eoe s fs u oe r rn e et s ge omd i nafr gno d dm a is ta e c d ud si bf sf y ie o r o ne u n rt o M thr o i ra r ds g -s a pu n ar a rS tn t yac n ie nl feo oyf r ma mc aac tku ioer nsa .c ny o, rf eu ptu rr ee s ere ns tau tlt ios no r o rtr wen ad rrs a a nn tyd as to
on management’s current expectations and are subject to describes potential future events that may be significant or
uncertainty and changes in circumstances. These statements are material (based on disclosure recommendations and broader OTHER DISCLOSURES
not guarantees of future results or occurrences and involve certain definitions of materiality used by certain voluntary external The information provided in this report reflects
known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are frameworks and reporting guidelines or those in non-U.S. Morgan Stanley’s approach to ESG as at the date of this
difficult to predict and are often beyond our control. In addition, jurisdictions), the significance or materiality of those potential report and is subject to change without notice. We do not
this report contains statements based on hypothetical scenarios events should not be read as equating to or arising to the level undertake to update any of such information in this report.
and assumptions, which may not occur or differ significantly of materiality as required under U.S. federal securities laws, Any references to “sustainable investing,” “sustainable
from actual events, and these statements should not necessarily including as the concept is used in Morgan Stanley’s periodic investments,” “ESG” or similar terms in this report are
be viewed as being representative of current or actual risk or filings with the SEC under the Exchange Act. In addition, any intended as references to the internally defined criteria of
forecasts of expected risk. discussion of forward-looking statements in this report is the firm or our businesses only, as applicable, and not to
Actual results and financial conditions may differ materially from not an indication that the subject or information is material to any jurisdiction-specific regulatory definition. This report
those included in these statements due to a variety of factors, Morgan Stanley for U.S. federal securities laws and regulations is not intended to, nor can it be relied upon, to create legal
including, among others, data quality and availability, global reporting purposes. We continue to monitor the climate relations, rights or obligations.
socio-demographic, political and economic conditions and disclosure landscape and evolve our reporting accordingly. This report is provided for informational purposes only and
trends; energy prices; technological innovations; climate-related is not intended as advertising, or marketing material, or as a
conditions and weather events; counterparty and client behavior, USE OF THIRD-PARTY INFORMATION AND ESTIMATES recommendation to purchase any asset, product or service.
i t b c o o an r th f reac t da bh rnl e au na as r cd gvi l lt a tyi ii e n oo n q s tg rn c ur;; aitt ap ni hnh n lgl iese a s f u i i n s etna r h is doeb a, o neni a el r i dc tnt ma-y ed nf t p eo dt afo lrr opi m n e tr yp h nae el ton ea i a ec uc rc r sa ggi gh a b y ih e nlc i tl t s h il f s ati euem y w c cla , a u ocl l it e tt rl mh he i ig m t; y pi tt t s ha a ,h e l er oa te teg i t u tn iee iv p r vevt e o eas eo l ba da i el cu in n nltit id e o td vio y s i r f rne ,e a t o x otg co nhe if u r me lc eilc tu a c t eao at t h nte on ie na t rs o l fy au l a on e nm n r n dge r e N t I b b rno eyeo aai e n t sr d hne ot d ip h r ndi dto i aes i -or br prt in lvs e ea, e, p ,rc d d to ae yo lr f t rc t r s ht oau s o omh im u una r g e cpil nl hn e ufb t so Mbs e ,r l oio wmd c rr le h ga yw e it a ci am oe nhv b n e Sa M s d c tii l aot a oe t nrbo ns g l lt e ef aat o yh ni in ra n hm Set f a od ta sap r r i nm oae n lr n eac tt lh y t yi o it i oe s bf bn d et r e h e lro eii ep esr nl vo e rr e aree at bspf s e h le to eor a dr r s tte b o. d e T r p r a oe e n rh o pp de s aoo i r pt oe rr i pv tt b ,i e r (s ji oei n n mn accco cte ll iu hu vaa d ed ess i ssi us nn ,,u r gg aaar rna b ci en dn ole tc s me t uoe hr mi b u emt jh t ii erc t a mt co rat e t m er g l tg an oo ee tt a s es ct .sl , d hs ) I g n afo w of r nor aai g l r mt ll ea m s b , er wag e t wat e ia i tr oot hgcs rn oeh k s usc tit e s , toa v , m nt n aee ot s edd a tp t i i ho cni in r o er e a t .ddr th e i o oi iss n ln ou st gl ht ii ei sn s
talent; the potential impact of legal and regulatory obligations; complete limited validation. Third-party climate information Individual funds and client accounts may have specific ESG-
and other unforeseen events or conditions, and the precautionary may not reflect the latest or most accurate data. To the extent related goals and restrictions that affect ESG integration.
statements included in this report and those contained in that such third-party information we use is subsequently Please refer to governing documents of individual vehicles
Morgan Stanley’s periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange determined to be erroneous or otherwise not in keeping with to understand their binding ESG criteria. ESG strategies
Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, best practices, it may affect our disclosures. Additionally, in the that incorporate impact investing and/or ESG factors could
as amended (Exchange Act). Certain forward-looking statements absence of company-specific emissions data, some financed result in relative investment performance deviating from
included in this report are also based on assumptions, standards, emissions will be estimated using emissions and activity factors other strategies or broad market benchmarks, depending on
metrics, methodologies and frameworks for measurement, provided by third-party sources or derived by Morgan Stanley. whether such sectors or investments are in or out of favor in
reporting and analysis of climate change that continue to evolve, Certain third-party information, such as scope 3 emissions and the market. As a result, there is no assurance ESG strategies
vary across jurisdictions and regulatory bodies and are the emissions factors, may change over time as methodologies could result in more favorable investment performance. The
subject of proposed regulatory changes in multiple jurisdictions, evolve and are refined or current data changes or is restated or case study examples are provided for illustrative purposes
which may have a material impact on our future measurement new data is added. Our ability to measure progress toward our only. There is no assurance that the engagements will be
and reporting, as well as the results of the efforts set forth in this targets, goals, aspirations or objectives is subject to the quality successful and/or result in positive investment outcomes.
report. Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf and availability of such data, as discussed in this report. These Calvert is part of Morgan Stanley Investment Management.
of Morgan Stanley speak only as to the date they are made, and and other factors could cause results to differ materially from Morgan Stanley Investment Management is the asset
Morgan Stanley does not undertake to update forward-looking those expressed in the estimates and beliefs made by third management division of Morgan Stanley.
statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that parties and by Morgan Stanley.
arise after the date the forward-looking statements were made.
MORGAN STANLEY | 2023 ESG REPORT 92
For more information about Morgan Stanley,
visit morganstanley.com.
© 2024 Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC and Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC. Members SIPC. All rights reserved.
