2023
Corporate
Responsibility
Report
At Motorola Solutions, our approximately 21,000
employees are united in the never-ending pursuit of and
commitment to solving for safer … safer communities,
safer schools, safer businesses, safer everywhere. We’re
proud that our work helps communities and people thrive
to make a meaningful difference in the world.
This report highlights our collective impact $10 million in strategic grants, with the majority
creating value for our customers, employees benefiting underserved and underrepresented
and other stakeholders throughout 2023. communities, as well as first responders,
students and teachers.
We invested over $850 million in research
and development to further extend our These highlights, and the many more
legacy of innovation and leadership, and we throughout this report, help attract and
grew our patent portfolio to more than 6,500. retain our extraordinary talent and further
Across our business, we continued to build position Motorola Solutions as a destination
and connect leading-edge technologies, workplace. From being named as one of the
including video analytics, data and privacy world’s best employers to our recognition as
management, access control and next- a best workplace for innovators, we continue
generation public safety solutions. These to develop a culture grounded in our people
innovations are advancing safety and and their potential … where employees are
security within communities and businesses empowered to do their best work and be their
around the world. best selves.
We also continued to implement initiatives While I am incredibly proud of our progress,
to reduce our environmental impact and we know that our work is not done. It’s why we
increase sustainable practices across remain committed to solving for safer. More
our business. We meaningfully reduced than what we do, this is who we are … and we’re
our water consumption, identified new energized every day by the opportunities ahead.
opportunities to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions across our operations and
products’ lifecycles, and established a “Green
Team” to promote employee volunteerism
and education.
Our employees again demonstrated that
their impact extends beyond our business,
volunteering nearly 100,000 hours and
setting a new company record of impact
within our communities. Additionally, the
Motorola Solutions Foundation provided over
Greg Brown
Chairman & CEO
Motorola Solutions Inc.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report
Our approach
Corporate responsibility
at Motorola Solutions
Motorola Solutions is solving for safer. We build and connect
technologies to help protect people, property and places. Our
solutions enable the collaboration between public safety agencies
and enterprises that’s critical for a proactive approach to safety and
security. At Motorola Solutions, we’re solving for safer communities,
safer schools, safer hospitals, safer businesses – safer everywhere.
Our approach to corporate responsibility is guided by three principles:
operate ethically, protect the environment and help foster public
safety and thriving communities. Our 2023 Corporate Responsibility
Report demonstrates our global commitment to corporate
responsibility and highlights key areas of progress from the year.
Environmental, social &
governance framework
Our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Framework
demonstrates our governance standards and our social and
environmental commitment to create value for our planet, as well
as our employees, customers and the communities that share it.
From our efforts to align with the Science Based Target initiative to
the way we incorporate numerous standards and frameworks to
shape our culture and inform our goals, we aim for sustainable and
inclusive growth through our ESG framework, which centers around
the following six pillars.
We welcome comments or questions at:
corpresponsibility@motorolasolutions.com
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 3
For our Community Human capital
business engagement management
Our business is deeply integrated We partner with organizations around Our employees are a critical enabler
with ESG concerns. We believe that the world to drive meaningful change of business value. Our human
the work we do — and the technology through employee volunteerism, capital management programs are
we create – plays an essential role strategic grants and other community designed to recruit, retain, develop and
in our world today. We embrace investment initiatives. By supporting optimize our workforce. Whether it is
the opportunity to create solutions organizations that align with our through increased outreach efforts,
and develop our technologies with values, further technology and enhanced compensation and rewards
the intent to address larger societal engineering education, support first programs, investment in professional
challenges and the goal to ultimately responders and uplift underserved and development, or reinforcing an
impact the greater good. underrepresented populations, we are inclusive environment, our goal is to
solving for safer cities and equitable, take care of our strongest resources
thriving communities. by anticipating employee needs and
adapting to meet them.
Supply chain Environmental Governance &
compliance
We aim to deliver exceptional We strive to stay abreast of top Our governance and compliance
customer experience through agility, environmental issues that affect our framework is centered around
speed and collaboration. Through operations and the communities we our goals of: (1) accountability;
our membership in the Responsible serve. We remain focused on matters (2) consistent application of our
Business Alliance (RBA) and our such as waste and pollution and aim well-established policies and
alignment with the United Nations to identify and address a wide array of practices; (3) providing transparent
Guiding Principles on Business and factors that impact the sustainability and reliable information to our
Human Rights, we continually strive of the communities we inhabit. stakeholders; and (4) integrity at
to source efficiently and ethically from the root of all that we do.
a diverse supply base, launch and
deliver new products and solutions
on time, and exceed customer
expectations by delivering outstanding
quality, service and support.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report 4
Contents
Introduction Human capital Environmental
management
Scope of report / 07 E nvironment, health
and safety management / 60
A lignment with reporting standards Global workforce / 35
and frameworks / 08 EHS non-compliance incidents / 61
Learning / 35
Material topics / 08 Site remediation / 61
Simplified experience / 36
Methodology / 09 Climate impact / 62
High quality content / 37
Periodic refreshment / 09 Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions
Content usage / 38
reporting / 62
Solving for safer Diversity, equity and inclusion / 39 Safe and sustainable operations / 64
Programs and partnerships / 40
Energy efficiency / 67
Motorola Solutions is solving Workforce demographics / 43 Waste and recycling / 68
for safer / 12
T alent attraction, retention Water use / 69
and development / 45
Emissions / 70
For our business Leadership development
Employee health and safety / 70
programs / 45
Data privacy and protection / 16 Making Motorola Solutions S ustainable design and
a destination place to work / 46 product stewardship / 73
Addressing inquiries
and requests / 16 Putting people first / 46 Environmental design principles / 73
Data subject requests / 17 Developing our talent pipeline / 46 Materials management / 73
Product Energy efficiency / 74
Responsible use of technology / 18 Total rewards / 47
Packaging / 74
Human rights program / 19 Benefits / 47
P roduct recycling and battery
Cybersecurity / 20 take back / 75
Supply chain
Product safety and quality / 22 E mployee and community
Inclusive product design / 22 engagement / 76
Labor practices in our value chain / 50
Inclusive design principles / 23
Supply chain management / 50
Policies / 23 Governance &
Risk assessment / 51
compliance
Auditing and improving / 52
Community
Implementing due diligence
engagement in our supply chain / 54 Policies aimed to drive compliance / 79
R esponsible and sustainable ESG strategy and risk oversight / 79
Community / 26 materials sourcing / 55
Business conduct / 79
2023 giving summary / 27 Supplier diversity program / 56
Commitment to anti-corruption / 81
2023 Foundation impact / 28 Supplier diversity / 56
Addressing concerns / 82
Disaster relief / 32 Channel operations / 56
Government affairs and lobbying / 83
Treasury / 57
P olitical contributions in the
2023 global diversity council
United States / 84
memberships and partners / 57
Reporting references
G lobal Reporting Initiative
(GRI) standards / 87
S ustainable Accounting Standards Board
(SASB) reference / 93
T ask Force on Climate-related
Financial Disclosure (TCFD) index / 94
U nited Nations’ Sustainable Development
Goals UNSDGs / 95
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt 5
Introduction
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt Introduction 6
Scope of report
This report covers Motorola Solutions’ corporate responsibility
(CR) strategy and programs for fiscal year 2023 (Jan. 1, 2023
to Dec. 31, 2023), including our global operations, unless
otherwise noted. It provides key CR metrics and goals, with
a focus on meeting the needs of investors and stakeholders.
More detailed information is available on our website.
This report does not include details Although we believe there is a
on our financial performance. reasonable basis for the forward-
Details on our financial performance looking statements, our actual results
can be found on our website and in could be materially different. The most
our public filings available through important factors that could cause our
the U.S. Securities and Exchange actual results to differ from our forward-
Commission (SEC). looking statements are set forth in our
description of risk factors included in
Statements in this report which
Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” of our
are not historical in nature are
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
forward-looking statements, which
year ended December 31, 2023, which
are made pursuant to the safe
should be read in conjunction with the
harbor provisions of the Private
forward-looking statements in this
Securities Litigation Reform Act of
report and is accessible on the
1995, as amended, and generally
SEC’s website and on our website.
include words such as “expect,”
Forward-looking statements speak only
“may,” “could,” “believe,” “would,”
as of the date they are made, and we do
“might,” “anticipates” or similar
not undertake any obligation to update
words. The principal forward-looking
any forward-looking statement.
statements in this report include:
(1) our goals, commitments and In addition, historical, current and
programs; (2) our business plans, forward-looking statements, including
strategies and initiatives; (3) our non-financial climate-related metrics
assumptions and expectations; presented herein, may be based on
(4) the scope and impact of our standards measuring progress that
corporate responsibility risks and are still developing, internal controls
opportunities; and (5) standards and processes that continue to evolve,
and expectations of third parties. assumptions that are subject to change
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt Introduction 7
in the future and measurements that contain uncertainties resulting from limitations
inherent in the nature and methods used for determining such data. We reserve the
right to update our measurement techniques and methodologies in the future.
Links to websites in this report are being provided as a convenience and for
informational purposes only. Motorola Solutions bears no responsibility for the
accuracy, legality or content of any external site or for that of subsequent links
within such site. Please contact the external site for answers to questions
regarding its content.
Alignment
with reporting
standards and
frameworks
The European Sustainability Reporting
Standards (ESRS), the Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards,
the Sustainability Accounting
Standards Board (SASB), the Task
Force for Climate Related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD) and the UN
Sustainable Development Goals
(UNSDGs) are referenced when
relevant.
Material topics
Our CR management and reporting
focuses on the topics that are
material to our business. This report
uses certain terms, including those
that the ESRS, GRI, SASB, TCFD or
others refer to as or consider to be
“material” to reflect the issues or
priorities of Motorola Solutions and
its stakeholders. Materiality and its
relevant definition as used in this
report is different from the definition
of “materiality” used in the context of
filings with the SEC. Issues deemed
material for purposes of this report
and for purposes of determining our
ESG strategies may not be considered
material for SEC reporting purposes.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction 8
Methodology
In 2023, we initiated a Double Materiality Assessment in alignment with
European Sustainability Reporting Standards (ESRS) and various other
standards and guidance. Our approach consisted of five components: (1)
identifying and defining potential ESG-related topics for consideration; (2)
selecting internal and external stakeholders to be involved in the assessment;
(3) conducting qualitative interviews with Motorola Solutions’ internal
business leaders and subject matter experts (SMEs) as well as a selection
of its strategic external stakeholders; (4) completing a survey that was
collected from Motorola Solutions’ employees across various functions, lines
of business and geographic regions; and (5) performing desktop research
involving key imperatives of a number of Motorola Solutions’ suppliers
and customers to ensure that a comprehensive analysis of all necessary
stakeholders was performed.
A detailed and comprehensive scoring methodology was applied to plot the
ESG-related topic’s score in terms of social and environmental impact (impact
materiality) as well as impact on business value (financial materiality) for the
purposes of differentiating between topics that were considered material (as
defined by ESRS) and those that were not.
As a result of this process, 22 ESG-related topics were determined to be
material for Motorola Solutions. These topics were further validated by
Motorola Solutions’ executive leadership through workshops and readout
sessions. More information about the material topics is provided throughout
this report.
Periodic refreshment
Going forward, we will continue to refresh our double materiality
assessment on a regular basis, aiming to continually identify and mitigate
risks associated with issues that can affect the company (“impacts
inward”) as well as improve the areas wherein the company impacts
society and the environment (“impacts outward”).
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction 9
Material topics
Environmental Social Governance
• Greenhouse gas emissions • Equal treatment and • Business ethics and
from operations opportunities for our workforce anti-corruption
• Energy efficiency of operations • Human rights and labor practices • Regulatory compliance
for employees
• Physical risks from • Lobbying and political
climate change • Human rights and labor practices contributions
for our value chain
• Product design sustainability • Supply chain management
• Cybersecurity
• Responsible and sustainable • ESG oversight and risk
materials sourcing • Data privacy management
• Waste and hazardous • Responsible use of technology
waste management
• Employee health and safety
• Talent attraction, retention
and development
• Supplier diversity
• Product safety and quality
• Community engagement
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Introduction 10
Solving
for safer
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Soving for safer 11
Motorola Solutions
is solving for safer
At Motorola Solutions, we’re driven by our conviction
that everyone should not only feel safe, but be safe – in
their community, school and workplace. This conviction
underscores our continued, purposeful transformation,
centering all we do on safety and security, to help keep
people, property and places safer everywhere.
As we continue to see threats around the world increasing in number, scale
and complexity, our work is more critical than ever. We’ve invested over
$12 billion in organic R&D and acquisitions over the last 10 years advancing
technologies and expanding beyond public safety to also prioritize enterprise
security. And while we recognize technology is not the only way to a safer
future, it does play a vital role, and it’s our purpose to make that technology
the best it can be.
We build
We are building an ecosystem of
safety and security technologies,
spanning critical communications,
video security & access control
and command center solutions
powered by artificial intelligence.
While each of our technologies
individually helps make users
safer and more productive, we
believe we can enable better
outcomes for our customers
when we unite these technologies
so that data unifies, information
flows, operations run smoothly
and collaboration improves.
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt Soving for safer 12
We connect
We are connecting public safety agencies and enterprises, enabling
the collaboration that’s critical for a more proactive approach to
safety and security. We’re known for our work on the front lines
supporting police, fire and other emergency responders. And
with our rapidly growing base of private businesses using the
same technologies – schools, hospitals and stadiums – we’re
supporting the intersection of public, private and people, connecting
those in need with those who can help.
Envision a schoolteacher during an emergency pressing a button
on their phone to automatically notify law enforcement, activate a
lockdown, send mass notifications and share live video feeds with
first responders.
At Motorola Solutions, the work we do each day matters. Always
collaborating with our customers, partners and investors, always
harnessing our ingenuity and passion, always solving for safer …
safer communities, safer schools, safer hospitals, safer businesses –
safer everywhere.
13k+ Safety.
land mobile radio networks globally; Is the prerequisite to possibility.
50+ nationwide & statewide systems
It lets us think and imagine.
Over 60%
Build and create.
of U.S. Public Safety Answering Points (PSAPs)
Plan farther ahead.
rely on our command center solutions
Explore further out.
5M+
Embrace new opportunities.
fixed cameras across 300k+ installations
Realize our potential.
100,000+ This is what “solving for safer”
is all about.
customers in over 100 countries
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Soving for safer 13
For our
business
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt For our business 14
“
At the heart of what we do is
purpose-driven innovation,
where we use technology and
our deep understanding of
our customers’ needs to solve
problems. Through our products
and solutions, we empower our
end users to protect and serve
their communities effectively
and efficiently.
”
Kimmee Rae Pineda
Product Management
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt For our business 15
Data privacy
and protection
We respect the privacy rights and freedoms of all individuals
and apply appropriate technical and organizational measures
to protect all personal data processed by Motorola Solutions.
We’re committed to ensuring that We have a data protection officer
personal data is collected, used to address European General Data
and processed only when there is Protection Regulation (GDPR)
a legal basis for doing so. Further, obligations, and we continuously
we adhere to privacy principles, monitor evolving privacy laws and
promote ethical data management regulations to ensure the Motorola
and extend this requirement to our Solutions’ privacy program addresses
third-party providers. We believe the changing privacy risk and
that trust in us is created through compliance landscape.
transparency and accountability. We’re
transparent about our commitments
Addressing inquiries
and expectations regarding shared
responsiblities with our customers to and requests
protect and manage personal data.
Privacy inquiries and concerns are
Our approach to privacy is grounded
received primarily via the Motorola
in our commitment to provide
Solutions dedicated mailbox,
governance, transparency and
privacy1@motorolasolutions.com.
accountability over the collection, use
We respond to inquiries using our
and distribution of personal data. Our
established process designed
products and services are designed
according to applicable law.
with secure engineering and privacy-
by-design practices to protect our Data privacy champions (DPCs),
customers’ data and to assist and employees located around the world,
support compliance obligations. provide guidance on our privacy policy
We continue to strengthen our and act as a first point of contact for
culture of data protection across privacy at a local level. DPCs work For information on our data
the company through expanding with country managers, who are management approach, see our
our privacy expertise, training and responsible for corporate governance Trust Center and the Motorola
awareness opportunities. and compliance efforts within Solutions Code of Conduct for
their country. Data Ethics and Rights.
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt For our business 16
Data subject requests
Total data subject / Consumer requests
2023 171
2022 147
2021 105
2023 Goals Outcomes
Obtain formal approval Awaiting formal approval from the U.K. Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO)
for updated U.K. Binding following EU BCR approval in 2022.
Corporate Rules (BCR)
Update privacy Achieved: Updated privacy program to address U.S. state privacy laws that came into effect
program to meet in 2023. Continuing to monitor for any regulatory updates.
evolving U.S. and
In addressing our obligations for U.S. state privacy laws, a comprehensive review
international
of all obligations was conducted and is reflected in our updates.
privacy legislation
Achieve security & Achieved: We continue to achieve ISO 27001 (information security management), 27017
privacy certifications (information security for cloud services), 27018 (protection of personally identifiable
information in public clouds) and 27701 (privacy management system) certification of our
Privacy and Information Security Management System governing the information assets
and data processed by our development and technical engineering support operations
for the products and services included in our critical communications, command center
solutions and video security & access control offerings managed at 25 sites worldwide.
We also achieved SOC2 Type II reporting, including the security, confidentiality, processing
integrity, availability and privacy trust criteria across these same 25 sites. Additionally,
our North American Commercial and Federal Managed Services, including the Network
Operations Center, Security Operations Center and Technical Support Operations continues
to achieve ISO 27001 and most recently achieved SOC2 Type II reporting. Our achievement
of ISO 22301 certification for our Business Continuity Management System continues to
expand with 10 sites now on our certificate.
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt For our business 17
Responsible use
of technology
Advancing Motorola Solutions technologies – responsibly and ethically
Governments, enterprises and The Motorola Solutions Technology sales leadership to establish controls
communities around the world rely Advisory Committee (MTAC) is a in our sales processes. This helps
on our technology to keep cities safer, multidisciplinary internal group identify and provide an objective
businesses thriving and the world commissioned by our management review of prospective transactions
moving forward. With that reliance executive committee that serves that contain sensitive technologies
also comes trust. Our customers trust as a “technical conscience” for the to customers and/or countries
that our technology will perform as company. The MTAC helps to ensure where use of our products outside
promised and be designed in a way our technological advancements of their intended purpose or in a
that enables its responsible, ethical remain aligned with our purpose manner that results in harmful
and fair use. and ethics, and are informed by social impact may be of concern.
the broader implications to our As part of its regular governance
As our products increasingly
customers, the communities we serve process, the MTAC conducts risk
incorporate powerful technologies,
and society at large. This includes assessments for Motorola Solutions
such as artificial intelligence and
providing guidance on the solutions technologies and tests these against
machine learning, it’s our responsibility
we create, the regions in which they the company’s purpose and ethics.
to ensure that accuracy, inclusivity,
are deployed, the partnerships we For each circumstance, the MTAC
transparency, privacy and fairness are
forge and the roadmap in which we considers specific risks as to how
an inherent part of our solutions —
invest. our products are used and also tries
just as protection and safety are.
to anticipate possible misuses. Risk
Our Trust Center includes the Code of
Since many technologies today classifications include societal and
Conduct for Data Rights and Ethics
can progress faster than legislation customer/user implications as well as
and Guidelines for Responsible
and regulatory frameworks, we Motorola Solutions’ legal, reputation
Use of Artificial Intelligence that
continuously work to ensure that our and business risks. Based upon these
were published by the MTAC. The
innovations remain aligned with our reviews, the MTAC offers specific
MTAC also developed and published
purpose and ethics, and take into recommendations – including
internal guidelines to employees
account broader implications for how product design, offer structure and
worldwide for positioning and selling
our technologies can be used by our go-to-market strategy – which
sensitive technologies, as well as
customers and the communities we become part of the business’s
responsible, transparent disclosure
serve. We design controls into our decision-making process.
of product capabilities. The MTAC
products that allow our customers to
partnered with the Office of Ethics
enforce compliance with regulations
and Compliance and our international
and usage policies.
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt For our business 18
Human rights
program
We employ a holistic approach
with our human rights program.
Our employees are trained on the
importance of respect and integrity,
as well as our values, which include
“inclusive” and “accountable.” Our high
standards are also communicated
to business partners through our
Supplier Code of Conduct.
We leverage expertise from leading
authorities in the field by participation
in groups such as the RBA, the
Responsible Minerals Initiative and
Anti-Slavery International. We use
industry-leading processes for vetting
customers and third-party sales
representatives to ensure we’re not
only adhering to the law, but our
own values. We’re thoughtful in our
development of technology and its
impact on society through the MTAC,
as well as related controls built
into our sales process. Lastly, we
employ a risk evaluation process for
identifying, elevating and evaluating
potential risks, including those related
to human rights.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report For our business 19
Cybersecurity
As a global leader in public safety and simple and accessible to ensure all
enterprise security, Motorola Solutions our employees have the tools and
secures its enterprise environment knowledge they need to contribute to a
and builds its products, solutions and safer environment.
services with security, resilience and
We create and maintain a strong
user experience in mind. We know
security culture across the company,
that our customers and employees
from protecting our intellectual property
depend on data to support their work
to securing the products and services
in a variety of environments. Given
we develop. Promoting this culture is a
the critical nature of our business and
cornerstone of our security awareness
our customers’ needs, data privacy
efforts. We recognize that our company
and cybersecurity are integral to
and our customers face real and
everything we do. Motorola Solutions’
sophisticated threats, and that to meet
cybersecurity capability functions
them effectively, we need expert-level
holistically across people, tools and
practice. Our phishing exercises are a
processes, and our cybersecurity
great example. We send our employees
teams answer the challenges of a
thousands of simulated phishing emails
complex and continually evolving
throughout the year with a broad range
cyber and data threat landscape.
of difficulty, training them in constant
Our comprehensive set of layered vigilance and practice on how to report a
controls is designed to identify, suspicious email. We regularly practice
protect, detect, respond to and recover crisis and incident management from
from a wide range of cyber threats. small-scale reviews of our incident
We employ a variety of technologies response processes to executive-level
to support our cybersecurity controls. strategic tabletop exercises. We actively
Our defenses go beyond technology engage key contributors through our
and include robust processes and cybersecurity champion program as
committed employees always we embed security culture deeply into
striving for excellence. This approach our development and engineering
minimizes the likelihood of successful teams. This program helps to scale
attacks and their potential impacts our cybersecurity expertise across our
on our company or our customers. global enterprise by creating internal
We also aim to keep cybersecurity ambassadors who advocate for security
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt For our business 20
measures and practices. risk. From vulnerability management In addition, we have designed and
The cybersecurity champions connect and endpoint security, to enhanced implemented a global incident
our people with the process and authentication capabilities and response procedure, which helps
technology that makes up our secure streamlined monitoring, our goal is enable us to quickly detect,
software development lifecycle. to ensure that both our cybersecurity respond to, and recover from
program and employees have the third-party malicious attacks and
At Motorola Solutions, we differentiate
technology they need to protect the potential security incidents. This
ourselves through our dedication to
future we are creating. procedure includes formal steps
cybersecurity. We strive to build trust
to review incidents and implement
in every interaction by demonstrating For example, we’ve implemented a
improvements.
our focus on secure and responsible variety of in-house generative artificial
practices. We’ve achieved a intelligence (AI) capabilities to help Solving for safer is a never-ending
number of information security and software developers and customers pursuit, and our approach to
privacy management certifications alike, and we have a policy framework cybersecurity remains an important
that encompass our critical in place to guide our engagement component.
communications, video security & with generative AI in a secure and
access control and command center responsible manner. We also mandate
solutions and serve as a testament the use of trusted devices to access
to our ongoing commitment. As core applications within Motorola
part of our dedication to continuous Solutions as part of our long-term
improvement, we regularly engage journey toward a ‘zero trust’ access
independent third parties to model. We maintain robust internal
assess our Enterprise Information and external response teams that
Security program against the NIST leverage automation and
Cybersecurity Framework. industry-leading tools, and are capable
of responding to a broad spectrum
We use modern technology to support
of cybersecurity incidents. And, in
our people and processes that define
the moments when things go wrong,
our approach to cybersecurity. We
we work closely with stakeholders to
implement layers of technology
ensure there are tools and processes
across our systems to balance
in place to recover critical data.
controls and efficiency to optimize our
“
Cybersecurity is vital to ensuring the availability of critical
communications, especially during times of crisis, and we’re
committed to helping public safety organizations protect
against cyber threats to their critical systems. Our team is
dedicated to providing threat intelligence products and services
to public safety organizations.
”
Jay Kaine
Public Safety Threat Alliance (PSTA)
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt For our business 21
Product safety and quality
At Motorola Solutions, we deliver innovative solutions that
help create a safer world for all.
We’re committed to operating with needs and industry best practices.
integrity in everything we do. To We regularly measure our performance
accomplish this, we collaborate against the objectives within our
with customers, suppliers and the integrated management system,
communities we serve for ongoing driving continual improvement
feedback to expand our capabilities, and communicating progress and
exceed customers’ requirements key issues to senior leaders and
and meet business objectives. We stakeholders for continual optimization.
standardize services support and
delivery practices based on business
Inclusive product design
We consider social impacts and the We also designed our iconography
diverse populations that encounter to be inclusive, especially in the
our products and solutions across all representation of people. This includes
stages of the development lifecycle. removing figures where they don’t
Throughout the past year, we built a benefit communication and ensuring
design system focused on contrast we have neutral figures without overt
ratios, color usage, development best gender identifiers. Lastly, as a way to
practices and user inclusivity in the represent our users, we built an
modular elements shared between internal library designed to
applications in our products. communicate storytelling as an
extension of our design tool, allowing
for gender-neutral hair and clothing
styles, as well as the ability to
customize hair, skin and clothing to
enable as much representation in our
storytelling as possible.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report For our business 22
Inclusive design
principles
• Create simple and intuitive design
• Design our products with various
situations in mind (e.g., firefighters
can operate their devices with low
vision, “fall alert”
emergency triggering)
• Provide content in multiple ways
(e.g., audio and viewing)
• Design our products to provide
equivalent experiences
(e.g., colorblind consideration)
• Design our products’ wearability
accessories with gender
consideration
• Ensure product manuals and
marketing materials incorporate
inclusive language
Policies
The following policies are
applied in our product safety
and quality efforts:
• Integrated Management
System Policy
• Wireless Communications
and Health
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt For our business 23
Community
engagement
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt Community engagement 24
“
The Motorola Solutions
Foundation has collaborated
with numerous organizations to
foster transformative change on
a global scale. From providing
millions of dollars in grants
to enabling and supporting
employees in logging thousands
of volunteer hours, we’re helping
to solve for a safer, more
equitable world.
”
Kelly Kondry
Motorola Solutions Foundation
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt Community engagement 25
Community
At Motorola Solutions, we are good corporate citizens by design. Our work makes a
difference in the critical moments that shape lives, businesses and the world, but our
contributions don’t end there.
The Motorola Solutions Foundation
(Foundation) acts as the charitable
and philanthropic arm of Motorola
Solutions and focuses on giving
back to the communities where
our employees live and work
through strategic grants, employee
volunteerism, disaster relief and other
community investment initiatives.
The Foundation, which has donated
more than $100 million over the
last 10 years, aims to partner with
organizations that are creating
safer cities and equitable, thriving
communities. Within its strategic
grants program, the Foundation
focuses its giving on three key areas:
(1) first responder programs, (2)
technology and engineering education
and (3) programs that combine
both. We also prioritize support for
underserved and underrepresented
populations within our areas of focus.
In addition, the Foundation aims
to partner with organizations that
align to its values of accountability,
innovation, impact, diversity and
inclusion.
The Foundation is one of the many
ways in which the company is solving
for safer communities.
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt Community engagement 26
2023 giving summary
Total donations*
$14.6M
Foundation giving
Annual grants program
$5M+ $5M+ $0.2M
First responder Technology & Blended
programming engineering education programming
Other areas of giving Employee programs
$0.4M $0.1M $2.4M
Disaster relief Community Employee volunteerism & giving
Corporate giving
$1.5M
*Includes Motorola Solutions Foundation & Motorola Solutions, Inc. charitable donations
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt Community engagement 27
2023 Foundation impact
200+ 4,400+ Nearly $3.2M
1 in 3
strategic grants charitable in value*
awarded in organizations employees generated through
21 countries supported volunteered volunteerism
* Based on a study by Independent Sector
2023 Foundation highlights
In 2023, the Foundation was awarded Benevity’s Community Hero Award, which recognizes its best-
in-class approach to community investment and creating impact with its nonprofit partners.
Annual grants program
The Foundation proudly partners with organizations that are solving for safer cities and equitable, thriving communities.
This year, the Foundation launched two new, branded programs – the Bright Minds, Bold Futures Scholarship and the Grant
Partner Summit on First Responder Wellness – aimed at providing greater support to our beneficiaries.
Inaugural Cohort: Bright Minds, Bold Futures Scholarship
The Foundation, together with nonprofit partner Calculated Genius, awarded approximately $100,000 in scholarships to
37 deserving students from underserved and underrepresented Chicagoland communities who are pursuing degrees in
technology and engineering. The Bright Minds, Bold Futures Scholarship is renewable, allowing students to receive $3,000
during their first year of college and an additional $2,500 each subsequent year throughout their two or four-year college
education. In addition to the scholarship, students are matched with a Motorola Solutions professional as a mentor and
provided support through regular guidance check-ins, leadership conversations and internship opportunities.
Grant Partner Summit on First Responder Wellness
The Foundation is committed to supporting its first responder grant partners beyond funding – helping to provide them
resources to better serve the mental health and wellness needs of first responders and their families. To help our partners
enhance the capacity and effectiveness of their programs and make valuable connections, the Foundation hosted its
first-ever Grant Partner Summit on First Responder Wellness at the Motorola Solutions headquarters in Chicago, Illinois.
Representatives from 17 nonprofit organizations across North America who support first responder mental health and
wellness convened at the summit, where they were offered an opportunity to learn from one another, share best practices
and network across organizations to make an even greater impact for first responders and their families.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Community engagement 28
Additionally, the Foundation continued its commitment to providing access and opportunity amongst underserved
communities and populations traditionally underrepresented in its focus areas.
The Foundation supported programs from the Society of Women Engineers (SWE), AnnieCannons, Girlstart, University
College London, Fundacja Edukacyjna Perspektywy and many other organizations that introduce, educate and inspire
women within technology and engineering education.
The Foundation awarded over $1.3 million to programs that support girls and women ages 8-30 in technology and
engineering education.
18% 60% 23%
increase in funding to of our grants to technology and increase in funding to
programs that promote diversity engineering education programs programs that support first
among first responders directly supported women responder mental health
“
Our connection with the Motorola Solutions Foundation
resembles that of a close-knit family. They exhibit genuine
concern for Survivors of Blue Suicide Foundation and are
dedicated to seeing our mission thrive. It is truly remarkable
for a company to demonstrate such belief in its recipients by
offering an educational summit to enhance our skill set.
”
Laurie Putnam
Co-Founder Survivors of Blue Suicide Foundation
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Community engagement 29
Employee programs (nearly a 50% increase year
over year), resulting in $250,000
In 2023, Motorolans broke
donated to charitable organizations
records for another consecutive
around the world, many of which
year for positively impacting
serve diverse and underserved
their communities. Nearly 1 in 3
populations.
employees across 43 countries
logged nearly 100,000 volunteer
Motorolans were also extremely
hours for the year. That represents
generous with their charitable
an increase of nearly 25% in
donations. On Giving Tuesday, the
volunteer participation and a 30%
Foundation provided almost all
increase in the number of volunteer
employees $25 – while 23
hours compared to 2022. Further,
randomly selected employees
their volunteer service yielded $3.2
received $1,000 – to donate to
million in value generated* for
an eligible charitable organization
charitable organizations around
of their choice. Employees in 46
the world.
countries took advantage of the
The majority of volunteerism Foundation’s gift. Many also made
(60,000+ hours) took place during personal donations, leveraging the
the Foundation-sponsored Global Foundation’s standard 1:1 match.
Months of Service, Motorola For the full-year 2023, the
Solutions’ annual volunteer-a- Foundation issued nearly $1.3
thon in September and October. million in matching gifts to
Employees in 48 out of 50 U.S. thousands of causes for employee
states — and across 43 countries charitable donations through its
— participated in more than 300 “Donations for Donors” program”.
virtual and in-person team projects
Employee volunteerism by the numbers
Nearly Nearly
100,000 500+ 25%
volunteer hours logged, volunteer projects increase in number of
a 30% increase YoY employee volunteers
* Based on a study by Independent Sector
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Community engagement 30
2023 Goals Outcomes
Achieved
1 in 3 employees engage Nearly 33% of employees logged nearly
in volunteerism. 100,000 hours.
Exceeded
Increase number of volunteer projects entered into Motorolans created nearly 500 volunteer projects, an
our MotoCares Portal by 20%. increase of nearly 50%.
Exceeded
Increase funding for strategic programs: Achieved the following increases:
• 10% increase for first responder • 23% increase for first responder mental health
mental health
• 18% increase for first responder diversity
• 9% increase for first responder diversity
• 9% increase for women-focused technology
• 8% increase for women-focused technology & engineering programs
& engineering programs
“
It’s a great honor to be recognized and supported as
employee volunteers. It encourages us to continue
making a positive impact on the world – supporting
our communities, our planet and
the causes that need us most.
”
Monica Sandoval and Viviana Acevedo
CEO Award for Volunteerism recipients
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt Community engagement 31
Disaster relief
Motorola Solutions delivers end-to-end solutions and emergency operations support.
For nearly a century, Motorola Center, and response teams are Maui, resulting in one of the deadliest
Solutions has been working with activated the moment an emergency wildfires in U.S. history.
public safety agencies to offer is detected to help customers
Through it all, Motorola Solutions
the technologies, critical support prepare. On-the-ground teams
teams were there to support our
and resources needed to help provide mission-critical technology
customers in the moments they
communities prepare for and quickly required to meet the response. The
needed it most.
recover from disasters. Our purpose- support continues during an event
built, mission-critical ecosystem and in its aftermath, as teams work Additionally, our employees played
provides an integrated end-to-end with customers to determine the a vital role in disaster relief, from
suite of solutions, including critical impact on communication sites donating funds to the tireless efforts
communications, video security & and to coordinate repairs. 2023 of our emergency response team, who
access control and command center saw multiple large-scale natural worked on the front line to ensure first
solutions, bolstered by managed disasters, some of them the worst responders stayed connected.
and support services, that span their respective countries and regions
Motorola Solutions offers tips for
emergency awareness, emergency have seen in years. Across the entire
public safety agencies on preparing
operations, network monitoring, spectrum — from floods and wildfires
for hurricanes and other natural
system engineering and field services. to landslides and tropical cyclones
disasters, as well as a comprehensive
– these disasters wreaked havoc
Following large-scale events, we preparedness checklist.
across the globe. Strong earthquakes
mobilize at a moment’s notice to
hit Morocco and Turkey resulting in More information is available at
help public safety agencies rapidly
widespread damage and loss of life. www.motorolasolutions.com/
establish communications and
Devastating floods impacted Libya. disasterpreparedness.
regain control. We proactively
And an ongoing drought and wind
monitor emerging storms through
gusts resulted in a series of fires that
our centralized Network Operations
raged across the Hawaiian island of
Maui fires 2023
On August 8, 2023, catastrophic fires erupted across the island of Maui,
Hawaii and destroyed the historic town of Lahaina. In the immediate
aftermath, the Motorola Solutions Emergency Response Team (MERT) and
regional Service and Sales Disaster organizations united to provide support
to the town and agencies – ensuring public safety communications remained
operational and critical resources were available. Response teams were able
to quickly deploy equipment and resources to bring up two sites that were
affected by the fires, providing the local public safety and the multiple out-area
agencies responding to the fires with the ability to communicate in Lahaina
and the surrounding areas. In addition, the Motorola Solutions Foundation
made a $50,000 disaster relief grant to the Hawaii Community Foundation in
support of their Maui Strong Fund, benefitting relief efforts and rebuilding.
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt Community engagement 32
Human capital
management
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Human capital management 33
“
Investing in the growth and
development of our people
is vital to our success as a
company. It’s a key differentiator
and a shared responsibility that
we all own, working together
to ensure that we are thriving
personally and professionally.
It’s creating an environment
where our employees know
that their work matters,
are recognized for their
contributions and feel a sense
of inclusion and belonging.
”
Lavine Douglas
Human Resources
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Human capital management 34
Global workforce
We enable Motorolans to explore their curiosities, shape their careers and
maximize their impact to keep people, property and places safer, everywhere.
We believe that the next big idea can come from anyone, anywhere, at any time
and that with a supportive environment and the freedom to think outside the box,
anything is possible.
Global workforce
2021 2022 2023
Employees 18,700 20,000 21,000
Full-time employees 99% 99% 99%
Total investment in
learning and $8.4M $9.3M $10.2M
development
Learning
We believe that personalized, engaging and relevant learning experiences
equip our customers, partners and employees with the knowledge and
confidence to succeed in their roles. As complex technologies go to market
faster and workforce dynamics continue to evolve, it’s more critical than
ever to accelerate the learner’s time-to-productivity. Our education approach
focuses on four main areas to help facilitate learning outcomes.
Lavine Douglas
Human Resources, Motorola Solutions Inc.
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt Human capital management 35
Simplified experience
From consolidating systems to establishing new learning paths, our work is designed to simplify the user experience and
speed their access to high quality educational content. As new organizations join the company through acquisitions, we’ve
been able to merge education teams and systems, thus offering new services and extending our impact. In 2023, we added
66,436 new customers to our Learning eXperience Portal (LXP), where they can access online, self-paced learning, sign up
for in-person training and access product documentation.
Simplified experience drives customer growth in education
Employee/Contractor Partner Customer
300,000
286,409
28,380
40,101
219,973
28,541
200,000
217,928
38,130
143,053
153,302
38,130
100,000 92,979
38,569
24,219
38,139 66,354
30,621
0
Q4 2020 Q4 2021 Q4 2022 Q4 2023
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt Human capital management 36
High quality content
Our learning experience is designed to enable access to high quality content that supports customers and empowers
them to quickly adopt new product technologies. In 2023, we continued our focus on a uniform learning experience across
the product technologies – consolidating multiple learning systems and thousands of customer data records. Through
customer feedback we focused on elevating the technical skills and learning strategies. Today, our software and land mobile
radio (LMR) customers both experience high quality online training content.
Top 2 box score customer satisfaction ratings for online training*
Software LMR
100
75 82.9 85.1 80.9 81.4
77.6 75.9
68.5
61
50
25
0
2020 2021 2022 2023
*The Top 2 Box score is calculated by combining the percentage of respondents
who selected the top two scores in our content satisfaction survey.
serocs
xob
2
pot
gnitceles
sremotsuc
fo
egatnecreP
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt Human capital management 37
Content usage
High quality content is only as useful as it is consumed, thus a key performance indicator of our education programs is
how much learners engage with our content. We measure engagement (consumption) by tracking enrollment across all our
training types and education programs. In 2023, we saw an increase in the consumption of both in-person and self-paced
training offerings.
Yearly consumption of training content
In-person Self-paced
300,000
274,426
16,859
257,567 226,590 231,455
209,941 16,083 1188,,881155
200,000 14,736 210,507 221122,,664400 183,714
195,205
20,863
162,851
100,000
0
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Our dedicated internal education employees provide services and programs that contribute to company business
strategies, working cross-functionally to create programs that support technical enablement, business acumen and our
workplace environment.
In 2023, we leveraged strategic third-party relationships, such as LinkedIn Learning, to pace with market trends and
incorporate high quality industry content in leadership, technical training and manager development training. By integrating
these third-party relationships with our learning infrastructure, we’ve scaled and mobilized training for all of our employees.
margorp
noitacude
dna
gniniart
a
ni
stnemllorne
fo
rebmuN
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt Human capital management 38
Diversity, equity
& inclusion
At Motorola Solutions, we continuously work to build an inclusive culture and diverse
workplace, one shaped by our company values — inclusive, innovative, passionate, driven,
accountable and partners.
Our values drive everything we do, by highlighting ways in which all • Spearheading a Movember
both for our employees and our employees can reflect, recognize and campaign to raise awareness and
customers. More than just words, they reward inclusive behaviors. We shared funds for men’s health issues,
are the traits that define us. Inclusive, resources and training materials on including mental health and suicide
as one of our six company values, inclusive behaviors and mobilized prevention, prostate cancer and
engages each and every Motorolan in our business councils and various testicular cancer. Throughout
our efforts to foster a culture where DEI volunteer groups to host cultural November, we shared cancer
we understand, embrace and amplify events. Additional highlights from our survivor stories, hosted health
the strengths and uniqueness of all DEI efforts include: webinars on prevention and
identities so that all Motorolans feel diagnosis and offered mustache
• Designating Juneteenth as a
valued, welcomed and supported. growth and move challenges
paid company holiday for all U.S.
We seek individuals with unique to raise funds for the
employees and adding it to the U.S.
opinions, cultures and abilities Movember Foundation.
holiday calendar beginning in 2024.
to expand our talent pool, drive
• Celebrating the diversity of our
innovation and support our • Designating National Day for
workforce by commemorating
customers, communities and each Truth and Reconciliation as a
dozens of observations and
other. We do not consider protected paid company holiday for all
celebrations with specific
category status when making any Canadian employees and adding it
programming and employee
employment related decisions. to the Canadian holiday calendar
storytelling for Motorola Solutions’
beginning in 2024.
In 2023, we continued to make “heritage months.”
company-wide progress on our • Issuing a paid mental health day
• Entering into a new partnership
diversity, equity and inclusion for all employees globally during
with Out and Equal, a nonprofit
(DEI) objectives, aligned with a Mental Health Awareness Month,
organization working on LGBTQ+
newly launched initiative, GO ALL encouraging them to pause
workplace equality, inclusion
Inclusive, aimed at celebrating and and re-energize.
and belonging.
promoting our inclusive core value
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt Human capital management 3399
Programs and partnerships
Programs Our business councils: Affinity groups
Over the last few years, we’ve • LatinX Business Council Affinity groups are voluntary,
introduced or expanded targeted employee-led groups where
• Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender,
programs to make our company employees with shared hobbies and
Queer and Questioning (LGBTQ+)
more inclusive. passions can come together to create
Business Council
connections and build relationships.
Business councils • Motorola Solutions Asian Pacific We conceptualized and built a
Islander (MAPI) Business Council governance structure for our affinity
Business councils are voluntary,
groups in 2021 and launched the
employee-led groups that help us • Motorola Solutions Black Inclusion
program in 2022.
drive DEI across the company by and Diversity Organization (MBIDO)
spearheading opportunities for • People with Disabilities and Allies Affinity groups increase engagement
employees to shape their careers, (PwD+A) Business Council and strengthen our company
network across functions, create culture by creating opportunities for
positive culture change, advocate • Veterans Business Council (VBC) employees to network and serve the
for underrepresented populations • Women’s Business Council (WBC) wider community, all while developing
within the work that we do for our skills and knowledge in areas of
• Young Professionals Group (YPG)
customers. The business councils personal interest. In 2023, more
support various efforts, including than 15 affinity groups, such as the
leadership training, cultural awareness CanSurvive cancer support group
and education programs, diversity and Generation A first generation
recruitment outreach and community professionals group, hosted engaging
volunteer activities that involve employee events.
all Motorola Solutions employees
globally. Our business councils are
open to all employees, including allies.
“
At Motorola Solutions, the communities we live in and serve
are diverse. I’m proud of the work that our organization does
to promote diversity and inclusion at work. Inclusion is more
than a core value; it’s something our leadership fully believes
in and actively supports.
”
Tony Howe
Australia & New Zealand Inclusion
& Diversity Council Chair
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt Human capital management 40
DEI champion teams Partnerships
DEI champion teams consist We continue to grow our recruiting
of employee volunteers that pipeline through partnerships with
spearhead events and initiatives several diverse organizations,
that further DEI objectives within including the National Society of
each organization. Established Black Engineers (NSBE), the Society
in 2021, our seven DEI champion of Hispanic Professional Engineers
teams drive the adoption of (SHPE), the Society of Women
DEI strategies throughout the Engineers (SWE) and Women in
company and provide feedback on Cybersecurity (WiCyS). We also
opportunities for inclusion-focused participated in a number of events,
programming as liaisons to the including the NSBE49, SHPE 2023
Office of DEI. and SWE WE23 Conferences, as
well as the WiCyS Virtual Career
Motorolans found many occasions
Fair, London STEM Women Careers
to come together in-person
Event and the Women in Tech
and virtually in 2023. Our global
Summit in Warsaw.
DEI champions and groups
facilitated more than 200 events Together with The Department of
and initiatives to drive inclusion Defense SkillBridge program, we
and belonging, helping to make continued the Project Bulldog
Motorola Solutions a destination initiative, which we launched
workplace. In 2023, business in 2022. The initiative provides
councils and DEI champion teams Motorola Solutions hiring managers
organized month-long cultural early access to military members
celebrations, established leadership who are looking for on-the-job
and career progression programs, training opportunities while they
hosted hackathons and more. prepare to retire or separate from
the military and re-enter the
Highlights include a micro
civilian workforce.
marathon where participants
walked a .26 mile course to We also leveraged social
promote awareness of recruitment platforms, such as
different disabilities, and a VIP LinkedIn Life, Built In Chicago and
Mentoring Program which provided Orion Talent, to publish content
monthly small group learning reflecting our company’s pride in
around inclusion principles. Our our diverse team, our passion for
DEI groups and councils are our people and our long-standing
foundational in creating a company belief that the success of the
culture where every employee company is rooted in the success
can thrive. Learn more about our of our employees. We know that
commitment to DEI on our website. when we tell this richer story,
we help prospective employees
envision themselves as future
Motorolans, thereby attracting the
brightest and most diverse talent.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Human capital management 41
We maintain strategic partnerships • University of Illinois-Urbana
with the following organizations Champaign
to develop internal talent and
• University of Florida
strengthen our diverse
candidate pipelines: We participate in apprenticeship
programs with the following groups
• Disability:IN
to provide underrepresented
• Hispanic Alliance for Career populations with meaningful career
Enhancement opportunities and skills training:
• Illinois Commission on Diversity
• CareerSpring
and Human Relations
• Code Platoon
• Illinois Diversity Council
• DoD SkillBridge Program
• National Society of
• Year Up
Black Engineers
Social recruitment platforms,
• Out & Equal
like the ones below, enable us
• Society of Asian Scientists
to engage with diverse talent
and Engineers
communities and promote job
• Society of Hispanic opportunities to a wider audience:
Professional Engineers
• ArmyPaYS
• Society of Women Engineers
• Getting Hired, Powered by
• Women in Cybersecurity CareerCircle
• HBCU Connect
In addition to the organizations
above, we have active • Orion Talent
recruitment efforts at several
• Path Forward
universities, including:
• Posse Foundation
• Florida Atlantic University
• Georgia Tech
• Purdue University
• University of Illinois at Chicago
We are proud of the recognition we received in 2023 for our commitment to
DEI, as well as providing equitable working conditions for our employees:
• Forbes World’s Top Companies for Women 2023
• Newsweek’s America’s Greatest Workplaces for Diversity
• Disability Equality Index Best Places to Work
• Scored of 95 (out of 100) in the Human Rights Campaign’s
2023-2024 Corporate Equality Index
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Human capital management 42
Workforce demographics
Global workforce Global employees
2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023
by region by gender
North America 53% 53% 53% Men 74% 73% 72%
International 47% 47% 47% Women 26% 27% 28%
Global directors Global directors
2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023
by region by gender
North America 76% 76% 77% Men 81% 80% 79%
International 24% 24% 23% Women 19% 20% 21%
Global vice presidents Global vice presidents
2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023
by region by gender
North America 87% 91% 87% Men 75% 72% 71%
International 13% 9% 13% Women 25% 28% 29%
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Human capital management 43
U.S. employees by race
2021 2022 2023
and ethnicity
White 67% 66% 66%
Asian 15% 15% 15%
Hispanic or Latinx 9% 10% 10%
Black or African American 7% 7% 7%
Other* 2% 2% 2%
U.S. directors U.S. vice
by race and 2021 2022 2023 presidents by race 2021 2022 2023
ethnicity and ethnicity
White 75% 75% 74% White 75% 73% 70%
Asian 13% 14% 14% Asian 16% 15% 13%
Hispanic or
7% 7% 6% Hispanic or Latinx 6% 7% 10%
Latinx
Black or African Black or African
3% 3% 4% 3% 3% 6%
American American
Other* 1% 1% 2% Other* - 1% 1%
Percentages may not add up due to rounding.
*Includes two or more races, Native Americans, Pacific Islanders, Native Hawaiians and Alaska Natives.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Human capital management 44
Talent attraction, retention and development
We recognize that our success would not be possible without our people. We continually strive
to make Motorola Solutions a destination place to work — and are guided by our purpose, brand
and values, as well as a culture that empowers our employees to deliver on our strategy.
Leadership development programs
Emerging Leader Strategic Leader Manager Academy
Acceleration Program Acceleration Program
We offer a two-day in-person session
We offer a leadership academy We introduced a development for first-level people leaders that
experience to help develop our experience for our strategic leaders focuses on critical management
emerging leaders that includes that includes multiple in-person skills. This in-person program allows
in-person training and self-paced training sessions, leadership our first-level leaders to take part in
learning and practice activities, assessments, coaching and a interactive workshops, network with
all geared toward building their business challenge project in which their peers and meet senior leaders.
leadership skills. In 2023, 72 participants develop a proposal for In 2023, 379 managers completed the
individuals had the opportunity to a real problem Motorola Solutions is Manager Academy.
participate in this program. trying to solve. In 2023, 22 individuals
Managing at Motorola Solutions
had the opportunity to participate in
this program.
We delivered 68 virtual training
sessions to more than 2,000
people managers across the globe,
focused on understanding our global
organization and values, rewards
and compensation, recruiting
and hiring employees as well as
performance management and
employee development.
“
The Emerging Leader Program has had a transformative impact on
my professional career. It gave me the unique opportunity to network,
receive mentorship and professional development, and it also
equipped me with the necessary tools and knowledge to excel in my
career and grow my leadership skills.
”
Arek Marczyk
Emerging Leader Program participant
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt Human capital management 45
Making Motorola Solutions a destination place to work
We regularly check in with our employees to ensure we’re fostering an environment that allows them to do
their best work. Functional and regional business leaders regularly conduct engagement surveys to identify
employee needs. In addition to the DEI and CSR awards listed earlier, Motorola Solutions also received the
following recognitions in 2023 for being a great place to work:
• Built In 100 Best Large Companies • Handshake Early Talent Awards • The Straits Times Singapore’s
to Work for in Chicago Best Employers
• HR Asia Best Companies
• Built In Chicago’s 100 Best Places to Work for in Asia • TIME World’s Best Companies
to Work in Chicago
• Newsweek America’s Most • Way Up & Yello Top 100
• Fast Company Best Workplaces Trusted Companies Internship Programs
for Innovators
• Newsweek World’s Most
• Forbes World’s Best Employers Trustworthy Companies
• Fortune’s World’s Most • The Salt Lake Tribune
Admired Companies Top Workplaces
Putting people first Developing our talent pipeline
We know that our employees’ experiences at Motorola Our Human Resources team works with teams across the
Solutions are highly influenced by their individual company to perform extensive talent assessments and
relationships and experiences with their managers. We reviews on an annual basis. Leaders conduct annual talent
believe that people leadership is a great responsibility and review meetings, assessing the potential and performance
continue to promote a leadership framework which outlines of each team member and identifying the best development
the people-centric behaviors that we expect from managers. opportunities to continue fostering growth across the
All existing people managers, as well as newly hired or organization. Employees have access to a wide variety
promoted managers, are enrolled in a manager training of technical, functional and professional skills learning
program. Our dynamic LXP includes an engaging curriculum resources, ranging from on-demand tools to in-person
that reinforces this philosophy. classroom learning to on-the-job learning opportunities.
Leadership program
In 2023, we launched a new development program to continue to drive the careers
of our strategic leaders. The curriculum is designed to ensure these individuals are
ready to step into more senior leadership roles. Our Strategic Leader Acceleration
Program allows individuals from across the globe to participate in in-person
learning, peer coaching sessions and assessments, and also gives them valuable
face time with senior executives. They are also assigned a group business
challenge project, which requires them to solve a critical problem facing Motorola
Solutions. This program ensures that our future leaders are actively developing the
competencies required to take the next step in their careers.
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt Human capital management 46
Total rewards
Our employee rewards programs are designed to help attract, retain and motivate employees.
Each year, we review our rewards programs to make sure they are competitive with local
market practices in the industries and countries where we operate. All Motorola Solutions
employees participate in an annual incentive plan or a sales incentive plan.
In 2023, 52% of employees in 27 countries participated in our discounted employee stock purchase plan.
Total rewards 2021 2022 2023
Amount paid to employees through annual sales and
$261M $288M $320M
incentive plans
Number of employees awarded restricted stock units, market
2,438 5,156 5,189
stock units and/or stock options
Restricted stock units, market stock units, performance stock
1.12M 1.31M 1.18M
units and stock options awarded to employees
Total value of Motorola Solutions stock purchased
$80.5M $85.4M $87.7M
through our employee stock purchase plan
Total value of equity
$131.3M $218.4M $244.8M
awards granted
Eligibility for our annual equity grant was extended in 2022 to employees below the director level, and this eligibility
continued in 2023. This gives more of our employees the opportunity to participate in company ownership.
Benefits
Motorola Solutions is proud to offer a comprehensive benefits package for our U.S. employees, including:
• Health insurance and • Paid parental and family leave • Flexible work options
wellness programs
• Life and disability insurance • Assistance and support for
• 401(k) plan and financial counseling employees going through
• Commuter benefits
and coaching programs life-changing events
• Paid time off (including flexible time
off for exempt employees)
Outside the U.S., Motorola Solutions aligns benefits offerings with market standards in each country where we operate.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Human capital management 47
Supply chain
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Supply chain 48
“
Supply Chain is focused on
acquiring the right parts, at
the right time, in the right
place. Responsible sourcing
and uncompromising ethical
standards are in place every step
of the way. We understand that
acting with integrity
enables us to consistently
deliver for our customers.
”
Ken Makowski
Global Procurement
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Supply chain 49
Labor practices in
our value chain
Motorola Solutions maintains high Supplier Code of Conduct. In 2022, we We’ve continued to reinforce
labor and environmental standards at updated our Supplier Code of Conduct responsible business practices in the
every stage in the supply chain. We’re to require all tier-one suppliers supply chain. Our tier-one suppliers
committed to ensuring our company (suppliers from whom we buy directly) are expected to flow down our social,
and our suppliers do not use forced, to establish Environmental Impact governance and environmental
bonded, indentured or child labor or Reduction plans which align with related contract requirements to their
engage in modern slavery or human Motorola Solutions’ goals and also to suppliers. We conducted supplier
trafficking. We’re a member of the report regularly on the status of their surveys confirming adherence to
RBA, an organization dedicated to Environmental Impact reduction plans our diversity and labor policies. In
supporting continuous improvement as they relate to Motorola Solutions’ addition, a separate survey was
in the social, environmental and operations. In 2023, we launched the conducted to certify compliance with
ethical responsibility of the global Emissions Management Tool (EMT) the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention
electronics industry supply chain. through the RBA platform. This tool Act (UFLPA).
allows us to collect Scope 1 and 2
We continue to be recognized for
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions
our commitment to responsible
Supply chain data from our tier-one suppliers. We
supply chain and business continuity
engage with our tier-one suppliers
practices. In 2023, we were recognized
to assess their performance and
management
as a top-tier U.S. Customs-Trade
encourage improvement and
Partnership Against Terrorism (CTPAT)
ownership of any practices that do
partner for the 21st consecutive
Supplier monitoring is at the core not align with our values. Supplier
year. This designation recognizes
of our supply chain CR efforts. performance and responsiveness
our commitment to protecting the
We focus our monitoring program is included in the decisions made
interests of our customers and
on direct-material suppliers that to award new business, and
suppliers by ensuring all goods and
pose a high risk and those with performance is tracked through key
related documents will be protected
whom we want to establish deeper, performance indicators (KPIs) on our
against alterations, damage or loss
longer-term relationships. We suppliers’ “scorecards.” Scorecard
as well as criminal activities such as
use monitoring and training to performance is used to identify
drug trafficking, terrorism and human
communicate our requirements to suppliers who align with our strategic
smuggling. We expanded our business
supplier management and identify objectives in key areas, such as CR.
continuity efforts to achieve ISO 22301
practices that do not align with our Suppliers with high performance
certification at seven of our largest
values, which are described in our scores are awarded more business.
sites worldwide.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Supply chain 50
Risk assessment
We completed 335 supplier risk For tier-one product and indirect feedback and invited to engage in
assessments in 2023, including those manufacturing suppliers, we use dialogue with us to develop plans to
of suppliers representing 100% of our the RBA-Online tool that assesses address their risks.
direct material supply chain spend. labor, ethics, health and safety, and
Field service suppliers are assessed for
environmental sustainability risk.
Motorola Solutions assesses risk in the risk, and suppliers identified by our
supply chain by evaluating the Supplier risk is rated based on process as higher risk are required to
type of supplier and the type of responses to self-assessment complete further assessment through
service or product each is questionnaires at the corporate and Avetta, our independent third-party
providing. We conduct an annual risk- facility level. The RBA system also provider. The third-party assessment
based supplier assessment program allows for sharing of information evaluates the supplier based on health,
with independent audits for high-risk among its members to avoid safety and environmental criteria.
suppliers identified through self- duplication of effort and present a Suppliers who do not meet our criteria
assessment questionnaires and consistent set of requirements to are not awarded business. To date, we
third-party reporting. electronics industry suppliers. High-risk have screened more than 600 suppliers
suppliers are targeted for audits, and using this process.
medium-risk suppliers are given
2023 Goals Outcomes
Achieved
Ensure that suppliers accounting for 80% of our 100% of total direct material spend reviewed in
direct material spend are evaluated for risk at the two-year period.
least every two years.
Achieved
Conduct audits of 100% of suppliers evaluated as 100% of our tier-one direct material suppliers
“high risk” using Motorola Solutions criteria. evaluated as “high risk” were audited.
Not achieved
Deliver basic sustainability training to 100% of Online basic training was completed by 91.4% of strategic
strategic Direct Material Suppliers addressing Direct Material suppliers in several languages, free of charge,
subjects with the most audit findings in covering topics such as: Recognizing & Preventing Forced
supplier audits. Labor, Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Management
Systems, Fire Safety, Working Hours, GHG Emissions, the RBA
Code of Conduct and more.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Supply chain 51
Auditing and improving
Supplier risk assessments are Following these audits, we
backed by our audit program, provide feedback to the suppliers
whereby an RBA-approved third and work with them to correct
party firm conducts detailed on-site the issues identified. For
audits. We decide which facilities suppliers with priority findings,
to audit based on information we provide one-on-one, third-
collected through party consulting services to
self-assessments, specific reports individually help them analyze
made to our EthicsLine and other and successfully rectify any
reporting channels, along with risk deficiencies. We may use a
factors such as amount of spend, follow-up audit, conducted
activity, location and reputation. by a third party or our own
supply chain team, to verify
We may audit new suppliers and
that suppliers have made the
may periodically audit suppliers
necessary improvements. In
with which we have the largest
2023, we ensured that 100% of
commercial relationships to ensure
follow-up audits were closed
they remain in compliance with our
within the calendar year allowing
Supplier Code of Conduct.
us to ensure that our suppliers
In 2023, we continued to include are adhering to our Supplier
corporate social responsibility Code of Conduct.
related criteria in all supplier
We designed a training
audits performed by our Supplier
curriculum for our tier-one
Development Engineering (SDE)
suppliers based on the most
team, which is part of our Quality
frequent audit issues reported.
organization. Through this Quality
Using the RBA platform, we
Supplier Assessment process, nine
selected relevant coursework
suppliers were involved and we
and assigned it to our suppliers,
identified zero high-risk suppliers
covering topics such as
that will be scheduled for an onsite
Recognizing & Preventing
audit in 2024. In 2022, one supplier
Forced Labor, EHS Management
was identified as high risk from the
Systems, Fire Safety, Working
SDE audits, and we audited 100%
Hours, GHG Emissions, the RBA
of the identified high-risk suppliers
Code of Conduct and more.
in 2023. More details of our 2023
Training courses are available in
audit findings are provided in the
several languages and are free
table on the following page.
of charge to our suppliers.
We trained representatives
from over 90 tier-one, direct
material suppliers.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Supply chain 5522
2023 on-site audits for identified high-risk suppliers
Reason for audit 2023 Most common supplier audit findings 2023
Planned – High risk 1 Freely chosen employment 11
Issue response 0 Working hours 9
Labor supplier 0 Occupational safety 7
Follow-up 4 Emergency preparedness 7
Total sites audited 5 Improvements objectives & control processes 7
Number of audit findings 2023 Number of audit findings 2023
Labor Health & safety
Freely chosen employment 11 Occupational safety 7
Young workers 2 Emergency preparedness 7
Working hours 9 Occupational injury and illness 2
Wages and benefits 2 Industrial hygiene 0
Humane treatment 2 Physically demanding work 0
Non-discrimination 1 Machine safeguarding 2
Freedom of association 1 Sanitation, food and housing 3
Environmental Ethics
Environmental permits and reporting 2 No improper advantage 1
Hazardous substances 3 Disclosure of information 0
Solid waste 0 Intellectual property 1
Air emissions 1 Fair business, advertising and competition 1
Water management 0 Protection of identity and non-retaliation 0
Energy consumption and greenhouse Privacy 0
3
gas emissions
Management system
Company commitment 2
Materials restrictions 0
Responsible sourcing of minerals 0
Supplier responsibility 3
Total findings 66
*These categories align with the current RBA audit protocol, V7.1.1
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Supply chain 53
2023 on-site Validated Assessment Program (VAP) audits
In addition to on-site audits that we conduct of our high-risk suppliers, as an RBA member we have access to audits of
our suppliers conducted by other RBA members, known as on-site Validated Assessment Program (VAP) audits. We are
able to review the audit findings and subsequent corrective actions to ensure these suppliers are conforming to the RBA
Code of Conduct and implementing permanent and appropriate changes.
Type of VAP audit 2023
Initial/planned 33
Closure 15
Priority closure 4
Total sites audited 52
Implementing due diligence in our supply chain
We aim to confirm the presence of also support the RMI’s Responsible RMI’s program, or to encourage them
tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold (3TG) Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP) to participate and become RMAP-
in products supplied to Motorola as part of our membership in the RMI, conformant if they are not already.
Solutions and to identify the smelters with the goal of promoting responsible
Our due diligence program is fully
or refiners from which our suppliers mineral sourcing globally.
disclosed in our conflict minerals
source these metals. We use the RMI
In 2023 we communicated directly to report attached as an exhibit to our
Conflict Minerals Reporting Template
smelters in our supply chain in addition 2023 Form SD filed with the SEC.
(CMRT) to engage our direct material
to tier-one suppliers to encourage The 2023 report is available here.
suppliers. We review responses for
these smelters to either maintain
completeness and consistency, and
their RMAP-conformant status in the
we follow up when appropriate. We
RMI due diligence summary 2023
Responses received from suppliers 191
Percent of in-scope spend 95.5%
Smelters verified by RMI 366
Smelters audited and found conformant with the relevant RMAP standard 237
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Supply chain 54
Responsible and sustainable
materials sourcing
Our products contain various metals, including tantalum,
tin, tungsten and gold (3TG), originating from mines
around the world.
Some of this production comes from the Democratic Republic of the Congo
(DRC) and neighboring countries, where political instability and lack of
security have allowed mines to be exploited by armed groups.
We support responsible sourcing from conflict-affected and high-risk areas.
We avoid any activities that could be associated with financing armed
conflict, and we engage with local initiatives such as The International Tin
Supply Chain Initiative (ITSCI) to avoid contributing to conflict, human rights
abuses, or other risks in central Africa.
Through our membership in the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), we
support a range of industry tools and resources developed to address issues
related to the responsible sourcing of minerals in the global supply chain,
including the Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP). RMI runs
regular workshops on responsible minerals sourcing issues and contributes
to policy development and debates with leading civil society organizations
and governments.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Supply chain 55
Supplier diversity program
Our commitment to providing economic opportunities to
our business suppliers remains steadfast. By leveraging our
buying power intentionally and inclusively, we drive competitive
advantage for our business, promote positive economic
growth in the communities we serve and remain committed to
our overall responsibility as a global corporate citizen.
700+ 3,500
diverse jobs created
suppliers* or maintained
*Includes Motorola Solutions and its subsidiaries suppliers based in the United States.
Supplier diversity
Our commitment is to maximize the participation of small and diverse suppliers
through a transparent and inclusive sourcing process. We have key strategies in
play, such as supplier outreach and inclusive-centric corporate memberships, to
demonstrate our best-faith effort for intentionally utilizing qualified suppliers that
are not only certified as small but owned by minorities, indigenous people, veterans,
women, LGBTQ+ and/or people with disabilities.
We recognize that an inclusive supply chain introduces agility, creativity,
accessibility and innovation into the technology and solutions we deliver
to our customers around the world.
Channel operations
We work with a global network of highly qualified channel and service partners to
bring our customers the best mobility and communications products to transform
their business. Together, we identify diverse-owned partners within our current
channel. We identified more than 600 radio and video diverse-owned partners
qualified to meet our customers’ business needs and their diversity goals.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Supply chain 56
Treasury
In execution of our capital market transactions, including our senior long-term
debt issuances, we’ve selected and partnered with minority- and women-
owned banks. In addition, several minority-, women- and veteran-owned asset
managers have responsibility for managing our global pension assets. We
believe the expertise and diverse approaches these partners bring to the table
contribute to the financial success of our transactions.
2023 global diversity
council memberships
and partners
In addition to building and investing
in diverse business pipelines, we
continue our support of these
communities through strategic
partnerships and sponsorships.
To increase inclusiveness within our
business, our team attended six global
events, sponsored multiple education
sessions in the U.K. and North
America and participated in local
disparity studies. Our partners
include the following organizations:
• Disability:IN
• Minority Supplier Development
United Kingdom
• National Gay & Lesbian
Chamber of Commerce –
Founding Corporate Partner
• National Minority Supplier
Development Council
• National Veteran Business
Development Council
• Small Business Administration
• Women’s Business Enterprise
National Council
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Supply chain 57
Environmental
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental 58
“
At Motorola Solutions, we are
cognizant of our impact on the
environment and strive for a
greener future by setting waste
reduction and recycling goals,
promoting environmental
education and implementing
sustainable practices within
our operations.
”
Claire Obuchowski
Environment, Health and Safety
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental 59
Environment, health and
safety management
Our Environment, Health, Safety and Quality (EHSQ)
management system is certified to the following international
standards: ISO 14001, ISO 45001 and ISO 9001.
Certifications cover our We conduct IMS audits at our sites
manufacturing sites, design to assess compliance with our
centers and larger facilities. Integrated Management System
We ask our tier-one suppliers Policy, management system, legal
to implement an environmental and other applicable requirements.
management system in accordance Our ISO 14001, ISO 45001 and ISO
with ISO 14001 or an equivalent 9001-certified sites each undergo
standard and expect our suppliers to internal and external audits every year.
pass on this requirement
In addition, all of the ISO 14001 and
through their supply chains. We
ISO 45001-certified sites undergo
monitor compliance with this
EHS regulatory compliance audits
requirement through our supplier
every three years by independent
assessment program.
third-party auditors.
Additionally, we have integrated
our EHSQ management systems,
to the extent possible, into a single
Integrated Management System
(IMS), which has improved our
performance by establishing
consistency, optimizing our
processes and helping to drive
continual improvement.
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt Environmental 60
EHS non-compliance incidents
Motorola Solutions is proud to have
2021 2022 2023 received the following recognitions
for our environment, health and safety
Environmental* 1 0 0 operations:
• RoSPA Commended in the
Safety* 0 0 0
Information & Communication
Industry Sector Award
Fines/penalties* $247** $0 $0
• RoSPA Fleet Safety Gold Award
*Notices of violation, citations, administrative orders or notices of non-compliance
**An immaterial fine was assessed against our Airwave business when scrapped
antennas were not removed from a site in a timely fashion.
Site remediation
Motorola Solutions is involved in environmental remediation at several former manufacturing
locations and waste-disposal facilities.
Past activities at these sites that were At the end of 2023, we had located in Scottsdale, Arizona, treated
common and accepted practices at $127 million reserved to cover groundwater is used for irrigation and
the time of operation resulted in soil environmental liabilities. We share potable water supply or returned to the
and groundwater contamination. We environmental liabilities and aquifer for future beneficial use. We
collaborate with other responsible remediation expenses with other use renewable energy for the operation
parties, regulatory agencies, water companies and organizations of our treatment facilities and work
providers and community members operating at many of these sites. to reduce our water, electricity and
to evaluate environmental impacts at natural gas usage with refinements
We are committed to reducing
these sites and perform remediation to our operating procedures. Where
our environmental footprint in the
activities to restore these sites and carbon is used for treatment, we renew
implementation of our remediation
their environmental resources to an and reuse the carbon to reduce our
projects. At our largest remediation site
acceptable condition. total usage.
Renewable energy use
Renewable energy use is part of our
commitment to responsible environmental
remediation, and in 2023 we used about 1.72
million kilowatt hours of power for remediation
entirely from renewable sources. Our total
energy use from renewable resources was
41 million kilowatt hours in 2023.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental 61
Climate impact
We recognize that we have a shared responsibility for minimizing climate impact, and we
have set goals to help us limit our contribution to average global temperature increases.
In 2022, we published our inaugural As part of this effort, we developed we do business evolves, we’re taking
standalone report to align with the a product carbon footprint database a closer look at how we can better
recommendations of the TCFD, where we defined product carbon capture our Scope 3 data in 2024.
an international, multi-industry- footprint attributes across our In 2023, we continued to expand
led initiative launched to develop portfolio and added these attributes our supply chain environmental
recommendations for to our engineering Product Lifecycle performance evaluations through
voluntary disclosure of climate- Management (PLM) system. tools developed by the RBA, of which
related risk. This report follows the we are a member. We deployed an
framework outlined in the TCFD Emissions Management Tool from
Scope 1, 2 and 3
recommendations and includes the RBA for our suppliers, which
the core elements — including emissions report captures the GHG emissions of our
governance, strategy, risk suppliers and their reduction goals.
management, metrics and Our carbon footprint (Scope 1 and This allows us to continue to engage
targets — while addressing each location-based scope 2 emissions with our suppliers on environmental
of the 11 TCFD disclosure from GHG totaled 77,339 tonnes of performance and their progress
recommendations. The full report carbon dioxide equivalent (CO e) towards their goals. Our total Scope
2
is available on our website. emissions, an increase of 7.99% 3 emissions for 2023 was 1,004,037
compared to 2022, primarily due to tonnes CO e, a decrease of 3.52%
In 2023, we worked to improve data 2
the inclusion of more data related to from 2022. As enhancements were
and methodologies around our
our networks, remediation sites and made to the methodology used to
greenhouse gas (GHG)
acquisitions. Our Scope 1 emissions calculate emissions associated with
calculations. We continued to
totaled 15,015 tonnes CO e and Category 11: ‘Use of Sold Products’,
collect and improve the quality of 2
Scope 2 emissions were 62,324 we recalculated and reverified our
primary data related to the energy
tonnes CO e. 2022 emissions under this category
use of our products which will allow 2
during our 2023 GHG verification.
us to build an effective carbon Our Scope 3 emissions data
reduction strategy for Scope 3 reporting is currently in its fifth year.
Category 11: “Use of Sold Products.” As our company grows and the way
Support for biodiversity
We support biodiversity through maintaining
wildlife habitats at two of our environmental
remediation sites. One is the Ischua Creek Habitat
meadow/forest habitat near Machias, New York
and another is the North Indian Bend Wash
Granular Activated Carbon Treatment Facility
(NGTF) Desert Habitat in Scottsdale, Arizona.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental 62
Our emission reporting is independently verified by Apex Companies,
Carbon Footprint Scopes 1 and 2
LLC (formerly Bureau Veritas) annually. Our verification statements are [Tonnes COe]
2
available on our website.
2021 2022 2023
66,911 71,619 77,339
Carbon footprint – Scope 3 [Tonnes CO e]
2
We’re proud of the following
Jobs created or maintained
2021 2022 2023 recognition we received in 2023,
demonstrating our commitment to
Purchased goods and services 395,693 407,693 332,005 sustainability and the environment:
• Investor’s Business Daily 100 Best
Capital goods 18,905 39,511 29,000 ESG Companies
• Newsweek America’s Most
Upstream fuel and energy 3,092 4,591 4,841 Responsible Companies
• Newsweek America’s
Upstream transportation
56,449 89,473 69,508
and distribution Greenest Companies
• USA Today America’s
Waste 530 556 614
Climate Leaders
Business travel 11,064 19,913 30,745
*New Scope 3 reporting category reflecting
emissions associated with organizational
Employee commuting 2,055 5,540 5,791
investments
**Due to enhancements in data quality and
Use of sold products 906,693 473,137** 531,423 methodology, this number was re-verified with
the 2023 inventory
Investments* - 213 110
Our GHG reduction goal is to:
Reduce global absolute GHG emissions,
Scopes 1 and 2, to 3.4 kT CO2e by 2031,
which represents a 95% reduction compared
to our 2021 baseline.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental 63
Safe and sustainable operations
Motorola Solutions had 227 sites, totaling 3.5 million square feet, in our portfolio at year-end
2023. Of those, 225 sites and 3.4 million square feet were leased space. We are committed
to working collaboratively with the owners of these sites to have a positive impact on the
environment and sustainability through our global real estate footprint.
At Motorola Solutions’ key global
sites, totaling more than 2 million
square feet, we focused on energy
reduction efforts and saw a weather-
normalized savings of 3.3% as
compared to performance in 2022.
The 2023 weather-normalized savings
held flat at 3.3% from the prior year.
The Motorola Solutions Energy
Program continued to focus on
optimizing building operations to
create energy savings in 2023. At our
Schaumburg and Elgin, Illinois sites,
our fault detection and diagnostics
program actively monitors our HVAC
equipment to identify inefficiencies or
equipment running outside of normal
parameters. In 2023, we worked
closely with building engineers and
HVAC control contractors to improve
operations, achieving $54,000
in savings, 360,000 kWh and
255 MTCO2e.
Recently, a project to replace an
aging uninterruptible power supply
(UPS) in Schaumburg was completed.
The project achieved an incentive
from the local utility company of
$213,000 and saved 1,184,000 kWh
and $94,000 in utility costs in 2023.
The project also resulted in improved
reliability for Motorola Solutions’
critical infrastructure.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental 64
A retro commissioning project was Motorola Solutions also continued 2024 focus areas will include
completed at our Elgin site to review to participate in a demand response continued efforts to improve efficiency.
and identify more efficient operations program in 2023 for sites in Northern We are also working to incorporate
for the HVAC and is expected to save Illinois. During the test event, we SmartFM technology – including
$35,000 annually as well as reduce reduced electricity demand by 1,049 condition-based maintenance and
usage by 342,730 kWh or kWh between our Schaumburg and fault detection and diagnostics – to
243 MTCO2e. Elgin sites. Our Richardson and Allen, integrate systems, process, technology
Texas locations were also enrolled in and personnel while enhancing
In Penang, Malaysia, Motorola
the demand response program. the management of a building for
Solutions enrolled in the local
increased efficiency, sustainability and
Green Electric Tariff program which A review of the portfolio’s scope 1 and
enhanced comfort.
supplied verified green energy for over scope 2 emissions was completed in
800,000 kWh. Energy reduction efforts an effort to verify where renewable Additionally, we are taking steps
were completed with the car park energy procurement opportunities are. toward green leasing to identify which
lighting schedule and lab setpoints, As Motorola Solutions works toward landlords may be the best partners
resulting in 68,000 kWh saved. our 2031 target, this information will for decarbonization and meeting our
be critical in being actively prepared future goals.
In Krakow, Poland, the real estate
to take advantage of opportunities as
team completed a sub metering
they arise.
project to better understand how
electricity is being used in labs. At the end of 2023, an airflow
This information will enable the containment project was initiated
team to review use with responsible at our Schaumburg site to follow
parties as we collaborate to reduce best practices and to minimize hot,
energy consumption. exhaust air from servers mixing with
mechanically cooled air to maintain
acceptable temperatures.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental 65
Furniture Construction projects
In 2023, Motorola Solutions continued its focus on Our real estate construction projects feature
sustainability and community involvement by utilizing sustainable attributes such as low volatile organic
a Furniture Fixture and Equipment (FFE) Removal compound (VoC) emitting materials, solid surfaces
Process. This process provides options to prevent and paint and carpet with recycled content. In addition
items from being placed in landfills by reusing or to projects we’re directly managing, we work with
donating office equipment and supplies to landlords that are performing Tenant Improvement
nonprofit and community organizations. This process projects to ensure that appropriate actions are
was utilized in Sao Paulo, Brazil; Mexico City, Mexico; taken relative to the handling of e-waste. Examples
St. Petersburg, Florida; Charlotte, North Carolina; and of locations of construction materials and e-waste
Schaumburg, Illinois. Approximately 300 pieces of projects include; Krakow, Poland; Basingstoke,
furniture were either reused by Motorolans or donated U.K.; Lisbon, Portugal; Washington, DC; Culver City,
rather than being dumped into local landfills. The California; Chicago, Illinois; Plattsburg, New York; and
overall donation contribution value for these items was Markham, Canada.
in excess of $6,000.
We continue to purchase high quality office furniture
that will stand the test of time and is manufactured
utilizing sustainability practices, as defined by the U.S.
Green Building Council (USGBC) LEED measurements
as well as Greenguard. We partner with office supply
vendors that focus on sustainability and design and
produce products with the environment in mind.
Additionally, we seek to reuse existing furniture
where logistics and local regulations allow. In 2023,
we continued to demonstrate good corporate
responsibility by redeploying office furniture
and reusing or donating office supplies to local Sustainable buildings
organizations, as well as avoiding sending to landfills.
Examples of our furniture redeployment and reuse Our Chicago, Illinois headquarters continues to
efforts include work in Krakow, Poland; Basingstoke, maintain the following designations: LEED Gold,
U.K.; Lisbon, Portugal; Penang, Malaysia; Orlando, Energy Star and BOMA360.
Florida; Plantation, Florida; Charlotte and Raleigh,
In addition, the Krakow, Poland campus has been
North Carolina; Washington, DC; Superior, Colorado;
awarded the certificate “Building Without Barriers”
Culver City, California; and Mexico City, Mexico.
issued by “Integracja” Foundation. The certificate
confirms that all our buildings meet architectural
accessibility standards and are accessible to people
with various disabilities.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental 66
Energy efficiency
Motorola Solutions used 197.6 million kWh, or 711,253 GJ, of energy (electricity and fossil fuel) in our operations in 2023, a
6.2% increase from 2022. We measure environmental impacts at our main sites, which account for 78% of total floor space.
We extrapolate the measured data to provide an estimate of impacts for the remaining 22% of floor space.
Globally, our renewable energy use was 24%, with the balance of 76% from non-renewable sources, which was completely
sourced from the power grid. We do not source renewable fuels in our operations.
Global total energy use:
Electricity and fossil fuel 2021 2022 2023
(Normalized in million kWh)
Measured energy use 139 155 179
Jobs created or maintained
Measured electricity 127 137 164
Measured fossil fuel combustion 12 18 15
Total estimated energy use 167 186 198
Total electricity
155 165 172
(measured + estimated)
Total fossil fuel combustion
12 21 26
(measured + estimated)
Renewable energy use as a
2021 2022 2023
percent of total energy use
1% 24% 24%
Gross total electricity used from
renewable and non-renewable 2021 2022 2023
(Million kWh)
Renewable 2 40 41
Non-renewable 153 125 131
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental 67
Waste and recycling
In 2023, we produced 1,821 tonnes of total waste globally, 4.6% less than in 2022. Our total waste includes hazardous and
non-hazardous wastes, of which less than 1% is hazardous (including electronic waste in countries where electronic scrap
is regulated as hazardous waste).
Of the non-hazardous waste we generated in 2023, 49% was recycled or reused, and 51% of waste was sent to a landfill.
Our total waste includes business, production, consumer products and packaging waste.
Our 2023 recycling rate remained at 49%. Our recycling program includes business, production,
consumer and packaging materials. For 2024, we’ll continue our work to increase our recycling rate to 50%.
In 2023, 894 total tonnes were diverted from landfills globally.
Waste and recycling 2021 2022 2023
Total waste (tonnes) 1,450 1,908 1,821
Waste per employee
0.08 0.1 0.09
(tonnes/employee)
Recycling rate 42% 49% 49%
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental 68
Water use
Nearly all of the water we use in our operations is in cafeterias, restrooms or cooling towers. We use very little water
in manufacturing. At most sites, we discharge wastewater to public sewer systems for treatment in compliance
with regulations.
Our water consumption reporting is independently verified by Apex Companies, LLC (formerly Bureau Veritas) annually.
Our 2023 verification statements are available on our website. We measure water use at sites that account for 49% of total
floor space. We extrapolate the measured data to provide an estimate of impacts for the remaining 51% of the total floor
space. For 2024, we have set a goal to maintain current water usage levels, normalized for new acquisitions.
Water use (1,000 cubic meters) 2021 2022 2023
Measured 113 149 127
Total (measured + estimated) 241 262 251
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental 69
Emissions
The majority of our volatile organic material (VOM) emissions result from the
combustion of fossil fuels at our facilities. Operations involved include heating,
cooking and use of emergency back-up generators as needed. Motorola
Solutions does not have operations that create significant nitrogen oxides
(NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), particulate matter (PM) or hazardous air pollutant
(HAP) air emissions.
For 2024, we have set a goal to maintain VOM emissions at less
than 1 tonne annually.
Volatile organic materials
2021 2022 2023
(tonnes)
VOM* 0.1 0.1 -
NOx** - - 0.001
SOx** - - 0.015
PM2.5** - - <0.001
VOC** - - <0.001
HAP** - - 0
*VOM total represented by pollutant breakdown below
**New reporting breakdown included in 2023
Employee health and safety
The safety of our employees is a top priority for our company. Safety
professionals located at our larger sites also support the smaller sites within
their region to ensure EHS compliance. We use our global EHS compliance
procedures to ensure program and reporting consistency at all of our sites. We
also use a third-party auditing consultant to perform compliance audits at our
larger sites (characterized by number of employees and activity-based risk)
every three years, and periodically at our smaller sites and new acquisitions,
including, but not limited to the following:
• Berlin, Germany • Plantation, Florida
• Edinburgh, United Kingdom • Richardson, Texas
• Elgin, Illinois • Richmond, British Columbia
• Krakow, Poland • Santiago, Chile
• London, United Kingdom • Schaumburg, Illinois
• Melbourne, Australia • Tel Aviv, Israel
• Penang, Malaysia
*New reporting breakdown included in 2023
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental 70
Our general approach includes assessing risks and identifying controls
through the use of our comprehensive job hazard and risk-assessment
tool. All activities are assessed, including those within our facilities and
in the field, to ensure that risks are addressed and hazard controls are
identified and implemented. We maintain a training matrix that identifies
EHS training requirements based on activities being performed. Training is
assigned to employees through our LXP to ensure compliance.
All employees are responsible for maintaining a safe workplace by
following established safety and health policies and procedures. As
outlined in our Code of Business Conduct, employees must immediately
report accidents or injuries and unsafe equipment, practices or conditions
to a supervisor or other designated person, or by using our confidential
EthicsLine reporting process.
We have included a breakdown of our injury rate (IR) by region. The IR is
based on U.S. Department of Labor Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA) CFR 1904.7 general recording criteria. Our global
recordable injury and illness case rate remains well below the industry
average of 0.6 for similar businesses.
Global 2021 2022 2023
Injury rate (IR) 0.13 0.10 0.12
Occupational disease rate 0.07 0.08 0.04
Lost time case rate (LTC) 0.10 0.12 0.13
Lost days 518 449 450
Work-related fatalities 0 0 0
Minor first aid 70 123 102
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental 7711
North and Latin America 2021 2022 2023
Injury rate (IR) 0.17 0.15 0.08
Our business focus has evolved
Occupational disease rate 0.12 0.13 0.05
from the manufacturing of products
to include managed and support
Lost time case rate (LTC) 0.15 0.15 0.10
services, such as network operation
Lost days 489* 394 239 and maintenance. Additionally, our
employees are increasingly working
Work-related fatalities 0 0 0 in the field and at customer sites
performing a wide variety of tasks
Minor first aid 42 115** 90
with different risks. We now have
safety resources aligned with our
*Three employees were under the care of medical professionals for musculoskeletal
injuries and were unable to work with restrictions field teams.
**Improved reporting for minor injuries at a supply chain site, due to our investment in an
onsite EHS professional and enhanced training of first aid responders
Asia Pacific (APAC) 2021 2022 2023
Injury rate (IR) 0 0 0.06
Occupational disease rate 0 0 0
Lost time case rate (LTC) 0 0 0.06
Lost days 0 6 28***
Work-related fatalities 0 0 0
Minor first aid 1 0 4
***Increased field service maintenance activity and improved reporting due to our
investment in enhanced training Key measurements
Injury Rate (IR) = Number of OSHA
Recordable Cases x 200,000/
Europe, Middle East and Number of Employee Labor
2021 2022 2023
Africa (EMEA)
Hours worked
Injury rate (IR) 0.16 0.13 0.26 Lost Time Case Rate (LTC) =
Number of Lost Time Cases x
Occupational disease rate 0.02 0 0.03
200,000 / Number of Employee
Labor Hours worked. It is calculated
Lost time case rate (LTC) 0.09 0.08 0.26
on day one and includes scheduled
work days.
Lost days 29 43 183***
Minor first aid is a count of all
Work-related fatalities 0 0 0
reported work-related injuries and
Minor first aid 0 2 8 illnesses that are not included
in the incident rate (IR).
***Increased field service maintenance activity and improved reporting due to our
investment in enhanced training
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental 72
Sustainable design and product stewardship
We consider environmental impacts in the design of our products and work across all stages
of the lifecycle to reduce carbon footprint and increase environmental benefits.
Environmental Materials management
design principles
We work to reduce hazardous We take a precautionary approach to
substances in our products and materials selection and have compiled
• Comply with laws and regulations
find environmentally sound a list of 77 substances or substance
• Use environmentally alternatives, without compromising groups targeted for exclusion,
preferred materials performance and quality. We follow reduction or reporting. Please see the
all relevant regulations for substance list of specific substances here. We
• Improve energy efficiency
restrictions, including the European have collected Full Material Content
and reduce our product
Union (EU) directive on the Restriction data from our direct material suppliers
carbon footprint
of Hazardous Substances, China’s for many years which has allowed us
• Reduce material consumption,
Management Methods and the EU’s to develop an extensive database of
including packaging
Registration, Evaluation, our product material content.
• Design our products for Authorization and Restriction of
longevity, including Chemicals (REACH) regulation. We
upgradeability and serviceability register our products sold in the EU
according to the “Substances of
• Increase the recyclable
Concern In articles as such or in
content of our product
complex objects (Products)” (also
referred to as SCIP) requirements
established under the EU Waste
Framework Directive (WFD).
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental 73
Product energy
efficiency
We are improving energy efficiency
across our product range. Evolving
regulatory and customer requirements
for energy-efficient products aligns
with our drive to reduce carbon
impacts across our portfolio.
Packaging
We are optimizing product
packaging by:
• Replacing packaging materials
with environmentally preferential
alternatives and increasing
the use of recycled and
recyclable materials
• Reducing the quantity of printed
materials required for orders
• Improving the volumetric
weights to optimize the amount
of material used
• Continually increasing our library
of online manuals
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental 74
Product recycling and
battery take-back
We operate take-back programs as an organization
and in partnership with customers, retailers,
recyclers and governments.
We are legally required to take back We strive to fully comply with the EU
and recycle our products in the Battery Regulation. We also voluntarily
EU and the European Economic publish product data sheets that help
Area under the Waste Electrical our customers manage our batteries:
and Electronic Equipment Directive
• Lithium-ion and Lithium-ion Polymer
(WEEE) and on a product-by-product
Batteries – US
basis in various other jurisdictions.
Our commitment goes beyond • Lithium-ion and Lithium-ion Polymer
legislation with take-back programs Batteries – Australia
in each region around the world.
• Nickel Metal Hydride (NiMH)
Our recycling website includes more
Batteries – Australia
information about how to recycle
Motorola Solutions equipment, • Nickel Cadmium (NiCd)
batteries and all other products. Batteries – Australia
In 2023…
We collected nearly We recycled
227.19 tonnes 6.7 tonnes
of electronic waste from customers of batteries
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental 75
Employee and
community engagement
At Motorola Solutions, our employees are driven by their
commitment to help people in the moments that matter.
This mindset extends to the
environment, and we work to
provide our employees with
opportunities to learn about
sustainability topics and engage
with their local communities.
The Motorola Solutions Green
Team is an employee-led group
dedicated to green volunteerism,
environmental education and
identifying ways Motorola Solutions
can increase sustainability. Through
the Green Team, we hosted
community cleanups around the
world and educated employees
on topics ranging from circular
economy to environmental justice.
As this team expands, we look to
create more impactful events in
2024 and further the culture of
sustainability at Motorola Solutions.
3 Weeks of ESG
In 2023, we held a “3 Weeks of ESG” event
during which employees learned about
environmental, social and governance practices
through webinars, blog posts and quizzes. In
2024, we will continue to educate and engage
employees globally on the importance of
corporate responsibility and quality data.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Environmental 76
Governance
& compliance
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Government & compliance 77
“
Our commitment to
high standards of
ethics, transparency and
accountability are upheld
through our well-established
governance and
compliance programs.
”
Terry Bell
Ethics and Compliance
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Government & compliance 78
Policies ESG strategy and risk oversight
aimed to drive
Our Executive Management ESG Governance Team (Governance Team) is
co-chaired by two members of our executive committee. The Governance Team
compliance
consists of key executives with direct leadership and oversight of the teams that
influence our corporate social responsibility program. Meeting no less than once
per quarter, the Governance Team is charged with driving the strategies, goals
The following policies govern
and programs that align to our ESG reporting framework. A key member of the
aspects of our efforts in
Governance Team is our vice president, Legal and ESG, who leads the alignment
corporate responsibility:
of our corporate social responsibility efforts within our ESG reporting framework.
• Code of Business Conduct The vice president, Legal and ESG, briefs both the Audit and Governance and
Nominating committees of our Board. While the Governance and Nominating
• Corporate Governance
committee is chartered with ESG oversight for the company, the Audit committee
• Human and Labor Rights Policy
is also briefed on and/or reviews ESG-related matters as part of our enterprise
• Principles of Conduct for Members risk management process. These matters include but aren’t limited to privacy,
of Board of Directors cybersecurity and climate.
• Privacy Statement
Business conduct
• Supplier Code of Conduct
Our executive leaders champion a culture of ethics and compliance for the
company to ensure we conduct business with transparency and integrity, which
is essential to earning the trust of our stakeholders. Our policies, including
our Code of Business Conduct and Human and Labor Rights Policy are reviewed
and approved at the executive level. We engage with employees worldwide through
our business conduct champions, who represent a wide range of cultural, business
function and geographical diversity. We raise awareness of our standards so that
employees understand our values and encourage their colleagues and third parties
to report ethics concerns without fear of retaliation. We investigate all allegations
of ethical misconduct and take appropriate actions where claims
are substantiated.
• For more information, please visit our website.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Government & compliance 79
2023 Goals Outcomes
Achieved
Ensure personnel from recently acquired Provided targeted training for recently acquired companies
companies are properly trained in the Motorola to ensure integration of Motorola Solutions anti-corruption
Solutions anti-corruption policy and program. policies and procedures, including vetting and managing
third party sales representatives.
Achieved
Establish an ethics policy to govern the use of Developed an internal policy governing the use of drones
unmanned aerial systems (drones) in connection in commercial activities, including system installation,
with commercial activities. inspection and service. The new policy helps ensure drones
and pilots comply with applicable federal, state and local
regulations regarding flight operations, as well as those
relating to ethical use of drones, privacy and property rights.
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt Government & compliance 80
Commitment to anti-corruption
Communications
2021 2022 2023
and training*
New or promoted employees who received ethics
5,500 6,100 4,700
communications
Employees who received live ethics and
900 900 1,000
compliance training
Percentage of new vice presidents who received
a one-on-one briefing from Chief Compliance 100% 100% 100%
Officer
Online ethics and compliance training course
134,000 102,000 107,000
sessions completed by employees
*Data is rounded
Global due diligence* 2021 2022 2023
Number of third-party sales representatives
900 800 800
(TPSRs) who received due diligence reviews
Percentage of global TPSRs who received anti-
100% 100% 100%
corruption training
*Data is rounded
2 2002233 CCoorrppoorraattee RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt Government & compliance 81
Addressing concerns
We respond to people who contact us with ethics concerns quickly and handle their requests in confidence when
requested. Calls received by the EthicsLine are not recorded. Additionally, individuals emailing the Motorola Solutions
EthicsLine dedicated mailbox, ethicsline@motorolasolutions.com, callers to the EthicsLine and individuals using EthicsLine
Interactive, our online channel for reporting ethical concerns, may choose to remain anonymous.
Business conduct champions, located around the world, provide guidance to employees on our ethics policy and Code
of Business Conduct at a local level. Business conduct champions work with country managers, who are responsible for
country governance and compliance.
Reports to office of ethics 2021 2022 2023
Reports requiring investigation 27 18 21
Investigations substantiated 8 8 14
Investigations closed 24 33 21
Resulting disciplinary actions* 14 10 10
*A single matter may require multiple actions
Reports by topic* 2021 2022 2023
Human resources 43 76 94
Products 3 1 0
Allegations of impropriety 26 32 24
Code of business conduct 122 115 117
Other 95 104 159
*More than one topic may apply to a single report
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Government & compliance 82
Reporting channels used 2021 2022 2023
EthicsLine (telephone and email) 62 83 102
EthicsLine interactive (online) 14 20 19
Business conduct champions 15 14 6
Data privacy office 2 1 0
Direct contact to the Office of Ethics 170 179 198
Disciplinary actions 2021 2022 2023
Separation 4 4 8
Written warning 10 6 1
Government affairs and lobbying
Motorola Solutions engages with governments and regulators on issues of significance to our company. We work within
applicable laws wherever we operate. We promote and advocate for policies that further our business objectives and
benefit our customers, including:
• Artificial intelligence
• Cybersecurity
• Privacy and data security
• Public safety technology funding
• Spectrum allocation
• Supply chain
We have policies for the disclosure and oversight of lobbying activities and strive to comply with all laws governing
lobbying activities. Employees who seek to engage in lobbying or retain an independent contractor as a lobbyist on
behalf of the company must first consult the government affairs organization and obtain written approval. We conduct
training on applicable laws and the company’s lobbying policies and processes. We require individual lobbyists to file all
required reports, registrations and disclosures.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Government & compliance 83
Political contributions
in the United States
In the U.S., where permitted by federal, state and local law,
Motorola Solutions and its employees engage in the political
process and support those candidates — regardless of party
affiliation — who understand and support policy issues that
advance our business in the U.S. and globally.
Legal corporate contributions, as well In addition, the Motorola Solutions
as legal contributions made by our board of directors receives an annual
non-partisan employee Political Action report of all political contributions.
Committee (PAC), are based on the
Criteria for assessing
interests of the company without regard
candidates include:
to the personal political preferences of
our executives. • Leadership on important
business objectives
We have a robust policy and an internal
political contribution approval process • Champions for public safety
to ensure compliance with current
• Geographic representation of
campaign finance and disclosure
our sites and employee population
laws, as well as with our Code of
• Strong or emerging positions on
Business Conduct. A committee within
issues that impact the high-tech
our Government Affairs department
industry and the business community
develops a plan for the Motorola
Solutions PAC Board which identifies • Assignments on key legislative
the candidates and campaigns that committees
will receive contributions based on a
• International engagement and
non-partisan effort to advance and
reach in key countries
protect the interests of our company,
shareholders and employees.
We believe in supporting candidates
and campaigns who exhibit high
The company’s vice president of
standards of character, civic integrity
Government Affairs reviews the plan,
and respect for public service.
and our legal counsel reviews all
political contributions in advance.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Government & compliance 8844
Eligible employees participate voluntarily in our non-partisan PAC, which enables them to pool their
voluntary contributions to support federal, state and local candidate committees, political party committees/
organizations and PACs. The PAC giving criteria are approved each year by the PAC board of directors.
In 2023, the Motorola Solutions PAC distributed $495,118 in employee contributions.
View the Motorola Solutions PAC 2023 contributions.
While U.S. law prohibits corporate
contributions to federal political
candidates, these contributions may
be used in many states for candidates
seeking state or local offices. In 2023,
we contributed $354,450 to state and
local candidate committees, party
committees/organizations and
ballot-measure campaigns. The
Company does not use corporate
funds to make direct independent
expenditures on behalf of candidates
running for public office.
Motorola Solutions is a member
of trade associations in the U.S.
that represent the public policy
objectives of our industry. In 2023,
we paid $50,000 or more to these
associations:
• Information Technology
Industry Council
• Security Industry Association
• Telecommunications
Industry Association
• U.S. Chamber of Commerce
For more information regarding
political contributions, please visit
our website.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Government & compliance 85
Reporting
references
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Reporting references 86
GRI standards
This index references information that meets requirements of disclosures from the GRI standards in part or in full.
GRI standard Disclosure Report section Report page number Additional reference / URL
The organization and its reporting practices
Form 10-K
2-1 Organizational
Motorola Solutions, Inc. 3
details
Pages 3, 4, and 26
2-2 Entities included Our approach 3
Form 10-K
in the organization’s
sustainability Introduction 7
Pages 8, 26, 28, and 54
reporting (c)* Scope of report
Form 10-K
Our approach 4
2-3 Reporting period,
frequency and contact Page 1
Introduction 7
point
Scope of report
Environmental solutions
2-4 Restatements Introduction
7
of Information Scope of report
Form 10-K
Environmental
2-5 External assurance Climate impact 62 Pages 22 and 54-55
2 - General
Waste and recycling 68
disclosures Environmental solutions
(2023)
Activities and workers
2-6 Activities, value Supply chain Form 10-K
chain and other Suppliers 50
business relationships Risk assessment 51 Pages 3, 9-10, 20-23, 26, and 48
Human capital management
2-7 Employees* Global workforce 35
Workforce demographics 43-44
Governance
2-9 Governance Proxy statement
structure and
composition Pages 5, 12-26, and 30-33
2-10 Nomination
Proxy statement
and selection of
the highest
Pages 2-5, 17-19, and 23-24
governance body
*Report includes some of the requirements specified in these Disclosures of the referenced GRI Standard
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Reporting references 87
GRI standards
GRI standard Disclosure Report section Report page number Additional reference / URL
Proxy statement
2-11 Chair of the
Page 23
highest governance
body Principles of Conduct for Members
of Board of Directors
2-12 Role of the
highest governance Proxy statement
Governance & compliance
body in overseeing 79
ESG strategy and risk oversight
the management of Pages 20-23
impacts
2-13 Delegation of Proxy statement
responsibility for
managing impacts Pages 20-23
2-14 Role of the
Proxy statement
highest governance
body in sustainability
Pages 20-23
reporting
2-15 Conflicts of Governance & compliance Principles of Conduct for Members
2 - General 79
Interest Policies of Board of Directors
disclosures
(2023)
2-16 Communication Governance & compliance
82
of critical concerns Addressing concerns
2-17 Collective
Proxy statement
knowledge of
the highest
Pages 5, 22-23
governance body
2-18 Evaluation of
Proxy statement
the performance
of the highest
Pages 18-20, 22, and 23-24
governance body
Proxy statement
2-19 Remuneration
policies
Pages 27-29, and 45-62
2-20 Process Proxy statement
to determine
remuneration Pages 27-29, and 45-62
Proxy statement
2-21 Annual total
compensation ratio
Page 75
*Report includes some of the requirements specified in these Disclosures of the referenced GRI Standard
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Reporting references 88
GRI standards
GRI standard Disclosure Report section Report page number Additional reference / URL
Strategy, policies and practices
2-22 Statement
Foreword
on sustainable 2
CEO Letter
development strategy
Governance & compliance
Policies
ESG strategy and risk oversight 79-83
Business conduct
Code of business conduct
2-23 Policy Addressing concerns
commitments
Governance and compliance
Environmental
Sustainable design 73-74
and product design
Materials management 73
Governance & compliance
Policies Code of business conduct
2-24 Embedding policy Business conduct 79-83
Commitment to anti-corruption Governance and compliance
2 - General Addressing concerns
disclosures
(2023) Supply chain
Responsible and sustainable 55
2-25 Processes to
materials sourcing
remediate negative
impacts
Environmental
Site remediation 61
For our business
18
Responsible use of technology
2-26 Mechanisms for
seeking advice and Governance & compliance
raising concerns Policies
79-83
Business conduct
Addressing concerns
Environmental
2-27 Compliance with
Environment, health 60
laws and regulations*
and safety management
Governance & compliance
2-28 Membership
Political contributions 84
Associations
in the United States
*Report includes some of the requirements specified in these Disclosures of the referenced GRI Standard
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Reporting references 89
GRI standards
GRI standard Disclosure Report section Report page number Additional reference / URL
Stakeholder engagement
Introduction 9
Material topics
Community engagement 26-31
Community
2 - General
Human capital management 39-47
disclosures 2-29 Approach
Diversity, equity & inclusion
(2023) to stakeholder
Workforce demographics
engagement
Supply chain 50
Supply chain management
Governance & compliance 83
Government affairs
and lobbying
Our approach
3-1 Process
to determine Introduction 3-4, 7-10
material topics Scope of report
Material topics
GRI 3 –
3-2 List of Introduction
Material Topics 10
material topics Material topics
Our approach
3-3 Management
3-4, 7-10
of material topics Introduction
Material topics
205-2 Communication
Governance & compliance
205 – and training about
Business conduct 79-81
Anti-Corruption anti-corruption policies
Commitment to anti-corruption
and procedures
302-4 Reduction of Environmental
GRI 302: Energy
energy consumption Safe and sustainable operations: 67
2016
(a and b only) Energy efficiency
Environmental
GRI 303: Water and 303-3 Water
Safe and sustainable operations: 69
Effluents 2018 withdrawal by source
Water use
*Report includes some of the requirements specified in these Disclosures of the referenced GRI Standard
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Reporting references 90
GRI standards
GRI standard Disclosure Report section Report page number Additional reference / URL
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) Environmental
62-63
GHG emissions* Climate impact
305-2 Energy indirect
Environmental
(Scope 2) GHG 62-63
Climate impact
emissions*
GRI 305:
Emissions 2016
305-3 Other indirect
Environmental
(Scope 3) GHG 62-63
Climate impact
emissions*
305-5 Reduction of Environmental
62-63
GHG emissions* Climate impact
Environmental
GRI 306: 306-3 Waste
Safe and sustainable operations: 68
Waste 2020 generated*
Waste and recycling
308-2 Negative
GRI 308: Supplier Supply chain
environmental impacts
Environmental Auditing and improving: 52-54
in the supply chain and
Assessment 2016 Number of audit findings
actions taken (c)*
401-2 Benefits
provided to full-time
GRI 401: employees that Human capital management
47
Employment 2016 are not provided to Benefits
temporary or part-time
employees (a)*
403-1 Occupational Environmental
health and safety Safe and sustainable operations: 60-61, 70-72
management system Employee health and safety
403-2 Hazard
Environmental
identification, risk
Safe and sustainable operations: 60-61, 70-72
assessment, and
Employee health and safety
incident investigation*
GRI 403:
403-5 Worker training Environmental
Occupational Health
on occupational health Safe and sustainable operations: 60-61, 70-72
and Safety 2018
and safety Employee health and safety
Environmental
403-9 Work-related
Safe and sustainable operations: 60-61, 70-72
injuries (d and e)*
Employee health and safety
Environmental
403-10 Work-related
Safe and sustainable operations: 60-61, 70-72
ill health*
Employee health and safety
*Report includes some of the requirements specified in these Disclosures of the referenced GRI Standard
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Reporting references 91
GRI standards
GRI standard Disclosure Report section Report page number Additional reference / URL
Human capital management
Global workforce
GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of
Diversity, equity & inclusion
Diversity and Equal governance bodies 35, 39-46
Workforce demographics
Opportunity 2016 and employees*
Talent attraction, retention and
development
414-2 Negative social
impacts in the supply Supply chain
GRI 414:
chain and actions Supply chain management
Supplier Social 51-53
taken Risk assessment
Assessment 2016
Auditing and improving
(a, c, and d only)*
Governance & compliance
GRI 415: 415-1 Political
Political contributions in the 84
Public Policy 2016 contributions
United States
*Report includes some of the requirements specified in these Disclosures of the referenced GRI Standard
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Reporting references 92
SASB reference
SASB code Disclosures description Report section Report page number Additional reference / URL
Data protection and privacy
TC-TL-220a.1 Advertising and Customer Privacy
Privacy statement
Data protection and privacy
TC-SI-220a.1 Advertising and Privacy Discussion
Privacy statement
Environmental
TC-TL-130a.1 Energy Use by Source 62-63
Climate impact
Water Use and Sources - Environmental
TC-SI-130a.2 69
Energy Management Water use
Supply chain
TC-HW-430a.1 Tier 1 Supplier Facilities 52-53
Auditing and improving
Supply chain
Implementing
due diligence in our
Management of Risks
TC-HW-440a.1 supply chain 54-55
(Critical Materials)
Responsible and
sustainable materials
sourcing
Human capital
management
TC-SI-330a.3 Employee Representation 43
Workforce
demographics
Human capital
management
TC-HW-330a.1 Diversity Across Job Levels 44
Workforce
demographics
For our business
TC-TL-230a.2 Data Security Discussion 20-21
Cybersecurity
For our business
TC-HW-230a.1 Data Security Policies 20-21
Cybersecurity
Environmental
TC-TL-440a.1 Product End-of-Life 68
Waste and recycling
Environmental
TC-HW-410a.4 Weight of End-Life Products Product recycling and 75
battery take-back
For our business
TC-SI-550a.2 Technology Disruptions Discussion Data privacy and 16-17
protection
For our business
Data privacy and 16-17
protection
Managing Systemic Risks from
TC-TL-550a.2
Technology Disruptions Discussion
Supply chain
Supply chain 50
management
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Reporting references 93
TCFD index
For additional climate-related information, please see our most recent:
• TCFD Report
• Annual Report Form 10-K
• Proxy Statement
Category Disclosures Reference
a) D escribe the board’s oversight of
Governance climate-related risks and opportunities. Board oversight, p 05
Disclose the organization’s governance around
climate-related risks and opportunities. a) D escribe the board’s oversight of Executive leadership, p.05
climate-related risks and opportunities. Risk management, p. 14
a) D escribe the climate-related risks and
TCFD climate-related risks and opportunities
opportunities the organization has identified
Overview, p. 10-13
over the short, medium, and long term.
Strategy
Business strategy overview, Our approach
b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks
Disclose the actual and potential impacts to climate strategy, p. 06-07
and opportunities on the organization’s
of climate-related risks and opportunities on TCFD climate-related risks and
businesses, strategy, and financial planning.
the organization’s businesses, strategy, and opportunities overview, p. 10-13
financial planning where such information
is material.
c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s
strategy, taking into consideration different Climate scenario analysis: Understanding
climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or potential impacts, p. 08-09
lower scenario.
a) D escribe the organization’s processes for Governance, p. 05
identifying and assessing climate-related risks. Risk management, p.14
Governance, p. 05
Risk management b) Describe the organization’s processes TCFD climate-related risks and
for managing climate-related risks. opportunities overview, p. 10-13
Disclose how the organization identifies, Risk management, p.14
assesses, and manages climate-related risks.
c) Describe how processes for identifying,
assessing, and managing climate-related risks
Risk management, p. 14
are integrated into the organization’s overall risk
management.
a) D isclose the metrics used by the organization
to assess climate-related risks and Metrics, p. 15, 16
opportunities in line with its strategy and risk Climate impact, p 54-55
management process.
Metrics and targets
Disclose the metrics and targets used to b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate,
Metrics, p. 15, 16
assess and manage relevant climate-related Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and
Climate impact, p 54-55
risks and opportunities where such information the related risks.
is material.
c) Describe the targets used by the organization to
Our approach to climate strategy,
manage climate-related risks and opportunities
p. 07 Targets, p. 16
and performance against targets.
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Reporting references 94
UNSDGs
At Motorola Solutions, we recognize the importance of international collaboration and innovation to achieving the seventeen
UNSDGs. These goals were set to inspire and guide governments, businesses and individuals in creating economic and
social development policies and practices. The following chart outlines the ways in which we believe we contribute to
the achievement of these global goals. We are working to further incorporate these goals into our strategy development
because we believe that in achieving these goals we will see a more equitable, sustainable and prosperous future for all.
Relevant SDG Subgoals Examples of Motorola Solution’s contribution Location in report
1 - No Poverty 1.1, 1.5 – Employee volunteerism & giving 27-31
2 - Zero Hunger 2.1 – Employee volunteerism & giving 27-31
3 - Good Health – Support for programs focused on diversity and mental health for first
3.5 28-29, 31, 39
and Well-Being responders and their families
– Investing in the education, training, and development of our employees
– Funding STEM education and programming around the world
4 - Quality Education 4.3, 4.4, 4.5 – Through partnership with Calculated Genius, awarded approximately 28-29, 35-38
$100,000 in scholarships to students pursuing degrees in technology
and engineering
– Development of high-potential women through Leading Women
Executives program
5 - Gender Equality 5.1, 5.5 – Supporting our employee-led Women’s Business Council 29, 39-45
– Partnering with the Society of Women Engineers
– Gender pay gap analyses for UK and Australia
6 - Clean Water
6.3, 6.6 – Site remediation 61
and Sanitation
7 - Affordable and – Energy efficiency improvements at sites around the world
7.a 61-63
Clean Energy – Energy efficiency designed into our products
– Awarding of $5 million to programs that support technology and
engineering education
– Providing a safe and inclusive work environment
– Partnership with Department of Defense SkillBridge program
8 - Decent Work and – Ensuring that human rights are being upheld in our operations and our 27, 39-40, 47,
8.5, 8.6, 8.7, 8.8
Economic Growth suppliers’ operations 52-54
– Providing well paid internships
–
– People with Disabilities and Allies (PwD+A) Business Council
– Membership in the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)
– Supplier audits and corrective action plans
– Business Councils
10 - Reduced
10.2, 10.4 – Affinity Groups 39-42
Inequalities
– DEI Champion Teams
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Reporting references 95
UNSDGs
Relevant SDG Subgoals Examples of Motorola Solution’s contribution Location in report
11 - Sustainable Cities
11.5 – Disaster relief 27, 32
and Communities
– Supplier Code of Conduct requiring all tier-one suppliers to establish
Environmental Impact Reduction plans
12 - Responsible – ISO 14001, ISO 45001 and ISO 9001 certified sites
Consumption and 12.4, 12.5, 12.6 50, 52, 60, 73-75
– Sustainable product design
Production
– Optimized product packaging
– Product recycling and battery take-back
– Disaster relief
– Energy savings at various sites around the world
13 - Climate Action 13.1 26-27, 32, 64-68
– LEED-Gold, Energy Star and BOMA360 certifications for
Chicago headquarters
– Site remediation
15 - Life on Land 15.1, 15.5 61-62
– Maintenance of wildlife habitats
– End-to-end suite of public safety solutions
16 - Peace, Justice – High labor and environmental standards in our supply chain
32, 39-42, 50-52,
and Strong 16.1, 16.2, 16.3, 16.5 – Global diversity council memberships and partnerships
79-83
Institutions – Commitment to anti-corruption
– EthicsLine
–
2023 Corporate Responsibility Report Reporting references 96
2023
Corporate
Responsibility
Report
Motorola Solutions, Inc. 500 West Monroe Street, Chicago, Il 60661 U.S.A.
MOTOROLA, MOTO, MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS and the Stylized M Logo are trademarks
or registered trademarks of Motorola Trademark Holdings, LLC and are used under
license. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
©2024 Motorola Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved. 06-2024 [CY01]
