Embracing the Era of Impact
2023
Sustainability
Report
and TCFD Report
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Solidifying Our Business Resilience. Enabling Positive Economic, Environmental
Table of Contents Driving Sustainable Growth...............................14 and Societal Outcomes. ................................... 53
Environmental ......................................................................................15 Other Solutions and Services ............................................................54
Decarbonization and Climate Strategy ............................................................15 Community Engagement ....................................................................58
Reducing and Neutralizing Our GHG Emissions ..............................................18
Evaluating and Engaging Our Supply Chain ...................................................23 Task Force on Climate-Related Financial
Natural Resource Management .......................................................................24
Disclosures (TCFD) Report...............................60
Social .................................................................................................25
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion .........................................................................25
Human Capital Management ............................................................................28
Promoting Health and Wellbeing .....................................................................33 Appendix A: Sustainability Report
A Letter from the Chair & CEO .................................................3 Supplier Diversity ..............................................................................................35 Data and Supplemental Information ................................................81
ESG Data Tables ................................................................................................82
Q&A with Nasdaq’s Chief Financial Officer Governance..........................................................................................36
Our Support of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals .........101
and Corporate ESG Steering Committee Co-Chair ................4
Corporate Governance .....................................................................................36
ESG Awards and Recognition .........................................................................104
About Nasdaq .............................................................................5 Ethics and Compliance .....................................................................................38 Additional Resources ......................................................................................104
Cyber and Information Security ........................................................................41
Assessment of Priority ESG Topics.................................................................105
Highlights from 2023 ................................................................8
Product Quality and Customer Satisfaction ...................................................43
Assurance Statements ....................................................................................108
Our ESG Journey .......................................................................9 Public Policy Advocacy .....................................................................................44
Our ESG Ratings .......................................................................10 Risk Management ..............................................................................................45 Appendix B: TCFD Data, TNFD-Aligned
Tax Transparency ..............................................................................................46 Risk Assessment and Climate Transition Plan ..............................109
Sustainability Oversight ...........................................................11
Our Sustainability Reporting ....................................................12 Supporting Our Clients’ ESG Indexes .....................................................................................116
Embracing Impact – Our Strategic Approach Sustainability Journeys .....................................47 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index ..........................................................117
to Sustainability ........................................................................13 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index ..........................126
ESG Solutions .....................................................................................48
World Economic Forum (WEF) Index .............................................................128
UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (UNGC CoP) ..................132
2
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Navigating Complexity 2023 Highlights In addition to advancing our own corporate strategy, we
Our clients across the financial system today face an In 2023, we continued to accelerate our own corporate continued to build robust, demand-driven products that
increasingly complex operating environment as they sustainability journey. During the year we made efforts serve our clients’ sustainability needs. Nasdaq’s expertise,
navigate regulatory pressures, disparate reporting to minimize our environmental footprint in alignment tools and technologies drive impact across our clients,
requirements, and rising compliance costs. Within with our science-based net-zero emissions targets helping them to build sustainable markets and resilient
these, the rapidly evolving and globally fragmented and we are on track to achieve carbon neutrality for businesses. Leveraging our track record of innovation,
environmental, social, and governance (“ESG”) the sixth consecutive year. 2023 also marked a year we were proud to launch several new tools designed to
ecosystem is among the most complex issue facing of firsts for Nasdaq: we hosted an inaugural New York help our clients conduct even better strategic analysis,
corporate issuers, investors, banks, and regulators. Climate Week conference, published a first-of-its-kind expedite ESG decision making and streamline their ESG
From our position at the intersection of technology and report on The State of Sustainability and ESG, and were reporting and disclosure practices.
the financial system, we play a unique role in helping included in the S&P Global Sustainability Yearbook for
And while the carbon removal market is still in the early
our clients navigate these evolving requirements as the first time.
phase of development, we recognize the important
they execute their own sustainability objectives and
strategies. Beyond our environmental sustainability strategy, role that carbon removal solutions will play within wider
we remain committed to ensuring Nasdaq is a global climate and carbon strategies. Through Puro.earth – the
Nasdaq’s own corporate sustainability strategy destination for top talent. Through the integration of world’s leading carbon removal crediting platform – we
centers on managing and reducing long-term risks Adenza, which we acquired in 2023, and Verafin, we are at the forefront of this emerging market. By leveraging
and advancing ESG practices across our entire are proud to expand our footprint to reach 38 countries. this technology, in combination with our expertise as a
organization. Externally, we have also seen an At Nasdaq, our employees are critical to our success, market operator, we enhance the scale, transparency,
A Letter from the Chair & CEO
increased need from our clients for trusted partners and we launched new career development and standardization, and resiliency of carbon markets. We are
that can help them navigate the increasing complexity training initiatives focused on the long-term success, proud that in the past year we have introduced registry
At Nasdaq, our purpose is to advance economic progress of today’s operating environment. As expectations engagement and retention of our global workforce. Our services and launched a pioneering technology that
for all. Our purpose and the pursuit of our vision – to be for data, transparency, and reporting continue to efforts are producing tangible results as we achieved securely digitizes the issuance, settlement and custody of
the trusted fabric of the world’s financial system – not only evolve, our suite of solutions and capabilities plays high levels of employee engagement and workforce carbon credits.
shape our corporate sustainability strategy, but also inform
an increasingly important role in providing actionable turnover decreased.
the role that we play in helping to solve our clients’ most As we collectively navigate a rapidly evolving and
insights to our clients. We are committed to bringing
complex challenges. new technologies to bear to drive scale and resilience The Nasdaq Foundation also continued to make increasingly complex sustainability ecosystem, Nasdaq
across both emerging and established markets, progress on our mission by providing grants to more remains committed to catalyzing progress towards a more
including through Puro.earth, our carbon removal than a dozen organizations and supporting critical sustainable tomorrow. In the pages that follow, we are
crediting platform, which will play an increasingly projects. Through our Foundation’s New Investor pleased to showcase how we have embraced the era of
important role in helping companies manage their Initiative we help to strengthen the representation of impact to build a foundation for future success.
carbon footprints. minority investors and entrepreneurs, as well as create Adena Friedman
more equitable paths to success.
Chair & CEO, Nasdaq
3
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
What does “embracing the era of impact” • Continuing to lead in advancing governance best What do you see as the next chapter in
mean to you? practices within our own organization and by Nasdaq’s ESG journey?
supporting stakeholders across their ecosystems.
At Nasdaq, our strategic approach to sustainability Nasdaq has made incredible progress on its ESG
focuses on amplifying the positive impact that our How is Nasdaq using innovation to further journey over the past decade. We have launched
employees and clients create. Internally, we solidify its ESG ambitions? new ESG-related products and services, rolled
our business resilience by reducing our environmental out AxiomSL’s ESG solutions to our clients, set
Innovation and technology have been at the core
impact, increasing our social impact, and maintaining science-based net-zero targets, and established a
of Nasdaq’s strategy since our inception. Within
robust corporate governance practices. Externally, we dedicated Corporate ESG Strategy and Reporting
Nasdaq, we embrace inclusive growth and empower
help our clients maximize their impact by providing team. Nasdaq also continues to advance our efforts
our employees to drive innovation. In fact, “innovate”
solutions that allow them to inform, execute and report to bring transparency to nascent markets, including
was one of the strategic priorities we announced at
on their own ESG strategies. Taken together, these the global carbon markets, through our Puro.earth
our recent Investor Day – alongside “integrate” and
actions help us deliver on our purpose to advance and carbon market technology. We have a long
“accelerate” – as key goals driving our organization
economic progress for all, while embracing impact. history of positioning sustainability at the forefront
forward in 2024. As part of our “innovate” priority,
of our business and will continue to do so as we
How does solidifying business resilience we plan to make generative AI tools available to all
move forward.
drive sustainable growth at Nasdaq? employees by the end of 2024. By continuing to provide
our people with access to cutting-edge technologies, We recognize this journey cannot be completed
Nasdaq’s position at the intersection of technology
we will drive efficiency and productivity gains across our alone and we will continue to work closely with our
Q&A with Nasdaq’s Chief Financial and the financial system provides us with a unique
organization, bolster our ability to attract and retain the internal and external stakeholders. As Nasdaq and our
perspective on how the ESG ecosystem is evolving.
Officer and Corporate ESG world’s best talent and be even better placed to support clients navigate the complexity of an evolving ESG
By identifying the ESG factors that have the biggest
our clients with advanced technology solutions to help ecosystem, we are committed to advancing initiatives
Steering Committee Co-Chair impact on our business and long-term success,
them solve their most complex challenges. We believe that can be upheld for the long-term – and the
we can better position Nasdaq to capitalize on
that a culture that focuses on upskilling employees groundwork we laid in recent years will help us do just
emerging opportunities and manage risks. From an
and embracing innovation yields inclusivity, and I have that. I am confident that we will continue to build on
Introduction organizational perspective, Nasdaq’s approach to
witnessed that firsthand through visits with our teams our momentum to deliver even greater impact for our
ESG is focused on solidifying business resilience and
Sarah Youngwood joined Nasdaq in December 2023 as around the world. clients and for communities around the world.
driving sustainable growth by:
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. As
part of her role, she is the Co-Chair of the Corporate ESG Within our Corporate ESG Strategy and Reporting
• Minimizing our environmental footprint and focusing
Steering Committee and works with Nasdaq’s Corporate ESG Team, we are proud to utilize our own products,
on market-led innovation toward a net-zero future;
Strategy and Reporting Team and other internal stakeholders including Nasdaq Metrio™ and Sustainable Lens™
to develop the Company’s corporate sustainability strategy. • Strengthening our position as a destination for to better measure key metrics and increase
Sarah is also a proud member of the A4S (Accounting for talent, including through deepening our culture of transparency and integrity across our ESG reporting.
Sustainability) CFO Leadership Network. In the following Q&A, inclusion and building an organization that provides By leveraging our own products, we can take
Ms. Youngwood reflects on the progress Nasdaq has made its people with the tools and platform to maximize advantage of the same solutions we offer our clients
on its ESG strategy and how it will continue to help its clients their impact on the world; and to inform and execute Nasdaq’s own strategy.
navigate their sustainability journeys.
4
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
About Nasdaq In November 2023, Nasdaq completed its acquisition of “The acquisition of Adenza
Adenza. Through its two products, AxiomSL and Calypso,
represents an important
Adenza provides mission-critical risk management,
milestone in Nasdaq’s ongoing
regulatory reporting and capital markets technology
solutions to the financial services industry. The acquisition transformation, accelerating
enhances and expands our technology capabilities across
our vision to become the trusted
the risk management, compliance and capital markets
fabric of the financial system.”
Nasdaq, Inc. is a global technology company serving corporate clients, infrastructure.
investment managers, banks, brokers and exchange operators as they navigate
Adena Friedman
and interact with the global capital markets and the broader financial system. Chair & Chief Executive Officer, Nasdaq
We deliver world-leading platforms that improve the liquidity, transparency and
integrity of the global economy. Our diverse offering of data, analytics, software,
exchange capabilities and client-centric services enables clients to optimize and
Our divisional structure is organized Capital Access Financial Market
execute their business vision with confidence.
into three reporting segments: Platforms Technology Services
Aligning to Capture Industry-Shaping Megatrends
Following the completion of the Adenza acquisition By aligning our business segments against these
we further aligned our business more closely secular trends we aim to partner with our clients
with the industry-shaping megatrends that are even more holistically as we solve more of their
driving the evolution of the global financial system, critical challenges and drive greater growth across
Modernization Transformation of the Drive Towards Increasing Investment
including the modernization of markets, the our key pillars of liquidity, transparency and integrity.
of Markets Investment Landscape Sustainability in Resilience and Risk
transformation of the investment landscape, the
Management
Modernizing markets Offering new, innovative and Enhancing
drive towards sustainability and the increasing need $3.9B
2023 Net and their underlying demand-driven investable transparency by Complementary and
for enhanced resilience and risk management.
Revenues infrastructure to assets as well as solutions to connecting corporates differentiated suite of mission-
amplify liquidity help asset managers better and investors critical platforms across
inform their investment through accurate and financial crime management,
strategies comparable data regulatory and capital markets
technology
5
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Nasdaq operates in 38 countries across the world. We
have significant operations (which we define as more than
200 employees in a location) in the U.S., Canada, Sweden,
Lithuania, India, Philippines, Australia and the United
Kingdom. These eight locations comprise over 85% of our
total employee population.
8,525
6,377
5,814
38
Nasdaq operates in
38 countries across the world
Headcount as of Headcount as of Headcount as of
December 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 December 31, 2021
Headcount increased to 8,525 employees as of December 31, 2023,
from 6,377 employees as of December 31, 2022, primarily due to
our acquisition of Adenza.
6
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Innovation and Technology
Aiming for 100% AI
Nasdaq has a long history of disrupting, leading and
tools available to all
innovating – from launching the first electronic exchange
employees by end of
in 1971 to migrating our second U.S. options market to the
2024
cloud in 2023. We continue to leverage technology to solve AI in the
Five AI opportunities
our clients’ most critical challenges and better serve the
aligned around structural
financial system globally.
Product and on thematics: coding,
We embrace inclusive growth and empower our employees content, data, workflow,
to drive innovation. Across every element of our business, the Business automation, algorithmic
technologies such as the cloud, artificial intelligence (AI) intelligence
and machine learning (ML) provide significant opportunities
to enhance our ability to drive even greater outcomes
for our clients, to enhance the resiliency, performance,
scalability and liquidity of global markets, and to ensure
SEC approved first
even greater accessibility for market participants globally.
exchange AI-powered
order type
CoPilot and Targeted AI
For more information on how we
Analytics for Financial
leverage innovation and technology,
Crime Management
please see our 2023 Form 10-K on Launched AI-powered
Technology
our ESG Resource Center. Sustainable Lens™
Recognized at the annual
In 2023... TabbFORUM NOVA
Awards Reception for
We migrated an additional
our ongoing commitment
exchange to the cloud
to technology-driven
We launched new technology to innovation
scale global carbon markets
7
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Highlights from 2023
8th 1st
25+
Graduated
consecutive year cohort of participants
from our Accelerate(HER) ESG-focused investor engagements
included in Dow Jones
Sustainability North program
America Index
Included in the S&P Global
CDP Climate Change
Sustainability Yearbook
A List
CDP Supplier
Engagement
percentage point
Leaderboard ~5
increase in the
hiring of women and
Conducted
underrepresented
TNFD-aligned
minorities (combined)
Named one of
risk assessment
America’s Most
3 of our office spaces
JUST Companies received LEED Gold
O + M certification
8
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
2023
2022
Our ESG Acquired Adenza and
2021 began integrating into
Near-and long-term science-
our ESG strategy and
based targets approved by SBTi
Acquired majority stake reporting
in Puro.earth Acquired Metrio, a SaaS based
Hosted inaugural
Journey 2020 Launched Green Equity E pS laG tf oa rn ma lytics and reporting NY Climate Week
Designation program Conference
Launched Implemented Environmental
Nasdaq ESG Hub Board Diversity Rule Management System Launched
approved by SEC Nasdaq Metrio
Acquired Mapped alignment of
2019 OneReport, Established Corporate corporate objectives to seven Launched
an ESG data ESG Strategy and UN Sustainable Development Sustainable Lens
Launched management, Reporting Team Goals (SDGs)
Introduced eVestment
Nasdaq ESG reporting,
Advisory, audit trail and Published inaugural Named to CDP Climate Change ESG Analytics
Nasdaq disclosure SASB Index A List and CDP Supplier
2018 Included in S&P Global
Sustainable software Engagement Leaderboard for
eVestment launched Sustainability Yearbook
Bond Network the first year
Joined Climate and Nasdaq eVestment D&I questionnaire for the first time
B Pao rn td ns e rI n Pit ri oa gti rv ae m’s ESG Footprint l qa uu en sc th ioe nd n E aS ireG Became UN PRI L foa ru Bn oc ah re dd Et xh ce e N llea ns cd eaq Center Completed TNFD-
signatory aligned nature-related
Signed “The
2017 Achieved carbon Business Produced Became Taskforce on Nature- risk analysis
neutrality for the Roundtable inaugural Task Reported against WEF’s Related Financial Disclosure
2 Be0 c1 a2 me a 2 L Na a0 u s1 n d5 c ah qe d P i Snu uab su tl gi as u ih nre aad bl ility f F Ci or os r rt m p t oeim rd a e te S t ah t Cea t oPe rum pr oe p rn o at s t ieo o n no ”f F R D (To e is Cr la cc Ft le o De so d ) un rF r e eC i pn sl oai m rn tca it ae l- S M timt ea etk re ich so fld oe r r t hC ea fp irit sa tl ism (TNFD) Forum Member
founding partner Sustainable Report ESG Steering
of UN Sustainable Debt Market Committee
1994 Stock Exchange
(SSE) initiative
Established
Nasdaq Joined UN Global
Foundation Compact
9
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Our ESG Ratings
Agency Current Score Highlights Score Range
AA Highest scoring range for Corporate Governance, placing us in the Leader category and indicating that our corporate governance practices are
AAA – CCC
well aligned with shareholder interests
1
environment
1
Our low QualityScores indicate a high level of environmental and social disclosure, and a low governance risk 1-10 (1=lowest risk)
social
2
governance
61 Included in the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index (DJSI North America) for the eighth consecutive year
Included in S&P Global’s Sustainability Yearbook 2024 for the first year 0–100 (100 = best)
97th percentile 97th percentile within the Diversified Financial Services and Capital Markets industry
Score is based on the comprehensiveness of disclosure, awareness and management of environmental risks and demonstration of environmental leadership
A
CDP Climate Change A List — recognized for leadership in corporate transparency and performance on climate change Range: A–D (A = leadership)
CDP Supplier Engagement Leaderboard — recognized for our efforts to measure and reduce climate risk within our supply chain
71
Awarded EcoVadis Gold Medal
0–100 (100 = best)
95th percentile 95th percentile of all companies rated by EcoVadis
(Gold)
0-10 (negligible risk)
10-20 (low risk)
13.2*
Low risk of experiencing significant financial impacts from ESG factors 20-30 (medium risk)
30-40 (high risk)
40+ (severe risk)
Note: MSCI, ISS, CSA, CDP and EcoVadis ESG ratings are as of April 1, 2024. Sustainalytics rating is as of May 23, 2024. Nasdaq’s CSA score was updated to a 61 from a 60 on March 15, 2024. The use by Nasdaq of any MSCI ESG Research LLC or its affiliates (“MSCI”) data and the use of the MSCI logos,
trademarks, service marks, or index names herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, recommendation, or promotion of Nasdaq by MSCI. MSCI services and data are the property of MSCI or its information providers and are provided ’as-is’ and without warranty. MSCI names and logos are trademarks
or service marks of MSCI.
*Copyright ©2024 Morningstar Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. This Sustainability Report contains information developed by Sustainalytics. Such information and data are proprietary of Sustainalytics and/or its third-party suppliers (Third Party Data) and are provided for informational purposes only. They do
not constitute an endorsement of any product or project, nor an investment advice and are not warranted to be complete, timely, accurate or suitable for a particular purpose. Their use is subject to conditions available at https://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers
10
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Sustainability Oversight Structure
Sustainability Oversight
Our Board is committed to overseeing Nasdaq’s integration of sustainability NOMINATING & ESG COMMITTEE OF AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE OF
principles and practices throughout the enterprise. The Nominating & THE NASDAQ BOARD OF DIRECTORS THE NASDAQ BOARD OF DIRECTORS
ESG Committee of the Board has formal responsibility and oversight for
ESG policies and programs and receives regular reporting on related
CORPORATE ESG STEERING COMMITTEE
key matters. The Audit & Risk Committee oversees company-wide risk
COMPRISED OF SENIOR LEADERS AND CO-CHAIRED BY CFO AND CMO
management, including ESG-related risks.
Our internal Corporate ESG Steering Committee is co-chaired by executive
CORPORATE ESG STRATEGY AND REPORTING TEAM
leaders and is comprised of a cross-functional group of Nasdaq senior
executives. The Corporate ESG Steering Committee serves as the central
coordinating body for our ESG strategy, and regularly reports that strategy
to the Nominating & ESG Committee.
CORPORATE BUSINESS UNITS AND EXPERT FUNCTIONS
The Corporate ESG Strategy and Reporting team, which ultimately reports
to the CFO, is responsible for execution of our sustainability strategy;
communicating our performance, metrics and ambitions through our annual FINANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE
Sustainability Report, TCFD Report and related ESG disclosures; and
collaborating with various stakeholders across the organization to ensure a
timely and accurate data gathering process. MARKETING AND COMMUNICATIONS GROUP RISK
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION INVESTOR RELATIONS
PROCUREMENT, SOURCING AND REAL ESTATE INFORMATION SECURITY
42% of our Directors have PEOPLE MANAGEMENT FOUNDATION AND PURPOSE
experience with environmental
and social matters.
See page 37 for more details on our ESG governance structure.
11
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Our Sustainability Reporting
Explore our 2023 ESG reports and indexes ESG Memberships
Accurate and transparent disclosure is a cornerstone of
Nasdaq’s ESG strategy. This Sustainability Report covers
Nasdaq participates in a select group of organizations
topics related to our corporate ESG initiatives, our ESG-
related commercial activities as well as our reporting 2023 GRI Index 2023 SASB Index representing a range of values that closely align to our
corporate values.
against the Task Force on Climate Related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD) framework. Our report also covers
a pilot nature-related risk assessment aligned with the
2023 WEF Index 2023 Climate Transition Plan
Taskforce on Nature-Related Financial Disclosure (TNFD)
recommendations as well as our Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) Index, Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
(SASB) Index and the World Economic Forum (WEF) Index. 2023 TCFD Report TNFD-Aligned
Risk Assessment
Throughout the report, we indicate alignment with our
priority ESG topics and the UN Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs). Please see appendix for more information.
United Nations Global Compact
Communication on Progress (UNGC CoP)
The data included in this Sustainability Report is as of
December 31, 2023, unless otherwise noted. Integration
of Adenza’s ESG data is ongoing. Inclusion or exclusion of
CDP Climate Change Questionnaire
Adenza’s ESG-related data is noted, where applicable. The
data gathering process requires stakeholder engagement
and validation across the organization. Where data was
based on estimation or assumption, additional disclosure
is provided as to conclusions reached. We engage a third-
party verifier to review and provide limited assurance for 2024 Proxy Statement (PDF) 2023 Form 10-K (PDF)
select environmental and social data disclosed in this
Sustainability Report. Please see our Assurance Statement
on page 108 for more information.
See additional resources on our
2023 Sustainability Report Microsite
and ESG Resource Center.
12
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Embracing Impact – Our Strategic
Approach to Sustainability
Corporate Sustainability External Impact
“Nasdaq’s approach to ESG is focused both internally and Solidify Support Enable
externally. Internally, we manage our businesses’ ESG-related
risks and opportunities and the corresponding impact we Solidify business resilience and drive Support our clients by providing relevant Enable positive outcomes through the
sustainable growth by managing and insights and innovative technology economic and societal impact inherent
have as an organization across our own operations. Externally,
reducing long-term risks and advancing designed to help them achieve their ESG- to the solutions and services of our
we focus on the impact we have on the world through our ESG practices across our entire organization. related objectives. wider business.
ESG-related solutions that support our clients’ objectives in
Environmental ESG Solutions Financial Technology
their sustainability journeys. We also strive to enable positive
Reduce our environmental impact and Our future-forward expertise, tools and We provide mission-critical capital
outcomes through the broader economic and societal impact
carbon footprint while managing climate technologies empower purpose and drive markets, regulatory and financial crime
of our other solutions and services – addressing the $3 trillion risk across our operations. impact, helping build sustainable markets management technology solutions to
and resilient businesses. From ESG the financial services industry while
financial crime challenge, making sure our markets are
Social
reporting tools and data feeds to ESG- advancing industrywide modernization.
resilient and able to power opportunity through the world and
Attract and retain a diverse, motivated centric indices and sustainable bonds, we
Purpose
supporting our communities through purpose-led initiatives workforce and foster a workplace culture support our clients’ ESG strategies with
aimed at advancing economic progress for all.” of inclusivity and belonging. innovative offerings designed to increase Our purpose-led initiatives drive
transparency and reduce friction. economic progress and impact across
Governance
the communities we serve.
Maintain robust corporate governance
Nina Eisenman, Vice President, policies and practices.
Head of Corporate ESG Strategy
and Reporting, Nasdaq
13
Solidifying
Our Business Resilience.
Driving Sustainable Growth.
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Priority ESG Topics Aligned UN SDGs
Environmental • Decarbonization & Climate Strategy
• Natural Resource Management
• Supply Chain Responsibility
“In 2023, we continued our carbon neutrality
At Nasdaq we are committed to minimizing Decarbonization program for the sixth consecutive year and
our environmental footprint, meeting our net-
and Climate Strategy expect to retire our remaining carbon offsets
zero goals and solidifying our business against
for our 2023 GHG emissions by the end of the
long-term climate risks. We aim to implement
Nasdaq’s climate strategy aims to reduce our The key priorities of our net-zero and carbon
initiatives to decrease our greenhouse gas third quarter of 2024. Our continued ambition of
energy consumption, energy demand and neutrality programs are to:
(GHG) emissions, while ensuring transparency
corresponding GHG emissions throughout our investing in high quality carbon removal projects
of our processes and programs that help us 1. reduce the energy consumption, corresponding
business operations and supply chain, as well
and our commitment to reducing our emissions
reach our long-term targets. GHG emissions and waste generation of our
as mitigate our corporate climate and biodiversity
global operations through thoughtful sustainable to meet our verified science based targets drives
risk exposure.
initiatives and strategies;
our environmental programs and priorities.”
As we continue to integrate
Our climate strategy is driven by two
2. engage our value chain to report their relevant
Adenza’s businesses into environmental programs:
material GHG emissions and to set their own
Nasdaq, we are working to
science-based targets;
• Carbon net-zero program: By driving initiatives
ensure that our new business
that are designed to optimize and reduce GHG 3. proactively procure renewable electricity for our Jase Gregoric, Senior Director,
operations and infrastructure
emissions across Nasdaq’s business operations office space and data center portfolio; Global Head of Corporate
align to Nasdaq’s sustainability
and supply chain, we aim to achieve our short- Sustainability, Real Estate,
4. purchase Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs)
programs. Once the term and long-term net-zero science-based Facilities & Security, Nasdaq
from projects that are less than five years old
integration is completed, targets, which have been verified and approved
and feed power into the same energy distribution
we will incorporate Adenza- by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). network as our operations to offset any fossil fuel
related GHG emissions into • Carbon neutrality program: By calculating electricity power consumed;
our annual calculations and our annual carbon footprint, procuring 5. purchase independently-verified, engineered
100% renewable electricity and investing in
programs and recalculate our and nature-based carbon offsets from projects
independently-verified carbon offsets, Nasdaq
base year GHG emissions. that focus on carbon removal or biodiversity to
strives to achieve carbon neutrality on our
neutralize the associated GHG emissions related
reported GHG emissions on an annual basis.
to our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 categories
to achieve carbon neutrality; and
We plan to expand both our carbon net-zero program
and our carbon neutrality program to include Adenza 6. continuously review our data to explore
as we complete the integration. enhancements that provide insights into our GHG
emissions and reduce reliance on assumptions.
15
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Science-Based Targets
Our near- and long-term science-based emission reduction targets were Our validated science-based targets are the focus of our net-zero program. As we
approved by the SBTi in 2022. In addition, SBTi validated and published work to implement initiatives to reduce our overall GHG emissions and transition
our 2050 net-zero science-based target. All of our targets are gross to a net-zero company, we will aim to neutralize our remaining emissions.
targets validated to absolute contraction and are aligned to 1.5 degrees
Celsius targets.
In 2023, we updated our base year with the SBTi to 2022 to more
accurately represent Nasdaq’s diverse and growing business operations.
Our Climate Strategy
2023
2027 2030 2050
Our 2022 baseline year data:
70% 100% 100% 50% 100% 95%
Absolute market-based GHG emissions:
Scope 3: 85,692 MT COe of our suppliers by spend, Reduce absolute Source 100% renewable Reduce absolute Scope Maintain a minimum of Reduce absolute Scope
2
covering purchased Scope 1 and Scope 2 electricity annually 3 emissions 50% from 100% absolute Scope 1 3 emissions 95% from a
Scope 1+2: 166 MT COe
2 goods and services and emissions 100% from a a 2022 base year and Scope 2 emissions 2022 base year
capital goods, will set 2022 base year reductions from 2030
Total: 85,858 MT COe
2 science-based targets from a 2022 base year
Market-based emissions refer to the GHG emissions Nasdaq is responsible for after
Continue to procure 100% renewable electricity Encourage suppliers to set or commit to set science-based targets
factoring in the renewable electricity that we purchased. Location-based emissions are
those based on the average emission intensity of the electrical grids on which Nasdaq’s 100% 32.5% 70%
consumption occurs.
2023 2027
16
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Market-based GHG Emissions by Scope (MT COe) Breakdown of Scope 3 GHG Emissions (MT CO2e)
2
Our GHG Emissions 100,000
For the sixth consecutive year, Nasdaq has calculated its
80,000
GHG emissions in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol 2023 2022 2021
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, utilizing
the Operational Control approach, as it allows us to collect 60,000 Scope 1 75.1 16.52 0.5
higher quality data and provides us greater ability to Scope 2 62 149 -
progress towards our targets. Our GHG emissions increased 40,000 Scope 3 91,644 85,6923 78,876
2023
in 2023 from 2022, due to employees returning to our
offices and the growth of Nasdaq's employees and business Total 91,781 85,858 78,877 Scope 3
20,000
operations. GHG Emissions
We conducted a comprehensive review of our Scope 1, 0
Scope 2 and relevant upstream and downstream Scope 3 2023 2022 2021
emissions to identify opportunities to reduce our emissions.
The charts on the right summarize the global data with Location-based GHG Emissions by Scope (MT CO 2e)1
the breakdown of our Scope 3 GHG emissions for 2023.
120,000
The charts on the right also reflect a further breakdown by
category of our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions,
100,000
with direct fugitive refrigerant included in Scope 1. 2023 2022 2021
1. Purchased Goods & Services 60,202 65.7%
80,000
Note that Adenza-related GHG emissions are excluded from Scope 1 75.1 16.52 0.5 2. Capital Goods 5,023 5.5%
our 2023 numbers. We plan to expand both our carbon net- 60,000 Scope 2 18,776 17,094 18,8134 3. Fuel & Energy Related Activities1 953 1.0%
zero program and our carbon neutrality program to include
Scope 3 91,644 85,6923 78,876 5. Waste Generated in Operations 161 0.2%
Adenza as we complete the integration. 40,000
6. Business Travel 18,824 20.5%
Total 110,495 102,803 97,690
20,000 7. Employee Commuting 2,192 2.4%
8. Upstream Leased Assets2 198 0.2%
0
13. Downstream Leased Assets1 17 0.1%
2023 2022 2021
15. Investments 4,074 4.4%
1 According to GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance, the location-based method quantifies Scope 2 GHG emissions based on average energy generation emission
factors for defined locations, including local, subnational or national boundaries. Scope 3 Sub-Total 91,644 100%
2 2022 Scope 1 emissions were recalculated from our prior reported 2022 Scope 1 emissions. For our 2023 and recalculated 2022 Scope 1 emissions we
reclassified WTT gasoline emissions to Scope 3, Category 1.
3 2022 Scope 3 emissions were recalculated from our prior reported 2022 Scope 3 emissions. For our 2023 and recalculated 2022 Scope 3 emissions we 1 Calculated using market-based methodology.
eliminated WTT electricity for locations that procured 100% renewable electricity to follow the GHG Protocol.
2 Nasdaq accounts for landlord consumed natural gas, diesel and fugitive refrigerants in
4 2021 Scope 2 location-based emissions were recalculated from our prior reported 2021 Scope 2 emissions. For our 2022 and recalculated 2021 Scope 2 location- Category 8 upstream leased assets since we occupy leased commercial office space
based emissions, we implemented a new, updated emissions methodology using location-specific emission factors for each of our U.S. locations, rather than a and do not have operational control over the landlord’s consumption.
U.S. average emission factor.
17
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Reducing and Neutralizing
Our GHG Emissions
Procuring Energy from Renewable Sources • having corresponding requisite
attestations and verifications;
Nasdaq has procured 100% renewable
electricity for our office space and data • providing new renewable energy to the
center portfolios since 2018. Sourcing grid that has been consumed by each
renewable electricity is a major focus for Nasdaq office; and
Nasdaq, and it is incorporated in our site
• being less than five years old with
selection process for new office and data
high priority given to those projects
center locations, lease negotiations and
in operation for less than one year, to
electricity contracts. For 2023, our pre-
stimulate demand for new renewable
negotiated renewable energy contracts
energy projects in the local power grid.
accounted for 83% of our annual global
consumption, of which virtual power This resulted in Nasdaq reducing our
purchasing agreements account for 49% of market-based Scope 2 GHG emissions
our total consumption. (excluding steam and district heating) to
zero on an annual basis in 2023. Our total
For the remaining 17% of electricity that
energy consumption in 2023 increased by
is not acquired through pre-negotiated
1.7% from 2022, due to employees returning
renewable energy contracts, Nasdaq to our offices and the organic growth Nasdaq has procured
purchases RECs that meet our quality
of Nasdaq's employees and business
requirements, which include:
operations. 100% renewable
electricity for our office
space and data center
portfolios since 2018.*
* Nasdaq has procured 2023 retirement certificates that will be received in the second half of 2024.
18
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Our energy consumption data was collected by the
following methods (listed in priority order):
The chart below reflects a summary of how we neutralize our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions.
1. Full year metered data for the Nasdaq space consumption.
Scope 1 + 2 Pre-purchased Renewable Power (MT COe) 2. Full year metered data for the entire building in which the
2
Nasdaq space is located. Nasdaq’s proportionate share
Scope 3 Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) and Carbon Offset Purchases (MT COe)
2
of the consumption was then calculated using occupied
square footage within the building.
2023 2022 2021 3. Where metered data was unavailable, estimates were
calculated using industry assumptions on the office location,
91,644
amenities within the space, square footage and headcount.
85,6925
Scope 2 Electricity Consumption (in MWh)
Our location-based 78,876
GHG emissions 1
70,787
18,851 17,1113,4 18,814 65,307 64,200
0 Net emissions2
(MT CO 2e) (14,864) (13,611) (14,840)
(3,500) (3,974) 54,116 54,104 60,777
(3,987) (18,851) (17,111) (18,814)
Our mitigations
(78,876)
11,191 10,096 10,010
(85,692)
2023 2022 2021
(91,644) Nasdaq purchased RECs
Pre-negotiated Renewable Energy contracts
1 Gross emissions before landlord and data center operator renewable energy supply factors are applied.
2 Net emissions after landlord and data center operator renewable energy supply factors and Nasdaq REC & CO purchases are applied.
3 Our 2021 Scope 2 location-based emissions were recalculated from our prior reported 2021 Scope 2 emissions. For our 2022 and recalculated 2021 Scope 2 location-based In the chart above:
emissions, we implemented a new, updated emissions methodology using location-specific emission factors for each of our U.S. locations, rather than a U.S. average emission
• Percentage of total operational spending on energy (most recent reporting
factor. year): more than 5% less than 10%.
4 2022 Scope 1 emissions were recalculated from our prior reported 2022 Scope 1 emissions. For our 2023 and recalculated 2022 Scope 1 emissions we reclassified WTT gasoline
• No energy was sold in the reporting periods.
emissions to our Scope 3, Category 1.
5 2022 Scope 3 emissions were recalculated from our prior reported 2022 Scope 3 emissions. For our 2023 and recalculated 2022 Scope 3 emissions we eliminated WTT electricity • Source of Conversion factors used: U.S. Energy Information Administration -
Energy conversion calculators.
for locations that procured 100% renewable electricity to follow the GHG Protocol.
• Whenever possible, Nasdaq’s actual energy consumption was included in the
calculation; otherwise, a proportional share was determined using occupied
square footage. If energy data was completely unavailable, estimates were
based on office location, amenities, square footage and headcount.
19
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Reducing Energy Intensity
The following table shows our energy intensity as the absolute energy
consumption per full-time employee.
Energy Intensity Ratio 2023 2022 2021
Absolute energy consumption (MWh)
65,776 64,882 75,143
(Scope 1 & 2)1
Number of full-time employees2 6,555 6,377 5,814
Energy intensity3 10.0 10.2 12.9
1 Includes fuel, electricity, heating and cooling.
2 Employee headcount (excluding Adenza) as of December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021.
3 Energy intensity is calculated as a ratio between Nasdaq’s absolute energy consumption and the number of full-time employees.
Our energy intensity declined year-over-year despite an increase in number of employees.
Our Carbon Offset Strategy Investing in Aperam Biochar Carbon Removals
Our focus is on reducing our GHG emissions to reach our science-based targets. As we transition to
Aperam BioEnergia is a forestry charcoal producing company that began a
becoming net-zero, we strive to neutralize our residual emissions. As part of our carbon neutrality program,
we are: Biochar project in 2022, becoming the first Latin America biochar supplier
to be certified and registered by Puro.earth. The project converts biomass
• establishing a long-term strategy for our estimated net-zero residual emissions and building a portfolio of
high-quality engineered CO2 removal projects with proven permanence that have been certified by the waste from production into biochar, produced using a specific process
International Carbon Reduction and Offset Alliance (ICROA)-endorsed Puro standard; and to reduce contamination and safely store carbon in soil for hundreds or
• offsetting our remaining emissions through a combination of nature-based carbon offset projects that potentially thousands of years. The biochar serves as a durable carbon
preserve or enhance carbon storage and strengthen the biodiversity of our global forest networks and
removal from the atmosphere and acts as an important natural component
are verified by ICROA-endorsed standards.
for soil reconditioning and improvement. This project provides strong
Nasdaq has implemented a shadow carbon price that acts as a de facto fee derived from its procured
social and biodiversity co-benefits, supporting 10 social and environmental
renewable electricity and carbon offsets. We calculate shadow carbon price by dividing the total cost of our
UN SDGs.
renewable electricity and carbon offsets by the total amount of our carbon emissions to indicate how much
we spend to reduce our carbon footprint. This shadow carbon price informs our environmental initiatives
and pushes us to adopt better sustainable behaviors.
20
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
In 2023, we purchased carbon offsets to neutralize our 2023 residual GHG emissions from projects as summarized below.
For details on the carbon offset projects we support, please see our Voluntary Carbon Market Offsets (CA AB 1305) disclosure.
Project Standard Location Project Type Description
The project uses biomass residue to sequester carbon dioxide in biochar for use in soil amendment in forest crops and it runs a charcoal operation with
Aperam
emissions control in the northeast region of Minas Gerais, Brazil. The addition of biochar helps improve soil properties and water retention in the soil. The
BioEnergia Brazil
project also supports social development programs for local farmers.
Biochar Project
The project aims to tackle climate change by restoring and protecting peatland ecosystems, enhancing biodiversity and offering local people sustainable
Katingan Peatland
sources of income. In addition to peatlands preservation, this project aims to reforest through three programs: community-led agroforestry, fire break
Restoration and
Indonesia implementation, and intensive reforestation. The team will grow saplings in on-site nurseries and conduct regular maintenance to improve the rate of tree
Conservation
survival.
Project
The project is designed to promote climate change mitigation and adaptation, conserve and maintain biodiversity, improve livelihoods of local communities,
ensure coastal areas protection and create alternative livelihoods. This is a 60-years project renewable for up to 100 years and is being implemented over an
Delta Blue Carbon
Pakistan area of 350,000 hectare (ha) in the Districts of Thatta and Sujawal in the Indus Delta Area, Sindh Province, Pakistan. The project will deliver GHG removals
Project
through afforestation/reforestation/revegetation of 226,000 ha of degraded Tidal wetlands.
Nestled in the lush jungles of eastern Cambodia, the Keo Seima Wildlife Sanctuary (KSWS) is a haven for biodiversity and a vast storehouse of forest carbon.
Reduced Spanning over 290,000 hectares, the protected area is home to a diverse array of wildlife, including 84 globally threatened species. The KSWS also holds
Emissions from a unique cultural significance for the Indigenous Bunong people, who have called this forest home for centuries and whose culture and livelihoods are
Deforestation deeply entwined with the forest. The Keo Seima Wildlife Sanctuary REDD+ Project (KSWS REDD+), has made impressive strides in reducing deforestation
Cambodia
and Degradation and promoting alternative livelihoods. The project has prevented the release of more than 20 million tons of COe emissions and saved 25,000 hectares
2
in Keo Seima of forest from destruction. It has also created jobs, supported education and training initiatives and established an ecotourism venture that supports local
Wildlife Sanctuary communities.
Wetland Restoration and Reduced Emissions from Afforestation, Reforestation
Conservation (WRC) Deforestation and Degradation (REDD) and Revegetation (ARR) Biochar
21
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Aligning Corporate Strategies to
Support Reaching Net Zero
Reducing Nasdaq’s GHG emissions and Key processes covered by the EMS include: Certifications in our office spaces in Denver, Business Travel
meeting our ambitious short- and long-term London and Toronto. We also consolidated
Business travel is a significant contributor
• environmental requirements during
science-based targets will require initiatives our Toronto businesses into one location,
to Nasdaq’s GHG emissions. In 2023, we
site selection for new offices and data
that reach across all our businesses and which allowed us to:
engaged with our travel partners to explore
centers, including access to renewable
operations. We are reviewing Nasdaq’s
strategies and opportunities to reduce our
energy, access to mass transit, and • reduce our energy demand and
corporate strategies to align our existing
business travel GHG emissions.
locations with green/energy/ISO corresponding GHG emissions;
processes and policies to support our
certifications;
environmental ambitions as Nasdaq’s • reduce to one office space within a highly The Scope 3, Category 6 business travel
business offering and operations continue • green leasing clauses; sustainable and energy efficient building; and includes emissions from planes, trains,
to evolve and grow organically and through hired vehicles, taxis and car services and
• global standards for design and • relocate all of our Toronto employees
acquisitions. hotel stays.
performance; into our newly LEED Gold O+M certified
office space.
Environmental Management System (EMS) • operational and maintenance procedures Employee Commuting
and policies;
To help ensure sustainability is considered As of 2023, 59% of Nasdaq global office Nasdaq’s strategy to encourage employees
We achieved LEED
in our major operations and to drive this • sustainable procurement and energy space by square foot (14 office locations) is to return to the office has also increased
Gold for O+M
progress towards a more sustainable future, efficiency; and now in a Green Certified office. This is a nine employee commuting GHG emissions.
we continued to implement an EMS to govern percentage point increase over 2022. We Nasdaq continues to mitigate these Certifications for our
• GHG standards for suppliers.
our Real Estate and Facilities (REF) and aim to have all key offices (offices with 50 or emissions through our hybrid work program offices in Denver,
Data Center (DC) portfolios, which are main Green Certifications more employees) Green Certified by 2030. and sustainable leasing strategy where
Toronto and London
contributors to Nasdaq’s carbon footprint. we lease space near public transport and
As part of our sustainability strategy, Sustainable Leasing Strategy in 2023.
provide employees with benefits designed
Our EMS follows the structure informed Nasdaq is committed to the wellbeing of our
Optimizing efficiency and overall to encourage the use of public transport.
by ISO 14001, commonly recognized as employees and the communities in which
sustainability of our real estate portfolio
the leading EMS international standard. we operate. We are continuously reviewing
continues to be a key focus. In 2023, we
The purpose of our EMS is to provide a our office space portfolio to ensure that it is
continued our sustainable leasing strategy
framework to facilitate the achievement of “right-sized” for our operations and that we
which assesses factors such as easy access
our environmental goals through consistent are best utilizing the space that we lease.
to mass transit, guaranteed certifiable
review, evaluation and improvement of our
As such, in 2023 we achieved three LEED renewable energy supply and thoughtful
environmental performance.
Gold O+M (Operations and Maintenance) rightsizing of the portfolio.
SDG 13
22
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Waste Evaluating and Engaging
Waste reduction, recycling and compost Refer to page 87 for data regarding our Our Supply Chain
diversion are key priorities for Nasdaq in the waste consumption. our goal by requesting over 150 suppliers
operation and management of our facilities. Nasdaq’s supply chain is the main respond to the survey in 2023, and set a
Throughout our office space lifecycle, we In 2023, we reintroduced a contributor to our carbon footprint, target to request our top 200 suppliers to
built processes that focus on reducing program to remove all single-use accounting for almost 60% of our total 2023 respond in 2024.
waste, recycling unwanted items and items from our New York office GHG emissions. Evaluating and engaging
Received an “A” CDP
equipment, reusing products and sustainably pantries by replacing those items with our key suppliers and entire value chain As part of our near-term science-based
procuring products required to maintain our with multi-use products. is key to reaching our net-zero targets. In emissions reduction targets, we aim to have supplier engagement rating
facilities and support our employees. 2023, GHG emissions from our suppliers 70% of our suppliers by spend, covering and earned a place on CDP’s
Nasdaq’s Green Team decreased by nearly half a percent from purchased goods and services and capital
2023 Supplier Engagement
These processes include green leasing Our Global Green Team brings together 2022, due largely to engaging with our goods, set or commit to set their own
terms for landlord waste management, Nasdaq employees who are passionate suppliers and improved data quality. science-based targets by 2027. We request Leaderboard
office construction and renovations, product suppliers to respond to the CDP Climate
about the environment, publishes internal
procurement, maintenance and cleaning and Nasdaq also encourages its suppliers to Change survey and encourage them to set
knowledge-based resources and works
office decommissioning. adopt sustainability and environmental science-based targets of their own.
to drive sustainable initiatives through our
practices in line with our published As we integrate
local offices and communities. Nasdaq
We have also implemented several Environmental Practices Statement and the As part of our Supplier Risk and
supports the Green Team’s commitment to Adenza’s supply chain
programs to reduce our waste and improve Nasdaq Supplier Code of Ethics (Supplier Onboarding program, we initiate
creating positive change throughout the
data accuracy for our landfill and diversion Code). Suppliers must attest to our Supplier an external objective screening into our systems in
Company as we drive to achieve our longer-
rates. These include: Code, confirming they have policies and for suppliers that we engage with.
term net-zero goals. 2024, we will continue
practices consistent with our Environmental We screen for any international
• continuing to achieve green certification Practices Statement and to the extent sanctions, regulatory enforcement to measure the impact
in our office spaces, which includes
they do not, will adhere to the applicable actions taken, legal enforcement on Nasdaq’s short- and
implementing policies around sustainable
standards in our Supplier Code. actions taken and identify any
product procurement, reusing products long-term sustainability
politically exposed persons.
and recycling waste; To the extent practical and feasible, In addition, we screen for any targets.
• implementing our EMS to ensure that suppliers provide us with information to negative news, bankruptcies,
we focus on sustainable operational support our reporting and transparency liens or court judgments, and any
purchasing strategies, construction and commitments related to sustainability open or closed lawsuits, amongst
office decommissioning; and and environmental impacts. Nasdaq is a numerous other geopolitical
CDP Supply Chain corporate member and data points, prior to onboarding
• conducting waste audits in our key offices
requests that our top suppliers disclose new suppliers.
to gain greater detail into how much waste
their environmental data through CDP’s
we generate and divert from landfills.
Climate Change survey. We surpassed
SDG 13
23
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Natural Resource
Management Taskforce on Nature-
Related Financial
In 2023, we conducted a company-wide We pursue water conservation initiatives
Disclosure (TNFD)
assessment of Nasdaq’s nature-related risks that align with Nasdaq’s ESG goals, which
and opportunities including our impacts and aim to reduce consumption across all
The TNFD is built on the pillars and
dependencies on nature. We strive to find resource categories. This is achieved by
principles of the TCFD, following the
opportunities to reduce our natural resource obtaining green certifications that require
structure of governance, strategy, risk
consumption and to minimize externalities installing water efficient infrastructure
management and metrics and targets.
generated through our operations. and reducing wastewater. We also reduce
In 2022, Nasdaq joined the TNFD
Currently, this is undertaken through: water consumption via sustainable leasing
Forum to support the development of
strategies that reduce the reliance on older,
• tracking commercial water and waste less water efficient equipment and by the new disclosure framework focused
usage and outputs, which have resulted considering factors in our supply chain and on nature and biodiversity. See our
in conservation initiatives; sourcing decisions. TNFD findings on page 112.
• sustainability certifications for
In 2023 Nasdaq’s water consumption
commercial buildings in which we
increased by 21% compared to 2022 largely
lease office space, which incorporate
due to the increased employee return to
restrictions around greenfield sites, waste
our offices and our growth of Nasdaq’s
and recycling; and
employees and business operations.
• renewable energy procurement and wider
emissions reduction activities. Refer to page 87 for additional details
regarding our water consumption.
Water
Nasdaq consumes water in our office
space that is leased from commercial office
buildings and data centers. We therefore
do not have a significant impact on water
systems.
24
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Priority ESG Topics Aligned UN SDGs
Social • Diversity, Equity & Inclusion • Employee Health & Wellbeing
• Human Capital Management • Supply Chain Responsibility
• Employee Engagement & Satisfaction
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
“ In 2023 and 2024, we welcomed new colleagues to Nasdaq Nasdaq’s People Team is responsible for Employee Networks at Nasdaq
helping ensure equitable employment and
through the integration of Verafin and Adenza, expanding
career development practices across the Nasdaq’s Employee Networks are open to all
our teams across 38 countries. Our inclusive, global culture Company, as well as fostering a culture of employees and connect our employees on a
is powering a new era where three high-performing inclusion and belonging for all. variety of shared topics, interests, cultures
and backgrounds. Through our Employee
organizations now collectively bring our clients new
These efforts include formal mentoring Networks, Nasdaq celebrates diversity and
solutions and capabilities. Our team’s excitement is evident programs and employee training programs, as fosters a sense of inclusion that strengthens
in our record high employee engagement and historically well as enhanced programming in partnership our culture. The networks aim to empower
with our various Employee Network groups success of employees with initiatives
low turnover, signaling a collective commitment to this
around the globe. that promote professional advancement;
transformative journey.” provide networking opportunities; and
As part of our Company’s commitment to
build mentorship, advocacy and community
an inclusive workforce we strive for diverse
outreach efforts. These employee networks
applicant pools when interviewing for
include more than 3,300 eligible employee
externally advertised roles. As a signatory
and contractor members. Each Employee
Bryan Smith, Chief People Officer, Nasdaq to the Parity Pledge, we fulfilled our
Network is sponsored by one or more senior
commitment to interview female candidates
executives and open to all of Nasdaq’s
for all externally advertised roles at the Vice
workforce for participation.
President (VP) level and above.
In 2023, Nasdaq added a
New2Nasdaq Employee Network
to foster greater collaboration and
assistance for those new to the
Company.
See our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
webpage for a list and descriptions of
our Employee Network Groups.
SDG 5 SDG 10
25
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Global Workforce Workforce by Gender
Statistics on the composition of our global workforce by
gender, and the composition of our U.S. workforce by gender,
race and ethnicity, are presented in this section and are also
available in our EEO-1 report on our corporate website.
Unless otherwise indicated, social data tables in this report Global Workforce
2023 2022 2021
exclude employees of non-wholly owned consolidated (excluding Adenza)
subsidiaries.
Gender Pay Gap Analysis
Male 61.5% 63.7% 64.6%
Nasdaq is committed to equitable pay for all people in
Female 36.3% 36.0% 35.3%
our workforce. That commitment is embedded within
our multifaceted compensation program. As part of that Undisclosed 2.1% 0.3% 0.1%
program: Non-Binary 0.1% 0% 0%
Total Number of Employees1 6,555 6,377 5,814
• we have systems in place to establish and review
pay upon hire, promotion and role changes within the
Company;
• we have an annual process in place to run a regression
analysis on gender (globally) and race/ethnicity (in the
United States), assessing employee base pay and total Global Workforce
2023
compensation (base + bonus + equity); and (including Adenza)
• when appropriate, we take action based on these
systems and the annual process.
Male 63.4%
Female 34.9%
Undisclosed 1.6%
Non-Binary 0.1%
Total Number of Employees1 8,525
1 Total includes employees of non-wholly owned consolidated subsidiaries excluded from percentage calculations.
26
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
1.6% 3.4% 0.4%
0.4% 1.2% 0.4% 0.4% 0.1% 0.3% 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 0.1%
Gender by 26.1% 23.7% 24.2% 30.9% 30.6% 30.3%
Career Level 36.1% 36.5% 35.2% 40.2% 42.3% 40.6%
Male
Female 73.4% 76.3% 75.8% 67.9% 69.0% 69.4% 62.2% 63.2% 64.7%
56.3% 57.3% 59.3%
Undisclosed
Non-Binary
2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021 2023 2022 2021
Executive Senior Mid Entry
Note: Totals may not add up to 100% due to rounding to the closest tenth decimal point. Calculations exclude Adenza employees.
U.S. Workforce by Racial Ethnicity
The chart below only includes demographics for the United States.
White 61.2% White 64.6% White 65.4%
Asian 17.5% Asian 16.1% Asian 16.5%
Black 7.3% Black 7.9% Black 7.5%
Hispanic 5.4% Hispanic 5.7% Hispanic 5.8%
2023 2022 2021
Two or More 1.9% Two or More 2.8% Two or More 2.1%
Pacific Islander 0.2% Pacific Islander 0.3% Pacific Islander 0.2%
Native American 0.1% Native American 0.1% Native American 0.2%
Undisclosed 6.4% Undisclosed 2.6% Undisclosed 2.4%
Note: The U.S. reporting on Race and Ethnicity follows the U.S. Department of Labor’s EEO-1 reporting standards. The races and ethnicities reported are American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, Two or More Races and White.
Please note that totals may not add up to 100% due to rounding to the closest tenth decimal point.
27
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Human Capital Management
Our people are the primary driver of our (CPE) credits for accountants, as well as In 2023, we continued developmental Accelerate(HER): In 2023, we
success. Nasdaq is committed to attracting industry leaders including the Amazon Web programs for employees, including graduated our first class of
top talent and retaining, developing and Services (AWS) Skills Guild and Microsoft’s executive mentoring. Our employee Accelerate(HER), which is our
motivating our employees. AI Business School to offer IT skills brand ambassador program saw a ~50% high-potential leadership program for
development programs. Our focus is now increase in participation with boosted our female employees to enhance their
Career Development and Training
turned to upskilling the entire organization engagement. We also continued our key skills. Beginning in 2024, the Accelerate
Nasdaq supports the development of on AI knowledge through our cloud leadership development programs to program is open to all employees.
employees through each important transition partnerships with AWS and Microsoft. enhance accelerated growth and career
in their careers – as new entrants to the advancement opportunities.
The People Team continued Nasdaq’s
organization, as developing professionals, as
training curriculum in 2023, offering courses Emerging Leaders Program: We
managers of teams and as senior leaders of our
such as Inclusive Leadership and Clifton expanded our Emerging Leaders
global organization. We invest in professional
Strengths Finder Training for Teams, which Program, which provides early to mid-level Visit Nasdaq’s Careers webpage
development for our employees, specifically
to learn more.
guide employees through common areas employees access to executive coaching
through our work creating an updated career
of interest, including enhancing emotional and individual professional development.
framework – a more streamlined, structured
intelligence and effective utilization of talent.
and scalable approach to managing career
As part of our effort to create a workplace LEAD (Lead, Enrich, Access
growth. We offer access to professional in-
where everyone feels safe, respected and & Develop): We launched our Martin’s Journey: Catalyzing Leadership
person and online employee development
included, we offer voluntary Conscious flagship High Potential program
courses and job-specific training, including
Inclusion training for all employees. In this which focuses on preparing mid-level Martin Awong, a Director in Nasdaq’s Treasury Department,
internal career networking programs and one-
course, participants learn to acknowledge managers for future leadership roles through learned to expand his leadership skills through the LEAD
on-one mentoring, as well providing tuition
their blind spots, examine their circles a curriculum based on building business Program. "The LEAD program has been richly rewarding in
assistance to employees enrolled in degree-
of influence, understand the difference acumen, leadership skills, peer networking, teaching me how to navigate through sometimes challenging
granting academic programs.
between equity and equality and expand senior leader mentorship and job shadowing management environments." He believes LEAD builds skills
As a financial technology company, we their network to more diverse individuals. opportunities. Over the six-month period, we and aligns participants with Nasdaq's deeper values. "The
had 56 full-time employee participants out of
recognize that building cutting edge LEAD program has benefited many of us by helping us bring
To support managers, Nasdaq offers over 200 nominees. We surveyed participants
technical and financial skills is critical for a high level of authenticity to our business. My personal
Conscious Inclusion for Managers training pre- and post-program to understand their
success. We partner with institutions of
goal was to execute on the technology strategy while
and the Inclusive Leadership course, strengths and areas of opportunity.
higher education, such as Massachusetts
collaborating with diverse teams leading to meaningful
designed to drive awareness around
Institute of Technology (MIT), functional
impact. LEAD inspired and gave me the drive to deliver on
opportunities for inclusion. Managers are
specific associations like the National
also offered Empowering Inclusive Teams these strategies."
Association of State Boards of Accountancy
training focused on practical tips to drive a
(NASBA) that provide continuing education
culture of engagement.
28
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
“ At Nasdaq, career advancement
is fueled by taking initiative and
expressing readiness for new
challenges. It’s a culture where
The table below highlights the average number of voluntary and
mandatory training hours for Nasdaq’s workforce. In 2023, our
ambition meets opportunity,
employee training hours increased as employees took advantage
of additional internal training programs developed and curated by leading to remarkable career
Nasdaq’s Talent Development professionals. Trainings range from
short overviews to online multi-class, skills-development courses. trajectories.”
In addition, many of our learning and development platforms updated
and added content to their libraries. Danielle Ramos, Manila
Training 2023 2022 2021
Average number of employee
55.5 19.4 17.2
training hours1,2
Average amount per
$320 $320 $320
employee spent on training
>250
Total hours of employee
306,113 103,083 86,423
training1
Total required hours of
2,050 NR NR training programs offered to
contractor training
employees and contractors in 2023
NR: Not Reported
1 Includes full-time regular employees; excludes Adenza and Verafin employees.
2 Increase reflects additional training and improved tracking of online training hours.
29
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Performance Management
Nasdaq’s Performance Management program enhances employee job performance and
professional development. Each employee creates and records individual performance
objectives for the year along with a professional development plan, in concert with their
manager. In addition to providing mechanisms for ongoing feedback throughout the year,
managers informally assess their employees during the mid-year period and complete a
formal year-end performance review. Managers incorporate a multi-dimensional review
process of getting feedback on an employee’s performance from peers, direct reports or
others who interact with them regularly.
The employee’s performance review aims to ensure that they clearly understand what is
expected by their manager and that their activities align to their respective business division
goals. The review helps inform each employee what knowledge and skills they must acquire
or improve to grow in the present job, move into a lateral role or advance at Nasdaq.
2023 2022 2021
Male 1 Female1 Undisclosed1 Non-Binary1 Total Male Female Total Male Female Total
Employees who received a
99% 99% 100% 100% 99% 99% 99% 99% NR NR NR
performance review2
Employees who received
both a performance rating
86% 87% 100% 93% 86% 90% 90% 90% 93% 94% 93%
and written comments on
their performance2
NR: Not Reported
1 Calculation includes full-time, regular employees hired prior to October 1, 2023.
2 Excludes Adenza, Metrio and Verafin employees.
30
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Attracting and Retaining Talent
At Nasdaq, we believe our people drive our success. We continuously implement In 2023, we expanded our presence at AfroTech, the world’s largest Black tech conference,
improvements in outreach, recruitment and hiring processes designed to reduce biases and and provided growth and development opportunities for attending Nasdaq colleagues. During
create a more equitable and welcoming environment for candidates from all backgrounds. our sixth year of partnership with WIT Sweden, the leading tech conference for women in the
Our dedication to building an inclusive workplace and providing opportunities for growth is Nordics, we successfully added over 140 qualified candidates to our talent pipeline.
reflected in the accomplishments we made in 2023.
Our commitment to attracting and retaining a talented and diverse workforce remains a
• Building a High-Quality Talent Community: We focus on attracting quality candidates cornerstone of our success and will help shape Nasdaq’s future.
aligned with our Company values and open roles. This past year, we strategically built
a robust new talent community, resulting in a strong pipeline of over 3,500 qualified Employee Turnover 2023 20221 2021
candidates interested in joining the Nasdaq team.
Number Rate Number Rate Number Rate
• Effective Recruitment Strategies: We reached over a million prospective candidates
Total Workforce – employee
471 7.3% 575 11.0% 568 11.5%
through targeted recruitment campaigns, leading to over 5,000 applications— turnover2
demonstrating the clear appeal of the Nasdaq brand to a broad range of job seekers.
Total Workforce – new hires 809 1,061 1,082
• Diversity Attraction Efforts: Our focused diversity initiatives continued to yield positive
1 Calculations exclude Verafin employees.
outcomes. In 2023, we saw nearly a five percentage point increase in the hiring of women
2 Voluntary attrition.
and underrepresented minorities (combined), reflecting our efforts to increase diversity
in our applicant pools to allow greater opportunity for talented individuals from many
different backgrounds to join our Company.
We understand the importance of strong partnerships with organizations dedicated to
fostering diverse talent pools, including educational institutions. Our collaborations with
AfroTech, The Information Technology Senior Management Forum (ITSMF), National Society
of Black Engineers (NSBE), Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE), Sistas In
Sales, Lean In: Women In Tech, and Women In Tech (WIT) are invaluable in accessing talent
communities and building connections. Our partnerships helped us reach students at Georgia
Institute of Technology, Howard University, University of Maryland, University of Toronto,
University of Waterloo, Columbia University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
31
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Employee Engagement and Satisfaction
We engage with employees and their representatives throughout the year, ensuring Results from our 2023 engagement survey include:*
timely notification of significant operational changes to maintain employee satisfaction
and support our culture and engagement strategy. Part of this engagement includes our
employee sentiment surveys, which Nasdaq continues to conduct semi-annually.
84%
In 2023, an average of 92% of employees responded to the semi-annual employee survey.
Our engagement scores demonstrate Nasdaq’s high level of employee engagement, and
91% 89%
we are continuously reviewing our initiatives to identify opportunities to improve. In our
believe people from all backgrounds have
employee engagement survey, we also offer a comments section and encourage free-form
equal opportunities to succeed at Nasdaq
responses to any question where the employee wishes to provide more context. These
are proud to work for Nasdaq would recommend Nasdaq
comments are all reviewed, aggregated and shared (anonymously) where applicable.
as a great place to work
92%
92% 83%
of employees responded
to the bi-annual employee
survey in 2023
feel their manager genuinely understand why Nasdaq’s
cares about their wellbeing purpose is to advance
economic progress for all
82%
feel they belong at Nasdaq
Read our Culture Book on our Diversity,
Equity and Inclusion webpage to see what
it is like to work and thrive at Nasdaq.
*April and October 2023 Employee Survey (average)
32
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Promoting Health and Wellbeing
Prioritize Your Health Connect with Your Community Build Your Wealth Care for Your Family
• Health care, such as medical, • Employee resource groups • Employee stock purchase plan • Fertility coverage and
dental, vision coverage and adoption/surrogacy assistance
• Charitable matching program • Student loan program (U.S.)
flexible spending accounts
• Family leave and
• Paid time off to volunteer • U.S. specific defined
• Risk insurances, such as short- bereavement leave
contribution retirement plan
term disability, long-term
with no waiting period for • Pet insurance (U.S.)
disability and life insurance Grow Your Career
employees who are regularly
• U.S. paid parental leave for employees
• Hybrid work schedules • Tuition reimbursement for scheduled to work at least scheduled to work 20+ hours (12
• Flex days for employees to academic degree-granting 20 hours per week, with a weeks for birth, non-birth and adoptive
care for their mental health programs Company match of 100% up parents, plus an additional eight weeks
to a 6% contribution by the
and wellbeing • Robust learning opportunities of disability leave for birth parent to
employee
recover from childbirth)*
• Paid time off to full and part-time
• Outside the U.S., the Company
employees including sick leave, • Canada top-up to weekly pay (26
meets or exceeds the local
vacation and personal days weeks) for parental leave for employees
statutory retirement plan
scheduled to work 20+ hours*
• Preventative care programs, requirements
such as Employee Assistance • Subsidies for regular, emergency and
Program (EAP) for wellbeing back-up family care (children and elders)
and mental health
• Dedicated lactation on-site facilities
• Access to virtual fitness and breast milk shipping (U.S.)
programs and on-site fitness At Nasdaq, we understand the impact health and wellbeing has on
* Represents our policy updated in 2024 from our
classes or facilities productivity and employee engagement. We also recognize the
previous policy of 6 weeks (U.S.) and 15 weeks of top-
• Stress management training important role that our leaders play in creating a culture of wellbeing up to government benefits (Canada)
and access to a sleep and belonging. We offer a holistic suite of programs, benefits and
improvement program
resources, known as You&Q, to meet our employees where they are
– in their lives and career journeys.
33
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Occupational Health and Safety
Nasdaq is committed to providing our employees,
contractors and office visitors with a healthy and safe work
“Nasdaq is where your
environment. We implement programs that address common
hazards for our employees, such as ergonomic issues and
voice is heard, your ideas
workstation modifications. All Nasdaq employees, contractors
and visitors are expected to work to maintain safe and respected, and your
healthful working conditions and adhere to proper operating
practices designed to prevent injuries and illnesses. All contributions valued.
employee and contractor sensitive health related information
Here, creativity knows
is held confidentially within the benefits department.
no bounds, and every
We also expect our suppliers to provide a safe and healthy
work environment for their employees and contractors.
opinion matters, creating
We expect them to abide by local laws and provide a safe
work environment that supports and maintains relevant a culture of recognition
programs for accident prevention and minimizing exposure
to health risks. and resourcefulness.”
Providing a Safe and Healthy Work Environment
Anil Kumar, Bangalore
work-related accidents for
employees and contractors
in 2023
Zero
days lost to work-related
injuries or accidents in 2023
fatalities from work-related
injuries or accidents in 2023
Note: Data not collected for Adenza and Verafin locations.
For more information, see our
Commitment to Operational Health
and Safety statement on our
ESG Resource Center.
34
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Supplier Diversity
A diverse supply chain strengthens our operations, supports our communities and enhances “Building genuine
our client experience. Nasdaq’s Supplier Diversity Program is a crucial component of our
diversity, equity and inclusion efforts. We work with qualified businesses owned by diverse connections within our
individuals or groups, members of the LGBTQ+ community, people with disabilities, women
team is at the heart of our
and veterans. In 2023, we engaged with 157 diverse suppliers, amounting to over $2.1 million in
diverse supplier spend.
culture. It’s about caring,
Nasdaq’s Supplier Code of Ethics reflects our extended commitment to diversity and inclusion
checking in, and taking
among our suppliers. Suppliers must attest to our Supplier Code of Ethics, confirming they
have policies and practices consistent with ours and to the extent they do not, will adhere moments to share a cup of
to the applicable standards in our Supplier Code of Ethics.
coffee and conversation.”
In 2023, we spent approximately $632 million on local suppliers (within the same country
of operation), which represents 94% of our annual procurement budget.
Nicole Frankel, Atlanta
See our Supplier Code of Ethics on our
ESG Resource Center to learn more.
Visit our Supplier Sustainability
webpage to learn more.
SDG 10
35
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Priority ESG Topics
Governance • Data Privacy & Cybersecurity • Anti-Financial Crime & Anti-Money Laundering • Public Policy Advocacy
• Risk Management • Customer Relationship Management • Labor Practices & Human Rights
• Board Composition & Governance • Executive Compensation & Incentives • Supply Chain Responsibility
Corporate Governance
As of June 11, 2024
“ Nasdaq’s sound corporate governance
Our governance framework is designed • our human capital management program, Board Diversity
structure is key to how we help create to promote governance transparency corporate culture initiatives and ethics
and ensure our Board has the necessary program;
stronger economies, encourage more
tools to review and evaluate our business
• our corporate governance structures,
equitable opportunities and contribute operations and make decisions that are 42%
principles and practices;
to a more sustainable world. We remain independent of management and in the best
• Board refreshment and executive
interests of our shareholders. Our goal is to
committed to our long-standing and 5 out of 12
succession planning;
align the interests of shareholders, directors are women
recognized tradition of principled, ethical
and management while complying with, or • executive compensation; and
and forward-looking governance practices, exceeding, the requirements of The Nasdaq
• compliance with local regulations and
Stock Market and applicable law.
transparent disclosures and overall Board laws across our business lines and
effectiveness that we believe benefit our This governance framework establishes the geographic regions.
33%
stakeholders, including our shareholders, practices our Board follows with respect to
In 2023, we maintained a low-risk rating
oversight of:
employees, clients and the communities on governance from the most significant
4 out of 12 are Racially/
rating agencies, included disclosure on ESG
around us.” • corporate sustainability, including our Ethnically Diverse
in our 2024 Proxy Statement to emphasize
ESG program and environmental and
our commitment to transparency and
social initiatives;
prioritization of ESG-related topics, and
• our corporate strategy for long-term
John A. Zecca, Chief Legal, continued our program of director education
value creation;
Regulatory & Risk Officer, on ESG topics.
92%
Nasdaq • capital allocation;
• risk management, including risks relating
to information security and the protection 11 out of 12 are
Independent
of our market systems;
For our full Board Diversity Matrix,
please see our 2024 Proxy Statement
on our ESG Resource Center.
36
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
ESG Governance
Our ESG governance framework establishes the practices we follow with respect to oversight and execution of our corporate sustainability strategy, including our ESG objectives and goals and our
environmental and social initiatives.
Responsible Party Oversight of ESG Matters
• Reviews and discusses with management Nasdaq’s compliance programs, Global Employee Ethics Program, and SpeakUp! Program (which
includes the confidential whistleblower process).
• Reviews and discusses with management the Company’s Enterprise Risk Framework, including risk governance structure, risk assessment, and
Audit & Risk Committee of the Board of Directors
risk management practices and guidelines.
• Reviews and discusses with management the adequacy and effectiveness of Nasdaq’s privacy and technology controls, including the Company’s
Information Security program, and approves the Information Security Charter and Information Security Policy.
• Oversees environmental and social matters as they pertain to the Company’s business and long-term strategy and identifies and brings to the
attention of the Board current and emerging environmental and social trends and issues that may affect the business operations, performance
Nominating & ESG Committee and public image of Nasdaq.
of the Board of Directors • Provides oversight for Nasdaq’s environmental and social policies, practices, initiatives and reporting, including those related to environmental
sustainability, social and ethical issues, human capital management, responsible sourcing, and community involvement.
• Reviews and approves the annual Sustainability Report, the TCFD Report and related Indexes.
Corporate ESG Steering Committee • Serves as the central coordinating body for our ESG strategy, and regularly reports that strategy to the Nominating & ESG Committee.
• Contributes to and supports the work of the Corporate ESG Strategy and Reporting team, executing and reporting on the multi-year ESG plan,
Corporate ESG Working Group goals, actions and outcomes established by the Corporate ESG Steering Committee and approved by the Nominating & ESG Committee of
Nasdaq’s Board of Directors.
• Responsible for execution of our sustainability strategy; communicating our performance, metrics and ambitions through our annual
Corporate ESG Strategy & Reporting Team Sustainability Report, TCFD Report and related ESG indexes, filings and surveys and collaborating with various stakeholders across the
organization to ensure a timely and accurate data gathering process.
37
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Ethics and Compliance
“ Nasdaq is committed to The Nasdaq Code of Ethics, or the Program provides values-based guidance,
Training Topics Include:
Code, in conjunction with other policies, heightens compliance risk awareness,
conducting its business with the
procedures, standards and handbooks, strengthens decision-making and drives
highest standards of ethics and
outlines the responsibilities expected of sound business performance through its
compliance, in accordance with Nasdaq officers, directors and employees in five pillars: Executive and Board Leadership;
conducting business in accordance with the Policies, Procedures and Controls; Risk
our values and the laws of the Ethics, Integrity and Human Rights and Cybersecurity
highest standards of ethics and compliance. Assessment; Outreach and Training; and
jurisdictions where we operate. Conflicts of Interest Modern Slavery Awareness and Privacy
The Code is applicable to the Board, all full- Monitoring, Audit and Response.
Nasdaq fosters a culture of time and part-time employees, (including
the principal executive officer, the principal In 2023, we furthered the use of automation
integrity, accountability and
financial officer and the controller and and analytics in supporting compliance
transparency, where ethical principal accounting officer), contract programs to drive effectiveness and reduce
questions and concerns can workers and others who conduct work on risk, completed updates of our Code of Anti-Financial Crime Economic Sanctions Insider Trading
behalf of Nasdaq. There is also a separate Ethics and related policies to make them and Anti-Money and Trade Controls
be raised and addressed
Nasdaq Code of Conduct for the Board, more engaging to our employees and Laundering
without fear of retaliation. which contains supplemental provisions address evolutions in our business and
We maintain compliance specifically applicable to directors. enhanced employee training programs
through additional focus on targeted topics.
programs designed to meet our
Ethical values are reinforced through
obligations as a global company, employee training and communication, Training and Certifications Nasdaq’s SpeakUp! Anti-Harassment and Anti-Corruption,
protecting our shareholders, including town halls and topic specific All newly hired and current employees Program Discrimination* Gifts and Business
webinars. We also embed our commitment are required to complete trainings and
customers, employees and the Entertainment
to governance, transparency, integrity certifications on an annual basis and as part of
communities we serve.” and ethical business practices in a series their initial on-boarding. Town hall events and *Required training for U.S. employees residing in states where training is mandated.
of robust policy documents. Our Global webinars augment this training to employees
Employee Ethics program is based on on a periodic basis. In addition, Nasdaq
industry-leading practices and led by our conducts role-based trainings and exercises
John Yetter, VP,
Chief Legal, Regulatory & Risk Officer to reinforce policies and procedures.
Deputy General Counsel
and is supported by a cross-functional,
geographically diverse team, with oversight
by our Audit & Risk Committee. External
compliance experts are also regularly
consulted. The Nasdaq Employee Ethics
38
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Employee Certifications Nasdaq supports employees by allowing the disclosure of trade Nasdaq conducts due diligence screening of all vendors and
secrets in confidence to relevant government authorities without contracted business partners for corruption risk, and monitors all
Employees are required, at the time of hire and annually
fear of retaliation, regardless of the confidentiality or intellectual payments, including vendor payments and employee reimbursed
during a set period thereafter, to complete certifications:
property agreements the employee has signed with Nasdaq. expenses, for compliance. Nasdaq’s Supplier Code of Ethics
• Attesting to the accuracy of their financial and conflict of outlines our expectations for Business Partners, including those
Employees can contact the appropriate regulator, law enforcement,
interest disclosures (which are required to be maintained expectations related to bribery and corruption.
other government authorities or others as authorized by applicable
current on an ongoing basis)
law without notifying Nasdaq in advance or first pursuing internal Human Rights
• To comply with Nasdaq’s Code of Ethics reporting channels. Nasdaq does not tolerate retaliation against
Nasdaq believes in the fundamental dignity of every human being
• To comply with Nasdaq’s compliance, information anyone who reports potential misconduct regardless of the and the rights of every individual to live and work safely and
security and privacy policies, including, but not limited reporting channel used, and provides all legal protections afforded humanely, without fear of oppression or coercion. Our Vision,
to, Nasdaq’s policy regarding insider trading/personal under applicable laws and regulations for individuals reporting Mission and Values Statements, along with our Code of Ethics,
securities trading (the Global Trading Policy) and policies alleged misconduct or violations of the law. Supplier Code of Ethics and Employee Handbooks emphasize
related to anti-corruption, sanctions and trade controls. responsibility, integrity and values-based decision-making and
Anti-Corruption
set forth our standards for conducting our business ethically
Nasdaq’s anti-corruption program is implemented at an enterprise, and consistently with our moral principles. These principles and
To learn more, see our Code of Ethics
global level across all business units in a risk-based manner. standards shape our interactions with fellow employees, clients,
and our Supplier Code of Ethics on
our ESG Resource Center. It includes policies, procedures, monitoring and periodic risk suppliers, communities and markets around the world — and with
assessments aligned to leading practices and standards, including our community of stakeholders, too.
those published by the U.S. Department of Justice and The
Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). We understand that supply chains are complex and continually
As set forth in Nasdaq’s Code of Ethics and relevant policies, we evolving and global human rights conditions change. We plan to
Whistleblower Program and Protections
have zero-tolerance for violation of bribery and corruption laws. In continuously evaluate processes and technologies that could enable
Nasdaq provides multiple channels for reporting misconduct
2023, Nasdaq had zero confirmed incidents of corruption, incidents us to enhance our current risk-monitoring capabilities in the future.
under our SpeakUp! Program. Our SpeakUp! Line (www.
in which employees were dismissed or disciplined for corruption, or
speakup.nasdaq.com) enables anonymous whistleblowing
incidents where contracts with business partners were not renewed
as required by applicable laws and regulations. The
due to corruption. For more information on our due diligence
SpeakUp! Line is operated by a third party that is strictly
process, please see our Human Rights
required to protect the anonymity of the reporting individual The Code of Ethics and the Gifts, Business-Related Events & Anti-
Practices Statement and our Modern
when requested by the individual, and the Audit & Risk Bribery and Corruption Policy are reviewed annually with updates
Slavery Transparency Statement on
Committee receives regular reports on activity on the approved by executive management and the Board. The updated our ESG Resource Center.
SpeakUp! Line. The Line is available for Nasdaq employees documents are communicated to all employees and certified
and contractors, as well as external parties doing business by them on an annual basis. Policies are available to all Nasdaq
with Nasdaq. employees on our internal database.
39
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Freedom of Association Anti-Financial Crime and Anti-Money Laundering
Collective bargaining is a fundamental right rooted in As a self-regulatory organization and operator of regulated
the International Labour Organization (ILO) Constitution financial systems such as exchanges, a clearinghouse
and reaffirmed as such in the 1998 ILO Declaration on and central securities depositories, Nasdaq is committed
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Fewer than to ensuring that markets operate fairly and do not
five percent1 of Nasdaq’s employee population is confirmed facilitate financial crime, including money laundering
In 2023, Nasdaq published
to be covered by collective bargaining agreements. We and terrorism financing. Nasdaq’s Code of Ethics, Trade
respect our employees’ right to freedom of association, Controls and Sanctions Compliance Policy and Global
“Conducting Business with
and maintain a fair working environment for our Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Policy, as well as applicable
employees and others, encouraging their full contribution regional policies require compliance with all AML laws
Integrity And Compliance,” a
to advancing our mission and vision. We observe laws and regulations that apply to our business. For covered
and regulations around the world relating to freedom operations, this includes conducting any required know-
white paper on our corporate
of association. Where such laws do not exist, we apply your-customer (KYC) due diligence, monitoring transactions
generally accepted industry practices consistent with local and reporting suspicious activities. Nasdaq is committed
anti-financial crime (AFC)
circumstances— representation structures vary globally. to detecting and deterring money laundering and terrorism
financing at the onset of a business relationship, as well as
program.
throughout its duration.
For more information see our
Corporate AFC Whitepaper.
1 In certain jurisdictions we are not permitted to request employees to disclose if they are members of a trade union or work council.
40
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Cyber and Information Security
“ Cybersecurity ranks among the top risks for Oversight • configuring Nasdaq Group infrastructure On an annual basis, the Information Security
and the applications running thereon in team reviews and updates its governance
every organization, CEO, Board of Directors, Cybersecurity is an integral part of risk
accordance with Nasdaq’s configurations documents, such as the Information
government, and nation. At Nasdaq, we management at Nasdaq. The Information
policies, processes and standards; Security Charter, the Information Security
Security Department (ISD) is responsible
prioritize information security risks, while Policy and the Information Security
for coordinating the protection of our core • developing internal tools and solutions to
Program Plan and then presents the revised
operating on an adaptable and resilient business operations and information against drive efficiency and enhance monitoring
documents to the Audit & Risk Committee
cybersecurity platform. The Information real-world cyber threats by employing and visibility through operational metrics
for review and/or approval.
technology, policy, processes, education and compliance;
Security Program is designed to ensure the
programs and sound design techniques across
• operating Nasdaq’s Global Security The 2023-2025 Cybersecurity Strategic
protection of the organization’s business the organization. Nasdaq’s Chief Information
Operations Center, which monitors security Plan was reviewed and approved by the
operations and information assets against Security Officer (CISO), who reports directly event logs, 24/7/365, from Nasdaq Audit & Risk Committee in June 2023. The
to Nasdaq’s Chief Information Officer within
real world cyber threats by employing networks, systems, applications and Information Security team has established
Nasdaq’s centralized Global Technology
databases and creates log files of known specific projects with assigned owners
technology, expertise, industry best practice, organization, manages the ISD. Our Chief
and unknown events; and associated with each goal outlined in the
appropriate policies and procedures, tailored Information Officer reports directly to the CEO. Cybersecurity Strategic Plan. Projects will
• monitoring threats against Nasdaq,
education programs and sound design The ISD team is responsible for: its technology stack and its peer be executed from 2023 through 2025.
techniques across the organization.” organizations and providing
• performing and coordinating security recommendations for securing potentially
assessments and vulnerability scans of vulnerable populations at Nasdaq in the For more information see our
Nasdaq’s internal, external and third-party context of emerging threats. 2024 Proxy Statement on our
applications; ESG Resource Center.
Louis Modano, EVP and The ISD in collaboration with the Legal,
• implementing and maintaining Nasdaq’s
Chief Information Regulatory and Risk Group is responsible
various information security-related policies
Security Officer, Nasdaq for coordinating Nasdaq’s Privacy Program.
and standards; During 2023, the Information Security team
This includes compliance efforts related
• middleware and vulnerability management to the European and UK General Data finalized a new three-year Cybersecurity
in addition to special projects as designated Protection Regulation and global privacy Strategic Plan, which outlines the strategic
by the CISO; laws and regulations. To support its GDPR
vision and associated goals for the
• Nasdaq’s compliance efforts for European compliance program, Nasdaq appointed an
and UK General Data Protection Regulation independent Data Protection Officer for its cybersecurity of Nasdaq’s global operations
(GDPR) and all supporting data privacy and European regulated business entities. for 2023 through the end of 2025.
protection efforts;
41
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
The Nasdaq Information Security Nasdaq and its affiliates require employees is registered as a public accounting firm with Incident Response and
Management System (ISMS) that governs to take Security Awareness Training the Public Company Accounting Oversight Management Policy
the global enterprise infrastructure and annually. Nasdaq’s Security Awareness Board, as provided for in Section 102 of the
Nasdaq’s Incident Management Policy
supports key global information security Training is created in-house by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 [15 U.S.C. 7212].
governs all incidents, including security
processes and includes technology, Information Security Department.
incidents, that cause or could potentially
personnel, locations and data centers, Nasdaq Internal Audit periodically audits
conforms to ISO 27001 requirements and New employees are provided against the Code of Ethics and ethical cause an interruption to or reduction in
is ISO 27001 certified. The processes an Information Security training standards at the Company. the quality and/or availability of a Nasdaq
as part of their onboarding and production service. The primary goals of
in scope for the Nasdaq ISO 27001
complete a quiz to validate their Internal Audit Methodology the policy are to restore normal service
certification include: Access Management,
understanding of Nasdaq’s operation as quickly as possible, provide
Human Resources, Product Development security protocols. All Nasdaq businesses and expert functions timely and accurate communication to
Lifecycle (PDLC), Change Management, (including risk management, compliance, relevant stakeholders and minimize the
Supplier Risk Management, Configuration/ New employees must review Nasdaq’s ethics and privacy) are subject to audit adverse impact of an incident on business
Build Management, Asset Management, Information Security Policies and assert and are organized into auditable entities operations and/or the quality of provided
Incident Management, Physical Security, compliance with such policies by signing comprising an audit universe. Auditable services. Nasdaq employs a multi-layered
Security Operations, Risk Assessment, the Information Services Agreement form. entities are reviewed on a risk-based team structure to manage incidents
Internal Audit, Disaster Recovery, Scanning, rotational basis (i.e., High: annually, with established roles and escalation
Backup/Restore and Application Security. Additional training activities carried out Moderate: every 2-3 years and Low: every procedures.
Nasdaq personnel corporate equipment and during the year include monthly simulated 3-4 years) to prioritize higher risk processes
connectivity to the production infrastructure spear-phishing (email) attacks. Role-based and to confirm that every entity is subjected
are also in scope. Additionally, certain security training is provided for Nasdaq and to audit at least once within a four-year
Nasdaq products undergo an annual SOC its affiliates developers and Information period. The risk ratings are the result of
2 Type II audit. The final reports are made Security staff in line with industry Internal Audit’s annual risk assessment,
available to customers under non-disclosure best practices via our secure coding which identifies and assesses the inherent In 2023, Nasdaq launched Nasdaq Risk
agreements. training program. Nasdaq hosts various and residual risk for each auditable entity.
Gateway (NRG), a new Governance,
cybersecurity awareness events throughout For example, certain risk management
Information Security Policies,
the month of October to celebrate processes are assessed as ‘Moderate’ risk Risk and Compliance (GRC) tool which
Procedures and Practices
Cybersecurity Awareness Month. and have been audited within the last two integrates reporting and tracking
Nasdaq personnel are expected to protect years. Additionally, fraud is considered in
and secure the confidentiality of non-public Auditing Compliance each audit performed. of incidents into the business and
information that they receive access to or As a publicly traded company, we are support functions, to ensure timely
create in connection with their work at the required to adhere to the Listing Rules for identification of external, internal and
Company. Further details can be found in our exchange. This includes being audited
potential emerging risks.
the Nasdaq Information Technology Assets by an independent public accountant that
section of our Code of Ethics.
42
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Product Quality and Customer Satisfaction
Data Privacy
Responsible Product Offering medium and high rigor software changes to Responsible Marketing
undergo code scanning in accordance with
Nasdaq appreciates the special obligations that apply to processing Nasdaq has an Operational Excellence We strive for clarity and ease of understanding in the
the Information Security Application Scanning
personal data and individuals’ rights to privacy and personal data (OpX) program that strengthens our Product materials distributed to our prospects and clients. Our
Guideline, which also includes the remediation
protection. Nasdaq’s privacy program builds on the foundation of our Development LifeCycle (PDLC). OpX covers marketing and communications team receives regular
of any identified very high or high-risk rated
information security program to apply special governance, policies, the way we develop, test, deploy and training and guidance about best practices and legal
vulnerabilities prior to the production launch of
procedures and training on the use, handling and processing of personal maintain products in the marketplace while considerations, so that all team members are familiar
the change. Following production deployment,
data and performance of activities that impact privacy rights (as considering our values of quality, efficiency, with the standards to which we are held as a company.
various support teams provide maintenance
determined by the jurisdictions in which we operate). Nasdaq’s privacy agility, reliability, performance, security,
support, including Nasdaq’s Information Customer Relationship Management
compliance program is designed to enable adherence to laws and regulation and total cost of ownership.
Security Department team, which maintains
regulations applicable to personal data that it processes, including, as Nasdaq takes a customer-centric approach and strives
Nasdaq policy requires all Nasdaq Global tools and conducts both dynamic and static
applicable, the European and UK General Data Protection Regulation to deliver consistent and excellent value that customers
Technology personnel to follow the PDLC testing of applications, as necessary.
(GDPR) and the California Consumer Privacy Act, as well as its posted can feel confident in. We achieve this by providing a
process for the development of Nasdaq
Privacy Policy and contractual commitments to customers, vendors and Nasdaq’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) seamless experience that leaves customers feeling
applications, whether for internal use or whether
other counterparties. framework includes activities and methods heard, understood and empowered. We engage with our
comprising all or part of a Nasdaq-branded
to evaluate and approve new products or customers through a wide range of platforms, including
We require employees to complete annual privacy training and certify product operating in a Nasdaq-controlled
changes to existing products and services, surveys, our corporate website, podcasts, webinars,
compliance with our privacy policies. We also include privacy as part of environment (accordingly, third-party modules
as appropriate. These new/changing product dedicated events and divisional engagements. Net
our compliance onboarding training for new hires and provide role-based may not be in scope). The PDLC is comprised
activities ensure that Nasdaq’s product Promoter Scores across respective divisions help us
privacy training to teams across Nasdaq. In 2023, we enhanced our privacy of a risk assessment approach, which is
offerings align with its strategy and regulatory gauge our customers’ experiences and satisfaction with
assessment questionnaires for capturing new and existing business completed and submitted by the business’
obligations. A risk governance structure is us. Our senior leadership frequently engages key clients
processes and assessing internal applications and updated our third-party product manager and ensures the correct level
in place to oversee the ERM framework and through virtual and face-to-face meetings to listen and
privacy assessments to include AI related questions. In addition, in 2023, of management and necessary stakeholders,
further policies and guidelines are in place respond to their direct feedback.
Nasdaq did not receive any substantiated complaints concerning breaches including users that are involved in the
regarding the new/changing product activities
of customer privacy from outside parties, any complaints concerning PDLC. One of the phases of the PDLC is the
in order to ensure that we identify, assess,
breaches of customer privacy received by regulatory bodies, or any requirements phase, where Nasdaq employees
monitor and manage associated risks. The
identified leaks, thefts or losses of customer personal data. gather requirements from multiple sources,
framework enables management to make
which may include customer feedback.
informed decisions throughout the change
For more information, please read our The PDLC has nine phases spanning from process, in accordance with Nasdaq’s defined
Privacy Policy and Information product ideation, creation and planning risk appetite. The PDLC process operates
Protection & Privacy Practices through maintenance of change / release independently of the new product assessment
document on our ESG Resource Center. (as applicable) and continuous monitoring. and/or approval processes but may be
Among other things, the policy requires executed in parallel.
43
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Public Policy Advocacy
As part of our duty to our shareholders, employees and the In the U.S., federal lobbying expenses are reported in Nasdaq maintains memberships in several
markets, we actively participate in public policy debates in compliance with the U.S. Lobbying Disclosure Act.
associations around the globe that serve as
the U.S., Europe and elsewhere.
Our European operations’ advocacy programs focus on important partners for our industry, clients and
Oversight of our public policy advocacy practices follows active education and engagement with elected leaders and
employees including the World Federation of
industry best practices with an internal Public Policy key policymakers. Our policies in Europe follow prevailing
Committee that sets priorities and reviews Nasdaq’s jurisdictional law. Exchanges, Federation of European Securities
activities in the U.S. and Europe. This Committee is
Exchanges, U.S. Securities Markets Coalition,
convened with active senior management participation on a
quarterly basis. The Government Relations function and its For more information, please see our Equity Markets Association, Partnership for
procedures is managed at the Vice Chairman level. Nasdaq Public Policy webpage.
New York City, Business Roundtable, U.S.
maintains a vigorous global employee education program
with respect to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other Chamber of Commerce, U.S.- India Business
jurisdictional prohibitions on pay-for-play. Nasdaq does not
Council, TechNet and others.
fund any political campaigns or “Super PACs” with corporate
money and does not expend corporate funds on so called
independent expenditures for or against any candidates.
In the U.S., Nasdaq’s advocacy focuses on policies affecting
the capital markets. Nasdaq concentrates efforts on
education and outreach and utilizes a modest Political
Action Committee, or PAC, program known as the Nasdaq
PAC. The Nasdaq PAC is funded entirely through employee
contributions, is governed by a board of employees who
vote on every disbursement and supports only federal
campaigns. For more information on the Nasdaq PAC, see
the Federal Election Commission website.
44
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Risk Management “ At Nasdaq, we are leveraging several critical
components to ensure our AI solutions are
Risk Oversight Systemic Risk Management Responsible AI Practices
implemented safely, securely and fairly.
The Board’s role in risk oversight is consistent We are committed to the ethical and responsible
Managing Business Continuity Our governance framework is designed
with our leadership structure, with management use of AI in our products, services and business
having day-to-day responsibility for assessing Nasdaq’s Business Continuity Management operations. Our AI governance structure aligns to enable responsible development of
and managing the Company’s risk exposure (BCM) framework is a holistic management the application of AI with our core values through differentiated and innovative AI solutions
and the Board having ultimate responsibility for process that identifies potential disruptions a framework that addresses the new and unique
that benefit our clients, shareholders and
overseeing risk management with a focus on the to the business and provides direction for risks that AI technology presents, while enabling
most significant risks facing the Company. The building resilience, including capabilities us to explore innovation and take advantage of our employees.”
Board is assisted in meeting this responsibility for an effective incident response, thereby opportunities that AI presents to better serve our
by several Board Committees. The Audit & Risk safeguarding the interest of key stakeholders, customers, advance our business objectives and
Committee receives regular reports relating to protecting the brand and the value-creating bring value to our shareholders. The framework
operational compliance with the Company’s risk activities of the Company. The Business puts into practice Nasdaq’s responsible AI usage Catherine Addona-Peña, SVP and
appetite and reviews any deviations. Continuity Management & Disaster Recovery principles and considers the U.S. National Institute Chief Risk Officer, Nasdaq
Policy, which is a sub-policy of the ERM
of Standards and Technology AI Risk Management
The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, Policy, is approved by the Group Risk
Framework. It is administered through company-wide
approves the Company’s risk appetite, which is Management Committee and outlines the core
policies, procedures and supporting preventative and
the boundaries within which our management components of the BCM Framework, including
detective controls.
operates while achieving corporate objectives. business continuity, disaster recovery and
In addition, the Board reviews and approves crisis management programs. The BCM
the Company’s ERM Policy, which mandates Framework is implemented on a local
ERM requirements and defines employees’ risk basis to support the Company’s resilience, For more information, please see
our 2023 Form 10-K on our ESG
management roles and responsibilities. maintain critical operations and minimize
Resource Center.
the impact of operational and physical
Enterprise Risk Management
disruptions to Nasdaq and its markets,
Nasdaq’s Group Risk Management (GRM), clients, market participants, shareholders,
which is part of the Legal, Regulatory and Risk employees and regulators. Efforts have
Group, oversees the ERM framework, supports been taken to align the BCM program
its implementation, aggregates and reports with industry best practices classified in
risk information to the Board and/or Audit & the National Institute of Standards and
Risk Committee, risk management oversight Technology, the Federal Financial Institute
committees and relevant management. Examination Council Guidelines and ISO
22301 (International Standard for Business
Continuity Management).
45
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Sustainability Risk Management of the General Counsel administers the Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
Contract Review & Approval Policy, which year ended December 31, 2023 discloses
Climate-Related Risk
details the legal review process for Nasdaq Nasdaq’s total cash contribution for income
Nasdaq regularly evaluates climate risks contracts. In accordance with Nasdaq taxes paid during the year. For 2023,
that may affect our products and services, internal processes, the Information Security Nasdaq paid $254 million worldwide in
value chain, operations and investments. Department conducts risk assessments corporate income taxes. For further detail,
We perform detailed evaluations focused of vendors that process Nasdaq data see Appendix A on page 99 for a summary
primarily on the types of risks that are (including customer data) and/or have by country.
likely to increase direct costs or interrupt access to Nasdaq systems and works with
our primary business functions. See our our legal department regarding applicable Our Public Tax Policy applies to Nasdaq and
TCFD section on page 78 to find out more. vendor-appropriate contractual protections all our global subsidiaries and describes the
related to information security. principles that form the foundation of our
Supplier Risk approach to tax governance.
For more information, please see the
When engaging a supplier, the standards,
Evaluating and Engaging Our Supply
rules and processes in our Supplier
Chain section on page 23 and the Supplier
Engagement and Management policy
Diversity section on page 35.
are expected to be followed, which
include policies relating to pre-contract
Tax Transparency
supplier due diligence, as well as
ongoing monitoring of existing supplier
Nasdaq and all our subsidiaries have
relationships. Nasdaq has instituted a
a responsibility as a global taxpayer to
risk-based approach for performing due
accurately calculate, report and pay the
diligence, which includes public records
Company’s corporate income taxes. Our
screening and evaluating potential
Nasdaq regularly evaluates goal is to minimize organizational tax risk
suppliers. Nasdaq performs periodic
exposure by staying current on tax law
climate risks that may affect assessments on our third parties,
changes, implementing robust controls
particularly those that are deemed to
our products and services, around our processes and avoiding overly
provide critical goods and services to
aggressive tax planning strategies which
value chain, operations and Nasdaq. These periodic assessments
would prevent the Company from paying its
evaluate the third-party’s controls
investments. fair share of taxes and contributing to the
relevant to the services they provide,
economic success of countries in which we
which include, but are not limited to,
operate. We only engage in transactions
controls relating to information systems
with sufficient economic substance and do
and security, environmental risks, modern
not invest in tax havens for the purpose of
slavery and diversity. Nasdaq’s Office
tax avoidance.
46
Supporting Our Clients’
Sustainability Journeys.
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Priority ESG Topics Aligned UN SDGs
ESG Solutions • ESG & Sustainable
Finance Products
• Innovation & Technology
Serving the ESG Ecosystem
Our ESG solutions and services aim to deliver scaled Nasdaq’s work across the corporate and
positive impact across corporates, investors and financial investment communities uniquely positions Nasdaq Risk Modelling Puro.earth
for Catastrophes
institutions and their millions of employees, customers us to support our clients as they strive to Nasdaq Sustainable Debt Market
Carbon Trading and
and suppliers. achieve their ESG-related objectives. Green Equity Designations
Registry Technology
We serve the corporate community
“ Nasdaq’s Capital Access Platforms division
throughout their ESG lifecycle, helping
is taking advantage of technology to
public companies navigate the capital
provide valuable insights to corporates markets, supporting private companies on ESG Footprint
the path to becoming public companies
and investors wherever they are in their ESG Data Hub
and engaging with all types of companies
sustainability journey. The demand for more Nasdaq Sustainable
to navigate a diverse and complex Bond Network
ESG transparency comes not only from shareholder landscape. AxiomSL
regulators, but also investors, customers
In the investment community, asset
and employees. Our latest innovations help owners and asset managers equally face
corporates unlock return on investment on an increasingly complex and dynamic
landscape. We provide a range of workflow,
their sustainability reporting processes and
data and analytics capabilities to help them
help investors gain more transparency on manage their portfolios and enhance their IR Intelligence/Sustainable Lens
their impact investing strategies.” asset allocation decision-making processes. Nasdaq Metrio
We also support financial institutions as ESG Advisory
they strive to manage fast-moving ESG Governance Solutions
reporting and disclosure obligations
eVestment
Nelson Griggs, President, including evolving jurisdiction and regime-
Capital Access Platforms, specific requirements. ESG Indexes
Nasdaq
This section discusses Nasdaq’s ESG-
related products and services. This is not a Corporates Investors Financial Institutions
comprehensive list of Nasdaq’s total offerings.
48
The State of Sustainability
and ESG in 2023
With the release of SustainableLens, IR Intelligence published a first of- its-
kind report on The State of Sustainability and ESG in 2023, powered by the
platform’s built-in AI co-pilot – gathering data and insights from public reports and
communications to examine leading trends on regulatory disclosure and corporate
climate strategy.
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Supporting the Corporate Community
“ Our technology and insights empower ESG Advisory Nasdaq MetrioTM
Leader
corporates to achieve more impactful Nasdaq’s ESG Advisory is a service 2023 Global Net Zero Pulse Nasdaq Metrio is a SaaS-based end-to-end
solution that pairs companies with sustainability reporting platform. It enables
outcomes, ensuring that ESG is not only
in Verdantix ESG Reporting
consultative ESG expertise to help If carbon dioxide removal (CDR) efforts corporates to collect, measure, disclose and
good business, but creates long-term value and Data Management
analyze, assess and put into action expect to leverage the voluntary communicate investor-grade, audited ESG data Software Report
for corporates, people and the planet.” best-practice ESG programs with the carbon market (VCM) as a financing efficiently across dozens of raters, rankers
goals of attracting long-term capital and vehicle for both conventional and novel and framework organizations to drive strategic
enhancing value. Services include ESG CDR, a deeper analysis of company outcomes and attract investors. The platform 30
strategy development, ESG investor buying preferences is critical. This also features a new Carbon Accounting and
Randall Hopkins, Head of
engagement advice, GHG measurement led the Nasdaq ESG Advisory team Management product for companies looking to
ESG Solutions, Nasdaq built-in frameworks
and ESG reporting guidance for public to conduct the 2023 Global Net Zero focus on their Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. To
and rating organization
and private companies. To learn more, Pulse to get answers to questions that learn more, visit our Nasdaq Metrio webpage >> surveys, including IFRS S1
visit our ESG Advisory webpage >> explored key themes necessary to and S2 (ISSB) and CSRD
scale the VCM and CDR. (ESRS)
Hosted Inaugural NY Climate Week
Conference at MarketSite New
Included in Chartis RiskTech100 2024
Carbon
Award Rankings
90+ Accounting and Management
client engagements in 2023
product
Nasdaq was an ideal partner in issuing our TCFD report due Nasdaq has helped us improve our internal workflow
to their climate expertise, data-driven insights, and ability to and positioned us to seamlessly take on new and
Hosted Inaugural Stockholm ESG integrate these with strong understanding of capital markets.” emerging reporting frameworks, resulting in a total of 150
Summit at the Stockholm Nasdaq Office total hours saved across one year.”
– ESG Manager, Nasdaq ESG Advisory Client
– G lobal Director of Corporate Sustainability and ESG Officer,
Nasdaq Metrio Client
SDG 13 SDG 12 SDG 12 49
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
IR Intelligence2 Governance Solutions Puro.earth
Investor Relations Intelligence (IR It is more important than ever Nasdaq Governance Solutions provides Puro.earth is a carbon crediting program
Intelligence) provides insights and analytics to understand what is being a comprehensive suite of technologies, #1* focused exclusively on carbon removals.
software and advisory services products disclosed as these disclosures are going advisory services and a global community Puro.earth’s high integrity carbon removals,
globally with the mission to help clients to become more scrutinized. Having for boards and leadership teams. Nasdaq’s the CO2 Removal Certificate (CORC),
effectively navigate the capital markets. a tool like Nasdaq Sustainable Lens governance ecosystem is designed provide companies with a much-needed
Nasdaq IR Insight tools are designed to help at your fingertips is huge. It helps me to accelerate board performance by • in Enterprise Board Management tool in their efforts to reach their carbon
IROs ensure effective communication with quickly respond to executive questions integrating technology, intelligent neutrality targets. Puro.earth is the first
• in Relationship Index for Board
stakeholders by enabling users to target and instantly understand what is being insights and expertise in one place. crediting program with a focus on durable
Management
and engage ESG firms, funds, and contacts, disclosed by my peers and sector, on- Through integrated solutions, boards can carbon removal with a minimum of 100-year
using a comprehensive ESG contact demand.” streamline meeting management, transform • in Mid-Market Board Management storage time to obtain endorsement by the
database and dedicated ESG ownership. compliance and evaluation processes, International Carbon Reduction and Offset
– D irector of Sustainability, Nasdaq
* S ource: G2, a business software and
and tap into thought leadership to unlock services review site Alliance (ICROA). To learn more, visit our
In 2023, IR Intelligence developed Nasdaq Sustainable Lens Client their full potential and drive value for Puro.earth webpage >>
Sustainable Lens TM, an ESG intelligence stakeholders. To learn more, visit our
platform to equip sustainability, investor Governance Solutions webpage >> 128,301
relations, legal and accounting professionals 250K+
with on-demand, data-driven insights from
Nasdaq Boardvantage is easy to
CORCs issued on behalf of
over 9,000 companies globally. To learn use and intuitive. It saves us a users worldwide suppliers in 2023
more, visit our IR Intelligence webpage >>
lot of time when preparing for board
meetings, which allows me to focus on
180
the material and good governance.”
87
The State of Sustainability – V P, Corporate Secretary and Sustainability, total suppliers
and ESG in 2023 Nasdaq Boardvantage Client
countries represented
Carbon Removal For a Greener World
With the release of Sustainable Lens, IR Intelligence published a report on The State
of Sustainability and ESG in 2023, powered by the platform’s built-in AI co-pilot –
gathering data and insights from public reports and communications to examine Governance Pulse Report
leading trends on regulatory disclosure and corporate climate strategy.
In 2023, we launched our inaugural Governance Pulse Report and Forum, driving
insights and peer-to-peer knowledge that empower good governance practices.
2 Not categorized as ESG products and services for financial reporting.
SDG 12 SDG 13 50
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Supporting the Investment Community
ESG Indexes eVestment™ ESG and Diversity Green Equity Designations3 ESG Footprint ESG Data Hub
& Inclusion (D&I) Data in Asset
The OMX Stockholm 30 ESG Responsible Nasdaq Green Equity Designations enables Nasdaq offers a suite of data solutions ESG Data Hub is a data solution offering
Management
Index (OMXS30ESG), introduced worldwide visibility and transparency for investors which measure ESG performance at investors and other stakeholders easy
in June 2018, was the first ESG version of on the Nordic markets with two voluntary portfolio, fund and individual security level. access to a wide range of comprehensive
eVestment is Nasdaq’s institutional
an established exchange benchmark. It designations, Nasdaq Green Equity This data enables investors and managers ESG data sets. The platform enables users to
investment database and analytics
was followed by the listing of ESG index Designation and Nasdaq Green Equity to better understand the real-world effects find data sets relevant to specific SDGs, as
platform. In collaboration with consultants,
futures contracts in November 2018. The Transition Designation. In March 2023, of their investments, report on sustainable well as diversity and inclusion, sustainability
asset managers, asset owners and key
OMXS30ESG is an ESG responsible version the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) finance regulations, align with leading and climate. This broad array of data
industry organizations, eVestment’s ESG
of the OMX Stockholm 30 Index, which launched its classification standard for Green international frameworks including the provides investors with visibility on the ESG
and D&I Data provides a centralized
is the leading share index on Nasdaq Equity with reference to the existing model SDGs and build pioneering sustainability impacts of their investments. To learn more,
resource to help meet the increasing
Stockholm. Nasdaq develops and licenses from Nasdaq’s Green Equity Designation, solutions. The data, provided by Matter, visit our ESG Data Hub webpage >>
demand for transparent and standardized
a variety of indexes that encompass global, highlighting Green Equity Designation’s a sustainability analysis and reporting
D&I and ESG data from institutional
regional and thematic objectives with added importance in helping investors assess provider is available via datasets, or using
stakeholders. The data is collected from
ESG selection criteria. ESG criteria include companies that are generating revenue from the intuitive portfolio analysis platform,
asset managers at both asset management
screens for risk-based exclusions such as products and services that contribute to allowing the user to generate ESG reports.
firm and strategy levels. To learn more, visit
product involvement, positive alignment positive environmental outcomes. To learn To learn more, visit our ESG Footprint
our eVestment webpage >>
to sustainability goals, and normative more, visit our Green Equity Designations webpage >>
alignment to good governance principles Launched eVestment ESG webpage >>
such as UN Global Compact compliance. Analytics in 2023. Driving Transparency and Value Taking Control of Opening the Door
The Nasdaq-100 ESG Index (NDXESG) Creation with the Nasdaq Green Sustainable Investments to Sustainable Investing
introduced in June 2021 measures the The ESG questionnaire can be Equity Designations
performance of the companies in the leveraged alongside eVestment’s
Nasdaq-100 Index that meet specific ESG ESG Analytics tool for a holistic
criteria. Companies are evaluated and view of a portfolio’s ESG intent
weighted on the basis of their business and execution.
activities, controversies and ESG Risk
Learn how Australian-based,
Ratings. To learn more, visit our global index
Global Equity Boutique Leverages
webpage >>
Nasdaq eVestment to Better
Engage Investors & Consultants
3 Green Equity Designations are only available on
>>
Nasdaq Nordic stock exchanges.
SDG 10 SDG 13 SDG 13 SDG 13 51
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Nasdaq Sustainable Debt Market Nasdaq Sustainable Bond Network
The Nasdaq Sustainable Debt Market The Nasdaq Sustainable Bond Network
In 2023...
(NSDM) lists green, social, sustainability (NSBN) is a global platform that aims to
and sustainability-linked bonds, structured increase transparency for environmental,
products and commercial papers and social and sustainable bonds. It connects
is designed to highlight sustainable issuers of sustainable bonds with investors,
investment opportunities to investors with empowering them to evaluate impact and NASDAQ SUSTAINABLE DEBT MARKET
a green, social or sustainable investment make informed investment decisions on
focus. It is open to all types of issuers that sustainable bonds. Investors can use the
seek to issue securities that meet our listing platform to evaluate, track and create
criteria, which are based on the Green impact reports based on issuers’ ESG
which grew
and Social Bond Principles as well as the bond reporting. The database simplifies €61.8B 529 145
Sustainability-Linked Bond Principles, for sustainable investing with an easy-to-use +28%
which the International Capital Markets solution that allows investors to discover, of total listed outstanding listed sustainable issuers listed
Association (ICMA) acts as a secretariat. compile and compare sustainable bonds sustainable debt volume from 2022 debt instruments
To learn more visit our NSDM webpage >> as well as generate impact reports.
The platform also provides issuer-level
information on UN Sustainable Development
Goals allocation as well as EU Taxonomy.
To learn more visit our NSBN webpage
for issuers and our NSBN webpage for NASDAQ SUSTAINABLE BOND NETWORK
investors >>
Blue Bonds for a Cleaner Baltic Sea Easier Impact Reporting with NSBN 1,721 16,295 86
total issuers bonds covered countries represented
globally
SDG 13 52
Enabling Positive Economic,
Environmental and Societal
Outcomes.
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Priority ESG Topics Aligned UN SDGs
Other Solutions and Services4 • Innovation & Technology
• Support for Small- & Medium-sized Enterprises
We strive to enable positive outcomes through the broader economic
and societal impact of our solutions and services – creating
opportunities for businesses to grow, addressing the world’s growing
financial crime problems and making sure our markets are resilient.
3,500+
“ Financial markets are vital to the health of the
world’s economies, facilitating capital formation and Total Clients
wealth creation. As a world-class market operator
and premier technology provider serving the global
financial ecosystem, our Financial Technology
division is at the heart of Nasdaq’s purpose to power 130+
stronger, safer and more inclusive economies.”
Marketplaces
Tal Cohen, President,
Financial Technology,
Nasdaq ~650
Banks & Brokers
4 Not categorized as ESG products and services for financial reporting.
54
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Regulatory Technology
Capital Markets Technology
Nasdaq’s Regulatory Technology solutions provide banks, broker-dealers
Technology is the conduit to financial inclusivity and greater opportunities for all. In addition to owning and operating 19 exchanges in North
and exchanges and regulators in developed and emerging economies
America and the Nordics, Nasdaq’s Capital Markets Technology solutions provide exchanges, clearinghouses, central security depositories
with robust market monitoring and market surveillance solutions. These
(CSDs), central banks and other ecosystem participants with institutional-grade mission-critical market capabilities. Our acquisition of
platforms help protect the ecosystem by deterring nefarious activity that
Adenza expanded our footprint more deeply into the banking ecosystem. To learn more, visit our Fintech Solutions webpage >>
interferes with investment activities while also helping firms implement
local and global regulatory mandates. With the acquisition of Adenza, our
portfolio now encompasses multi-jurisdictional risk and financial regulatory
Nasdaq Calypso front-to-back
reporting across liquidity, capital and credit, operations, trade and
solutions deliver a single source of Our marketplace technology is deployed in 25+ emerging economies
transaction reporting and ESG through the AxiomSL platform, which helps
truth across the business, enabling
firms adhere to regulatory requirements while also improving transparency
quicker decision making and
and overall capital, liquidity and credit management. To learn more, visit our
efficient operational processes.
The Stock Exchange of Thailand is Fintech Solutions webpage >>
working to “Make the Capital Market Caja de Valores is Modernizing
AxiomSL helps firms manage fast-moving ESG reporting
Work for Everyone” Argentina’s Capital Markets
and disclosure obligations inclusive of EBA Pillar III, ESMA
We pioneered a Carbon Trading & ESG, Sustainable Finance Disclosures Regulation (SFDR),
Registry Technology to expand our and other jurisdiction/regime-specific requirements.
capabilities beyond carbon trading
How the National Futures Association is Safeguarding
with digital issuance, registry,
Market Integrity and Investor Protection
settlement and custody in aims
to securely scale global carbon
markets. With this technology,
market operators and registries
The new systems have achieved Caja de Valores’ new CSD platform
create standardized digital
a smooth transition, enabling has enabled a 49% increase in
credits and distribute them with
full auditability throughout the increases in efficiency and faster order average transfer volume and is
more than 300x faster than its
transaction lifecycle. management, while being able to support
previous system.
the growing volume of transactions in the
future.” Nasdaq Trade Surveillance and Market Surveillance
provides 12+ regulators, 45+ exchanges and
– Head of Information Technology Division, 150+ banks and brokers worldwide with a trusted,
The Stock Exchange of Thailand
resilient foundation to instill confidence and prioritize
protection of ecosystem participants and investors.
SDG 9 SDG 13 SDG 10
55
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Financial Crime Management Technology
“ For decades, Nasdaq Verafin has been purpose- Protecting More Than Financial Systems
driven to fight financial crime. Our innovative
The Global Scale of Financial Crime
technology helps to ensure the integrity of the
financial system and protects society from the
devastating impacts of elder abuse, narcotics Nasdaq Verafin 2024 Global Financial Crime Report
trafficking, modern slavery, terrorist financing
Nasdaq’s Global Financial Crime Report examines the state of financial
and other nefarious crimes.”
crime, its deep human impact, and how it threatens the integrity of global
financial system.
Human trafficking is a deeply
Brendan Brothers, EVP of Financial physical and emotional crime—
Crime Management Technology,
one that aims to destroy the humanity in
Nasdaq, Co-Founder, Verafin
each of us. But it is also a financial crime.”
– T imea Nagy, human trafficking survivor, In 2023, an estimated $3.1T in illicit funds flowed through the global
activist and educator, on the power of financial system. Money laundering accounted for trillions of dollars
Financial crime is a complex, global challenge that erodes Verafin and financial institutions in fighting funding a range of destructive crimes, including an estimated $346.7B
the integrity of the financial system and has deep impacts human trafficking in human trafficking and $782.9B in drug trafficking activity, as well as
$11.5B in terrorist financing.
on society and the communities we serve. Nasdaq Verafin
leverages the latest innovations, including AI and cloud
technology, to protect the wider financial ecosystem by
helping institutions more effectively fight financial crime. 2,500+
Today, financial institutions representing more than $8 trillion
in collective assets leverage Verafin to prevent fraud and
banks and credit unions use our Nasdaq
uncover money laundering. To learn more, visit our Fintech
Verafin solutions to comply with regulatory
Solutions webpage >>
mandates while also protecting the financial
system against a wide spectrum of financial
crime, including money laundering, human
trafficking, terrorist financing and fraud.
SDG 10
56
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Nasdaq Risk Modelling for Listings – U.S. First North Growth Market – Nordics
Catastrophes
The challenges faced by our 2,500+ small Nasdaq First North Growth Market is a leading
Nasdaq Risk Modelling for Catastrophes is and micro-cap issuers are top of mind European SME market that enables aspiring
an independent, multi-vendor risk modelling for Nasdaq, and we serve as a resource companies to access the public market. Nasdaq First 500+
solution for reinsurance firms. With a broad through customized programming and North advisers facilitate a smooth listing process and
range of catastrophe risk models across advocacy. Since 2021, Nasdaq has hosted a range of investors access the market, from retail
companies currently listed
multiple geographies, for perils including an annual Small Cap Forum, focused on key investors to institutional capital. Since the launch of
on First North Growth
flood, earthquake, hurricane, windstorm, topics and issues that impact small- and Nasdaq First North in 2006, Nasdaq European Markets
Market in the Nordics
bushfire and more, exposure management micro-cap companies. Nasdaq Amplify has been helping small and mid-sized companies to
teams can quickly evaluate and apply the provides curated content specifically for the grow, mature and transfer to the Main Market. To learn
models that align with their business needs. SME community, including timely articles, more, visit our First North webpage >>
To learn more, visit our Risk Modelling for editorials, and market and regulatory
Catastrophes webpage >> updates. Our all-inclusive fee structure Being listed on Nasdaq’s Main Market has 130
encourages growth of small- and medium- contributed to increased awareness about OX2’s
Client base increased by 13% in
sized enterprises. To learn more, visit our ambitions and strategy among our stakeholders. It has
2023, fueled by reinsurers’ need to companies have grown,
Nasdaq Amplify webpage >> given us a broader ownership base…Over time, being
improve their view of risk around matured and transferred to
listed on the Main Market gives us the opportunity to
complex perils such as flooding. Maintain largest percentage of the Main Market
raise capital…to fund future investment opportunities.”
small-cap companies of any U.S.
exchange (over 70%). – OX2, Nasdaq Main Market listed company
43%
A Data-Driven Ecosystem is Helping
Three Brother’s Bakery Mitigate Amplifying the Stories of Enabling Small & Mid-Sized Companies
Catastrophe Small-Cap Companies to Grow, Scale and Prosper average annual growth rate from the
first day of trading on First North to
the first day of Trading on the Main
Market
SDG 8 SDG 8
57
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Priority ESG Topics Aligned UN SDGs
Community Engagement • Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
• Community Engagement
• Support for Small- & Medium-sized Enterprises
“ In 2023, Nasdaq invested over $5 million Nasdaq Purpose Purpose Week
towards resources and initiatives aimed at
Nasdaq’s “Purpose” comprises our philanthropic, During 2023, Nasdaq held our third annual
empowering communities worldwide and community outreach, entrepreneurial support “Purpose Week,” dedicated to celebrating and
solidifying our Purpose—an unwavering and employee volunteerism programs, all advancing economic progress for all. Purpose
designed to leverage our unique place at Week 2023 included a series of company-wide
commitment to advancing economic
the center of capital creation, markets and webinars, volunteer opportunities and global
progress for all. Leveraging strategic technology and drive stronger economies, more activities involving and recognizing employees.
partnerships and community engagement, equitable opportunities and contribute Purpose Week also included a series of
to a more sustainable world. workshops with Nasdaq Foundation partnership
we reached significant milestones, unlocking
organizations. We hosted two Investor Education
new opportunities and exponentially GoodWorks Workshops for employees.
amplifying our global impact.” We are committed to creating lasting, positive
change within our Company and the communities Sharing Our Purpose: Content and Resources Nasdaq Purpose Forum:
we serve. Our employees take pride in being
Launched in 2023, the Nasdaq Purpose Content The Power of Purpose
Jailan Griffiths, Vice President active in our communities. Through our Nasdaq
& Resources Hub furthers our Purpose through
and Global Head of Purpose, GoodWorks Corporate Responsibility Program, we a comprehensive content and storytelling Nasdaq’s inaugural Purpose Forum convened thought
Nasdaq have committed to supporting the communities strategy. Additionally, Nasdaq promotes the leaders, change makers and innovators from around the
in which we live and work by providing eligible importance of financial literacy and maintaining world to discuss how we can empower individuals to
full and part-time employees with two paid healthy financial habits through featured News & embrace their purpose, advance their economic growth
days off per year to volunteer. We also match Insights: Nasdaq.com Smart Investing Hub and and reach their full potential. The Forum provided a
charitable donations of all Nasdaq employees Nasdaq TradeTalks. platform for networking, idea sharing and purpose
and contractors up to $1,000, or more in certain driven conversation. Conversation topics included the
circumstances, per calendar year. In 2023, role of the Foundation and its grant partners in bringing
Nasdaq employees raised over $450,000, down the barriers to access, as well as the importance
including donations and matches, supporting of educating and uplifting young people to take control
almost 600 charities worldwide. of their financial futures.
Learn more about Nasdaq’s
Goodworks program.
58
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
The Nasdaq Foundation For more information about Nasdaq Nasdaq Entrepreneurial Center In 2023 the Center had 43
Foundation’s community initiatives and participants accelerate through
Driven by Nasdaq’s Purpose to advance partnerships, please see the Nasdaq The Nasdaq Entrepreneurial Center (the the Milestone Makers UN SDG- In 2023, the Center
economic progress for all, the Nasdaq Foundation 2023 Annual Report. Center) is an independent non-profit that focused program.
supported over
Foundation works with organizations that was established nearly a decade ago with
promote and support under-resourced the support of the Nasdaq Foundation to Learn more about the all-women 730 entrepreneurs
Learn more about the
communities by reimagining investor improve inclusion, access and knowledge in entrepreneurs of a summer Milestone
Nasdaq Foundation. with ESG-related
engagement and equipping communities entrepreneurship. Maker cohort.
with the financial knowledge needed to education
share in the wealth that markets create. Learn more about Nasdaq’s Purpose and The Center provides free education for
Through the New Investor Initiative, view our 2023 Impact Snapshot. entrepreneurs and translates their needs
the Foundation supports a portfolio of into actionable data that is shared with
programs focused on breaking down Advancing Financial Literacy policymakers and academics to foster more
overlooked barriers for underserved opportunities worldwide.
and underrepresented communities. Nasdaq’s European Trading Services
In 2023 the Center empowered
The Quarterly Grant Program allows the (RTS) Retail Engagement Program
over 20,000 entrepreneurs and
Foundation to fund and help scale programs advances financial literacy in diverse
supported small business across
To learn more visit the Nasdaq
that meet the strategic objectives. local communities, which helps
140 countries, including emerging Entrepreneurial Center Website.
encourage financial ownership
economies.
During 2023, the Nasdaq Foundation
and grows retail knowledge and
provided 13 grants to support organizations
participation in the public securities The Center is committed to advancing
and programs aligned with the Foundation’s
markets. This is achieved through ESG education for entrepreneurs across
mission. These grants were awarded
a partnership-based program with the world. In 2023, the Center supported
to, among others: Defy Ventures, which
the Nasdaq EU Markets and Investor over 730 entrepreneurs with ESG-related
provides entrepreneur training for formerly
Engagement team, non-profit education, with ambitious plans for further
incarcerated Black and indigenous men and
organizations, and partner firms across growth over the next five years.
women and people of color; the GO Project
the Nordics and Baltics. Through
for the GO Families Financial Literacy financial literacy educational efforts, we The Center further supports UN SDG
Workshop Series in New York City; and the empower citizens to take ownership of focused entrepreneurs through its Milestone
Global Entrepreneur Network, in partnership their personal finances and increase Makers program, offering personalized
with Hello Alice, for the Equitable Access their potential to tap into market mentoring, coaching, and resources to
Program aimed at enhancing credit access opportunities. achieve key company growth milestones.
and financial education to underserved
entrepreneurs facing credit challenges.
SDG 10 SDG 8 SDG 10
59
2023
Task Force on Climate-Related
Financial Disclosures Report
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Introduction ..................................................................................................................62
TCFD
Governance ...................................................................................................................62
Table of Contents
Board Oversight of Risks and Opportunities ......................................................................................62
Role of Management in Assessing and Managing Risks and Opportunities ...................................63
Climate-Related Training ......................................................................................................................63
Strategy ........................................................................................................................64
Overview of Risks and Opportunities ..................................................................................................64
Growth of Climate- and ESG-Related Products and Services ..................................................................69
Impact on Business, Strategy and Financial Planning .......................................................................69
Scenario Analysis and Strategy Resilience .........................................................................................69
Risk Management .........................................................................................................78
Process for Risk Identification and Assessment ................................................................................78
Management Processes .......................................................................................................................79
Risk Management Integration .............................................................................................................80
Metrics and Targets ......................................................................................................80
Appendix: TCFD Data, TNFD-Aligned Risk Assessment
and Climate Transition Plan........................................................................................109
61
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Introduction
our understanding of the possible impacts In 2023, the Nominating & ESG Committee
The Task Force on Climate-Related Financial
of climate-related risks, enabling our met seven times, and ESG topics were
Disclosures (TCFD) was established in 2015
Company to remain resilient and to position discussed at four meetings. The Nominating
by the Financial Stability Board to identify
ourselves to actualize opportunities along & ESG Committee approved the submission
the information needed by investors,
the transition to a low-carbon economy. of Nasdaq’s science-based emissions
lenders and other financial stakeholders
targets in 2022, and received updates on
to appropriately assess and price climate- Governance
progress against those targets in 2023. For
related risks and opportunities. In 2017, the
more information, see the Nominating &
TCFD released climate-related financial Nasdaq is committed to long-term value ESG Committee Charter on our Governance
disclosure recommendations designed creation achieved within a responsible, Documents and Charters webpage.
to facilitate the provision of information transparent and sustainable business
to support informed capital allocation. In model. Our climate governance is part Audit & Risk Committee
2023, the TCFD disbanded and transferred of our broader ESG governance and
The Audit & Risk Committee of the Board
monitoring of companies’ climate-related management structures, which is overseen
oversees company-wide risk management,
disclosures to the International Financial by the Nominating & ESG Committee of
including ESG-related risks. The Audit
Reporting Standards (IFRS) Foundation. the Board of Directors and maintained by
& Risk Committee annually approves
We refer to our climate-related risks our Corporate ESG Steering Committee
our Company’s risk appetite statement,
and opportunities disclosure as a TCFD and cross-functional teams. For more
which is the boundaries within which our
disclosure as this terminology is still information, see the “ESG Governance”
management operates while achieving
widely used and is familiar to external section of this report on page 37.
corporate objectives, including those
stakeholders.
related to ESG risks. The Audit & Risk
Board Oversight of Risks
This publication is Nasdaq’s fourth TCFD Committee met 15 times in 2023 and
and Opportunities
report, in which we disclose our approach reviewed our Enterprise Risk Management
to evaluating the projected impacts of (ERM) Policy, which was ultimately
Nominating & ESG Committee
climate risks on our business, as well as approved by the Board.
the initiatives in place to manage climate- The Nominating & ESG Committee of the
related risks and opportunities across the Board oversees environmental and social
organization. Nasdaq’s responses to the matters as they pertain to Nasdaq’s business
TCFD recommendations are organized and long-term strategy. As noted in its
into sections that align with the TCFD charter, the Nominating & ESG Committee
framework: (1) Governance, (2) Strategy, oversees Nasdaq’s ESG policies, practices,
(3) Risk Management, and (4) Metrics and initiatives and reporting. It also periodically
Targets. We aim to continuously enhance briefs the Board on these topics.
62
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Role of Management in
• identifying additional opportunities to may be escalated to the Corporate Climate-Related Training
Assessing and Managing integrate sustainability principles and ESG Strategy and Reporting Team, the
Risks and Opportunities practices across Nasdaq’s operating Corporate ESG Steering Committee, the At Nasdaq, we believe that leadership and
units; Nominating & ESG Committee of the Board, employees can contribute to identifying
Nasdaq’s operational climate-related or to the full Board. In addition, climate risks and opportunities that might impact
• evaluating and promoting renewable
management is led by the Corporate ESG related-risks and opportunities may also be the Company and contribute to our mission
energy procurement; and
Steering Committee, which meets on a escalated to relevant committees including: of operating sustainably. In 2023, we held a
quarterly basis and is co-chaired by the • reviewing Nasdaq’s annual sustainability the Procurement Council, the Investment dedicated briefing to the Nominating & ESG
Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Chief disclosures. Committee, the Commercial ESG Steering Committee of our Board on climate trends.
Marketing Officer (CMO). The Corporate Committee, the Real Estate Advisory We also offered trainings for employees
The Head of Corporate ESG Strategy
ESG Steering Committee is responsible for Team, and/or the Global Risk Management across a diversity of topics, including 11
and Reporting, who is a member of the
assessing and managing climate-related Committee. For more information, see the trainings designed to enhance capacity
Corporate ESG Steering Committee and
issues and our environmental and social “ESG Governance” section of this report on and knowledge of climate-related issues
ultimately reports to the CFO, leads the
strategy, and reports to the Nominating page 37. across the organization. These trainings will
Corporate ESG Strategy and Reporting
& ESG Committee of the Board at least assist in the execution of Nasdaq’s climate
Team and is responsible for the execution ESG-Linked Compensation
three times each year. The Corporate ESG transition plan, and included:
of Nasdaq’s sustainability strategy. The
Steering Committee updated its charter in Under the guidance of our governance
Corporate ESG Strategy and Reporting
2023 and is responsible for the coordination framework, the achievement of specific • an ESG and climate education segment
Team engages with business units and
of Nasdaq’s climate strategy, including: climate and ESG goals has a direct impact of an employee town hall held in August
individual expert functions across our
2023;
on the annual compensation incentive plan
Company to identify and communicate
• assessing and managing climate risks
for some members of the leadership team. • an in-person NYC Climate Week
relevant climate risks and opportunities,
and their potential impacts on Nasdaq’s
Approximately five percent of executive conference that brought together
and submits ESG-related risk reports to
strategy;
variable compensation is currently tied to employees, industry professionals and
the Group Risk Management (GRM) team
• evaluating supplier sustainability ESG performance metrics. ESG-related ESG leaders in September 2023; and
on a quarterly basis. This includes regular
performance and engagement strategies; performance metrics also factor into
engagement with Real Estate, Facilities & • trainings throughout the year on Nasdaq’s
the annual incentive payments for the
• reviewing and approving Nasdaq’s climate Security stakeholders for Nasdaq’s global ESG strategy and environmentally-
Corporate ESG Strategy and Reporting,
transition plan; real estate portfolio and with Nasdaq’s focused education by our Global
the Real Estate, Facilities & Security, and
Procurement & Sourcing Team. These Green Team.
• setting targets and monitoring progress the Procurement and Sourcing teams.
functions, in turn, rely on internal controls
against climate-related goals, including and procedures (such as our Environmental For more information, see the “Executive For more information, see the “Career
those related to Nasdaq’s validated Management System [EMS] and real estate Compensation” section of Nasdaq’s 2024 Development and Training” section of this
science-based targets; leasing strategy) to assess the significance Proxy Statement. report on page 28.
• assessing Nasdaq’s progress in of emerging climate issues. When identified,
implementing our EMS across our relevant climate risks and opportunities
global real estate portfolio;
63
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Strategy
Overview of Risks and Opportunities below timeframes, which align with our science-based our exposure to that risk, the financial implications of
targets, are relevant for our operational, financial and that risk materializing, and relevant mitigating factors
Nasdaq’s climate strategy and approach to ESG strategic planning, and are also integrated within our including Nasdaq’s operational resilience. These
governance and reporting are informed by our climate scenario analyses. projected business impacts are further analyzed
In 2023 we
company-wide assessment of priority ESG topics, against our financial materiality threshold as defined
which was revised and expanded in early 2023 with Time horizons considered for climate-related risks by our GRM function. This assessment is reviewed
reaffirmed our
the assistance of Nasdaq’s ESG Advisory team. This and opportunities: on an annual basis, and in 2023 we reaffirmed our
exercise reaffirmed the expectations and demands prior conclusion that climate is not expected to have
0-1 years (up to prior conclusion
on Nasdaq’s climate management and strategy from Short-term: a material, negative, short- medium- or long-term
2025)
our external partners. For more information, see the financial impact on Nasdaq’s business (see Table 1).
that climate is not
Assessment of Priority ESG Topics section of this report 1-6 years (up to However, we do expect that several climate-related
Medium-term:
on page 105. 2030) opportunities may prove to be significant for Nasdaq.
expected to have a
These opportunities are detailed in Table 2 on page
Our global corporate ESG strategy incorporates our Long-term: 6+ years (up to 2050) 67. Based on our analysis there are no year-over-year
material, negative,
assessment of climate-related risks and opportunities changes to key climate-related risks and projected
that could impact our business operations, products and business impacts across our time horizons as detailed
Transition risks refer to risks associated with the global short- medium- or
services, supply chain and investments. Building on our in Table 1.
transition to a lower-carbon economy, encompassing
previous TCFD disclosures, this year we have updated
disruptions due to changing policy/legal, technology, long-term financial
our climate transition risk analyses to reevaluate our
market and/or reputational conditions. Physical risks
exposure to potential carbon pricing regulations, as
refer to risks from the physical impacts of climate impact on Nasdaq’s
well as the potential impacts of market and reputational
change, including event-driven risks (acute) and risks
risks as informed by the climate maturity of our key
resulting from longer-term shifts in climatic patterns business
customers and critical suppliers. As with previous
(chronic).
years, climate-related risks and opportunities relevant
to Nasdaq were identified and characterized according
We report the potential business impacts associated
to the TCFD framework categories. Each risk or
with our climate risks and have assigned an expected
opportunity was assigned a time horizon (short, medium
level of impact to each risk at each time horizon. This
or long) based upon when it was deemed likely to
forward-looking evaluation is based on an analysis of
materialize should the risk remain unmitigated.1 The
1 Nasdaq’s TCFD-aligned climate physical and transition risk and opportunity assessments currently exclude Adenza.
64
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Table 1: Key Climate-Related Risks & Projected Business Impacts Across Time Horizons Low Impact Medium Impact High Impact Critical Impact
Risk Type Risk Short Medium Long Risk Mitigation
Description (2024-25) (2025-30) (2030-50)
Nasdaq’s science-based targets and net-zero commitment provide a roadmap for emissions reductions that will minimize the direct and indirect
impacts of policy changes that increase the costs of emissions. Because Scope 3 emissions comprise the largest share of Nasdaq’s total
Increased pricing emissions, Nasdaq’s carbon pricing risk stems primarily from the activities of its suppliers. This risk is primarily mitigated by Nasdaq’s supplier
of GHG emissions engagement strategy, which includes encouraging critical suppliers to set their own science-based targets, and requesting suppliers to report
their emissions to CDP and align with Nasdaq’s Environmental Practices Statement and Supplier Code. For more details, see the “Evaluating and
Policy & Legal Engaging our Supply Chain” section of this report on page 23.
Nasdaq has disclosed information on our climate impacts, governance, strategy, risks and opportunities to date – including through our annual
Mandatory Sustainability Report, TCFD report and the CDP climate questionnaire. While mandatory climate reporting requirements could cause us to incur
climate reporting additional compliance and reporting costs, we believe this risk is mitigated by our early and active preparations for forthcoming disclosure
requirements regulations in the U.S. and European Union. This risk becomes moderate in the long term due the potential for pass-through of compliance
costs from suppliers.
Nasdaq’s sustainable leasing strategy mitigates our exposure to this transition risk by working to reduce our office space requirements,
Costs to shifting to shorter leases to build in operational flexibility, promoting energy efficiency within our operations, and procuring renewable energy
transition to to minimize our direct exposure to technology risks. We also select data center operators with ISO Certifications, renewable energy offerings,
Technology lower emissions and sound sustainability policies.
Transition technology Nasdaq is also well positioned to assist listed companies in their sustainability journeys through our climate-related products and services, in
Risks particular through Puro.earth, the world’s first carbon crediting platform for engineered carbon removals.
Nasdaq is well positioned to mitigate this risk because of the low emissions intensity of our business model and sector, our reputation as a
Shift in consumer
climate leader as evidenced by our science-based targets and net-zero commitment and our products and services that are aligned with the
preferences
transition to a low-carbon future.
Market Nasdaq expects that these risks are largely mitigated through our business continuity management and resiliency measures, and supplier
Impact on engagement strategy, which includes our supplier engagement science-based target, and our practice of screening 100% of new suppliers on
operations due to environmental criteria. This risk becomes moderate in the long term due to the increasing likelihood of an unpredictable supply chain disruption
disruption in the in this period caused by external environmental and economic factors and the current lack of TCFD and ESG reporting by some of Nasdaq’s
supply chain key suppliers, which could lead to an unexpected supply chain disruption resulting from a lack of supplier climate preparedness. For more
information on how Nasdaq is mitigating this risk, see the “Evaluating and Engaging Our Supply Chain” section of this report on page 23.
Nasdaq is well positioned to meet stakeholder expectations on climate action. We have positioned our Company as a climate leader with our net-
Increasing
zero and science-based targets and have also pursued voluntary disclosure of our climate impacts through regular TCFD and CDP reporting, and
Reputational stakeholder
the publication of our annual Sustainability Report. This is aligned with our understanding of climate as a priority issue for our stakeholders as per
pressure
Nasdaq’s assessment of priority ESG topics.
65
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Risk Type Risk Short Medium Long Risk Mitigation Risk Mitigation
Description (2024-25) (2025-30) (2030-50)
Wildfire
Nasdaq has implemented a wide range of mitigation measures related
to both acute and chronic physical climate risks, including those related
to facility selection, management and resilience. We expect that these
measures will assist in collectively mitigating assessed acute and chronic
Inland flooding climate risks.
• Incorporation of climate considerations into Nasdaq’s sustainable
Acute leasing strategy (see “Costs to transition to lower emissions
technology” above).
Heatwave • Use of an EMS to provide a framework to assist Nasdaq in achieving
our environmental goals through consistent review, evaluation and
improvement of our facility environmental performance.
• Expansion of business continuity plans (BCPs) beyond general
Physical operations to include actions to build resilience for employees in
Cyclone
Risks remote locations
and connection to disaster recovery plans.
• Establishment of a centralized location for BCPs and requiring BCP
coordinators to share the plan with all employees in the relevant
Sea level rise department and keep a local copy. Multiple ways to access the BCPs
ensure they can be accessed in emergency situations.
• Establishment of remote working capabilities and backup energy
sources for key assets.
Chronic Water stress • Existing and planned river and coastal flood defense adaptation
measures in major cities where Nasdaq has a physical presence,
and flood resilient building design.
• Integration of climate risk assessments and scenario analysis within
Nasdaq’s cross-functional risk management.
Drought
66
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Table 2: Key Climate-Related Opportunities & Time Horizons
Category Opportunity Driver Key Opportunities Time Horizon
Drive for new ESG solutions
Ability to diversify Nasdaq is uniquely positioned to serve both the corporate and investment communities with our ESG-related products and services, as clients
business activities work to achieve their ESG-related objectives. Nasdaq strives to continuously refine and enhance our products and services to meet our clients’
evolving needs.
Short-term
Products & Services
Grow and mature carbon markets Medium-term
Nasdaq recognizes the vital role carbon markets play in addressing climate change and supports the scaling of carbon markets through Puro.
Access to new markets earth and other strategic partnerships. Puro.earth is a carbon crediting program focused exclusively on carbon removals. Additionally, Nasdaq
Marketplace Services Platform provides carbon credits exchanges with trading technology, ensuring that buyers and sellers are matched with
carbon credits based on their specific requirements.
Reduce operating and procurement costs through resource efficiency gains
Move to more efficient
By continuing to operate more efficiently, Nasdaq may reduce operating costs across our offices and data centers. See the “Aligning Corporate Medium-term
buildings
Strategies to Support Reaching Net Zero” section of this report on page 22 for details on our sustainable leasing strategy.
Adapt our resource needs for our workforce
Resource Efficiency
In conjunction with our pursuit of greater resource efficiency, our climate risk analysis of our facilities also provides opportunities to focus on the
Reduced resource optimization of space to meet business needs and facilitate home working solutions. This optimization may reduce fixed asset costs and increase
Medium-term
consumption our resilience to climate-related business disruptions. It also reduces our direct impacts and dependencies on nature. For more details on our
sustainable leasing strategy, see the “Aligning Corporate Strategies to Support Reaching Net Zero” section of this report on page 22. For more
details, see the “TNFD-Aligned Risk Analysis” section of this report on page 112.
Source renewable energy for our operations
Participation in renewable By pursuing the procurement of 100% renewable electricity across our offices and data centers, we aim to reduce exposure to future fossil fuel
Resilience Medium-term
energy programs price increases that may occur due to climate-focused policy developments or geopolitical conflicts in the regions where we operate. For more
information on our renewable energy sourcing strategy, see the “Reducing and Neutralizing our GHG Emissions” section of this report on page 18.
67
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Category Opportunity Driver Key Opportunities Time Horizon
Corporate and investment community engagement opportunities
We continue to increase ESG corporate and investor engagement through our product offerings and insights, ensuring investors and corporate
Growth in ESG maturity of clients have the information they need to make informed decisions on climate-related risks and opportunities (see “ESG Solutions” section of this
Short-term
capital markets report). Our Green Voices Newsletter gathers our latest updates, insights and inspiration on topics such as net-zero strategies, carbon removal and
green transition, facilitating a continuous dialogue between investors, issuers and other stakeholders. For more information on how we engage and
collaborate with our suppliers, see the “Evaluating and Engaging Our Supply Chain” section of this report on page 23.
Supplier engagement opportunities
Collaboration with third
Stakeholder Engagement Our supplier engagement strategy encourages our suppliers to adopt practices in line with our Environmental Practices Statement and Supplier Medium-term
parties
Code of Ethics, allowing us to lead the shift towards more sustainable and inclusive capital markets that serve all stakeholders.
Climate leadership commitments and memberships
Nasdaq has memberships in climate-related initiatives and working groups that provide extensive opportunities for stakeholder engagement.
Reputational benefits and
Nasdaq’s representation and participation in a select group of ESG-related organizations supports our goal of providing consistent and transparent
improved ratings by ESG Long-term
ESG reporting for our stakeholders. Our association memberships represent a range of topics and ambitions that closely align with our ESG
indexes
strategy. For more information on the climate and ESG-related initiatives and working groups in which Nasdaq participates, see the “ESG
Memberships” section of this report on page 12.
68
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Growth of Climate- and ESG-Related Impact on Business, Strategy and
Products and Services Financial Planning
Nasdaq endeavors to support the shift toward sustainable Nasdaq regularly evaluates climate risks that may affect planning, value chain engagement and policy engagement.
capital markets by educating our clients on ESG our products and services, value chain, operations and This report builds on our prior low-carbon transition plan,
considerations, sharing our issuers’ perspectives with the investments. Our climate risk analysis has identified as well as our historic TCFD and CDP reporting. For more
industry and regulators, and providing a growing portfolio of Nasdaq’s exposure to factors which could result in both information, see the “Decarbonization and Climate Strategy”
ESG-focused marketplace solutions that help clients in the physical and transition risks. Nasdaq’s assessed climate section of this report on page 15 and the “Climate Transition
corporate and investment communities achieve their own risks are not projected to have a material effect on the Plan” section of this report on page 113.
ESG objectives. Over the past several years, ESG has been Company. We assess risk factors likely to increase direct
a strategic growth driver for the Company, with our ESG costs or cause interruptions to our primary business
Advisory services well positioned as a client entry point for functions. As with prior years, across all analyzed time Our Climate-Focused Products and Services*
our larger suite of climate-related products and solutions. horizons, transition risks were once again identified as being
Sustainability revenue has grown rapidly over the past more significant than physical risks to Nasdaq’s business,
Sustainability Report,
four years, reaching $137 million in 2023 (an increase of strategy and financial planning. We continue to monitor
Puro.earth
“ESG Solutions”, pg. 50
16% from 2022). We project that sustainability revenue will and track both physical and transition risks on an annual
reach $250 million by 2027, with growth driven by market basis, integrating this information into our ongoing climate
demand as the corporate and investment communities strategy as appropriate. We also continue to invest in our
Nasdaq Risk Modelling Sustainability Report,
look for solutions to help them navigate the evolving ESG enhanced climate resilience and in the integration of climate
for Catastrophes “Other Solutions and Services”, pg. 57
landscape. Our climate-related opportunities associated and ESG considerations within our product and service
with our ESG-related revenue growth are concentrated offerings to maximize our climate-related opportunities (see
within our Capital Access Platforms and Market Services Table 2 for details). Sustainability Report,
ESG Advisory
segments, which encompass the climate-related products “ESG Solutions”, pg. 49
and services below. We will continue to evaluate climate- Nasdaq publishes its climate transition plan so that it is
related opportunities while monitoring our ESG products aligned with CDP's technical guidance,2 which will serve
and services revenue growth. as a central consolidated planning document that details Sustainability Report,
Nasdaq Metrio
several key elements of our climate strategy, including “ESG Solutions”, pg. 49
our climate governance, risks and opportunities, financial
Sustainability Report,
AxiomSL
“Other Solutions and Services”, pg. 55
* The products listed above are those that most heavily incorporate climate-related data and advisory
services. However, Nasdaq includes climate-related considerations across a wide array of ESG solutions.
2 For more information, see CDP Technical Note: Reporting on Climate Transition Plans.
69
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Nasdaq’s incorporation of climate risks and opportunities across our business and strategy
Theme Our Action
Our climate transition plan, based on Nasdaq’s low-carbon transition plan first established in 2021, aligns our efforts to mitigate the risks associated with climate change to our business and operations. This
extensive plan includes:
1. calculating our GHG emissions since 2018;
2. benchmarking our global real estate portfolio to identify and implement opportunities for energy efficiency, in line with Nasdaq’s EMS and sustainable leasing strategy;
3. pursuing green building certifications;
Business
Operations 4. prioritizing shorter lease terms to promote greater strategic flexibility and operational resiliency;
5. minimizing emissions resulting from business travel;
6. purchasing renewable electricity;
7. setting and making progress against our science-based targets; and
8. leveraging the TCFD framework to further integrate climate risk management across our organization.
Nasdaq has increasingly integrated climate considerations into our service offerings and invested in new ESG-related products and services, including AxiomSL and the launch of Nasdaq Metrio, Sustainable
Products and
Lens, and eVestment ESG Analytics in 2023. We believe that a continued focus on ESG is critical to serving the needs of our investor and corporate clients as they seek to achieve their own ESG objectives. For
Services
more information on Nasdaq’s climate and ESG-related products and services, see the “ESG Solutions” section of this report on page 48.
As part of our commitment to mitigate climate risk and encourage sustainable behavior along our supply chain, we have a robust supplier engagement strategy. This strategy is being applied to existing suppliers
Supplier
in a multi-phased approach and to all new supplier relationships, and is key to achieving our science-based targets. Our efforts to engage our suppliers on climate issues were publicly recognized through our
Engagement
inclusion on CDP’s 2023 Supplier Engagement Leaderboard. For more information, see the “Evaluating and Engaging Our Supply Chain” section of this report on page 23.
As a means of communicating our performance and progress on sustainability initiatives to internal and external stakeholders, Nasdaq has enhanced our ESG disclosures, including through our annual
Disclosures and Sustainability Report, TCFD Report and CDP Climate Change disclosures. Nasdaq continued to receive industry-leading ESG scores across rating agencies in 2023. We believe that these ratings will continue to
ESG Ratings bolster Nasdaq’s reputation as a sustainability leader, thereby minimizing reputational climate risks and unlocking new potential opportunities for collaboration. For more information, see the “Our ESG Ratings”
section of this report on page 10.
70
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Scenario Analysis and Strategy Resilience
Our assessment of priority ESG topics indicated that our stakeholders see climate and ESG issues as
potentially impacting our business, and we expect these issues to influence our business into the future.
While Nasdaq’s low-carbon transition strategy, supplier engagement strategy and ESG product offerings
are aligned with a transition to a low-carbon economy, we recognize the importance of thoroughly exploring
how climate-related risks may materialize under various plausible future conditions.
In accordance with the TCFD recommendations, we examined the resiliency of Nasdaq’s sustainability
strategy by conducting climate scenario analyses. This exercise enables Nasdaq to assess exposure
to physical and transition climate-related risks and opportunities deemed as having the potential to
influence our businesses, strategy and financial planning. We review our historic scenario analysis results
on an annual basis and update the exercise as needed upon the publication of new scenario modeling
methodologies, new market conditions or new conditions related to our operational footprint. In 2023, we
enhanced our climate scenario analyses by:
1. updating our analysis of our exposure to carbon pricing regulation using 2023 GHG emissions data;
2. applying the most recent transition scenarios from the Network for Greening the Financial System
(NGFS), including two new scenarios representing futures with very high and very low transition risks,
respectively; and
3. updating our analysis of the climate maturity of Nasdaq’s key suppliers and customers.
Our analysis reaffirms that our most significant climate risks and opportunities stem
from transition risks. Nasdaq’s verified science-based emissions reduction targets are
expected to help mitigate some of these risks (for more information, see Table 1). We aim
to further explore the vulnerability of our strategy and operations to the risks identified to
project possible financial impacts related to the materialization of a risk and identify the
costs of mitigation.
71
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Transition Risks
Table 3: Transition Risk Scenarios
Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS)
Four scenarios from the NGFS Phase IV were applied to assess transition risks and explore the impact of delayed timing and divergent voluntary and regulatory action across sectors. These scenarios were
selected based upon their relevance to the sectors across which we operate, and as a means to explore the nuances of anticipated policy expectations under different transition scenarios.
1. Low Demand (1.4° C) 2. Net Zero 2050 (1.4° C) 3. Delayed Transition (1.6° C) 4. Fragmented World (2.3° C)
Description: Description: Description: Description:
• Significant behavioral changes result in lower • Coordinated, stringent and well-timed policy • Delay in action until 2030 • Delayed and divergent climate policy ambition
Transition
global energy demand, resulting in an orderly action and fast technological change to globally, leading to an overall ineffective
• Requires accelerated and disruptive policies
Risk Analysis transition to net zero emissions by 2050 reduce GHG emissions and achieve net zero transition to a low-carbon future
thereafter to limit warming to below 2°C
Scenarios • Transition risks are considered low emissions by 2050 • Transition risks are high, but also highly
• Transition risks are considered very high
Applied • Transition risks are considered high variable by geography
Outcome: Outcome: Outcome: Outcome:
• Net zero emissions are achieved primarily • Ambitious climate policies introduced • New climate policies are not introduced until • Countries without net zero targets follow
through reduced energy demand rather than immediately, resulting in steady increases in 2030 and the level of action differs across current policies, while other countries only
carbon pricing, which remains lower than carbon prices from 2025 – 2050 countries and regions based on currently partially achieve their targets (80%) by 2050.
the Net Zero 2050 scenario across all time implemented policies. Carbon prices rapidly Carbon prices remain significantly lower than
horizons increase after 2035. in other scenarios
Overall, applying NGFS Phase IV modeling has decreased our maximum exposure relative to our 2022 and 2021 analyses – and we would not expect the potential impact of carbon pricing to have a
material effect on Nasdaq.
NGFS Phase IV modeling is the latest set of scenarios published by the NGFS, which have been updated based on the latest economic and climate data and policy commitments.
Transition risks were evaluated under four scenarios published by the NGFS, including two new scenarios (Low Demand and Fragmented World) that have been introduced under NGFS Phase IV modeling. We selected these scenarios
as we deemed them particularly relevant to the financial sector in which we operate, and because they offer a wide range of potential scenarios related to regulatory action and related policy-driven transition risks, including two
scenarios that result in global net zero emissions by 2050.
72
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
In the scenarios applied, global carbon materializes between 2035 and 2045 under within our supply chain and heightened is somewhat mitigated by the low emissions
prices are used as a proxy for government the Net Zero 2050 scenario as a result of opportunities for engagement on climate intensity of the financial services and data Suppliers Analysis Results
climate-related policies, which vary that scenario’s relatively high carbon pricing issues. Higher customer maturity is a signal processing industries, and the advanced
Based on TCFD disclosures, emissions disclosures
significantly based on the scenario. projections. By contrast, our carbon pricing of market stability and business continuity climate action of several key suppliers and
and targets (including Science-Based Targets),
The risks relating to mandatory carbon risks are lowest under the new Fragmented as regulations and markets increase customers. Suppliers with lower climate CDP disclosures, emissions intensity, potential
pricing were quantitatively assessed by World scenario due to the low anticipated stakeholder expectations of corporate maturity scores are the highest priority in reputational risk and use of internal carbon pricing.
applying the carbon prices delineated carbon prices inherent to that model. The climate disclosure and action. However, high terms of supplier engagement. The number
in each transition scenario against our inclusion of the new Low Demand scenario customer maturity is also associated with of high priority suppliers for engagement
current Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, and did not change our results, as this scenario’s heightened expectations on Nasdaq’s own has increased since last year due to the
our projected emissions in line with the projections of behavioral change taking climate performance, which could potentially inclusion of several new suppliers in the Supplier Engagement Priority Score
ambitions of our science-based targets. precedence over regulatory action similarly increase reputational or market-based risks. analysis that don’t yet have comprehensive
As our Scope 3 emissions represent the limit anticipated carbon prices. plans for addressing climate impacts across
30%
majority of our total emissions, our carbon Overall, as in previous years, Nasdaq’s their business. The results of the analysis 15%
pricing risks are concentrated within our Supplier and Customer Analysis exposure to transition risks through our are shown in the chart on the right and
supply chain, and stem primarily from the In 2023, Nasdaq performed an analysis of suppliers and customers remains moderate. will be used to inform Nasdaq’s supplier
emissions associated with our vendors. For the climate maturity of our key suppliers A portfolio analysis of the assessed engagement strategy in the future.
the purpose of assessing our maximal risk and customers to understand our exposure suppliers and customers revealed limited
25%
exposure, we assumed that Nasdaq would to other upstream and downstream levels of climate maturity from many
bear the full cost of emissions, as opposed climate-related transition risks. Suppliers assessed companies, although overall risk 30%
to, for example, suppliers absorbing some and customers were selected based on
of the costs of carbon pricing. their strategic importance to Nasdaq’s
Very Low Low Moderate High Very High operations and sales and were assessed
In 2023, we found that under all scenarios across eight criteria – including their level
assessed, the annual cost of emissions of climate disclosure to initiatives like TCFD 0.70%
remained less than one percent of 2023 and CDP, the existence and ambition of 0.60%
Net Income Attributable to Nasdaq their emissions targets, and the overall 0.50%
across the short- to long-term horizons. emissions intensity of their industry. 0.40%
In the long-term to 2050, there was no Higher supplier maturity is associated 0.30%
material difference between scenarios with reduced risk of pass-through costs 0.20%
0.10%
despite increasing carbon prices due to linked to carbon pricing, reduced risk
0.00%
our anticipated emissions reductions. of climate-related business disruption
Our highest carbon pricing risk exposure
3 Based upon carbon pricing scenario analysis using NGFS Net Zero 2050, Low Demand, Delayed Transition and Fragmented World global carbon prices, and Nasdaq’s 2023 Scope 1, 2 and 3 Emissions and projected emissions under Nasdaq’s
Science-Based Targets. A discount rate of 2% applied to calculate present value annual cost of emissions. 2023 net income attributable to Nasdaq as set forth in Nasdaq’s 2023 Form 10-K.
4 NGFS’ Divergent Net Zero scenario has been discontinued in Phase IV of NGFS’ modeling data.
73
oiranecS
gnicirP
nobraC
Annual Cost of Nasdaq’s Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG Emissions3,4
(expressed as a percentage of 2022 Net Income Attributable to Nasdaq)
2023 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050
■ Net Zero 2050 ■ Low Demand ■ Delayed Transition ■ Fragmented World
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Physical Risks
Nasdaq has evaluated the exposure of our entire global real estate portfolio, comprising offices and data centers, to acute and chronic physical climate risks under three plausible future scenarios developed by the IPCC as detailed in
Table 4 below.
Table 4: Physical Risk Scenarios
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)
The IPCC’s Sixth Assessment Report (AR6) defines a range of Shared Socio-Economic Pathways (SSPs) describing the socioeconomic trends underlying the scenarios, alongside the level of radiative
forcing resulting from the scenario in the year 2100.
1. SSP1-2.6 (~1.6°C) 2. SSP2-4.5 (~2.7°C) 3. SSP5-8.5 (~4.2°C)
Sustainability Middle of the Road Fossil-fueled development
Physical Risk Description: Description: Description:
Analysis • Gradual, yet stringent global actions toward a more sustainable • Social, economic and technological trends do not shift • Continued exploitation of fossil fuel resources and the adoption
Scenarios path and emissions mitigation significantly from historical patterns, but resource use of resource and energy intensive lifestyles around the world
intensifies
Applied • Physical risks are considered low • Physical risks are considered high
• Physical risks are considered intermediate
Outcome: Outcome: Outcome:
• This scenario is expected to result in global warming of 1.2°C • This scenario is expected to result in global warming of 2.7°C • This scenario is expected to result in global warming of 4.2°C
by the end of the century, with a modeled temperature increase by the end of the century, with a modeled temperature increase by the end of the century, with a modeled temperature increase
range of 1.1°C – 1.4°C range of 2.4°C – 2.9°C range of 3.7°C – 5.0°C
Nasdaq evaluated its physical risk exposure to the following climate hazards. The projected business impacts of Nasdaq’s exposure to these hazards is detailed in Table 1 above.
74
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Table 5: Climate-Related Hazards Physical risks of Nasdaq’s offices
Acute Hazards Chronic Hazards
Wildfires Sea level rise
Inland flooding Water stress
Heatwaves Drought Short-Term 2024-2025 Short-Term 2024-2025
Cyclones
Asset-level results are aggregated to show the percentage
of facilities at low, medium and high levels of exposure for
each hazard, under each applied scenario and time horizon.
For example, 100% of our global offices have low exposure
to heatwaves over the short term, whereas three percent
of our global offices have high exposure to drought over
the long term (2030 to 2050). We have only disclosed the Medium-Term 2025-2030 Medium-Term 2025-2030
results from the SSP5-8.5 and SSP2-4.5 scenarios as these
represent the highest risk scenarios for Nasdaq. The charts
on the right provide a breakdown of our physical climate risk
exposure by hazard, timeframe and scenario.
Long-Term 2030-2050 Long-Term 2030-2050
75
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Physical risks of Nasdaq’s data centers
Short-Term 2024-2025 Short-Term 2024-2025
Medium-Term 2025-2030 Medium-Term 2025-2030
Long-Term 2030-2050 Long-Term 2030-2050
76
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Our analysis shows that over the long-term through
2050, the majority of assets that we presently control are
expected to have low exposure to most physical climate
Geographic distribution of long-term climate risk exposure
hazards under a worst-case scenario. Our top physical
climate risks stem from inland flooding, with a maximum of
2030-2050
27% of our offices and 52% of our data centers projected
to have high exposure to this hazard across all time
horizons. Over the long-term, we also anticipate that up Most prevalent types of risks:
to 31% of our offices and 17% of our data centers could Water Stress | Cyclones
Most prevalent types of risks:
have high exposure to water stress as well. Geographically, Inland Flooding
our physical risks are most highly concentrated in North Most prevalent types of risks:
5 Sites with at least
America and Europe due to Nasdaq’s larger presence in Water Stress | Inland Flooding
one high exposure
these regions. The chart on the right provides a summary of 13 Sites with at least
rating
our top physical climate risks by region. one high exposure
29 Sites with at least rating
one high exposure
Although some risks from water stress and inland flooding
rating 9
could manifest in the short-term, Nasdaq already has
Sites total
robust physical risk resilience measures in place that we 32
anticipate will largely mitigate these risks (see Table 1), Sites total
48
including within North America and Europe. Furthermore,
Sites total
these climate scenario analysis results inform our risk
management focuses and resiliency strategy, which we Most prevalent types of risks:
anticipate will mitigate risks over the medium and long-term Water Stress
time horizons. Our sustainable leasing strategy prioritizes
short-term leases, providing operational flexibility and
4 Sites with at least
allowing us to reduce our exposure to physical climate
one high exposure
risks over time. We review our physical risk exposure on an rating
annual basis and refresh this analysis as needed based on
potential changes to our real estate portfolio, our business
or changes to the underlying risk modeling methodologies. 4
Sites total
77
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Risk Management
Process for Risk Identification operations are monitored and reported to the GRM function Internally, climate risks and opportunities are identified
and Audit & Risk Committee of the Board on a quarterly through the engagement of the Corporate ESG Strategy
and Assessment
basis to ensure the Company continues to operate within the and Reporting Team with various business units and expert
Under the oversight of our Board and the leadership of stated risk appetite. The ESG risk tolerances for the Nordic & functions. As part of Nasdaq’s Bottom-Up Risk Assessments,
Nasdaq’s GRM function, Nasdaq’s ERM Framework is used Baltic regulated entities are similarly monitored and reported our GRM function refreshed its climate risk assessment in
to continuously identify, assess, manage and monitor risks, quarterly to the relevant boards or supervisory councils. 2023 for several business units including North American
including risks related to climate. The ERM framework Markets, European Markets Services, Capital Platforms and
applies to Nasdaq’s global business operations as well as Nasdaq draws on a wide range of resources to consider the Investment Intelligence. These climate risk assessments,
presence within our supply chains and markets to ensure potential impacts of climate-related risks on a continuous informed by leading reporting frameworks like CDP and
comprehensive management of risks across Nasdaq’s entire basis across our business. Our integrated risk assessment incorporating climate scenario analysis, explore Nasdaq’s
value chain. For more information on our ERM framework, program utilizes three separate yet related risk assessment exposure to physical and transition risks and opportunities
see the “Risk Oversight” section of Nasdaq’s 2024 Proxy components to support a holistic risk profile: Top-Down Risk by business unit, including risks generated within our supply
Statement. Assessments, Bottom-Up Risk Assessments and Scenario chain. Nasdaq intends to perform climate risk assessments
Risk Assessments. on an annual basis. In addition, in 2023 Nasdaq Clearing Risk
Through its Risk Taxonomy, Nasdaq classifies risks into the also incorporated climate risks within its stress testing and
Nasdaq’s Top-Down Risk Assessments engage senior
following five broad categories: recovery framework, and has provided a climate risk scenario
management and consider the risks that could impede the
analysis as part of the European Securities and Markets
• Strategic and Business Risk Company’s strategy. Emerging risks are regularly monitored
Authority’s EU-wide stress testing exercise for central
by Nasdaq’s business functions, and are informed by our
• Financial Risk counterparties.
active communication with investors, clients and other
• Operational Risk stakeholder groups. Top emerging risks are considered Our Procurement & Sourcing Team and Real Estate Advisory
• Legal and Regulatory Risk as part of the periodic Top-Down Risk Assessment and Team further contribute to our identification of climate
reported on a periodic basis to the Global Risk Management risks. We request that our top suppliers disclose their
• ESG Risk Committee and the Audit & Risk Committee. In 2023, environmental data through the CDP Supply Chain program,
Each risk category is associated with a unique risk appetite, Nasdaq’s leadership identified mandatory ESG disclosure and screen 100% of our new suppliers using environmental
which is the boundary within which our management regulations as an emerging risk based on anticipated new criteria - providing insight into our climate risk exposure from
operates while achieving corporate objectives. The risk regulatory requirements in the coming years, including these vendors. Going forward, Nasdaq intends to continue
appetite is set for each risk category by management and compliance with the SEC’s new climate-related disclosure enhancing our ability to investigate supplier resiliency to
approved annually by the Audit & Risk Committee of the rules. Nasdaq has implemented several initiatives to mitigate climate risks, which may impact the Company’s risk exposure
Board for Nasdaq’s global operations, and by the relevant this risk and continues to monitor the evolution of applicable through third parties. Nasdaq facility site managers are
legislation, including through monthly meetings within our also periodically surveyed to assess the vulnerability and
boards or supervisory councils of our Nordic- and Baltic-
legal function to discuss emerging ESG regulatory risks. resiliency of critical Nasdaq operating locations, considering
regulated entities. ESG risk tolerances for Nasdaq’s global
78
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
factors including environmental changes and the likelihood Management Processes As part of our Business Continuity Management program,
and potential effects of an interruption to the location, each business unit and expert function develops a business
Nasdaq’s ERM Policy applies a “Three Lines of Risk
informed by the application of multiple climate scenarios. Our Continuity Plan (BCP), which includes completing a
Management” model. This model defines each employee’s
Real Estate Advisory Team communicates all relevant climate Business Impact Analysis. The Business Impact Analysis
risk management role, is based on the premise that every
risks to GRM as part of our annual risk assessment process. is a systemic process to determine and evaluate the
Nasdaq employee has responsibility for managing risk,
For more information, see the “Evaluating and Engaging Our potential effects of an interruption to critical business
and establishes internal controls, as well as guidance and
Supply Chain” section of this report on page 23. operations following significant geopolitical changes or
standards to implement Nasdaq’s risk management policy.
a natural disaster (including climate-related disasters),
Nasdaq has also begun to investigate potential sources of
• First Line: Business units and expert functions – are cyber attack, service delivery failure from a critical event,
operational or reputational risk related to biodiversity and
responsible for maintaining a robust risk management an accident or an emergency. Other risks determined as
nature. In 2023, Nasdaq conducted a pilot analysis based
and control environment. material to a business unit or expert function are integrated
on the Taskforce for Nature-Related Financial Disclosures
within the relevant BCP. The business units and expert
(TNFD). This included a review of the impacts and • Second Line: GRM and other oversight functions –
functions, as the First Line, develop and review the BCPs
dependencies associated with key operating locations, serves as an independent advisor to the First Line and
at least annually. The GRM function, as the Second Line,
suppliers and customers. For more information, see the defines the framework to direct and coordinate our
reviews and challenges the BCPs to ensure the plans are
“TNFD-Aligned Risk Analysis” section of this report on risk management efforts including Business Continuity
comprehensive and mitigate the identified risks. Nasdaq
page 112. Management (BCM).
continues to evaluate and evolve these programs to
• Third Line: Internal Audit – provides an independent ensure there is an understanding of potential exposure and
Once a risk has been identified, Nasdaq uses an industry
review of the First and Second lines to our executive responses in countries we operate in or serve. All Nasdaq
standard approach for assessing the magnitude of the
leadership and our Board. BCPs incorporate criteria for the BCP to be invoked and
risk’s potential impacts and likelihood of materializing, and
communicated to employees. If a BCP is invoked, the
calibrates that risk using a Risk Rating Matrix, which is Our Global Risk Management Committee, which includes
event causing the invocation is reported as an incident in
reviewed annually and adjusted as needed. our CEO and other senior executives, assists the Board in
Nasdaq’s Governance Risk and Compliance tool. The details
our risk oversight role. It ensures that the ERM framework
Nasdaq’s assessment methodology considers the nature of the incident, including the impact and actions taken, are
is appropriate and functioning as intended, and that
of both financial and non-financial impacts (including captured. Lessons learned from the incident are tracked
the level of risk assumed by the Company is consistent
regulatory, client, operational and reputation), providing and inform future BCP iterations. Core components of the
with Nasdaq’s strategy and risk appetite. The Global
a consistent approach for Nasdaq to assess risks of all Business Continuity Management Framework, including the
Risk Management Committee is also informed by risk
types, including climate-related risks. Financial impacts are Business Impact Analysis, BCPs, Disaster Recovery Plans
assessments performed by other targeted risk management
considered both independently and in aggregate across the and testing programs also inform our annual insurance
committees that address specific risks, geographic areas
reporting year. Our Risk Rating Matrix methodology assigns renewal process.
and/or subsidiaries, which facilitates the escalation of
a risk level of Low, Moderate, Elevated or High for each
potentially critical issues. For more information on these risk
assessed risk. Risk assessments inform our ESG strategy
management committees, see the “Risk Oversight” section
and business continuity planning as appropriate.
of our 2024 Proxy Statement.
79
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Furthermore, in 2023 Nasdaq introduced a new Nasdaq has a globally distributed workforce which we Metrics and Targets
Governance, Risk and Compliance tool (Nasdaq Risk believe provides an additional level of resiliency. Our BCPs
Gateway [NRG]), which integrates reporting and tracking of outline the transfer of processes to alternate locations and/
incidents and issues into our varied business and support or regions. Further, Nasdaq has transitioned to a hybrid Nasdaq measures and publishes information on our climate-
functions to ensure timely identification and management of work environment, wherein employees in applicable roles related performance, risks and opportunities, and targets on
external and internal risks well as potential emerging risks. have the ability to work both from home and the office. In an annual basis. For details on our climate-related metrics,
the event of local power or connectivity disruptions, work- including quantitative data on our exposure to select
Risk Management Integration
from-home employees are able to work from a nearby office physical and transition climate risks, see the “Environmental
Nasdaq has implemented resiliency measures across the which is equipped with backup power or can transfer their Data” subsection contained within “ESG Data Tables”
Company to mitigate the risk of potential interruptions work to another location. In addition, Nasdaq’s data center section of this report on page 82. For more information on
to business through unforeseen circumstances such as infrastructure includes primary and secondary data centers our climate-related targets, including our near-term and
climate-related events.5 Nasdaq has implemented an to provide redundancy for critical systems, and Nasdaq is long-term science-based targets, see the “Science Based
EMS to govern the Company’s real estate and data center actively moving infrastructure to the cloud. As part of our Targets” section of this report. For information relating to
operations. The EMS provides a framework to assist Nasdaq sustainable leasing strategy, Nasdaq’s Real Estate, Facilities our carbon offsetting activities, see the “Our Carbon Offset
in achieving our environmental and sustainable objectives & Security Team considers environmental criteria at every Strategy” section of this report on page 20.
through consistent review, evaluation, and improvement stage of the real estate lifecycle, incorporates climate
of the Company’s environmental performance. For more scenario risk analysis in leasing decisions and considers
information, see the “Environmental Management System the potential for business disruption when determining
(EMS)” section of this report on page 22. lease length. This enables Nasdaq to bolster its operational
flexibility and resilience against future physical and
transition climate risks.
5 For more information on Nasdaq’s mitigation activities against its assessed climate-related risks, see the "Key Climate-Related Risks & Projected Business Impacts Across Time Horizons" table.
80
Appendix A
Sustainability Report
Data and Supplemental
Information
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
ESG Data Tables
Environmental Data
GHG Emissions
2023 2022 2021 Annual MT Annual %
Emissions Emissions Emissions Difference Difference
(MT CO e) (MT CO e) (MT CO e) 2023 vs 2022 2023 vs 2022
2 2 2
Scope 1: On-Site Combustion 75.1 16.52 0.5 58.6 355%
Note: All the emission data was calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocol
Sub-Total 75.1 16.5 0.5 58.6 355%
guidelines.
Scope 2: Office Space (location-based) 6,535 5,843 6,001 692 12% 1 Categories 4, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14 were not included, as they are not applicable to
Nasdaq’s business operations.
Data Centers (location-based) 12,241 11,251 12,812 990 9%
2 2022 Scope 1 emissions were recalculated from our prior reported 2022 Scope 1
Office Space (market-based) 62 149 0 (87) (59%) emissions. For our 2023 and recalculated 2022 Scope 1 emissions we reclassified
WTT gasoline emissions to our Scope 3, Category 1.
Data Centers (market-based) 0 0 0 0 0% 3 2022 Scope 3 emissions were recalculated from our prior reported 2022 Scope 3
Sub-Total (location-based) 18,776 17,094 18,8138 1,682 10% emissions. For our 2023 and recalculated 2022 Scope 3 emissions we eliminated
WTT electricity for locations that procured 100% renewable electricity to follow the
Scope 3:1 1.Purchased Goods & Services 60,202 59,2493 68,340 953 2% GHG Protocol.
4 Nasdaq accounts for landlord consumed natural gas, diesel and fugitive
2.Capital Goods 5,023 6,297 3,538 (1,274) (20%)
refrigerants in Category 8 upstream leased assets since we occupy leased
3.Fuel- & Energy-Related Activities3,9 953 1,014 1,339 (61) (6%) commercial office space and do not have operational control over the landlord’s
consumption.
5.Waste 161 184 132 (23) (12%)
5 The total for all scopes integrates location-based Scope 2 emissions, not market-
6.Business Travel4 18,824 14,325 1,636 4,499 31% based Scope 2 emissions.
6 Upstream leased assets include emissions from operation of assets leased by the
7.Employee Commuting 2,192 1,319 993 873 66% Company and not included in Scope 1 and 2.
8.Upstream Leased Assets4,6 198 223 859 (25) (11%) 7 Downstream leased assets include emissions from operations of assets leased to
other entities.
13.Downstream Leased Assets7,9 17 150 169 (133) (89%) 8 Our 2021 Scope 2 location-based emissions were recalculated from our prior
reported 2021 Scope 2 emissions. For our 2022 and recalculated 2021 Scope 2
15.Investments 4,074 2,931 1,870 1,143 39%
location-based emissions, we implemented a new, updated emissions methodology
Sub-Total 91,644 85,692 78,876 5,952 6.9% using location-specific emission factors for each of our U.S. locations, rather than a
U.S. average emission factor.
TOTAL5 110,495 102,803 97,6908 7,692 7.5%
9 Calculated using market-based methodology.
82
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Emissions Intensity
The table below shows the emissions per full time employee and per each million of U.S. dollars of revenue.
2023 2022 2021
Net Revenue ($ in millions) $3,895 $3,582 $3,420
Employee Headcount1 6,555 6,377 5,814
Emissions per Emissions per $ Emissions per Emissions per $ Emissions per Emissions per $
Emissions Emissions Emissions
Employee Million Revenue Employee Million Revenue Employee Million Revenue
(MT CO2e) (MT CO2e) (MT CO2e)
(MT CO2e) (MT CO2e) (MT CO2e) (MT CO2e) (MT CO2e) (MT CO2e)
On-Site Combustion 75.1 0.01 0.02 16.5 0.00 0.00 0.5 0.00 0.00
Scope 1:
Sub-Total 75.1 0.01 0.02 16.5 0.00 0.00 0.5 0.00 0.00
Location-based 18,776 2.86 4.82 17,094 2.68 4.77 18,8135 3.24 5.50
Scope 2:
Sub-Total 18,776 2.86 4.82 17,094 2.68 4.77 18,8135 3.24 5.50
Scope 1 and Scope 2: Sub-Total 18,851 2.88 4.84 17,111 2.68 4.78 18,814 3.24 5.50
1. Purchased Goods & Services3 60,202 9.18 15.46 59,249 9.29 16.54 68,340 11.75 19.98
2. Capital Goods 5,023 0.77 1.29 6,297 0.99 1.76 3,538 0.61 1.03
3. Fuel- & Energy-Related Activities2,4 953 0.15 0.24 1,014 0.16 0.28 1,339 0.23 0.39
5. Waste 161 0.02 0.04 184 0.03 0.05 132 0.02 0.04
6. Business Travel 18,824 2.87 4.83 14,325 2.25 4.00 1,636 0.28 0.48
Scope 3:
7. Employee Commuting 2,192 0.33 0.56 1,319 0.21 0.37 993 0.17 0.29
8. Upstream Leased Assets 198 0.03 0.05 223 0.03 0.06 859 0.15 0.25
13. Downstream Leased Assets2 17 0.00 0.00 150 0.02 0.04 169 0.03 0.05
15. Investments 4,074 0.62 1.05 2,931 0.46 0.82 1,870 0.32 0.55
Sub-Total 91,644 13.97 23.53 85,692 13.44 23.92 78,876 13.57 23.06
TOTAL (Location-based) 110,495 16.85 28.37 102,803 16.12 28.70 97,6905 16.80 28.56
Note: Scope 3, Category 1 & Category 2 included tangible and intangible goods and services in 2021. Totals may not add up due to rounding to the closest tenth decimal point.
1 Excluding Adenza employees.
2 Calculated using market-based methodology.
3 2022 Scope 1 emissions were recalculated from our prior reported 2022 Scope 1 emissions. For our 2023 and recalculated 2022 Scope 1 emissions we reclassified WTT gasoline emissions to our Scope 3, Category 1.
4 2022 Scope 3 emissions were recalculated from our prior reported 2022 Scope 3 emissions. For our 2023 and recalculated 2022 Scope 3 emissions we eliminated WTT electricity for locations that procured 100% renewable electricity to follow the GHG Protocol.
5 Our 2021 Scope 2 location-based emissions were recalculated from our prior reported 2021 Scope 2 emissions. For our 2022 and recalculated 2021 Scope 2 location-based emissions, we implemented a new, updated emissions methodology using location-specific emission factors for each of our U.S.
locations, rather than a U.S. average emission factor.
83
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Energy Consumption
The table below breaks down energy consumption within Nasdaq.
Energy Consumption by Type (MWh) 2023 2022 2021
Total Energy Consumption 65,776 64,882 75,143
Non-Renewable Fuel Consumed 1,276 1,173 1,694
Natural Gas1 1,175 1,163 1,676
Diesel1 101 10 17
Total Electricity and Steam Consumption 65,647 64,868 70,787
Electricity Consumption 65,307 64,200 70,787
Steam and Heat Consumption2 340 668 0
Total Renewable Electricity Consumption 65,307 64,200 70,787
Pre-negotiated Renewable Energy & vPPAs 54,116 54,104 60,777
Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) 11,191 10,096 10,010
% of Renewable Electricity 100% 100% 100%
1 Includes both direct and indirect fuels consumed.
2 Steam and heating data not available in 2021.
The table below shows a breakdown by region of the Company’s total energy use across Scope 1 and Scope 2 categories.
2023 2022 2021
Energy Consumption by Region (MWh) Scope 1 Scope 2 Total Scope 1 Scope 2 Total Scope 1 Scope 2 Total
Americas 34 49,700 49,734 11 48,041 48,052 0.1 52,034 52,034
APAC 26 2,654 2,680 3 2,702 2,705 0.0 2,754 2,754
EMEA 68 13,294 13,362 0 14,125 14,125 0.0 20,355 20,355
Total 128 65,648 65,776 14 64,868 64,882 0.1 75,143 75,143
84
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
This table breaks down 2023 total energy consumption and electricity consumption by country.
Country Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 Total Electricity Consumption Renewable Electricity % Renewable Electricity Total Scope 2 Location Based Total Scope 2 Market Based
Energy Consumption (MWh/Year) (MWh/Year) Emissions (MT CO2e) Emissions (MT CO2e)
(MWh/Year)
Australia 1,481 1,481 1,481 100% 905 0
Belgium 6 6 6 100% 1 0
Canada 3,790 3,783 3,783 100% 428 2
China 5 5 5 100% 3 0
Denmark 221 40 40 100% 36 33
Estonia 56 56 56 100% 25 0
Finland 182 159 159 100% 19 4
France 51 51 51 100% 4 0
Germany 334 334 334 100% 116 0
Hong Kong 51 51 51 100% 33 0
Iceland 99 99 99 100% 0 0
India 801 775 775 100% 556 0
Italy 15 15 15 100% 5 0
Japan 37 37 37 100% 17 0
Latvia 41 41 41 100% 13 0
Lithuania 716 715 715 100% 60 0
Netherlands 327 327 327 100% 88 0
Norway 46 46 46 100% 1 0
Philippines 243 243 243 100% 173 0
Singapore 59 59 59 100% 23 0
Spain 6 6 6 100% 1 0
South Korea 3 3 3 100% 1 0
Sweden 10,147 9,950 9,950 100% 345 23
United Kingdom 1,115 1,115 1,115 100% 230 0
Ukraine 0 0 0 NA 0 0
United States 45,944 45,910 45,910 100% 15,693 0
Total 65,776 65,307 65,307 100% 18,776 62
85
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
The table below breaks down the Company’s total energy use across Scope 1 and Scope 2 categories by country.
2023 2022 2021
MWh Scope 1 Scope 2 Total Scope 1 Scope 2 Total Scope 1 Scope 2 Total
Australia 0 1,481 1,481 0 1,463 1,463 0 1,621 1,621
Belgium 0 6 6 0 1 1 0 17 17
Canada 2 3,788 3,790 0 3,778 3,778 0 3,218 3,218
China 0 5 5 0 4 4 0 16 16
Denmark 0 221 221 0 351 351 0 146 146
Estonia 0 56 56 0 118 118 0 118 118
Finland 0 182 182 0 167 167 0 193 193
France 0 51 51 0 95 95 0 20 20
Germany 0 334 334 0 332 332 0 412 412
Hong Kong 0 51 51 0 144 144 0 174 174
Iceland 0 99 99 0 108 108 0 103 103
India 26 775 801 3 698 701 0 552 552
Italy 0 15 15 0 17 17 0 15 15
Japan 0 37 37 0 47 47 0 37 37
Latvia 0 41 41 0 114 114 0 77 77
Lithuania 0 716 716 0 509 509 0 357 357
Netherlands 0 327 327 0 350 350 0 459 459
Norway 0 46 46 0 154 154 0 127 127
Philippines 0 243 243 0 215 215 0 165 165
Singapore 0 59 59 0 128 128 0 186 186
Spain 0 6 6 0 7 7 0 8 8
South Korea 0 3 3 0 3 3 0 3 3
Sweden 68 10,079 10,147 0 10,310 10,310 0 15,959 15,959
United Kingdom 0 1,115 1,115 0 1,489 1,489 0 2,332 2,332
Ukraine 0 0 0 0 3 3 0 12 12
United States 32 45,912 45,944 11 44,263 44,274 0.1 48,816 48,816
Total 128 65,648 65,776 14.0 64,868 64,882 0.1 75,143 75,143
86
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Waste
The tables below represent the disposal and treatment of waste generated in Nasdaq’s global operations.
2023 2023 2022 2022 2021 2021
Waste and Recycling Waste and Recycling Emissions Waste and Recycling Waste and Recycling Emissions Waste and Recycling Waste and Recycling
(Weight) (MT) (MT CO2e) (Weight) (MT) (MT CO2e) (Weight) (MT) Emissions (MT CO2e)
Region Incinerated Landfilled Recycled/ Incinerated Landfilled Recycled/ Incinerated Landfilled Recycled/ Incinerated Landfilled Recycled/ Landfilled Recycled/ Landfilled Recycled/
Composted Composted Composted Composted Composted Composted
Americas 3 90 85 1 52 10 48 114 108 21 59 9 179 90 29 12
APAC 0 32 29 0 18 4 0 10 8 0 6 1 78 31 13 5
EMEA 6 18 36 3 11 4 1 71 106 0 37 8 23 22 4 5
Total 9 140 150 4 81 18 49 195 222 21 102 18 280 143 46 22
Note: Nasdaq has implemented a program to periodically audit the waste of our key offices. Whenever possible, Nasdaq’s actual waste was included in the calculation; otherwise, a proportional share was determined using occupied square footage. If waste data was completely unavailable, estimates were based
on an average per square foot for waste from collected waste audits.
Nasdaq’s 2023 waste decreased due to internal sustainability measures and a reduction of office renovations. In 2022, we began quantifying the waste that was incinerated instead of just listed as landfill.
Water
Water consumption data represented in the tables below was obtained directly from utility providers and/or from landlords or data center operators.
2023 2023 2022 2022 2021 2021
Water Consumption1,2 Water Emissions Water Consumption1,2 Water Emissions Water Consumption1,2 Water Emissions
Region (Kiloliters) (MT CO2e) (Kiloliters) (MT CO2e) (Kiloliters) (MT CO2e)
Americas 25,503 31 20,857 23 27,967 34
APAC 7,675 9 4,213 4 4,728 6
EMEA 14,188 18 14,105 16 19,046 23
Total 47,366 58 39,175 43 51,741 63
1 For Nasdaq office space water consumption, where the only data available was aggregated for the entire building, the Nasdaq portion of the water was calculated based on the percentage of Nasdaq occupied space within the building. Where no water consumption data at all could be obtained for a
Nasdaq office location, data was calculated using assumptions based on the number of employees, the square footage of the office, the infrastructure within the building and the green certification for the building (if applicable).
2 For Nasdaq data center water consumption, where only data aggregated from the operator was available, the Nasdaq portion of the water was calculated based on the percentage of racks within the data center occupied by Nasdaq. Where no water consumption data could be obtained for a Nasdaq data
center location, data was calculated using assumptions based on the number of racks occupied by Nasdaq, the infrastructure within the building and the green certification for the building (if applicable).
87
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Social Data
Unless otherwise indicated, social data tables exclude employees of non-wholly owned consolidated subsidiaries.
Global Workforce by Gender and Employee Type 2023 2022 20211
Full-time male employees 5,364 4,019 3,202
Full-time female employees 2,929 2,258 1,775
Full-time undisclosed employees 138 16 3
Full-time non-binary employees 6 2 1
Total number of full- time employees 8,437 6,295 4,981
Part-time male employees 26 33 25
Part-time female employees 41 33 32
Part-time undisclosed employees 1 0 0
Part-time non-binary employees 0 0 0
Total number of part-time employees 68 66 57
Employees of non-wholly owned consolidated subsidiaries 20 16 NR
Total employees 8,525 6,377 5,038
Note: Data on this page uses the traditional gender categories of male and female as required in our reports to the U.S. government. Nasdaq’s reporting in this manner does not represent our position on the issue and we deeply respect that gender is not binary.
1 Excludes Verafin employees (acquired in February 2021).
NR: Not Reported
88
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Number of Employees by Gender and Employment Type 2023 2022 20211
Permanent contract – male employees 5,390 4,052 3,227
Permanent contract – female employees 2,970 2,291 1,807
Permanent contract – undisclosed employees 139 16 3
Permanent contract – non-binary employees 6 2 1
Total permanent contract employees 8,505 6,361 5,038
Fixed-term or temporary contract – male employees2 9 14 13
Fixed-term or temporary contract – female employees2 9 12 12
Fixed-term or temporary contract – undisclosed employees2 4 0 0
Total fixed-term or temporary contract employees 22 26 25
1 Excludes Verafin employees (acquired in February 2021).
2 Fixed term or temporary contract employees are employed for a limited period of time.
89
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Regional Breakdown of Workforce by Gender 2023 2022 2021
Americas – male 2,540 2,251 2,037
Americas – female 1,413 1,260 1,094
Americas – undisclosed and non-binary employees 92 9 NR
Total number of Americas employees 4,045 3,520 3,131
EMEA – male 1,483 1,134 1,133
EMEA – female 814 613 596
EMEA – undisclosed and non-binary employees 17 4 NR
Total number of EMEA employees 2,314 1,751 1,729
Asia – male 1,367 667 583
Asia – female 743 418 365
Asia – undisclosed and non-binary employees 36 5 NR
Total number of Asia employees 2,146 1,090 948
Total number of undisclosed employees 139 16 5
Total number of non-binary employees 6 2 1
NR: Not Reported
90
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
2023 Workforce by Gender and Country1 Female Male Undisclosed and Non-Binary Total
United States 990 1582 38 2610
India 398 904 11 1313
Canada 367 837 51 1255
Sweden 237 636 5 878
Lithuania 210 238 8 456
United Kingdom 129 241 2 372
Philippines 179 133 15 327
Australia 90 220 5 315
Mexico 56 121 3 180
France 49 82 0 131
Singapore 34 48 0 82
Poland 42 27 0 69
Hong Kong 32 32 5 69
Georgia 18 38 0 56
All other countries 139 251 2 392
Total 2,970 5,390 145 8,505
1 For countries with over 50 employees.
91
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Gender by Level
20231 20222 2021
Career Level Executive Senior Mid Entry Executive Senior Mid Entry Executive Senior Mid Entry
(VP and Above) (Sr. Director (Specialist (Technician (VP and Above) (Sr. Director (Specialist (Technician (VP and Above) (Sr. Director (Specialist (Technician
and Above) and Above) and Above and Above) and Above) and Above and Above) and Above) and Above
Female 26.1% 30.9% 36.1% 40.2% 23.7% 30.6% 36.5% 42.3% 24.2% 30.3% 35.2% 40.6%
Male 73.4% 67.9% 62.2% 56.3% 76.3% 69.0% 63.2% 57.3% 75.8% 69.4% 64.7% 59.3%
Undisclosed 0.4% 1.2% 1.6% 3.4% 0% 0.4% 0.3% 0.4% 0% 0.3% 0% 0.1%
Non-binary 0% 0% 0.1% 0.1% 0% 0% 0% 0.1% 0% 0% 0.1% 0%
Note: Totals may not add up to 100% due to rounding to the closest tenth decimal point.
1 Calculations exclude Adenza employees.
2 Calculations exclude employees of Verafin and Metrio.
Gender at the Managerial Level (U.S. Only)
Manager is defined by a Nasdaq regular employee with at least one direct report.
20231 2022 2021
Top Management Managerial Jr. Management Top Management Managerial Jr. Management Top Management Managerial Jr. Management
Positions Positions3 Positions Positions Positions Positions
(Leadership Team)2 (Leadership Team) (Leadership Team)
Female 25.0% 34.7% 44.0% NR 38.9% NR NR 35.6% NR
Male 72.7% 64.2% 53.9% NR 61.1% NR NR 64.4% NR
Undisclosed 2.3% 0.9% 2.1% NR 0% NR NR 0% NR
Non-binary 0% 0.2% 0% NR 0% NR NR 0% NR
NR: Not Reported
1 Calculations exclude Adenza employees.
2 Includes Presidents, Executive Vice Presidents (EVP) and Senior Vice Presidents (SVP).
3 Includes Managers and Specialists as first level management positions.
92
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
20231 20222 2021
Female Male Female Male Female Male
Management-level employees in revenue generating functions 51.1% 48.9% 49.7% 50.3% 39.1% 60.9%
1 Calculations exclude Adenza employees.
2 Calculations exclude employees of Verafin and Metrio.
20231 20222 2021
Female Male Undisclosed Female Male Female Male
Management-level employees in STEM related fields3 13.1% 86.2% 0.7% 15.0% 85.0% 18.0% 82.0%
1 Calculations exclude Adenza employees.
2 Calculations exclude employees of Verafin and Metrio.
3 Positions include Engineer, Enterprise Architect, Data Center Operations, Database Administration, Desktop Support, Information Security, IT Operations, Systems Administration, Technical Writer, Product and Web Development, Surveillance, Econ & Stat Research, HRIS, Data Scientist and DevOps.
Level by Race and Ethnicity (U.S. Only)
20231 20222 2021
Race & Ethnicity Executive Senior Mid Entry Executive Senior Mid Entry Executive Senior Mid Entry
White 82.4% 70.4% 63.5% 54.6% 84.6% 71.8% 64.0% 57.6% 85.9% 71.0% 65.3% 57.7%
Asian 7.2% 14.8% 17.6% 15.3% 6.0% 15.3% 17.9% 16.4% 5.2% 14.4% 18.1% 18.6%
Black 5.2% 5.2% 6.3% 12.4% 4.0% 4.7% 7.1% 12.2% 3.0% 4.6% 6.8% 11.1%
Hispanic 2.0% 5.2% 5.3% 7.3% 2.7% 4.5% 5.9% 7.2% 3.7% 4.9% 5.8% 6.2%
Two or More 0.0% 0.8% 2.2% 3.0% 0.7% 1.3% 2.2% 3.0% 0.7% 2.0% 1.6% 3.3%
Pacific Islander 0.7% 0.0% 0.3% 0.3% 0.7% 0.0% 0.3% 0.3% 0.7% 0.0% 0.3% 0.0%
Native American 0.0% 0.5% 0.0% 0.1% 0.0% 0.5% 0.0% 0.2% 0.0% 0.3% 0.2% 0.2%
Undisclosed 2.6% 3.0% 4.9% 6.9% 1.3% 1.8% 2.7% 3.2% 0.7% 2.9% 1.9% 2.9%
Note: Totals may not add up to 100% due to rounding to the closest tenth decimal point.
1 Calculations exclude Adenza employees.
2 Calculations exclude employees of Verafin and Metrio.
93
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Race and Ethnicity at the Managerial Level (U.S. Only)
Race & Ethnicity 20231 2022 2021
White 73.4% 73.7% 76.4%
Asian 10.4% 10.7% 9.9%
Black 6.8% 6.2% 5.1%
Hispanic 4.1% 4.1% 4.4%
Two or More 1.7% 2.6% 2.0%
Pacific Islander 0.2% 0.2% 0.2%
Native American 0.2% 0.3% 0.2%
Undisclosed 3.3% 2.3% 1.8%
Note: Totals may not add up to 100% due to rounding to the closest tenth decimal point.
1 Calculations exclude Adenza employees.
Workforce by Age
Workforce 2023
Under 30 years 22.0%
30-50 years 63.6%
Over 50 years 14.4%
Gender by Age
2023 2022 2021
Gender Under 30 Years 30-50 Years Over 50 Years Under 30 Years 30-50 Years Over 50 Years Under 30 Years 30-50 Years Over 50 Years
Male 19.6% 64.5% 15.9% 21.5% 62.4% 16.1% 19.2% 62.9% 17.9%
Female 25.2% 62.8% 12.0% 26.0% 60.9% 13.1% 25.9% 59.7% 14.4%
Undisclosed 42.3% 50.7% 7.0% 50.0% 43.8% 6.3% 33.3% 33.3% 33.3%
Non-binary 33.3% 50.0% 16.7% 0.0% 100.0% 0.0% 0.0% 100.0% 0.0%
Note: Totals may not add up to 100% due to rounding to the closest tenth decimal point.
94
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Race and Ethnicity by Age (U.S. Only)
20231 2022
Race & Ethnicity Under 30 Years 30-50 Years Over 50 Years Under 30 Years 30-50 Years Over 50 Years
White 61.1% 61.6% 69.2% 62.5% 62.8% 71.4%
Asian 16.4% 16.6% 13.3% 15.9% 17.4% 12.7%
Black 6.9% 8.2% 8.1% 6.9% 8.2% 8.5%
Hispanic 7.6% 5.0% 5.2% 8.7% 4.9% 4.6%
Two or more 3.0% 2.1% 1.2% 3.2% 3.0% 1.6%
Pacific Islander 0.4% 0.2% 0.4% 0.4% 0.2% 0.4%
Native American 0.0% 0.2% 0.2% 0.0% 0.2% 0.0%
Undisclosed 4.7% 6.2% 2.5% 2.5% 3.2% 0.8%
Note: Totals may not add up to 100% due to rounding to the closest tenth decimal point.
1 Calculations exclude Adenza employees.
95
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Employee Turnover
Employee Voluntary and Involuntary Turnover 2023 20221 2021 Employee Voluntary and Involuntary Turnover 20231 2022 2021
Rates by Gender Rates by Race & Ethnicity (U.S. Only)
Male 10.4% 13.1% 14.5% White 9.6% 12.5% 14.3%
Female 9.9% 13.2% 14.8% Asian 14.6% 13.9% 14.1%
Undisclosed 5.2% 8.3% 38.5% Black 13.4% 12.1% 21.7%
Non-binary 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Hispanic 13.1% 14.8% 17.7%
Two or more 17.5% 12.8% 22.2%
1 Calculations exclude Verafin employees.
Pacific Islander 0.0% 0.0% 20.0%
Employee Voluntary and Involuntary Turnover 20231 20222 2021
Native American 0.0% 0.0% 50.0%
Rates by Employee Level
Undisclosed 10.5% 9.1% 30.6%
Executive (VP and above) 10.6% 7.6% 11.8%
1 Calculations exclude Adenza employees.
Senior (Sr. Director and above) 8.7% 6.3% 10.3%
Mid (Specialist and above) 9.0% 12.4% 12.9%
Employee Voluntary and Involuntary Turnover 20231 2022 2021
Entry (Technician and above) 12.5% 20.1% 23.2% Rates by Age
Under 30 years 15.7% NR NR
1 Calculations exclude Adenza employees.
2 Calculations exclude Verafin employees. 30-50 years 8.4% NR NR
Over 50 years 9.7% NR NR
NR: Not Reported
1 Calculations exclude Adenza employees.
96
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
New and Internal Hires (Excludes Adenza)
New and Internal Hires by Age 2023 20221 20211 New and Internal Hires by Race & Ethnicity (U.S. Only) 2023 2022 2021
Under 30 years 47.9% 51.9% 50.2% White 59.6% 62.8% 57.5%
30-50 years 48.3% 44.6% 43.7% Asian 17.8% 15.0% 16.2%
Over 50 years 3.8% 3.5% 6.1% Black 9.2% 8.8% 9.9%
Hispanic 5.9% 7.6% 8.8%
1 Calculations exclude Verafin employees.
Two or more 3.6% 2.9% 3.1%
New and Internal Hires 2023 20221 20212
Pacific Islander 0.0% 0.2% 0.2%
Open positions filled by internal hires 21.1% 21.3% 16.1% Native American 0.0% 0.0% 0.2%
Undisclosed 3.9% 2.7% 4.2%
1 Calculations exclude Verafin employees.
New and Internal Hires by Gender 2023 20221 20211 Local Hires 2023 2022 2021
Male 54.6% 58.9% 58.4% Percentage of senior management1 at significant locations of
98% 92% 51%
operation that are hired from the local community2
Female 42.0% 40.6% 41.5%
Undisclosed 3.0% 0.5% 0.1%
1 Senior management includes CEO, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, Vice President, Associate Vice President, President,
Non-binary 0.4% 0.0% NR Senior Director / Principal.
2 Nasdaq locations that have 200 or more employees.
NR: Not Reported
1 Calculations exclude Verafin employees.
New and Internal Hires by Level 2023 20221 20211
Executive (VP and above) 1.1% 1.2% 1.2%
Senior (Sr. Director and above) 4.7% 4.7% 6.0%
Mid (Specialist and above) 43.1% 47.2% 46.2%
Entry (Technician and above) 51.2% 46.9% 45.6%
1 Calculations exclude Verafin employees.
97
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Parental Leave (U.S. Only)
2023 2022 2021
Female employees eligible for paid parental leave 887 881 785
Male employees eligible for paid parental leave 1,395 1,433 1,378
Undisclosed and non-binary employees eligible for paid parental leave 10 8 2
Female employees who took paid parental leave 27 43 35
Female employees who returned to work after paid parental leave ended 27 43 32
Male employees who took paid parental leave 51 50 47
Male employees who returned to work after paid parental leave ended 51 50 45
98
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Governance Data
Tax Transparency
# of Employees Revenue from Third-Party Sales ($ in Millions) Profit/Loss Before Tax ($ in Millions) Corporate Income Tax Paid on a Cash Basis, Net of Refund ($ in Millions)
Australia 315 135 44 15
Belgium 4 0 0 0
Brazil 14 2 0 0
Canada 1,255 280 3 (2)
Chile 7 0 0 0
China 3 0 0 0
Colombia 30 1 0 0
Denmark 40 48 35 8
Estonia 23 6 3 0
Finland 41 43 35 6
France 131 8 1 0
Georgia 56 1 0 0
Germany 26 1 0 0
Hong Kong 69 0 0 0
Iceland 18 13 6 2
India 1,313 7 9 2
Ireland 17 16 0 0
Israel 27 1 1 0
Italy 6 0 0 0
Japan 32 2 0 0
Latvia 17 4 2 0
Lithuania 456 4 3 0
Luxembourg 0 0 10 0
Mexico 180 4 0 0
Netherlands 6 9 1 0
Norway 23 20 8 1
Philippines 327 0 1 0
Poland 69 1 0 0
Saudi Arabia 1 0 0 0
Singapore 82 12 1 0
South Korea 5 1 0 0
Spain 17 0 0 0
Sweden 878 376 141 39
Turkey 1 0 0 0
United Kingdom 372 84 23 2
Ukraine 19 1 (1) 0
United Arab Emirates 15 1 0 0
United States 2,610 4,983 1,075 181
TOTAL 8,505 6,064 1,401 254
99
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Incidents of Discrimination, 2023
Type Number
Total number of incidents of discrimination 0
Additional Data
Market Halts and Volatility, 2023 Daily Trades, 2023
Number Average Duration (minutes) Type Number of Trades Executed
Halts – U.S. 176 733 U.S. Equities 17,179,522
Halts – Nordics & Baltics 783 349 U.S. Options 1,382,789
Pauses – U.S. 6,432 7.3 Canadian Equities 479,415
Pauses – Nordics & Baltics 24,870 1.5 Nordic Equities 716,371
Nordic Equity Options and Futures 98,759
Market Disruptions, 2023
Nordic Fixed Income Options and Futures 166
Significant Disruptions and Downtime
Daily Volume Traded, 2023
Region Number of Disruptions Downtime (minutes)
Type Number of Traded Contracts
U.S. 2 60
U.S. Equities 1,843,885,883
Europe 0 0
U.S. Options 10,140,444
Managing Business Continuity and Technology Risks, 2023
Canadian Equities 181,669,114
Type Number Nordic Equities 1,092,958,286
Total number of data breaches 0 Nordic Equity Options and Futures 242,045
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information 0 Nordic Fixed Income Options and Futures 26,176
Total number of unique customers affected by data breaches, including those whose personal
0
data was compromised
100
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Our Support of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
Nasdaq’s public commitment to sustainable development and socially responsible business practices began in 2012 at the Rio+20 conference, where Nasdaq was one of five founding signatories to the UN Sustainable Stock Exchanges
(SSE) Initiative. Since 2012, Nasdaq has also been a proud participant of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), a non-binding pact that encourages businesses to adopt sustainable and socially responsible practices, report on their progress
and advance the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs are 17 global goals and 169 targets adopted by all UN Member States in 2015 with the aim of achieving a better and more
sustainable future for all.
At Nasdaq, the SDGs help guide our sustainability strategy and connect our efforts to an ambitious global agenda. We conducted an assessment to identify the SDGs where we believe Nasdaq is likely to have the greatest impact.
Leveraging SDG mapping and disclosure guidance from GRI, SASB, UN SSE and the UNGC, we assessed the alignment of the SDGs in relation to the high-priority topics identified in our assessment of priority ESG topics, our corporate
ESG objectives and activities, our products and services and our industry. We identified and prioritized seven SDGs where we are likely to have the most direct impact. We are reporting our progress against our corporate and
commercial objectives that support these seven SDGs.
SDG Our Progress Our Aligned Initiatives Aligned SDG Targets
5 | Gender Equality: Achieve gender equality and • Nearly a five-percentage point increase in the hiring of women and underrepresented minorities Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion 5.5
empower all women and girls
• Graduated our first Accelerate(HER) cohort
8 | Decent Work and Economic Growth: Promote • Maintained largest percentage of small cap companies of any U.S. exchange (over 70%) Listings - U.S. 8.3
sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth,
• As of year-end 2023, more than 500 companies were listed on First North Growth Market in the First North Growth Market - Nordics
full and productive employment and decent work for all
Nordics
• Served 20,700 entrepreneurs and supported small business across 140 countries, including emerging Nasdaq Entrepreneurial Center
economies
9 | Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure: Build • As of year-end 2023, our marketplace technology was deployed in 25+ emerging economies Capital Markets Technology 9.a
resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and
sustainable industrialization and foster innovation
101
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
SDG Our Progress Our Aligned Initiatives Aligned SDG Targets
10 | Reduced Inequalities: Reduce inequality within • Nearly a five-percentage point increase in the hiring of women and underrepresented minorities Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion 10.2
and among countries
• Engaged with 157 diverse suppliers, amounting to over $2.1 million in diverse supplier spend Supplier Diversity
• During 2023, the Nasdaq Foundation provided 13 grants to support organizations and programs Nasdaq Foundation
aligned with the Foundation’s mission to support under-resourced communities
• Served 20,700 entrepreneurs, of which 70% were women and 79% were entrepreneurs of color Nasdaq Entrepreneurial Center
• Established relationships with 14 organizations to support Nasdaq-listed companies in their search for Board Diversity Support
highly qualified, diverse, board-ready candidates
• Integrated AxiomSL’s ESG regulatory reporting tools through our Adenza acquisition Regulatory Technology 10.5
• Published the Nasdaq Verafin 2024 Global Financial Crime Report Financial Crime Management
Technology
12 | Responsible Consumption and Production: • Launched Nasdaq Sustainable Lens, an ESG intelligence platform that harnesses the power of AI ESG Solutions 12.6
Ensure sustainable consumption and production
• Nasdaq ESG Advisory engaged with 90+ clients on sustainability reporting matters
patterns
• 30 built-in frameworks and rating organization surveys on Nasdaq Metrio
13 | Climate Action: Take urgent action to combat • Three additional buildings LEED Certified Decarbonization & 13.2
climate change and its impacts Climate Change Strategy
• Requested top suppliers by spend to respond to the CDP climate questionnaire, leading to inclusion Evaluating & Engaging Our
on CDP Supplier Engagement Leaderboard Supply Chain
• Hosted inaugural NY Climate Week Conference ESG Solutions 13.3
• Hosted inaugural Stockholm ESG Summit
• 61.8 billion EUR of total listed outstanding sustainable debt volume on NSDM, representing 28% year- Nasdaq Sustainable Debt Market
over-year growth
Nasdaq Sustainable Bond Network
• 1,721 total NSBN issuers and 16,295 bonds covered
• Pioneered a Carbon Trading & Registry Technology to scale global carbon markets Capital Markets Technology
• Developed a carbon taxonomy framework
102
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
SDG Our Progress Our Aligned Initiatives Aligned SDG Targets
17 | Partnerships for the Goals: Strengthen the means Continued our ESG memberships: ESG Memberships 17.16
of implementation and revitalize the Global Partnership
• Business Roundtable (BRT) “Purpose of a Corporation”
for Sustainable Development
• CDP Supply Chain
• Federation of European Securities Exchanges (FESE) Sustainable Finance Task Force
• Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi)
• Taskforce on Nature-Related Financial Disclosures (TNFD) Forum
• United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)
• United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI)
• United Nations Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) Initiative
• World Federation of Exchanges (WFE) – Sustainability Working Group
For more information on the UN SDGs and related targets please visit https://sdgs.un.org/goals.
103
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
ESG Awards and Recognition
Additional Resources
We are proud that our continued commitment to advancing our ESG objectives
and initiatives has earned us recognition from leading ESG organizations. Our
2023–2024 ESG-related recognitions include:
The following reports, policies and practice statements
are available online in our ESG Resource Center.
Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI) Just Capital 2024 JUST 100 List Policies & Statements
Modern Slavery Statement
Coqual Black Equity Index Newsweek, America’s Most Responsible
Environmental Practices Statement
Companies of 2024
CDP Climate Change A List Human Rights Practices Statement
Newsweek, America’s Greenest Operational Health and Safety Statement
CDP Supplier Engagement Leaderboard Companies of 2024 Information Protection and Privacy Practices
Privacy Policy
Dow Jones Sustainability North America
Parity.org 2023 Best Companies
Index (DJSI North America)
for Women to Advance Code of Ethics
S&P Global Sustainability Yearbook 2024 Nasdaq Code of Ethics (PDF)
Parity.org 2023 Best Companies
Supplier Code of Ethics (PDF)
EcoVadis Gold Sustainability Rating for People of Color to Advance
Annual Reports
ESG Investing 2023 Best Company Seramount 2023 Inclusion Index
2024 Proxy Statement (PDF)
for Sustainability Reporting, Technology
Seramount 2023 Global Inclusion Index 2023 Form 10-K (PDF)
& Telecoms
Seramount 2023 100 Best Companies ESG FAQ
Forbes The World’s 100 Most Powerful
Women 2023 List – Adena Friedman, Summary 2023 Sustainability Report Microsite
Nasdaq Chair & CEO
Independent Limited Assurance Statements
Human Rights Campaign Foundation
2023/2024 Equality 100 Award: Leader
in LGBTQ+ Workplace Inclusion
104
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
INFLUENCE ON OUR BUSINESS SUCCESS
SREDLOHEKATS
RUO
OT
ECNATROPMI
Assessment of
Highest Priority
Priority ESG Topics
ESG Topics
We are committed to continuously advancing our longer-
• Data Privacy & Cybersecurity
term ESG strategy, advocacy and oversight. We engage
High Priority ESG Topics • Risk Management
with internal and external stakeholders at all levels on ESG
matters on an ongoing basis. • Board Composition & Governance
• Executive Compensation & Incentives
• Business Ethics & Integrity
During 2023, we continued our corporate and community • Employee Health & Wellbeing
ESG efforts, furthering our commitment to sustainability and • Human Capital Management
• Support for Small- & Medium-Sized
climate change awareness. In addition to providing frequent Enterprises • Anti-Financial Crime & Anti-Money
and robust reporting on our ESG efforts and continuously Laundering
• Public Policy Advocacy
working to identify emerging ESG trends, we encouraged • ESG & Sustainable Finance Products
our employees to participate in our ESG initiatives, engaged • Labor Practices & Human Rights
• Transparency & Reporting
with our stakeholders and supported our clients as they • Supply Chain Responsibility
pursue their ESG-related opportunities and objectives. • Employee Engagement & Satisfaction
• Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Nasdaq conducts periodic assessments of priority Priority ESG
ESG topics to identify and prioritize ESG topics that • Customer Relationship Management
Topics
are influential on our business and important to our • Decarbonization & Climate Strategy
stakeholders. In 2022 and 2023, facilitated by Nasdaq’s
• Community • Innovation & Technology
ESG Advisory team, we conducted an organization-wide
Engagement
assessment of Nasdaq’s priority ESG topics to inform our
sustainability strategy and approach to ESG governance • Natural Resource
and reporting. This assessment weighed the potential Management
relevance of a wide universe of topics identified as
potentially impactful by leading ESG reporting frameworks,
INCREASING IMPORTANCE
ratings and assessments, benchmarking exercises, surveys
and interviews with internal and external stakeholders.
Assessment of Priority ESG Topics Methodology
Twenty-one ESG-related topics were identified by the
assessment to be relevant to Nasdaq’s business.
Identity Priority ESG Topics Gather Feedback from Internal and External Validate the Results
Review leading ESG reporting frameworks, Stakeholders Reaffirm the high-priority topics that pose the greatest
rating agencies and consider our industry to Interview and survey our internal and external stakeholders ESG risk or ESG opportunity to our business
identify high-priority ESG topics to determine relative importance of ESG topics
105
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Stakeholder Engagement
As a signatory to the Business Roundtable Statement on the Purpose of a Corporation and supporter of the World Economic Forum’s Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics initiative, Nasdaq views accountability to our stakeholders as both a
mark of good governance and a critical component of our operational success. We seek to manage our business with the goal of delivering sustainable, long-term value to a wide array of stakeholders, including our shareholders.
Below are examples of how we engage with stakeholders across a variety of ESG topics.
Stakeholder Groups Topics of Interest Related to ESG 2023 Engagement
Clients and Customers ESG indexes, asset managers’ ESG investing policies and client strategies, board and • Held our inaugural NY Climate Week Conference, announcing the launch of Nasdaq Metrio, an ESG Reporting tool
(including market management ESG oversight, ESG policy and program development and disclosure guidance
• Continued to enhance our ESG Solutions through products and services that enable positive environmental, economic and societal outcomes
participants)
• For more information on our engagement with clients and customers, see the ESG Solutions and Solutions and Services sections of this
report
Communities and Community outreach, employee volunteering and giving, and resources for women and under- • Supported community organizations through our Foundation’s 2023 Quarterly grant program recipients
Non-Governmental represented minority entrepreneurs and diverse investors
• Provided ongoing ESG education for entrepreneurs through Nasdaq’s Entrepreneurial Center
Organizations (NGOs)
• Supported nearly 600 charities worldwide through our GoodWorks program
• For more information on our engagement with communities and NGOs, see our Community Engagement section of this report
Employees People and culture (including the alignment of our culture with our corporate strategy), effort • Hosted 3rd annual “Purpose Week” with educational workshops for employees
and Leadership to shape our corporate culture, succession planning, talent development, diversity, equity and
• Held ESG education session during employee town hall
inclusion initiatives and the future of work
• Collected employee feedback during employee engagement surveys
• Provided briefing to Nasdaq Board on climate trends
• For more information on our engagement with employees and leadership, see our Social section of this report
Suppliers Supplier Code of Conduct, Supplier Diversity Program and environmental criteria for suppliers • Added 157 new diverse suppliers, which represents over $2.1 million in supplier spend in 2023
• Requested top suppliers by spend to respond to the CDP climate questionnaire, leading to inclusion on CDP Supplier Engagement
Rating Leaderboard
• For more information on how we engage with suppliers see our Environmental, Social and Governance Supplier sections of this report
Government and Nasdaq’s advocacy focuses on policies affecting the capital markets • For more information on our engagement please see the Public Policy Advocacy section of this report
Regulators
Shareholders Investor ESG priorities, ESG policy and program development, ESG disclosure and people and culture • 25+ ESG-focused investor engagements
• For more information on our engagement with shareholders, see Nasdaq’s Investor Relations website
106
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Priority ESG Topics Glossary
Anti-Financial Crime & Anti-Money Laundering: Addresses the Data Privacy & Cybersecurity: Addresses the Company’s Employee Health & Wellbeing: Addresses the Company’s ability to Natural Resource Consumption: Addresses the Company’s impacts
Company’s policies, procedures and training in place to ensure the management of risks related to the collection, retention and use of create and maintain a safe and healthy workplace environment. This on nature and its actions and commitments to mitigate them. This
effective establishment and implementation of a company culture sensitive, confidential or proprietary customer data. This topic also topic encompasses financial, physical and mental wellbeing and topic includes the Company’s approach to water consumption, waste
opposing money-laundering and terrorism financing. refers to the management of risks related to the use of personally incorporates corporate culture, work-life balance, compensation and management and recycling, biodiversity and land use, including the
identifiable information and other customer data for secondary benefits and related training. implementation of the forthcoming TNFD recommendations. This
Board Composition and Governance: Addresses the quality,
integrity and oversight of the Company’s Board. This topic refers to purposes, including marketing. Also included are social issues that ESG & Sustainable Finance Products: Addresses the Company’s topic addresses the Company’s approach to assess and manage
diversity factors such as gender, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity, may arise from the Company’s approach to collecting data, obtaining approach to integrate ESG in its business segments and the offers nature-related risks in its supply chain.
country of origin, nationality or cultural background in the Board consent and managing customer expectations regarding how their or promotions of products or services which provide an added Public Policy Advocacy: Addresses the Company’s approach to
nomination process; the quality of directors; their relevant industry data is being used, or issues that may arise from incidents such as sustainability value compared to standard products or services. political contributions and lobbying, including the Company’s ability
experience; the level of Board independence; and management and data breaches in which personally identifiable information and other Executive Compensation & Incentives: Addresses the Company’s to provide public disclosure around political activities, political
oversight of ESG/sustainability topics at the Board level. customer data may be exposed. Lastly, it addresses the Company’s program to reward financial performance and operational excellence, involvement, lobbying and political expenses, political contributions
strategy, policies and practices related to IT infrastructure, and lobbying spend.
Business Ethics & Integrity: Addresses the Company’s approach effective strategic leadership, achievement of business unit goals
employee training and other mechanisms used to ensure security of
to the management of risks and opportunities surrounding ethical and objectives and performance on priority ESG/sustainability topics. Risk Management: Addresses the Company’s responsibility for
customer data.
conduct of business, including fraud, corruption, bribery and This topic also refers to the Company’s ability to use compensation risk management, including oversight, strategic direction, policies
facilitation payments, fiduciary responsibilities and other behavior Decarbonization & Climate Strategy: Addresses the Company’s and incentives to compete successfully for top talent and build an and procedures in place to execute and implement those policies.
that may have an ethical component. This topic addresses the commitments and actions to decarbonize its business model over effective leadership team. This topic includes an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)
Company’s ability to model integrity and provide services that satisfy the near and long term. This topic also addresses the processes Human Capital Management: Addresses the Company’s practices, framework to identify and manage financial, operational, legal,
the highest professional and ethical standards of the industry, for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related issues initiatives and processes aimed at attracting and retaining top talent regulatory (current and emerging), technology, climate, nature,
which means avoiding conflicts or interest, misrepresentation, integrated into financial and strategy planning and overall and supporting employees in developing the skills necessary to business and strategic risks.
risk management, including the implementation of the TCFD
bias and negligence through training employees adequately and succeed in their current and next role, including regular feedback, Supply Chain Responsibility: Addresses the Company’s approach to
recommendations. This topic also addresses the management
implementing policies and procedures. This topic also addresses the support for career planning, degree and certification programs and managing social risks in its supply chain. This topic includes policies
and mitigation of energy consumption and GHG emissions that are
quality of the Company’s whistleblower program in place allowing leadership training. and procedures related to responsible procurement practices and
under the Company’s control, including the Company’s ability to
the anonymous reporting by an employee, supplier or customer to topics such as human rights, labor rights, modern slavery and human
set and achieve science-based and net-zero targets in line with Innovation & Technology: Addresses the Company’s ability to foster
expose information, misconduct or activity that is deemed illegal, trafficking.
the goals of the Paris Agreement. Finally, this topic addresses the a culture of innovation, drive productivity and increase value for its
illicit, unsafe, a waste or fraud.
Company’s approach to managing environmental risks in its supply customers. This topic also includes the Company’s ability to leverage Support for Small & Medium-Sized Enterprises: Addresses the
Community Engagement: Addresses the Company’s involvement chain, including efforts to engage suppliers on their environmental technology and data to deliver insights and invest in its employees to Company’s efforts to enable small and medium-sized enterprises
in the community and their power to bring measurable change to performance. learn leading technology skills. to grow both financially and organically by providing access to the
the communities in which they operate and do business. This topic capital markets.
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion: Addresses the Company’s ability Labor Practices & Human Rights: Addresses the Company’s
includes measures to promote community investment, positive social
to ensure its culture, hiring and promotion practices embrace the policies and procedures to prevent discrimination and harassment Transparency & Reporting: The Company’s publicly accessible
impact and charitable giving.
building of a diverse and inclusive workforce. and its ability to uphold commonly accepted labor standards in the information pertaining to its governance, stakeholders, environmental
Customer Relationship Management: Addresses the Company’s workplace, including compliance with labor laws and internationally performance and supply chain, including its adherence to leading
Employee Engagement & Satisfaction: Addresses the Company’s
actions and tools used to manage customers, online strategy, accepted norms & standards. This includes but is not limited to ESG and sustainability frameworks and standards and regulatory and
engagement activities centered on enhancing collaboration and
sales and distribution channels, customer satisfaction and ensuring basic human rights related to child labor, forced labor, legislative disclosure mandates.
communication between employees and improving their work
customer protection. exploitive labor, discrimination policy, pay equality and other basic
contributions, including mechanisms to grow employee contentment,
workers’ rights. This topic also addresses the Company’s human
accomplishment, satisfaction and motivation regarding their jobs and
rights due diligence process, mitigation and remediation actions.
associated satisfaction measurements and metrics.
107
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Assurance Statements
Independent Limited Assurance Statement on Nasdaq’s GHG Emissions, Energy Consumption and Employee Data
KERAMIDA, Inc. verified Nasdaq’s 2023 greenhouse gas emissions (including Scope 1, Scope 2 and all applicable upstream and downstream
Scope 3 emissions) energy consumption, and social data (related to employee workforce, turnover, hires and parental leave) to a limited
level of assurance. More details on the scope, standards and KERAMIDA's conclusion can be found in the assurance statements below and
available for download on our ESG Resource Center.
108
Appendix B:
TCFD Data, TNFD-Aligned
Risk Assessment and
Climate Transition Plan
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Physical Risks of Nasdaq’s Offices
The charts below present the same information that is available in the “Physical Risks of Nasdaq’s Offices” and “Physical Risks of Nasdaq’s Data Centers” tables in the “Strategy” section of the TCFD Report, but with specific exposure
percentages included. Asset-level results are aggregated to show the percentage of facilities at different levels of exposure, under each applied scenario and time horizon.
SSP 5-8.5 (~4.2C) Scenario SSP 2-4.5 (~2.7C) Scenario
Short-Term 2024-2025 Short-Term 2024-2025
Wildfire Water Stress Inland Flooding Heatwave Sea Level Rise Drought Cyclone Wildfire Water Stress Inland Flooding Heatwave Sea Level Rise Drought Cyclone
Low Exposure 83% 50% 73% 99% 100% 100% 90% Low Exposure 81% 53% 73% 100% 100% 100% 90%
Med. Exposure 17% 40% 0% 1% 0% 0% 4% Med. Exposure 19% 44% 0% 0% 0% 0% 4%
High Exposure 0% 10% 27% 0% 0% 0% 6% High Exposure 0% 3% 27% 0% 0% 0% 6%
Medium-Term 2025-2030 Medium-Term 2025-2030
Wildfire Water Stress Inland Flooding Heatwave Sea Level Rise Drought Cyclone Wildfire Water Stress Inland Flooding Heatwave Sea Level Rise Drought Cyclone
Low Exposure 83% 49% 73% 97% 100% 100% 90% Low Exposure 81% 44% 73% 97% 100% 99% 90%
Med. Exposure 17% 41% 0% 3% 0% 0% 3% Med. Exposure 19% 43% 0% 3% 0% 1% 4%
High Exposure 0% 10% 27% 0% 0% 0% 7% High Exposure 0% 13% 27% 0% 0% 0% 6%
Long-Term 2030-2050 Long-Term 2030-2050
Wildfire Water Stress Inland Flooding Heatwave Sea Level Rise Drought Cyclone Wildfire Water Stress Inland Flooding Heatwave Sea Level Rise Drought Cyclone
Low Exposure 81% 31% 76% 51% 91% 86% 90% Low Exposure 80% 27% 76% 77% 91% 96% 90%
Med. Exposure 19% 37% 0% 43% 9% 11% 1% Med. Exposure 20% 41% 0% 20% 9% 4% 1%
High Exposure 0% 31% 24% 6% 0% 3% 9% High Exposure 0% 31% 24% 3% 0% 0% 9%
110
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Physical Risks of Nasdaq’s Data Centers
SSP 5-8.5 (~4.2C) Scenario SSP 2-4.5 (~2.7C) Scenario
Short-Term 2024-2025 Short-Term 2024-2025
Wildfire Water Stress Inland Flooding Heatwave Sea Level Rise Drought Cyclone Wildfire Water Stress Inland Flooding Heatwave Sea Level Rise Drought Cyclone
Low Exposure 96% 61% 52% 96% 100% 100% 100% Low Exposure 96% 61% 48% 100% 100% 100% 100%
Med. Exposure 4% 26% 0% 4% 0% 0% 0% Med. Exposure 4% 35% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
High Exposure 0% 13% 48% 0% 0% 0% 0% High Exposure 0% 4% 52% 0% 0% 0% 0%
Medium-Term 2025-2030 Medium-Term 2025-2030
Wildfire Water Stress Inland Flooding Heatwave Sea Level Rise Drought Cyclone Wildfire Water Stress Inland Flooding Heatwave Sea Level Rise Drought Cyclone
Low Exposure 96% 57% 52% 96% 100% 100% 100% Low Exposure 96% 48% 48% 96% 100% 96% 100%
Med. Exposure 4% 39% 0% 4% 0% 0% 0% Med. Exposure 4% 35% 0% 4% 0% 4% 0%
High Exposure 0% 4% 48% 0% 0% 0% 0% High Exposure 0% 17% 52% 0% 0% 0% 0%
Long-Term 2030-2050 Long-Term 2030-2050
Wildfire Water Stress Inland Flooding Heatwave Sea Level Rise Drought Cyclone Wildfire Water Stress Inland Flooding Heatwave Sea Level Rise Drought Cyclone
Low Exposure 91% 43% 48% 83% 87% 83% 100% Low Exposure 96% 43% 48% 91% 87% 96% 100%
Med. Exposure 9% 39% 4% 13% 13% 13% 0% Med. Exposure 4% 35% 0% 4% 13% 4% 0%
High Exposure 0% 17% 48% 4% 0% 4% 0% High Exposure 0% 22% 52% 4% 0% 0% 0%
Annual Cost of Nasdaq’s Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG Emissions*
(expressed as a percentage of 2023 Net Income Attributable to Nasdaq)
2023 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050
Net Zero 2050 0% 0.09% 0.42% 0.54% 0.59% 0.66% 0.25%
Carbon Pricing Low Demand 0% 0% 0.20% 0.33% 0.38% 0.46% 0.18%
Scenario Delayed Transition 0% 0% 0% 0.16% 0.22% 0.22% 0.13%
Fragmented World 0% 0% 0% 0.07% 0.09% 0.08% 0.03%
*Based upon carbon pricing scenario analysis using NGFS Net Zero 2050, Low Demand, Delayed Transition, and Fragmented World global carbon prices, and Nasdaq’s 2023 Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions and projected emissions under Nasdaq’s Science-Based Targets. A discount rate of 2% applied to calculate
present value annual cost of emissions. 2023 net income attributable to Nasdaq as show on 2023 Form 10-K.
111
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Taskforce on Nature-Related Financial Disclosure
(TNFD)-Aligned Risk Assessment
The Taskforce on Nature-Related Financial Disclosure The pilot analysis concluded that, while Nasdaq may be
(TNFD) is built on the pillars and principles of the TCFD, or become exposed to several nature-related risks, these
following the structure of governance, strategy, risk risks are already mitigated by our existing risk management
management and metrics and targets. In 2022, Nasdaq processes and climate-related resiliency planning. Nasdaq
joined the TNFD Forum to support the development of has a relatively low water footprint. Nasdaq intends to
the new disclosure framework focused on nature and continue to monitor the impact of nature-related issues
biodiversity. Nasdaq supports TNFD’s market-led approach on our business strategy, risk management and financial
to developing a framework that is “scientifically rigorous and planning. For more information, see the Water section of this
easy to adopt for both businesses and financial institutions.” report on page 24 and the Risk Management section of the
TCFD report on page 78.
Nasdaq’s Pilot TNFD Analysis
Nasdaq has undertaken a pilot Locate, Evaluate, Assess,
and Prepare (LEAP) analysis in accordance with TNFD
guidance to assess our exposure to nature-related issues,
risks and opportunities. The scope of this pilot analysis
covered both our direct operations and certain aspects of
our value chain to assess our exposure to nature-related
issues across several of our key facilities, as well as
several critical suppliers and customers. Our facility-level
analysis assessed the sensitivity and materiality of each site
to determine each facility’s interface with nature, as well as
its inherent physical nature-related risks and water-related
reputational and regulatory risks. At a group level, transition
risks were qualitatively analyzed per TNFD risk categories,
and nature-related impacts and dependencies were identified
for our sector. We completed this analysis of our business
operations by assessing the nature-related maturity of our
upstream and downstream value chain and identifying sectoral
impacts and dependencies for our key value chain partners.
112
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
2023 Climate Transition Plan
Our 2023 Climate Transition Plan is aligned to the Transition Plan Taskforce (TPT) framework, which is currently considered the standard for transition planning. The TPT Framework is designed to complement the wider climate-related
disclosures incorporated in the TCFD Report.
1. Foundations
Strategic Ambition Information Links
1.1 An entity shall disclose the Strategic Ambition of its transition plan. This shall comprise the entity’s objectives and priorities for responding and contributing to 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 9, 12-13, 15-23, 46
the transition towards a low-GHG emissions, climate-resilient economy, and set out whether and how the entity is pursuing these objectives and priorities in a
manner that captures opportunities, avoids adverse impacts for stakeholders and society, and safeguards the natural environment. 2023 TCFD Report, pages 62-68, 72-77, 78-80
Business Model and Value Chain Information Links
1.2 An entity shall disclose a description of the current and anticipated implications of the entity’s Strategic Ambition on its business model and value chain. 2023 TCFD Report, pages 64-70
Key Assumptions and External Factors Information Links
1.3 An entity shall disclose key assumptions that it has made and external factors on which it depends in order to achieve the Strategic Ambition of its transition plan. 2023 TCFD Report, pages 64-65, 71-73, 75-76, 79
2. Implementation Strategy
Business Operations Information Links
2.1 An entity shall disclose information about the short-, medium-, and long-term actions it is taking or plans to take in its business operations in order to achieve 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 15-16, 23
the Strategic Ambition of its transition plan.
2023 TCFD Report, pages 64, 66, 69-70, 74-77
Products and Services Information Links
2.2 An entity shall disclose information about short-, medium-, and long-term actions it is taking or plans to take to change its portfolio of products and services in 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 49-50, 55, 57
order to achieve the Strategic Ambition of its transition plan.
2023 TCFD Report, pages 69-70
113
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Policies and Conditions Information Links
2.3 An entity shall disclose information about any policies and conditions that it uses or plans to use in order to achieve the Strategic Ambition of its transition plan. Environmental Practices Statement
Supplier Code of Ethics
Financial Planning Information Links
2.4 An entity shall, to the extent the financial effects of its transition plan are separately identifiable, disclose information about the effects of its transition plan on 2023 TCFD Report, pages 63-65, 67-70
its financial position, financial performance and cash flows over the short-, medium-, and long-term, including information about how it is resourcing or plans
to resource its activities in order to achieve the Strategic Ambition of its transition plan.
3. Engagement Strategy
Engagement with Value Chain Information Links
3.1 An entity shall disclose information about any engagement activities with other entities in its value chain that it is undertaking or plans to undertake in order to 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 23, 106
achieve the Strategic Ambition of its transition plan.
2023 TCFD Report, pages 63, 68, 70-71, 73
Supplier Code of Ethics
Environmental Practices Statement
Engagement with Industry Information Links
3.2 An entity shall disclose information about any engagement and collaborative activities with industry counterparts (and other relevant initiatives or entities) that 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 12, 106
it is undertaking or plans to undertake in order to achieve the Strategic Ambition of its transition plan.
2023 TCFD Report, pages 63, 68
Engagement with Government, Public Sector and Civil Society Information Links
3.3 An entity shall disclose information about any direct and indirect engagement activities with the government, regulators, public sector organisations, 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 58-59, 106
communities, and civil society that it is undertaking or plans to undertake in order to achieve the Strategic Ambition of its transition plan.
114
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
4. Metrics & Targets
Governance, Business and Operational Metrics and Targets Information Links
4.1 An entity shall disclose information about the governance, engagement, business and operational metrics and targets that it uses in order to drive and 2023 Sustainability Report, page 16
monitor progress towards the Strategic Ambition of its transition plan, and report against these metrics and targets on at least an annual basis.
GHG Metrics and Targets Information Links
4.2 An entity shall disclose information about the GHG emissions and removals metrics and targets that it uses in order to drive and monitor progress towards the 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 15-23
Strategic Ambition of its transition plan, and report against these metrics and targets on at least an annual basis.
2023 TCFD Report, pages 63, 69
Carbon Credits Information Links
4.3 An entity shall disclose information about how it uses or plans to use carbon credits to achieve the Strategic Ambition of its transition plan, and report on the 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 3, 4, 13, 36-37, 49-50, 55, 57
use of carbon credits on at least an annual basis.
5. Governance
Board Oversight and Reporting Information Links
5.1 An entity shall disclose information about the governance body(s) (which can include a board, committee, or equivalent body charged with governance) 2023 TCFD Report, pages 62-63
or individual(s) responsible for oversight of the transition plan.
Roles, Responsibility and Accountability Information Links
5.2 An entity shall disclose information about management’s role in the governance processes, controls, and procedures used to monitor, manage, and oversee 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 11, 36-37
the transition plan, as well as how it is embedded within the entity’s wider control, review, and accountability mechanisms.
2023 TCFD Report, pages 62-63
Culture Information Links
5.3 An entity shall disclose information about how it aligns or plans to align its culture with the Strategic Ambition of its transition plan. 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 3, 4, 13, 36-37, 49-50, 55, 57
2023 TCFD Report, pages 69-70
Incentives and Remuneration Information Links
5.4 An entity shall disclose information about how it aligns or plans to align its incentive and remuneration structures with the Strategic Ambition of its 2023 TCFD Report, page 63
transition plan.
Skills, Competencies and Training Information Links
5.5 An entity shall disclose information about actions it is taking or plans to take to assess, maintain, and build the appropriate skills, competencies, and 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 36-37
knowledge across the organisation in order to achieve the Strategic Ambition of its transition plan.
2023 TCFD Report, page 63
115
ESG
Indexes
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index
The GRI Standards represent global best practices for reporting publicly on a range of economic, environmental and social impacts. The table below summarizes where responses to the GRI disclosures can be found throughout this
report and in our publicly available documents.
GRI 2: General Disclosures Information Links
2023 Sustainability Report, page 5
2-1 Organizational details Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Nasdaq, Inc.
2023 Form 10-K, pages 1-5
2023 Sustainability Report, page 12
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting
2023 Form 10-K, Exhibit 21.1
2023 Sustainability Report, page 12
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point
2023 Form 10-K, page i
2-4 Restatements of information Nasdaq does not have any negative impacts to report resulting from restatements of information given in previous sustainability reports.
2023 Sustainability Report, page 108
2-5 External assurance
2023 Form 10-K, pages 1-11
2-7 Employees 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 26-27, 88-91
2-8 Workers who are not employees 2023 Sustainability Report, page 89
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 11, 36-37
2-9 Governance structure and composition
2024 Proxy Statement, pages 13-53
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body 2024 Proxy Statement, pages 13-21, 38
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body 2024 Proxy Statement, page 43
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 11, 36-37
2024 Proxy Statement, pages 8-10, 34-38, 44-53
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of impacts
Nominating & ESG Committee Charter
2023 TCFD Report, pages 62-63
117
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Nominating & ESG Committee Charter
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Corporate Governance Guidelines
2024 Proxy Statement, pages 8-11, 34-38, 44-63
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting 2024 Proxy Statement, page 38
Corporate Governance Guidelines
Code Of Conduct for Nasdaq and U.S. Subsidiary Boards of Directors
By-Laws of Nasdaq, Inc.
2-15 Conflicts of interest Duties and Obligations of Nasdaq Directors
Code of Ethics, pages 18-19
2024 Proxy Statement, pages 61-62, 132
Nasdaq Legal Structure
Code of Ethics, pages 10-13
2-16 Communication of critical concerns
2024 Proxy Statement, pages 61-62
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body 2024 Proxy Statement, pages 17-18, 38, 47
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body 2024 Proxy Statement, pages 18-20
Nasdaq, Inc. Board Compensation Policy (Amended and Restated as of the 2020 Annual Meeting of Stockholders)
2-19 Remuneration policies
2024 Proxy Statement, pages 65-114
2-20 Process to determine remuneration 2024 Proxy Statement, pages 65-102
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio 2024 Proxy Statement, page 114
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 3-4
Human Rights Practices Statement
Environmental Practices Statement
2-23 Policy commitments
Supplier Code of Ethics
Code of Ethics, pages 18-19
118
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 38-39, 42
Supplier Code of Ethics
2-24 Embedding policy commitments
Code of Ethics, page 9
2024 Proxy Statement, pages 34-38, 61-62
2023 Sustainability Report, page 39
2024 Proxy Statement, pages 61-62
US Listings Appeals Process
Nordic Listings Appeals
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts
Clearly Erroneous Transactions Policy
Complaints Management Policy
Index Compliant Handling Policy
Code of Ethics, pages 10-13
Code of Ethics, pages 10-13
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns 2023 Sustainability Report, page 39
2024 Proxy Statement, pages 61-62
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations 2023 Form 10-K, pages 34-35
2-28 Membership associations 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 12, 44
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 105-106
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements 2023 Sustainability Report, page 40
GRI 3: Material Topics Information Links
3-1 Process to determine material topics 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 105-107
3-2 List of material topics 2023 Sustainability Report, page 105
GRI 201: Economic Performance Information Links
3-3 Management of material topics: Economic Performance 2023 Form 10-K, pages 18-34
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2023 Form 10-K, page 5
119
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
2023 TCFD Report, pages 64-80
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change
2023 Sustainability Report, page 46
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 2023 Sustainability Report, page 33
2024 Proxy Statement, pages 82, 109
GRI 202: Market Presence Information Links
3-3 Management of material topics: Market Presence 2023 Form 10-K, pages 2-6, 18-34
202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 2023 Sustainability Report, page 26
202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 2023 Sustainability Report, page 97
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts Information Links
3-3 Management of material topics: Indirect Economic Impacts 2023 Form 10-K, pages 18-34
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 2023 Form 10-K, pages 6-9
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 2023 Form 10-K, pages 18-34
GRI 204: Procurement Practices Information Links
Supplier Code of Ethics
3-3 Management of material topics: Procurement Practices
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 23, 35, 46, 105
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 2023 Sustainability Report, page 35
GRI 205: Anti-Corruption Information Links
Supplier Code of Ethics
3-3 Management of material topics: Anti-Corruption Code of Ethics, pages 23-24
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 39, 105
Code of Ethics, pages 23-24
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 39, 42, 45
Code of Ethics, pages 23-24
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 38-39
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 2023 Sustainability Report, page 38
120
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior Information Links
2023 Form 10-K, pages 11-15
3-3 Management of material topics: Anti-Competitive Behavior
2023 Sustainability Report, page 105
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 2023 Form 10-K, page F-41
GRI 207: Tax Information Links
Nasdaq Public Tax Policy
3-3 Management of material topics: Tax
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 46, 105
207-1 Approach to tax Nasdaq Public Tax Policy
Nasdaq Public Tax Policy
207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk management
2023 Sustainability Report, page 46
207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management of concerns related to tax Nasdaq Public Tax Policy
207-4 Country-by-country reporting 2023 Sustainability Report, page 99
GRI 302: Energy Information Links
3-3 Management of material topics: Energy 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 18-20, 105
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 18-20, 84
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 19, 84-86
302-3 Energy intensity 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 20, 83
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 18-20
GRI 303: Water and Effluents Information Links
3-3 Management of material topics: Water and Effluents 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 24, 105
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 2023 Sustainability Report, page 24
303-5 Water consumption 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 24, 87
121
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
GRI 304: Biodiversity Information Links
3-3 Management of material topics: Biodiversity 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 24, 105
2023 TCFD Report, page 79
304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity
TNFD-Aligned Risk Assessment, page 112
GRI 305: Emissions Information Links
3-3 Management of material topics: Emissions 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 15-23, 105
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 17, 82
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 17, 82
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 17, 82
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2023 Sustainability Report, page 83
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 17-19, 82
GRI 306: Waste Information Links
3-3 Management of material topics: Waste 2023 Sustainability Report, page 23
306-2 Management of significant waste-related Impacts 2023 Sustainability Report, page 23
306-3 Waste generated 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 23, 87
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 23, 87
306-5 Waste directed to disposal 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 23, 87
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment Information Links
Supplier Code of Ethics
3-3 Management of material topics: Supplier Environmental Assessment
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 23, 105
Supplier Code of Ethics
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Code of Ethics, pages 33-36
2023 Sustainability Report, page 23
Supplier Code of Ethics
308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Code of Ethics, pages 33-36
2023 Sustainability Report, page 23
122
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
GRI 401: Employment Information Links
Human Rights Practices Statement
3-3 Management of material topics: Employment
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 25-28, 105
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 96-97
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or
401-2 2023 Sustainability Report, page 33
part-time employees
401-3 Parental leave 2023 Sustainability Report, page 98
GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations Information Links
Human Rights Practices Statement
3-3 Management of material topics: Labor/Management Relations Code of Ethics, pages 16-17
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 38-40
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 2023 Sustainability Report, page 32
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety Information Links
Commitment to Operational Health and Safety
3-3 Management of material topics: Occupational Health and Safety
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 34, 105
Commitment to Operational Health and Safety
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system
2023 Sustainability Report, page 34
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Commitment to Operational Health and Safety
403-3 Occupational health services Commitment to Operational Health and Safety
Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health
403-4 Commitment to Operational Health and Safety
and safety
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Commitment to Operational Health and Safety
Commitment to Operational Health and Safety
403-6 Promotion of worker health
2023 Sustainability Report, page 34
Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly
403-7 Commitment to Operational Health and Safety
linked by business relationships
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 2023 Sustainability Report, page 34
123
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
403-9 Work-related injuries 2023 Sustainability Report, page 34
403-10 Work-related ill health 2023 Sustainability Report, page 34
GRI 404: Training and Education Information Links
3-3 Management of material topics: Training and Education 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 28-29, 105
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 2023 Sustainability Report, page 29
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 28-29
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career
404-3 2023 Sustainability Report, page 30
development reviews
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Information Links
3-3 Management of material topics: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 25-28, 105
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 36, 92-94
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 2023 Sustainability Report, page 26
GRI 406: Non-Discrimination Information Links
Human Rights Practices Statement
3-3 Management of material topics: Non-Discrimination Code of Ethics, pages 16-17
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 38-39
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 2023 Sustainability Report, page 100
GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Information Links
Management of material topics: Freedom of Association and Collective
3-3 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 40, 105
Bargaining
Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and Supplier Code of Ethics
407-1
collective bargaining may be at risk 2023 Sustainability Report, page 40
124
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
GRI 408: Child Labor Information Links
Human Rights Practices Statement
3-3 Management of material topics: Child Labor Code of Ethics, pages 38-40
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 39-40
Human Rights Practices Statement
Supplier Code of Ethics
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor
Code of Ethics, pages 32-33
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 39-40
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor Information Links
Human Rights Practices Statement
Supplier Code of Ethics
3-3 Management of material topics: Forced or Compulsory Labor
Code of Ethics, pages 32-33
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 39, 105
Supplier Code of Ethics
Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or
409-1 Code of Ethics, pages 32-33
compulsory labor
2023 Sustainability Report, page 39
GRI 410: Security Practices Information Links
Information Protection & Privacy Practices
3-3 Management of material topics: Security Practices
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 41-43, 105
410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 38-39
GRI 413: Local Communities Information Links
2023 Nasdaq Foundation Annual Report
3-3 Management of material topics: Local Communities 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 58-59, 105
2023 Nasdaq Impact Snapshot
125
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
2023 Nasdaq Foundation Annual Report
Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and
413-1 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 58-59
development programs
2023 Nasdaq Impact Snapshot
2023 Nasdaq Foundation Annual Report
Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local
413-2 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 58-59
communities
2023 Nasdaq Impact Snapshot
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment Information Links
Supplier Code of Ethics
3-3 Management of material topics: Supplier Social Assessment
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 25, 46, 105
Human Rights Practices Statement
Supplier Code of Ethics
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria
Code of Ethics, pages 33-36
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 25, 46
Supplier Code of Ethics
414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 25, 46
GRI 415: Public Policy Information Links
Public Policy Advocacy
3-3 Management of material topics: Public Policy
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 44, 105
Public Policy Advocacy
415-1 Political contributions
2023 Sustainability Report, page 44
GRI 418: Customer Privacy Information Links
Nasdaq Privacy Statement
3-3 Management of material topics: Customer Privacy Information Protection & Privacy Practices
2023 Sustainability Report, page 43
Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses Nasdaq Privacy Statement
418-1
of customer data Information Protection & Privacy Practices
126
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index
SASB Standards help companies disclose relevant sustainability information to their investors. As part of the International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) of the IFRS Foundation, the SASB Standards identify the sustainability-
related risks and opportunities most likely to affect an entity’s cash flows, access to finance and cost of capital over the short, medium or long term and the disclosure topics and metrics that are most likely to be useful to investors. We
report according to the Securities & Market Exchange Sector Standard and have incorporated sections from the Software & IT Services Standard where applicable to our business.
Recruiting & Managing a Global, Diverse & Skilled Workforce Information Links
TC-SI-330a.2 Employee engagement as a percentage. 2023 Sustainability Report, page 32
TC-SI-330a.3 Percentage of gender representation for (1) management, (2) technical staff, and (3) all other employees. 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 26-27, 92-94
TC-SI-330a.3 Percentage of racial/ethnic group representation for (1) management, (2) technical staff, and (3) all other employees. 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 26-27, 92-94
Promoting Transparent & Efficient Capital Markets Information Links
2023 Sustainability Report, page 100
FN-EX-410a.1 (1) Number and (2) average duration of (a) halts related to public release of information and (b) pauses related to volatility. US Oversight - Market Watch
European Surveillance Disciplinary Processes
FN-EX-410a.3 Description of alert policy regarding timing and nature of public release of information. Nasdaq Listing Rules - 5250
ESG for Listed Comapnies Policy
FN-EX-410a.4 Description of policy to encourage or require listed entities to publicly disclose environmental, social, and governance (ESG) information. Nasdaq Initial Listing Guide
Nasdaq Board Diversity Rule
Managing Conflicts of Interest Information Links
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with fraud, insider trading, anti-trust, anti-competitive behaviour,
FN-EX-510a.1 2023 Form 10-K, page F-41
market manipulation, malpractice, or other related financial industry laws or regulations.
FN-EX-510a.2 Discussion of processes for identifying and assessing conflicts of interest. Code of Ethics, pages 18-19
Managing Business Continuity & Technology Risks Information Links
FN-EX-550a.1 (1) Number of significant market disruptions and (2) duration of downtime. 2023 Sustainability Report, page 100
FN-EX-550a.2 (1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage involving personally identifiable information (PII), (3) number of customers affected. 2023 Sustainability Report, page 100
FN-EX-550a.3 Description of efforts to prevent technology errors, security breaches, and market disruptions. Information Protection & Privacy Practices
Activity Metrics Information Links
FN-EX-000.A Average daily number of trades executed, by product or asset class. 2023 Sustainability Report, page 100
FN-EX-000.B Average daily volume traded, by product or asset class. 2023 Sustainability Report, page 100
127
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
World Economic Forum (WEF) Index
Below is our alignment with the World Economic Forum’s Core Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics. The table below summarizes where responses to these disclosures can be found throughout this report and in our publicly available documents.
Principles of Governance
Governing purpose Information Links
State the purpose of Nasdaq, as the expression of the means by which a business proposes solutions to economic, environmental and social issues.
Core 1 2023 Sustainability Report, page 5
Corporate purpose should create value for all stakeholders, including shareholders.
Quality of governing body Information Links
2024 Proxy Statement, pages 22-38
Composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: competencies relating to economic, environmental and social topics; executive or non-
Core 2 executive; independence; tenure on the governance body; number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the
commitments; gender; membership of under-represented social groups; stakeholder representation.
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 11, 37
Stakeholder engagement Information Links
Core 3 List the topics that are material to key stakeholders and the company, how the topics were identified and how the stakeholders were engaged. 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 105-107
Ethical behavior Information Links
1. Total percentage of governance body members, employees and business partners who have received training on the organization’s anti-corruption
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 38, 106
policies and procedures, broken down by region.
Core 4 a) Total number and nature of incidents of corruption confirmed during the current year, but related to previous years; and
b) Total number and nature of incidents of corruption confirmed during the current year, related to this year.
2. Discussion of initiatives and stakeholder engagement to improve the broader operating environment and culture, in order to combat corruption. Code of Ethics, page 7
Describe internal and external mechanisms at Nasdaq for: 2023 Sustainability Report, page 39
Core 5 1. Seeking advice about ethical and lawful behavior and organizational integrity; and
2. Reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior and lack of organizational integrity. Code of Ethics, pages 10-13
128
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Risk and opportunity oversight Information Links
2024 Proxy Statement, pages 34-35
Identify risk factors and opportunity disclosures that clearly identify the principal material risks and opportunities facing Nasdaq specifically (as opposed
to generic sector risks), the company appetite in respect of these risks, how these risks and opportunities have moved over time and the response to 2023 Form 10-K, pages 18-34
Core 6
those changes. These opportunities and risks should integrate material economic, environmental and social issues, including climate change and data 2023 TCFD Report, pages 78-80
stewardship.
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 45-46
Planet
Climate change Information Links
For all relevant greenhouse gases (e.g. carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, F-gases etc.), report in metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (MTCOe)
2
Core 7 GHG Protocol Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 17, 82
Estimate and report material upstream and downstream (GHG Protocol Scope 3) emissions where appropriate.
Fully implement the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). If necessary, disclose a timeline of at most three 2023 TCFD Report
years for full implementation. Disclose whether you have set, or have committed to set, GHG emissions targets that are in line with the goals of the Paris
Core 8
Agreement – to limit global warming to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and pursue efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C – and to achieve net-zero 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 12, 16, 46
emissions before 2050.
Nature loss Information Links
2023 Sustainability Report, page 24
Core 9 Report the number and area (in hectares) of sites owned, leased or managed in or adjacent to protected areas and/or key biodiversity areas (KBA).
TNFD-Aligned Risk Assessment, page 112
Freshwater availability Information Links
Report for operations where material: megalitres of water withdrawn, megalitres of water consumed and the percentage of each in regions with high or
Core 10 extremely high baseline water stress, according to WRI Aqueduct water risk atlas tool. 2023 Sustainability Report, page 24
Estimate and report the same information for the full value chain (upstream and downstream) where appropriate.
129
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
People
Dignity and equality Information Links
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 26-27,
Core 11 Percentage of employees in Nasdaq per employee category, by age group, gender and other indicators of diversity (e.g. ethnicity).
88-95
Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration for each employee category by significant locations of operation for priority areas of equality: women to men,
Core 12 2023 Sustainability Report, page 26
minor to major ethnic groups, and other relevant equality areas.
1. Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage.
Core 13 2. Ratio of the annual total compensation of the CEO to the median of the annual total compensation of all its employees, 2024 Proxy Statement, page 114
except the CEO.
2023 Sustainability Report, page 39
An explanation of the operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of child labor, forced or compulsory labor. Such risks could
Human Rights Practices Statement
emerge in relation to:
Core 14
a) type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and type of supplier
Code of Ethics, pages 32-33
b) countries or geographic areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk
Supplier Code of Ethics
Health and well-being Information Links
The number and rate of fatalities as a result of work-related injury; high-consequence work-related injuries (excluding fatalities); recordable work-related 2023 Sustainability Report, page 34
injuries; main types of work-related injury; and the number of hours worked.
Core 15
An explanation of how the organization facilitates workers’ access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services, and the scope of access
Human Rights Practices Statement
provided for employees and workers.
130
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Skills for the future Information Links
1. Average hours of training per person that the organization’s employees have undertaken during the reporting period, by gender and employee category
Core 16 (total number of hours of training provided to employees divided by the number of employees). 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 28-29
2. Average training and development expenditure per full time employee (total cost of training provided to employees divided by the number of employees).
Prosperity
Employment and wealth generation Information Links
1. Total number and rate of new employee hires during the reporting period, by age group, gender, other indicators of diversity and region.
Core 17 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 96-97
2. Total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender, other indicators of diversity and region.
1. Direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D), on an accruals basis, covering the basic components for the organization’s global operations,
ideally split out by:
• Revenues
• Operating costs
• Employee wages and benefits
Core 18 2023 Form 10-K, page F-5
• Payments to providers of capital
• Payments to government
• Community investment
2. Financial assistance received from the government: total monetary value of financial assistance received by the organization
from any government during the reporting period.
1. Total capital expenditures (CapEx) minus depreciation, supported by narrative to describe the investment strategy of Nasdaq.
Core 19 2023 Form 10-K, pages 1, F-8, F-31
2. Share buybacks plus dividend payments, supported by narrative to describe the company’s strategy for returns of capital to shareholders.
Innovation of better products and services Information Links
Core 20 Total costs related to research and development. N/A
Community and social vitality Information Links
The total global tax borne by the company, including corporate income taxes, property taxes, non-creditable VAT and other sales taxes, employer-paid 2023 Form 10-K, pages F-38, F-39
Core 21
payroll taxes, and other taxes that constitute costs to the company, by category of taxes.
2023 Sustainability Report, page 99
131
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (UNGC CoP)
The UNGC is a strategic initiative that helps companies align their business activities and strategies with ten universally recognized principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards,
environmental protection and the fight against corruption. The table below summarizes where our responses to these disclosures can be found throughout this report and in our publicly available documents.
Human Rights Principles Information Links
2023 Sustainability Report, page 39
1 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.
Human Rights Practices Statement
2023 Sustainability Report, page 39
2 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
Human Rights Practices Statement
Labor Principles Information Links
2023 Sustainability Report, page 40
3 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.
Supplier Code of Ethics
2023 Sustainability Report, page 39
Human Rights Practices Statement
4 Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor.
Code of Ethics, page 32
Supplier Code of Ethics
2023 Sustainability Report, page 39
Human Rights Practices Statement
5 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor.
Code of Ethics, page 32
Supplier Code of Ethics
2023 Sustainability Report, pages 25, 38-39
Human Rights Practices Statement
6 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
Code of Ethics, pages 16-17
Supplier Code of Ethics
132
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Environmental Principles Information Links
2023 TCFD Report, page 62
7 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 13-18, 105-106
Environmental Practices Statement
2023 TCFD Report, page 62
8 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 13-18, 105-106
Environmental Practices Statement
2023 TCFD Report, pages 64-67, 69-70
9 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 2023 Sustainability Report, pages 13-18, 49-50, 55, 77
Environmental Practices Statement
Anti-Corruption Principles Information Links
2023 Sustainability Report, page 39
10 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Code of Ethics, pages 23-24
Supplier Code of Ethics
133
Solutions & Community
Nasdaq 2023 Sustainability Report Introduction Environmental Social Governance TCFD Report Appendices
Services Engagement
Disclaimers
This report focuses on Nasdaq’s operations from January 1, 2023 through December 31, 2023, unless otherwise indicated. The report uses qualitative descriptions and quantitative metrics to describe our policies, programs, practices and performance. Note that many of the standards and metrics used in
preparing this report continue to evolve and are based on management assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time of preparation, but should not be considered guarantees. In addition, historical, current and forward-looking sustainability-related statements may be based on standards for measuring
progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. The information and opinions contained in this report are provided as of the date of this report and are subject to change without notice. Nasdaq does not undertake
to update or revise any such statements. The information included in, and any issues identified as material for purposes of, this document may not be considered material for SEC reporting purposes. In the context of this disclosure, the term “material” is distinct from and should not be confused with, such term as
defined for SEC reporting purposes.
The information and data in this report cover Nasdaq’s owned and operated businesses and does not address the performance or operations of our suppliers or contractors unless otherwise noted.
The report includes information on topics that we have identified as significant impact topics relating to ESG matters based on our 2023 assessment of priority ESG topics. For more information on our significant impact process, please see page 105 of this report. All financial information is presented in U.S. dollars
unless otherwise noted.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This report contains forward-looking statements relating to Nasdaq’s operations that are based on management’s current expectations, estimates and projections regarding the ESG matters described in this report. In making these statements, we rely upon assumptions and analysis based on our experience and
perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other factors we consider appropriate under the circumstances. We believe these judgments are reasonable, but these statements are not guarantees of any future events or financial results.
Words or phrases such as “can”, “aims”, “expect”, “intends”, “plans”, “targets”, “believes”, “seeks”, “may”, “could”, “should”, “will”, “goals”, “objectives”, “strategies”, “opportunities” and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not
limited to, (i) statements about our climate, ESG or sustainability policies, programs, products or initiatives, (ii) statements about our future aspirational ESG commitments and goals, including those related to our carbon net-zero program and carbon neutrality program, (iii) statements about our assessment of
priority ESG topics and related future plans and goals, (iv) statements about our integrations of our recent acquisitions, including the acquisition of Adenza, and (v) other statements that are not historical facts.
Nasdaq cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or other factors beyond Nasdaq’s control that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-
looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, Nasdaq’s ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, changes in carbon markets or in the regulation of greenhouse gases, the cost, quality and
availability of renewable energy, carbon removal and carbon offset projects, changes in greenhouse gas emissions and other ESG metrics measurement, verification or certification standards, Nasdaq’s ability to evaluate and engage with its key suppliers and value chain regarding their carbon footprints and other
ESG initiatives, interest rate risk, U.S. and global competition and other factors detailed in Nasdaq’s filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, which are available on Nasdaq’s investor relations website at
ir.nasdaq.com and the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. Nasdaq undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
134
