2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
2
TABLE OF CONTENTS 3 47
2023 At-a-glance Social
2023 Summary 4 Health, Safety and Security 49
For details on the scope of this report (i.e., sites and
People and Culture 53
locations included or not included and references to
Letter from Our President and
the Goldcorp and Newcrest acquisitions), please see 5 Human Rights 56
Chief Executive Officer
the About This Report section.
Social Acceptance 64
HOW TO USE THIS REPORT Letter from Our Safety and
This report uses interactive features to link to various 7
Sustainability Committee Chair
parts of the report or access additional content online. 69
Environment
Access Table of Contents
9 Energy and Climate Change 71
Hyperlink to specific content in the report Overview
Water Stewardship 72
Link to more information on our website
Public Sustainability Targets 11
Tailings Management 82
Link to priority topic PDF
Our Business 16
Biodiversity 86
Link to online leadership video
Our Approach to Sustainability 19
Closure and Reclamation 89
Link to 2023 performance data
Leadership Reflections 29
Materials 92
Hyperlinks within content to references
Suzy Retallack, Executive Vice President and
externally or within this report
Chief Safety and Sustainability Officer
94
Natascha Viljoen, Executive Vice President and Economic
Chief Operating Officer
Value Sharing 96
Karyn Ovelmen, Executive Vice President and
To review other related documents,
Chief Financial Officer
please visit the new Disclosure and 104
Performance Data
Transparency Hub on our website.
33
Governance
106
Reporting Index
Corporate Governance 35
Business Integrity and Compliance 36
108
About This Report
Risk Management System 39
Sustainability Compliance and Assurance 41
Responsible Sourcing 45
Cover Photo: British Columbia, Canada
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
3
2023 AT-A-GLANCE
This report reflects the transformation Newmont is
undergoing, including the following:
A Transformative
SHIFT TO MANDATORY REPORTING
The new U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Year Shaping
climate disclosure rules and other anticipated
regulations require strong internal controls and
Newmont’s Future procedures.
We discuss how we are preparing to comply with
these new regulations in the Sustainability
The close of the Newcrest
Compliance and Assurance section.
acquisition in November 2023
demonstrates our commitment
to deliver on one of our key value PERFORMANCE FOCUS
propositions – to establish a This report focuses on our 2023 performance.
new sustainability standard Information about the governance, risk management,
in responsible gold and and our strategy and management approach for
each material issue, which has previously been
copper mining.
included in the report, is now available on our new
Disclosure and Transparency Hub on our website.
NEWCREST INTEGRATION
Continuing our journey toward industry-leading
sustainability practices involves integrating systems
and aligning on standards, performance metrics and
targets. We began this effort in 2023 and will
continue throughout 2024.
Details of the Newcrest disclosures included in this
report and our 2023 Performance Data tables are in
About This Report.
Photo: Cerro Negro, Argentina
Newmont Corporation 22002233 SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt
4
2023 SUMMARY Conducted investigation Fulfilled commitment to Fully met three,
into fatality at our contribute $20M to support mostly met five and
Brucejack mine and host communities and countries missed two annual
began applying the addressing the impacts of public targets
lessons learned across the COVID-19 pandemic
the enterprise
$4.7B
Completed self- Committed to being an early
assessments for all adopter of the Taskforce on in direct economic
11 priority facilities to Nature-related Financial contributions, including
support ongoing conformance Disclosures (TNFD), a new salaries, taxes, royalties,
with Global Industry Standard framework for disclosing nature- payments to governments and
on Tailings Management related risks and opportunities community contributions
Photo: Cerro Negro, Argentina
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
5
LETTER FROM OUR PRESIDENT AND
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
“ The year demonstrated our team’s unwavering
commitment to long-term goals, prioritizing
sustainable solutions over short-term gains.
This quality sets Newmont apart, reflecting the
depth of character within our organization.”
TOM PALMER, President and Chief Executive Officer
Dear Stakeholders, responsible gold and copper mining. Our combined portfolio now includes high-quality operations,
projects and reserves concentrated in low-risk jurisdictions that are poised to deliver lasting returns
Reflecting on 2023, it stands out as a remarkable year for Newmont marked by transformational change while supporting best-in-class sustainability performance.
that touched the lives of every one of our team members. What I am particularly proud of is the consistent
Recognizing the need for strong and experienced leadership during this transformative period, we
display of resilience and thoughtful decision-making amidst significant challenges and uncertainties.
made significant leadership appointments to ensure our purpose and values guide our decision-making
RECOMMITTING TO A FATALITY-FREE WORKPLACE and problem-solving during integration activities. In October, Natascha Viljoen joined Newmont as Chief
Our most important measure of success is, and must always be, keeping everyone who works at Operating Officer (COO), responsible for our Australia, North America and Papua New Guinea business
Newmont healthy and safe. Sadly, we recently lost four of our colleagues over a four-month period – units with Rob Atkinson serving as our COO for our Africa, Latin American and Caribbean (LATAC) and
Adam Kennedy at our Brucejack mine, Ike Cobbinah Morrison at our Ahafo North project, and Rosana Peru business units and global projects. Natascha assumed full accountability for all business units in
Ledesma and Daniel Ochoa at our Cerro Negro mine. These tragic incidents remind us of the inherent the COO portfolio on March 1, 2024, leading a team of Managing Directors, each responsible for one of
risks in mining and underscore the importance of constant vigilance and adherence to the critical our six business units.
controls that must be in place before undertaking a task.
Given our growing presence in Australia, we appointed a member of our Executive Leadership Team,
Along with conducting thorough investigations into these incidents and ensuring we learn and hardwire Suzy Retallack, to be based in Australia and lead our policy development and advocacy, strategic
those learnings back into our systems, we have intensified our efforts to strengthen our visible felt initiatives and engagement with industry bodies to further enhance Newmont’s standing in the region.
leadership, our Fatality Risk Management (FRM) system and fundamental safety tools and practices. Suzy also serves as our Chief Safety and Sustainability Officer.
With humility and determination, we renew our commitment to providing a workplace free of fatalities, These changes reinforce an organizational structure that can effectively manage our expanded portfolio
injuries and illnesses. and embrace opportunities on the horizon.
CREATING THE WORLD’S LEADING GOLD MINING BUSINESS Post-transaction close in November, our focus shifted to integrating Newcrest’s team members and
This year involved navigating changes and uncertainties associated with Newmont’s acquisition of assets into Newmont’s established operating model. We prioritized investing in our workforce and
Newcrest. This historic transaction combined two top gold producers, setting a new standard for continuing our journey toward industry-leading sustainability practices.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
6 Letter from Our President and Chief Executive Officer
DEMONSTRATING OUR VALUES classification) to support ongoing conformance to GISTM. We will continue to focus on enhancing the
One of the biggest challenges we faced during the year was at our Peñasquito operation in Mexico. In Company’s level of conformance for priority facilities in parallel with activities to achieve conformance for
June, the union representing employees at the mine, initiated a strike demanding the Company pay non-priority facilities by August 2025.
additional profit sharing, equivalent to double the amount agreed upon the previous year during the
As the momentum grows for adopting nature-positive approaches that enhance various aspects of the
collective bargaining negotiation cycle, and alleging other violations of the agreement. In October, we
environment, we announced in January 2024 our commitment to be an early adopter of the Taskforce on
reached a resolution with the union and focused on the safe return of our teams to work and restart of
Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD) guidelines. These guidelines encompass land, fresh water,
operations. Throughout the period of the strike action, we held steadfast to our values, honoring the
ocean and non-greenhouse gas air emissions and require organizations to establish nature metrics and
collective bargaining agreement in place and protecting the long-term value of the mining operation for
targets. We aim to disclose our results against this framework, starting with our 2025 reporting.
our workforce, local communities and all stakeholders. This strike action caused significant hardship for
many people, and I commend everyone who navigated the challenges and made decisions aligned with To advance our water stewardship goals and climate strategy, we established a partnership with Piteau
Newmont’s values. Associates to develop industry-leading predictive water balance models across all sites. This work
integrates the climate projections we developed with the National Center for Atmospheric Research
In contrast to the difficulties posed by the strike, we advanced the opportunity to transform our workplace
(NCAR) into site water balance models to enhance project planning and bolster site resilience.
culture by addressing harassment, discrimination, bullying and racism. Building on insights from hundreds
of interviews and conversations with employees throughout 2022, we have designed a multi-year program We also continued to advance our strategic alliance with Caterpillar (CAT) to develop innovative emissions
aimed at fostering a workplace environment where everyone feels physically and psychologically safe reduction solutions. CAT successfully completed its first prototype for a battery electric underground mining
and is treated with respect. truck in 2023, a pivotal step demonstrating progress in our collaboration. At our Cripple Creek & Victor site,
we started the groundwork and pre-work for the anticipated arrival of Caterpillar’s prototype battery
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
electric haul truck in the second half of 2024, marking a significant milestone. These are exciting
Our commitment to collaborating with communities to address challenges and create business and career
developments in our progress to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and achieve net-zero carbon by 2050.
opportunities is implemented through various initiatives. For instance, the Stope School, launched in 2020
at our Musselwhite operation in Canada, provides essential mining skills training for local Indigenous As part of our activities to integrate our new-to-Newmont operations, we have started work on reviewing
candidates, offering a meaningful career path. In 2023, 295 applicants vied for 10 spots, with 80 percent from and recalculating our baseline data. In May of this year, we will provide an update on our climate
signatory and affiliate First Nations communities in the Musselwhite and Mishkeegogamang Agreement. performance, largely focused on activities before the Newcrest acquisition. Then later this year, we plan to
publish a more detailed report that includes a rebaselining of our 2030 emissions reduction targets to reflect
In Ghana, Newmont’s Local Economic Diversification Support (LEDS) program invested nearly $4 million
our current operating portfolio and an update on the climate scenario analyses we use to test Newmont’s
to establish the Asutifi Processing and Services Centre (APSC) pepper and ginger factory at Ahafo. The
resilience to potential risks and opportunities associated with climate change.
center, inaugurated in 2023, collaborates with over 1,000 farmers and 80 farmer-based organizations,
processing chili peppers and ginger for local and export markets. LOOKING AHEAD
The year demonstrated our team’s unwavering commitment to long-term goals, prioritizing sustainable
In Peru, Yanacocha’s foundation, Los Andes de Cajamarca Association (ALAC), partnered with the United
solutions over short-term gains. This quality sets Newmont apart, reflecting the depth of character
Nations World Food Program to empower local communities through financial inclusion and entrepreneurship.
within our organization.
The partnership builds on the success of the 2008 UNICA initiative (a micro-credit program), and today over 530
credit unions serve more than 9,000 community members, of whom 58 percent are women. The partnership This is a very exciting and transformative time for Newmont and all our stakeholders. Our diversified
directs resources to enhance local capacity for nutrition, food security and economic independence. portfolio reflects a steadfast commitment to do more than gold – producing the essential metals for the
transition to a low-carbon future and making a meaningful difference for stakeholders and the world. As
ADVANCING ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP PRACTICES
we move forward, we aim to build on the successes of 2023 and uphold the principles that demonstrate
Being responsible stewards of the environment means adopting elevated standards and pursuing
Newmont’s resilience, integrity and excellence.
innovative opportunities.
The Global Industry Standard on Tailings Management (GISTM) sets intentionally high benchmarks for
tailings management in the mining industry, incorporating social, environmental, economic and technical
factors at every facility. The standard’s overarching goal is zero harm to both people and the environment. Tom Palmer,
We completed self-assessments for our 11 priority facilities (those with “extreme” or “very high” consequence President and Chief Executive Officer
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
7
LETTER FROM OUR SAFETY AND
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE CHAIR
“ The Company’s resilience and ability to achieve most of
its safety and sustainable targets in a challenging and
transformative year is a testament to management’s
commitment to fulfilling Newmont’s purpose to create
value and improve lives through sustainable and
responsible mining.”
JANE NELSON, Chair, Safety and Sustainability Committee
Dear Stakeholders, actions being taken to prevent a reoccurrence of these tragic events. Newmont has made significant
strides in its safety journey, but these tragedies serve as a reminder that maintaining a fatality-free
As Chair of the Safety and Sustainability Committee, I am honored to provide an update on the workplace requires constant chronic unease and commitment to verifying and testing the critical
Committee’s actions in 2023 to support the Board of Directors in overseeing Newmont’s safety and controls that must be in place and implemented at all times to prevent potential or actual fatalities.
sustainability performance.
We commend the Company for expanding its Fatality Risk Management program to address the health
While acknowledging the many accomplishments achieved through the hard work of individuals and risks associated with exposures to dust and fumes. Furthermore, Newmont’s $94 million investment in
teams across Newmont, it is crucial to recognize the shifting social, political and environmental fatigue detection technology and camp accommodation improvements since 2020 has reduced fatigue-
challenges facing the Company, the broader industry and the world. The ever-evolving landscape related incidents to near zero.
requires a deep and agile understanding of sustainability risks, trends and stakeholder perspectives
Due to security challenges at some sites, including national political unrest, worker strikes, and small-scale
coupled with robust strategies and plans.
mining activities, the Committee received regular updates on current and changing security threats and
In 2023, the Committee’s quarterly meetings covered a comprehensive agenda, discussing with vulnerabilities. These updates also included information on the efforts to enhance defensive technology
management a diverse range of matters related to health, safety, security, external relations, social systems that predict, monitor and control these risks to our employees and communities. The Committee
performance and environmental management performance. These meetings also included in-depth also received updates on the Company’s implementation of the Voluntary Principles on Security and
examinations of key programs, strategies and challenges, and updates on integration activities related to Human Rights.
the Newcrest acquisition. Committee members also participated in three out-of-cycle meetings to review
SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
specific strategies, such as the Company’s evolving energy, climate and decarbonization strategy, and to
Expectations of the corporate responsibility to respect human rights continue to evolve, moving from
review and approve the Company’s suite of sustainability reports alongside meetings with the PwC team
voluntary norms, disclosures and best practices to more prescriptive regulatory requirements. This
that provided external limited assurance on these.
includes the new Modern Slavery Act in Canada, following existing Modern Slavery Acts in the United
HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY Kingdom and Australia, and the proposed EU Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive that
We are deeply saddened by the loss of four colleagues over the past year – Adam Kennedy, Ike Cobbinah mandates human rights due diligence. Management provided updates on how the Company is aligning
Morrison, Rosana Ledesma and Daniel Ochoa. Management promptly briefed the full Board on each its human rights and related programs to comply with new regulations and meet growing corporate
incident and continues to share the lessons learned from internal and external investigations and the responsibility expectations.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
8 Letter from Our Safety and Sustainability Committee Chair
Demonstrating the Company’s proactive approach to respecting human rights, the Committee reviewed ADVANCING INDUSTRY LEADERSHIP
the independent assessment that Newmont commissioned to evaluate actual, potential and perceived The acquisition of Newcrest in 2023 was another transformational milestone for Newmont, further
human rights impacts associated with the resettlement process at the Ahafo North project. We were also expanding our presence in major mining jurisdictions and creating new expectations, risks, and
kept apprised of developments during the four-month-long strike at the Peñasquito operation, focusing opportunities for the Company’s industry-leading sustainability performance. Areas of particular
on Newmont’s commitment to respecting the collective bargaining agreement and freedom of association. focus during integration include safety, health and hygiene, security risk management, operating in
new jurisdictions, managing different types of environmental challenges, and building respectful
Artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) taking place on or near Newmont’s mining concessions
and inclusive workplaces.
continued to present safety, security, environmental and social challenges. Newmont’s multi-pronged
approach to ASM includes partnering with small-scale miners to improve their safety, processing and Following the acquisition close in November, we were pleased to welcome Sally-Anne Layman to the
environmental outcomes as well as providing alternative livelihood opportunities. Implementing this Committee. She brings extensive experience in the mining sector and financial markets. Her deep
multi-pronged approach is crucial in addressing ASM risks as it not only offers individuals viable and understanding of Australia’s business climate will be invaluable given Newmont’s expanded presence
legal economic alternatives but also contributes to the broader goal of sustainable development and in the country.
environmental conservation. The special credit facility that Newmont and the Suriname National
I also want to express our Committee’s gratitude to Nick Cotts, Senior Vice President of External
Development Bank began offering to Pamaka small-scale miners in 2023 is one example, and an
Relations, who retired from Newmont in July 2023 after nearly 30 years of service. Nick played a
important step toward cultivating new small business opportunities for the communities near the
defining role in enhancing our community and environmental practices and was integral to our
Merian operation.
industry-leading approach to sustainability. In addition, we would like to thank Peter Toth, who served
ENVIRONMENT as Newmont’s Chief Strategy and Sustainability Officer until assuming the role of Chief Development
During the year, the Committee reviewed and discussed the Company’s evolving energy and Officer in June 2023. He continues to advance Newmont’s environmental and social performance as a
decarbonization strategy and received strategic updates on other sustainability priorities and core component of our corporate strategy and business development, and we anticipate ongoing
commitments. Each quarter, the Committee reviewed and discussed the Company’s environmental discussions with him and his team on external relations matters. We welcome the appointment of Suzy
performance and risk management across our operations, including: Retallack as Newmont’s Chief Safety and Sustainability Officer. Suzy and the Committee have already
worked together extensively in her previous role as Senior Vice President of Health, Safety and Security,
• Key activities that are advancing Newmont’s transition to a low-carbon economy and helping achieve
and we look forward to working with her and her team in her expanded position to further strengthen
its 2030 goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2050.
Newmont’s position as an industry leader in sustainability.
• Improvements to Newmont’s governance and risk management around the safe design, construction,
The Company’s resilience and ability to achieve most of its safety and sustainable targets in a
operation and closure of tailings facilities throughout the mine lifecycle.
challenging and transformative year is a testament to management’s commitment to fulfilling
• Efforts to reduce water consumption, improve water governance and implement predictive tools to Newmont’s purpose to create value and improve lives through sustainable and responsible mining.
support planning for water management across all sites. At the same time, the tragic fatality in Canada, and the growing complexity of the safety and
sustainability risks, opportunities and stakeholder expectations that we face as a company and as
• Tracking of external trends for the shift to nature positive and alignment with the future reporting
an industry point to the necessity of continued rigor and commitment in meeting the responsibilities
requirements for the Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD).
and specific duties outlined in our Committee’s Charter. Thank you to my fellow Committee
• Details on the Company’s updated Closure Strategy and five-year strategic plan. members for their contributions during 2023.
• Continued advancement of the Path to Zero Cyanide Spills program including reduction in number
of events and potential consequence.
Jane Nelson,
Chair, Safety and Sustainability Committee
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
9
Our business is anchored in our values and guided by
our purpose: to create value and improve lives through
sustainable and responsible mining. Our commitment
to environmental, social and governance (ESG)
principles is fundamental to achieving our purpose.
Photo: Porcupine, Canada
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
10
OVERVIEW
11 Ranked 2nd among
Public Sustainability Targets
110 companies across the
16 extractive and apparel industries in
Our Business
the 2023 Corporate Human Rights
Benchmark assessment
19
Our Approach to Sustainability
Assessed and identified 33 highly
29
Leadership Reflections material sustainability
Suzy Retallack, Executive Vice President issues on which we focus our
and Chief Safety and Sustainability Officer public disclosures
Natascha Viljoen, Executive Vice President
and Chief Operating Officer Over 63% of Board members are
gender or ethnically diverse
Karyn Ovelmen, Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer
Achieved critical milestones in our
strategic alliance with
Caterpillar to standardize
all-electric and autonomous surface
and underground mining solutions
Photo: Ahafo, Ghana
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
11
Overview
PUBLIC SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS
Public sustainability targets underscore a 2023 Public Sustainability Target Performance
commitment to transparency, serve as an
Our public sustainability targets gauge progress in the areas where we strive for continuous improvement.
effective mechanism for managing risks, and
Business units, functions and senior leaders provide input into the targets, and the Board of Directors’ Safety
provide insights into performance with respect
and Sustainability Committee reviews and approves any changes or additions.
to sustainability impacts. At Newmont, we have
For 2023, out of our 10 annual targets, we fully met three, mostly met five (i.e., most sites achieved the target but
shared our performance against our public
some fell short) and did not meet two. Progress toward the two longer-term goals – female representation and
sustainability targets since 2015. climate – is ongoing. A detailed performance breakdown is provided in the accompanying table. An overview of
our targets performance is discussed in the accompanying table, with more details provided in the respective
sections of this report.
2023 PUBLIC SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS Met Mostly met Ongoing Not met
Social
Target definition 2023 Performance Commentary More information
Safety
Zero fatalities Tragically, in December 2023, our colleague Adam Kennedy who worked at our Brucejack Health, Safety and
mine in British Columbia, Canada, was fatally injured while completing shotcreting activities Security
(i.e., spraying concrete/mortar onto a surface) underground. We are applying lessons
learned from our investigation into this incident.
Female representation
Achieve gender parity in senior leadership* roles by 2030 As of the end of 2023, female representation in senior leadership roles was 33%, up from People and Culture
31% at the end of 2022.
* D efined as those in Level 4 and up to Newmont’s President and CEO (Level 7), including the Executive Leadership
Team. This is an aspirational goal that Newmont is striving to achieve, in compliance with applicable law. Newmont
is an equal employment opportunity employer and does not make employment-related decisions based on gender.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
12 Overview | Public Sustainability Targets
Met Mostly met Ongoing Not met
Social
Target definition 2023 Performance Commentary More information
Human rights and the supply chain
Implement risk mitigation plans for 100% of contracts with suppliers* identified as having an Across the seven sites and office locations where SRiM is in place, we engaged 90% (183) of Human Rights
elevated likelihood of impacting human rights identified suppliers in training, falling just short of our target.
* Applies to new suppliers and suppliers due for contract renewal at sites where Newmont’s Supplier Risk
Management program has been implemented.
Community complaints and grievances
All sites achieve target to respond to, address, track and, if necessary, escalate 100% of tier 1 Across all tier 1 complaints received in 2023, 100% of complaints were responded to, Social Acceptance
complaints within 30 days addressed and/or escalated within 30 days.
Integrate the root-cause analysis methodology into site stakeholder management systems We integrated the root-cause functionality into our stakeholder management system and
entered data from the pilot test in 2022 into the system.
Community commitments
All sites complete 100% of community commitments on or before due date Of our 12 operating sites, eight completed 100% of commitments on or before due dates as Social Acceptance
captured in the commitment registers at each site. Ahafo South, Boddington, Cerro Negro
and Merian were late on one or more commitments.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
13 Overview | Public Sustainability Targets
Met Mostly met Ongoing Not met
Environment
Target definition 2023 Performance Commentary More information
Climate
Achieve the following by 2030*: Details about our energy use and greenhouse gas emissions performance by site and over Energy and Climate
• Reduce absolute GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2) by 32% the past five years will be included in our 2023 Climate Performance disclosure, which will Change
be published in May 2024.
• Reduce GHG emissions intensity (Scope 1 and 2) by 32%
• Reduce absolute Scope 3 emissions (i.e., joint venture assets and supply chain) by 30%
* Compared to 2018 (Scope 1 and 2) and 2019 (Scope 3) baseline
Water stewardship
All sites achieve annual site targets, including action plans, for participating in multi- Across all 12 sites, 82 of 103 action plans (around 80%) were completed in 2023. Three were Water Stewardship
stakeholder watershed governance bodies that support collective action/management of canceled due to no longer being relevant, and the remaining were deferred to 2024.
water, and improving water quality and quantity
Water efficiency
All sites to achieve annual water efficiency targets that support an overall reduction in fresh All but one site (Cerro Negro) achieved their annual site-specific water efficiency targets. Water Stewardship
water of more than 5%, with sites in water-stressed areas to reduce overall fresh water Overall, Newmont has reduced fresh water consumption at our 12 operating sites by 26%
consumption by at least 10%* from the 2018 baseline.
* From the 2018 baseline Although three of our four water-stressed sites (CC&V, Peñasquito and Tanami) achieved
their annual water efficiency targets, Cerro Negro fell short due to requiring additional
water to restore the pond levels needed to operate the reclaim barge pump operation, and
we did not meet our target to reduce overall fresh water consumption at these four sites by
10% compared to our 2018 baseline.
Closure and reclamation
Achieve 95% of planned reclamation activities/associated actions across the Company Our target was to complete at least 143 hectares of concurrent reclamation, and we Closure and
reclaimed 165 hectares during the year. Nine of our 12 operating sites met or exceeded Reclamation
their reclamation activity targets for 2023. Peñasquito missed its target due to the four-
month-long strike that suspended operations. Both Akyem and Musselwhite completed 90%
of their planned reclamation activities.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
14 Overview | Public Sustainability Targets
Met Mostly met Ongoing Not met
Value Sharing
Target definition 2023 Performance Commentary More information
Local/Indigenous employment
All sites achieve local/Indigenous targets as defined in formal community agreements or Of the 11 operating sites with a local or Indigenous employment target, five met or Value Sharing
defined by site exceeded their target.
Local/Indigenous procurement
All sites achieve spend target with local/Indigenous suppliers Globally, Newmont spent $1.4 billion with local/Indigenous suppliers, exceeding our overall Value Sharing
target of $1.209 billion. Nine operating sites met or exceeded their target while three fell short.
Photo: Ahafo, Ghana
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
15 Overview | Public Sustainability Targets
2024 Public Sustainability Targets
Environment
Target definition More information
An important part of both our Corporate Strategy and Sustainability Strategy involves ongoing improvement
and meeting evolving stakeholder expectations. Energy and climate change2
Most of our public sustainability targets are annual. The exceptions are our long-term goals related to female
Achieve the following by 2030*: Energy and Climate
representation and science-based climate targets. Further details on our future targets are provided in
• Reduce absolute GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2) by 32% Change
relevant sections of this report.
• Reduce GHG emissions intensity (Scope 1 and 2) by 32%
• Reduce absolute Scope 3 emissions (i.e., joint venture assets and supply chain) by 30%
2024 PUBLIC SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS * Compared to 2018 (Scope 1 and 2) and 2019 (Scope 3) baseline.
Social
Achieve our goal of net-zero carbon emissions by 2050
Target definition More information
Water stewardship
Safety
All sites achieve annual site targets, including action plans, for participating in multi- Water Stewardship
Zero fatalities Health, Safety and stakeholder watershed governance bodies that support collective action/management of
Security water, and improving water quality and quantity
Female representation in senior leadership roles Water efficiency
Achieve gender parity in senior leadership* roles by 2030 People and Culture Newmont sites prior to the acquisition of Newcrest aim to maintain a greater-than-5% reduction Water Stewardship
in fresh water consumption, and sites in water-stressed areas aim to reduce by at least 10%*
* D efined as those in Level 4 and up to Newmont’s President and CEO (Level 7), including the Executive Leadership Team.
This is an aspirational goal that Newmont is striving to achieve, in compliance with applicable law. Newmont is an * From the 2018 baseline
equal employment opportunity employer and does not make employment-related decisions based on gender.
Closure and reclamation
Human rights and the supply chain1
Achieve 95% of planned reclamation activities/associated actions across the Company Closure and Reclamation
Implement risk mitigation plans for 100% of contracts with suppliers* identified as having Human Rights
an elevated likelihood of impacting human rights
Value Sharing
* Applies to new suppliers and suppliers due for contract renewal at sites where Newmont’s Supplier Risk
Management program has been implemented.
Target definition More information
Stakeholder complaints and grievances1 Local/Indigenous employment1
All sites achieve target to respond to, address, track and, if necessary, escalate 100% of Social Acceptance All sites achieve local/Indigenous targets as defined in formal community agreements or Value Sharing
tier 1 complaints within 30 days defined by site
Community commitments1 Local/Indigenous procurement1
All sites complete 100% of commitments on or before due dates as captured in register Social Acceptance All sites achieve spend target with local/Indigenous suppliers Value Sharing
1 Sites acquired through the Newcrest transition in late 2023 will not be included in this public sustainability target for 2024 due to extended transition timelines; however, they will be included beginning in the 2025 reporting year.
2 Due to the integration of our new-to-Newmont operations, we intend to publish a comprehensive report toward the end of 2024 with updated 2030 emissions reduction targets, which will reflect recent changes to our operating portfolio.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
1166
OOvveerrvviieeww
OUR BUSINESS
On November 6, 2023, we completed the acquisition
of Newcrest Mining Limited (“Newcrest”) (“the
Newcrest transaction”). Select results of Newcrest for
Newmont is the world’s leading gold the period November 6–December 31, 2023, are
company and a producer of copper, included in the 2023 Performance Data tables.
zinc, lead and silver. The Company’s The successful acquisition of Newcrest was a
world-class portfolio of assets, standout moment in our history, positioning
Newmont as the world’s largest gold mining
prospects and talent is anchored in
company with an outstanding portfolio of Tier 1
favorable mining jurisdictions in Africa,
assets and a clear pathway to becoming a global-
Australia, Latin America and Caribbean, scale copper producer. We remain grounded in our
North America and Papua New Guinea values and guided by our purpose, holding ourselves
and the industry accountable as we continuously
(PNG). Newmont is the only gold
work to set the standard for responsible mining.
producer listed in the S&P 500 Index
and is widely recognized for its
Read more about our operations and
principled environmental, social and
projects around the world on our
governance (ESG) practices. The
website and in our 2023 Form 10-K.
Company is an industry leader in value
creation, supported by robust safety
standards, superior execution, and
technical expertise. Newmont was
founded in 1921 and has been publicly
traded since 1925.
Photo: Cajamarca Region, Peru
NNeewwmmoonntt CCoorrppoorraattiioonn 22002233 SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt
17 Overview | Our Business
NEWMONT OPERATIONS AND PROJECTS1, 2
Red Chris
Musselwhite
Éléonore
Brucejack
Porcupine
Nevada Gold Mines3
Cripple Creek & Victor
Pueblo Viejo4
Ahafo
Peñasquito
Ahafo North
Lihir
Akyem
Merian
Tanami Expansion 2 Yanacocha
Telfer
Tanami Cadia Block Caves
Boddington Cadia
Denotes a world-class asset (Tier 1)5
Cerro Negro District Expansion 1
Operation
Cerro Negro
Project in execution
1 As of February 2024. See cautionary statement.
Joint venture
2 On February 22, 2024, Newmont announced its intention to divest six non-core assets, including Éléonore, Musselwhite, Porcupine, CC&V, Akyem and Telfer, within the next 12 months.
3 Newmont holds a 38.5 percent ownership interest.
4 Newmont holds a 40 percent ownership interest.
5 T ier 1 Asset is defined as having, on average over such asset’s mine life: (1) production of over 500,000 GEOs/year on a consolidated basis, (2) average AISC/oz in the lower half of the industry cost curve, (3) an expected mine life of over 10 years, and (4) operations in countries that are classified in the A and B
rating ranges for Moody’s, S&P and Fitch. For the definition of GEOs and AISC, see Newmont’s annual report on Form 10-K on file with the SEC. With respect to other assets in the industry, such terms and metrics are as published in public filings of the third-party entities reporting with respect to those assets.
Our methods of calculating operating metrics, such as AISC, and those of third parties may differ for similarly titled metrics published by other parties due to differences in methodology.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
18 Overview | Our Business
Corporate Strategy
At Newmont, we take pride in being a values-driven • Industry-leading portfolio: NEWMONT’S STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK
organization with a clear purpose – to create value
− Two-thirds of our gold production comes from
and improve lives through sustainable and
Tier 1 assets.
responsible mining.
Read more about our five core values – safety,
− Approximately 80 percent of our gold and SOCIETY & INVESTORS
copper production comes from the Americas
integrity, sustainability, inclusion and responsibility Safe production
and Australia.
on our website. Portfolio N G Copper
Our Corporate Strategy aligns key external
− Our assets produce around 150,000 tonnes of optimization MINI DI
V
portfolio
copper with additional exposure through Operating model E E R Copper project
i
a
pn
n
ild
ld
au rcs sot r amy
r
p
em :ee tig tia vt er e an dd vs
a
nw ti ath
g
eo su
.
r
O
c uo rr e
th
c ra ep ea sb ti rl ait ti ee gs
ic
•
Prr oe vs ee nr v oe ps
e
a ran td
in
r ge s mo ou drc ee l:s. Organi dz ea sti io gnn
ONSIBL SI
F
I
C
A T
pipeline
P IO
1 Responsible gold production; − The team includes experienced leaders with ES N
R
a proven track record.
2 Industry consolidation; and
− Since 2014, our Full Potential continuous
improvement program has delivered more
3 Commodity diversification. 2023–2033
than $5 billion in cost savings.
The strategy, integral to Newmont’s purpose, • Disciplined capital allocation strategy: T S
is built on our: − By sustaining an investment-grade balance E C TIC
H LI
• Commitment to leading ESG practices: sheet, we maintain financial flexibility. N O
O P
L O
− Our Fatality Risk Management program − We reinvest in our business through exploration O G GE
Y
supports efforts to provide a workplace free and organic growth projects.
of illnesses, injuries and fatalities.
− Our industry-leading dividend provides
− Newmont is consistently recognized as the compelling returns to shareholders. CONSOLIDATION
gold sector’s sustainability leader.
Newcrest integration
Divestments
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
1199
OOvveerrvviieeww
OUR APPROACH TO
SUSTAINABILITY
As a core value, sustainability is SUSTAINABILITY AND THE MINE LIFECYCLE
integrated throughout Newmont,
influencing and guiding all our
business processes, decisions and
activities. Our global strategies,
n Po et oa pb lely
,
ath no ds He ere al la thte
,
d
Sa
t fo
e
tS yu ast na din ability,
O S U R E
EXPLORATI
O N
L
C
Security, aim to showcase leadership T-
S
O
in environmental stewardship, safety, P SOCIAL
social performance and good
D
governance. With clear targets, E
V
E
meaningful engagement and L
O
P
transparent reporting, we strive for Mine M
E
continuous improvement to meet the N
Lifecycle L T
evolving expectations of investors, E
R E
NTA
D
&
U C E E
governments, communities and other S
O
O
N
NM GIS
k ae sy
u
s st ta ak ine ah bo leld fe ur ts u, ra en fd
o
rto
a
lc l.ontribute to L
C
O
MI
C E N
VIRO N
N
O
TI
C
U
R
T
P R ODUCTION C O N S
Photo: Boddington, Australia
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
20 Overview | Our Approach to Sustainability
Our Sustainability Strategy The approach involves tracking efforts to build, DOCUMENTATION GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
embed and expand health, safety and security
Newmont’s Sustainability Strategy aligns with the programs, with a commitment to consolidating data,
evolving landscape of environmental, social and utilizing technology and fostering effective
governance (ESG) practices. Recognizing ESG as a communication to ensure a proactive and agile
CODE OF CONDUCT
business imperative, the strategy goes beyond a response to evolving risks.
Sets out expectation of behavior for Newmont
“do no harm” approach, encompassing actions that
More information on this strategy is included in employees, officers and directors and for our
address global challenges such as climate change, partners, vendors and third-party workers when
Our Approach to Health, Safety and Security.
modern slavery, human rights and impacts on nature. they are working with us or on our behalf.
Stakeholders rightfully expect increased
Our People Strategy
transparency, public stances on global issues and
adherence to leading ESG practices. Our
Sustainability Strategy not only incorporates these Newmont’s People Strategy recognizes the POLICIES
expanded imperatives but also standardizes substantial changes in the workplace over recent Broad encompassing statement of business
governance, aligns business practices with years, encompassing shifts in workforce intentions, aspirations and/or commitments.
sustainability and ESG standards, and integrates demographics, operating models and
feedback from extensive engagement and transformed workplaces. Additionally, it considers Global
Governance
consultation. The strategy is aimed at realizing the the impact of technology automation on talent in
Library
Company’s purpose of creating value and improving both mine site and office settings. The strategy’s
GLOBAL STANDARDS
lives through sustainable and responsible mining. three pillars include:
Specifies minimum acceptable requirements for
More information on this strategy is included 1 Leadership – aiming to grow and attract behaviors, decisions and/or performance. Identifies
throughout this report. exceptional leaders; roles and responsibilities for managing risk.
Inclusion, Diversity and Equity – focused on
2
cultivating an inclusive, diverse and engaged
Our Health, Safety and
workforce through bold actions; and
Security Strategy GLOBAL STANDARD
People Experience – seeking to foster a IMPLEMENTATION GUIDES
3
AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
meaningful work experience that enables the
Newmont’s Health, Safety and Security Strategy
flourishing of our culture and strategy. Provides the approach for how requirements
supports our pursuit of a workplace free from
outlined in a Standard need to be implemented.
fatalities, injuries and illnesses. Recognizing The strategy also emphasizes respecting workforce
progress while emphasizing the need for rights and ensuring a living wage for those working
continued improvement, the strategy focuses on our behalf. BUSINESS UNIT OR SITE PROCEDURES
on three key themes: (includes site/business unit work instructions, forms,
More information on this strategy is included in Business Unit operation procedures, etc.)
Controlled
1 Acting on risk to control outcomes; Our Approach to People and Culture. Document Supports the implementation of global standards; ensures
Libraries uniformity and the fulfillment of program requirements at the
2 Actively caring by engaging and supporting All our policies, as well as select standards, are business unit level; also used to define practical, specific work
employees and partners; and posted on our website (available in English, Spanish, tasks and assign responsibilities.
Dutch and French).
3 Applying knowledge to foster innovation.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
21 Overview | Our Approach to Sustainability
Sustainability Governance BOARD OVERSIGHT remuneration plans create the foundation for Audit Committee
The full Board is responsible for providing oversight strong sustainability performance. The Audit Committee oversees the integrity of
Newmont’s Board of Directors (“the Board”) is and holding management accountable for the the Company’s financial statements, ensuring
Each Committee Chair meets with management
responsible for providing oversight and accountability Company’s safety and sustainability performance. compliance with legal and regulatory requirements
before formal meetings, providing summaries
for the Company. The Board oversees the Company’s The Board delegates specific matters to each of the and enterprise-wide policies and controls. This
afterward to the full Board, which reviews key
Corporate Strategy and maintains a sense of Board’s committees to ensure sustainability includes reviewing our Business Integrity and
sustainability matters, including health and safety,
responsibility to Newmont’s stockholders, considerations are integrated into the business at all Compliance program, charter and any material
security, tailings management, social performance,
customers, employees, suppliers, host communities levels of the organization and that our global changes to the Company’s Code of Conduct. The
energy and climate and talent management.
and governments. standards, strategies, business plans and committee also oversees Newmont’s annual
Safety and Sustainability Committee Taxes and Royalties Contribution Report, which
As stated in its charter, the Safety and Sustainability discloses our tax strategy and significant economic
SAFETY AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE Committee advises and oversees matters related to contributions to host communities and governments
health, safety, security, human rights, social and in line with our commitment to creating shared value.
environmental performance and their related risks.
Leadership Development and
The Safety and Sustainability Committee’s quarterly Compensation Committee
meetings include in-depth discussions on policies, The Leadership Development and Compensation
standards and strategies to mitigate safety and Committee develops and oversees the Company’s
sustainability risks; compliance with regulations and executive compensation policies and programs.
policies; performance against standards, This includes holding executives accountable for
Jane Nelson (director since Patrick Awuah (director Sally-Anne Layman (director commitments and public targets; and ESG-related the Company’s health, safety and sustainability
2011 and Chair of the Safety since 2021) has extensive since 2023) brings a wealth of incentive plan metrics. The Committee contributes performance through an effective performance-
and Sustainability Committee international experience and international expertise in the to our annual materiality assessment to identify based compensation structure. The committee
since 2019) has a long and as Founder and President of mining sector and financial sustainability risks and concerns, and reviews and also oversees the leadership development, succession
distinguished career advocating Ashesi University, he brings markets, having held various approves Newmont’s Annual Sustainability Report planning and talent management approach. It reviews
for sustainable business academic leadership to the senior roles with multiple mining and Climate Report. the Company’s People Strategy and efforts to create
practices and is the Founding Committee. and resource companies. and maintain a more diverse and inclusive workplace.
As of the end of 2023, the Safety and Sustainability
Director of the Corporate
Committee included five members – Jane Nelson Corporate Governance and
Responsibility Initiative at
(Chair), Patrick Awuah, Emma FitzGerald, Sally-Anne Nominating Committee
Harvard Kennedy School.
Layman and José Manuel Madero. The Corporate Governance and Nominating
Committee is responsible for ensuring the Board
comprises qualified individuals who act in the best
interests of shareholders and key stakeholders.
This involves overseeing and advising on corporate
Dr. Emma FitzGerald (director José Manuel Madero (director governance issues, Board leadership and succession
since 2021) is an experienced since 2021) has extensive planning, including identifying individuals to serve
business executive in the energy experience as a finance, strategy on the Board with expertise in health, safety,
and water industry, known for and business development environmental and social performance.
her thought leadership and deep executive and as a consultant
More information about Newmont’s Board
understanding of these industries who advises global companies
members and committees is available in our
and for operating successfully in on managing matters related to
2024 Proxy Statement.
developing markets. regulatory, policy and social
responsibility.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
22 Overview | Our Approach to Sustainability
MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
Newmont management has primary responsibility • Our Chief Technology Officer is responsible for
for the daily implementation and management of our efforts to identify and implement
sustainability matters. Newmont’s President and technologies that help us operate safer and more BOARD OF DIRECTORS
CEO oversees alignment with the overall Corporate responsible mines and serves as the Accountable
The full Board oversees and holds management accountable for the Company’s sustainability
Strategy and delegates responsibility for executing Executive (AE) responsible for the safety of
performance. The Board delegates specific matters to each of the Board’s committees to ensure
the Sustainability and Health, Safety and Security Newmont’s tailings facilities. The AE delegates
the integration of sustainability considerations throughout the business.
strategies to the Chief Safety and Sustainability responsibility for on-the-ground implementation
Officer. This role was enhanced in 2023 by combining at the business unit and site levels to the
the leadership of the Safety and Sustainability teams, Corporate Tailings and Dams Team.
elevating the focus on the Company’s health, safety,
• Our Chief Operating Officer oversees the
security, environmental and social performance. EXECUTIVE AND STRATEGIC LEADERSHIP TEAMS
Managing Directors for each business unit and the
All executives are actively engaged in managing site General Managers, who are responsible for Newmont management holds the primary responsibility for the daily implementation and
sustainability and the associated risks. This on-the-ground implementation at the business management of sustainability matters. Although all executives actively engage in sustainability
includes responsibility for the following programs unit and site levels. matters and the associated risks, dedicated sustainability-focused leaders are part of our
and efforts: executive and strategic leadership teams.
Contributing to our global strategies and programs
• Our Chief Financial Officer oversees our Risk are executive steering committees and/or cross-
Management System and debt instruments, functional working groups that address issues like
including our sustainability-linked bond, and geopolitical risk, human rights, Indigenous peoples,
engages with investors on ESG issues. water stewardship, tailings management, climate ENTERPRISE TEAMS BUSINESS UNIT/SITE TEAMS
change and mine closure. Newmont’s enterprise teams establish Newmont’s Managing Directors and their
• Our Chief Legal Officer oversees our Business
health, safety, security, people, governance, teams at the business unit and site levels
Integrity and Compliance program, and with the To ensure ESG matters are timely and consistently
social performance and environmental ensure workplace safety and the
legal team, addresses key social and disclosed to the investment community, our cross-
standards and guidelines, provide shared implementation of and compliance with
environmental matters. functional ESG disclosure subcommittee evaluates
services to all business units, and monitor Newmont’s policies and standards,
existing and emerging matters of significance, such
• Our Chief People Officer oversees the People business unit and site performance. including those related to health, safety,
as the U.S. Securities and Exchange rule on climate
Strategy, workforce inclusion, diversity and equity security, people, governance, social
disclosures, performance against key public targets
performance, and talent management. performance and environment.
and reporting on greenhouse gas emissions data.
• Our Chief Development Officer oversees our
government and external relations efforts.
Read more about how Newmont’s
2023 sustainability performance
impacted remuneration in the
2024 Proxy Statement.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
23 Overview | Our Approach to Sustainability
Stakeholder Engagement This analysis differs from traditional financial • Newmont’s Safety and Sustainability Board Our 2023 materiality assessment resulted in 33 total
materiality, which relates to thresholds that may Committee – We interviewed each committee issues, all important and requiring focused attention
influence investors and determines the disclosures member to solicit feedback and incorporate this from Newmont. Each issue demonstrates a relative
We view anyone affected by our activities and vital
in our public financial filings. Several issues – feedback into the overall analysis. prioritization and is shown in three tiers with 11 being
to our success as a stakeholder.
including mine closure, community relationships, the most impactful. Compared to previous years,
An overview of stakeholder groups, topics, water management and climate change – are • Internal subject matter experts – Through a the issues are largely the same; however, you’ll see
quantitative prioritization survey, we engaged
engagement mechanisms and examples of how considered material from both a financial and a more granular level of detail in our issues this year.
internal subject matter experts across the
Newmont engages with each stakeholder group is sustainability standpoint. We discuss these matters See the following materiality matrix and corresponding
business to gather input that we incorporated into
posted on our website. Further details on our in this report and our 2023 Form 10-K (pp. 9-12). definitions on the following pages for more details.
the overall analysis.
engagement with stakeholders are included
For our 2023 materiality assessment process, we For 2023, Risk Management has been removed as
throughout this report. • Data-driven material issues prioritization – In
commissioned an independent research and a standalone topic and is now folded into ESG
addition to the direct stakeholder inputs as
advisory firm to help conduct the overall materiality Governance and various individual material issues.
detailed above, we incorporated data from the
Materiality assessment and gather direct feedback from No new issues were identified as part of the 2023
third-party software analytics platform on
external and internal stakeholders. The process for process. All material issues are addressed in this
regulatory, media and corporate disclosure
Each year, we conduct a materiality assessment to the assessment included the following: report mostly in the four main sections –
environments.
identify, assess and prioritize our current, near-term Governance, Social, Environment and Economic.
• Initial mapping – Starting with the prior year’s
and emerging sustainability issues. Our assessment • Risk management evaluation – Our leaders
material issues, we validated the list of issues and Starting with this year’s report, we have provided
follows GRI’s guidance for determining material reviewed and evaluated the final materiality
incorporated new and emerging issues using a information on our website about the governance,
topics and includes the Sustainability Accounting matrix to confirm there were no significant gaps
variety of methods, including current reporting risk management, and our strategy and management
Standards Board (SASB) material topics for our between the material sustainability issues and the
requirements and frameworks, peer approach for the material issues. This ensures the
sector. We assess priority issues in two ways: ranking of risks in our Global Risk Library
benchmarking, sector priorities, internal discussion and disclosures in this report concentrate
identified through our risk management process.
1. A ssessing the issues where Newmont has or could workshops, and the list of assessed issues from a on our performance for the reporting year. Key
have the potential to impact the environment, third-party software analytics platform that • Leadership validation – We reviewed the issues’ performance indicators for all issues shown on the
people and society (either negatively or identifies and monitors external risks including prioritization with functional leaders, executives 2023 materiality matrix are included in the 2023
positively) – as seen on the Y-axis of the matrix. ESG-related risks. and the Board’s Safety and Sustainability Performance Data tables and are available on our
Committee to confirm the final issue rankings that website as downloadable ESG data tables.
2. A ssessing issues that impact or could impact • External perspectives – We engaged external
are displayed in the matrix.
Newmont’s business and financial success (either stakeholders through one-on-one interactive In addition to our materiality analysis is the concept
negatively or positively) – as seen on the X-axis on interviews to discuss the issues and obtain a of salience, which focuses on potential risks to
the matrix. ranking of each issue. In 2023, perspectives from people. Details on our salient issues are included on
academia, non-governmental organizations, our website and in the Human Rights section of
investors, customers and industry organizations this report.
were included.
Photo: Peñasquito, Mexico
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
LOCAL AND INDIGENOUS
COMMUNITY RIGHTS
WATER QUALITY
AND POLLUTION WATER USE, REUSE
AND REPLENISHMENT
CLIMATE CHANGE RISK,
ENERGY USE AND RESILIENCE AND ADAPTATION
RENEWABLES
COMMUNITY RELATIONS,
ENGAGEMENT AND CONSULTATION
BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEMS
COMMUNITY HEALTH,
SAFETY AND SECURITY WORKER HEALTH, SAFETY
LOCAL AND INDIGENOUS
AND WELLBEING
COMMUNITY HIRING
HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS
IN OPERATIONS
CHEMICAL AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
USE AND WASTE MANAGEMENT
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT
GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG)
EMISSIONS
AIR POLLUTION TAILINGS MANAGEMENT
AND SAFETY
MINE CLOSURE AND
RECLAMATION
CORRUPTION AND BRIBERY
WORKER HEALTH, SAFETY,
AND WELLBEING IN THE
HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS
SUPPLY CHAIN
IN SUPPLY CHAIN
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING AND
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT WORKFORCE DIVERSITY,
EQUITY AND INCLUSION ESG GOVERNANCE
BUSINESS ETHICS, COMPLIANCE
ARTISANAL AND SMALL-SCALE AND TRANSPARENCY
MINING (ASM)
GEOPOLITICAL RISK
MATERIALS REUSE
AND RECYCLING
VALUE SHARING AND
TAX CONTRIBUTION
CYBERSECURITY AND
DATA PRIVACY
EMPLOYEE ATTRACTION,
NON-HAZARDOUS
RETENTION, ENGAGEMENT
WASTE MANAGEMENT ADVOCACY AND POLITICAL
AND DEVELOPMENT
RESPONSIBILITY
INNOVATION/TECHNOLOGY
DEPLOYMENT
Business Impact
/latnemnorivnE tcapmI
lateicoS
24 Overview | Our Approach to Sustainability
2023 MATERIALITY MATRIX
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
25 Overview | Our Approach to Sustainability
Material Issues
List of issues and definitions List of issues and definitions
Issue Definition Issue Definition
Advocacy and political Public policy and transparent political engagement that aligns with the Company’s Community relations, Meaningful engagement with communities near operations; Provision of grievance and
responsibility environmental, social and governance policies and position; Collaboration with public engagement and remediation opportunities for communities to voice questions and concerns; Social
sector, peers and industry associations to advocate for better outcomes for people and consultation inclusion of diverse community members
planet
Corruption and bribery Prevention and detection of bribery, fraud, extortion, collusion, money laundering,
Air pollution Release of material air pollutants, including nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), corruption, etc., through training, policies and standards
carbon monoxide (CO), mercury (Hg), Arsenic (As), Lead (Pb), Selenium (Se), Volatile
organic compounds (VOCs) and particulate matter (PM10 and PM2.5); limit the impact on Cybersecurity and data Protection of internal systems and equipment (including operational safety systems),
local communities, workers and ecosystems privacy networks, devices, data, etc. from unauthorized access or criminal use; Safeguarding the
privacy and personal data of customers, employees, workers and business partners
Artisanal and small-scale Engagement and consultation with local ASM operators to build constructive relationships;
mining (ASM) Identify, assess, prevent and mitigate impacts by business relationships, interactions, Employee attraction, Attract, recruit and retain a skilled workforce; Employee engagement, transparency and
security practices, or co-location of mining with ASM; Support legitimate ASM activities retention, engagement collaboration; Training and development for employees to build capabilities, career
through capacity building, negotiating allocated areas for ASM operators to mine and and development opportunities and advance knowledge to ensure skills and talent pipeline for the future of
providing resources and technical assistance mining
Biodiversity and Impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems from own operations and value chain, including Energy use and Energy use and intensity; Energy efficiency; Renewable energy use throughout own
ecosystems pollution of soil, living organisms and food resources, deforestation, loss of / restoration renewables operations and value chain
of plant and animal species; Impact of own operations on the physical environment
ESG governance ESG integration and governance, including board composition/diversity, expertise,
through the lifecycle of the mine
oversight, executive compensation, etc.; Publicly reporting on ESG-related issues, risks,
Business ethics, Ethical business culture and practices; Compliance with laws and regulations issued by opportunities, outcomes, policies, plans, performance and goals; Critical and systemic risk
compliance and local, regional and national governments, regulatory authorities and public agencies; management
transparency Transparent corporate behavior and policies, including payments to governments, rights
Geopolitical risk Assessment and avoidance of conflict-affected and high-risk areas; Robust due diligence to
of shareholders, etc.
ensure human rights are respected and ensuring own operations and activities are not
Chemical and hazardous Chemical (including cyanide and mercury) and hazardous materials use and waste contributing to conflict
materials use and waste management; Safe practices and incidence avoidance in own operations and elsewhere in
Greenhouse gas (GHG) GHG emissions and intensity in own operations and value chain (Scope 1, 2, 3), including
management the value chain, including in storage and transportation
emissions transportation/logistics; Invest in and implement alternative fuels for transportation,
Climate change risk, Disruptions and enhanced resiliency to financial, physical and regulatory impacts of including employee travel
resilience and adaptation climate change on own operations, the value chain and local communities; Support and
Human and labor rights in Human rights and labor/working conditions of employees, third-party workers, or any
promote solutions for a just transition to a lower carbon economy
own operations workers of any entity that is controlled or managed by Newmont; Identification and
Community health, safety Health and safety impacts on communities from own operations, supply chain and own/ addressing incidents and risks of modern slavery, child or forced labor; Prevention of
and security third-party security practices; Programs and practices that assess, manage and mitigate discrimination, harassment and retaliation; Freedom of association and collective
health and safety impacts bargaining; Living wage, inclusive/competitive benefits, reasonable working hours,
adequate housing; Access to grievance mechanisms
Community investment Economic contributions through local investment and capacity building; Economic
diversification in local/host communities, including diversified jobs and careers;
Philanthropic efforts and employee volunteering
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
26 Overview | Our Approach to Sustainability
List of issues and definitions List of issues and definitions
Issue Definition Issue Definition
Human and labor rights in Respecting human rights and labor/working conditions of workers in the broader supply Tailings management and Responsible tailings and waste rock management conforming with the Global Industry
supply chain chain (training, policies and procedures); Monitoring for modern slavery, child or forced safety Standard on Tailings Management (GISTM) commitments; Transparent communication of
labor, discrimination, harassment and retaliation; Assessing suppliers for issues such as risks to protect employees, local communities and the environment; Prevention of
freedom of association and collective bargaining for workers, living wage/adequate pay, catastrophic failures of tailings facilities
reasonable working hours, adequate housing; Awareness of and access to grievance
mechanisms Value sharing and tax Direct and indirect value sharing in host countries, regions and communities through
contribution investments, procurement spending, supporting/partnering with diverse local suppliers,
Innovation/technology Deployment of innovation and technology to improve environmental, safety and social commerce, regional development, infrastructure, fair tax contributions, etc.
deployment outcomes; Identify, manage and mitigate negative impacts of new technology and
innovations on own workforce, supply chain, community and the environment Water quality and Water quality and water pollutants from own operations; Availability of clean water in
pollution communities (i.e., for drinking, agricultural use, etc.); Monitoring of water discharges
Local and Indigenous Hiring from local and indigenous communities at all company levels; Develop and enable throughout the value chain
community hiring training and development to build capabilities for career opportunities
Water use, reuse and Water use and increase water reuse and recycling in own operations; Water availability/
Local and Indigenous Human, social, civil, political, economic and cultural rights of local communities and replenishment access/security for communities, especially in water-stressed areas; Monitoring of water
community rights indigenous peoples, including free, prior and informed consent (FPIC), individual and use throughout the value chain
collective rights, self-determination, rights to land, resources, education, health,
employment, language, adequate housing and food, clean water and sanitation, etc. Worker health, safety and Health, safety and wellbeing (mental and physical) of employees, third-party workers, or
wellbeing any workers of any entity that is controlled or managed by Newmont; Provision of health
Materials reuse and Re-use and recycling of resources, products and materials in the mining process; Design and safety training, tools and standards; Implementation of policies and approaches avoid
recycling and innovation for recycling/circularity (excluding water which is under a separate issue) and address significant/critical health and safety incidents
Mine closure and Environmental, social and economic impacts from mine closure and decommissioning Worker health, safety and Health, safety and wellbeing (mental and physical) of workers in the value chain;
reclamation of own operations; Engagement of workers, suppliers, local communities, governments wellbeing in the supply Partnering with suppliers who promote and enable health, safety and wellbeing of their
and other stakeholders on closure planning and implementation, including post-mining chain workers; Implementation of a supplier management approach to avoid and address
land use; Rehabilitation of land during the life of mine and as land becomes available significant/critical health and safety incidents within their own businesses
post-closure
Workforce diversity, Diverse and inclusive workforce (employees, third-party workers, or any workers of any
Non-hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste reduction, management and safe practices in operations and along equity and inclusion entity that is controlled or managed by Newmont), executive management team and
management the value chain board; Fair and equitable treatment, compensation and opportunities for all employees in
the workforce
Responsible sourcing and Transparent processes, systems and assessments to ensure suppliers uphold standards
supply chain management on environmental, social and ethical business practice issues; Ethical sourcing of materials
and other supplies; Enablement of supplier sustainability with longer-term contracts and
on-time payment
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
27 Overview | Our Approach to Sustainability
Responsible Mining Standards and Disclosures
Newmont actively participates in voluntary we focus on the following five SDGs that align with
initiatives at the global, regional, national and local our business strategy, showcase leadership, and
levels, demonstrating our commitment to represent areas where we have the greatest
collaboration, transparency and accountability. Our potential to generate lasting and meaningful
involvement in industry initiatives aligns us with outcomes that improve lives:
global standards and allows us to influence and stay
SDG 3 Good health and wellbeing
informed about emerging expectations, issues and
risks. More details on our commitments, initiatives, SDG 5 Gender equality
memberships and disclosure frameworks can be
SDG 6 Clean water and sanitation
found in the Responsible Mining Standards and
Disclosures document on our website. SDG 8 Decent work and economic growth
SDG 17 Partnerships for the goals
UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS)
Details on these five SDGs are posted on our
Newmont actively supports the SDGs through
website. We report on our efforts to advance these
various activities and initiatives.
goals throughout this report and include specific
We recognize our impact on and the opportunity alignments between our sustainability efforts and
to positively contribute to all 17 SDGs. To amplify the SDGs in the GRI Index.
Newmont’s influence in advancing these goals,
Read more about the various
voluntary global, regional, national
and local organizations and
initiatives in which Newmont
actively participates. Updated March 2024
Responsible Mining Standards
and Disclosures
Nacone ldw la lm booco ran al ttoi oargncat , i tnv reiazl nay stpipoa anr rtsei c naincp yda t aiennsidt iin aa tcvivcaeorisuo, nudtsea vmbo iol lu itnyns.t t araryti ngglo boualr, creogmiomnaitlm, neantito tnoa l
fWboae lslo iuswn (idd nee gpr rgeeons dpiniond nge s poibenln e td hmeen i nftr iaansmgs seu twr aaonnrdckae rr oedqn s u fa rinrae mamn een wnu otasrl)k o sfor : rr othtaet ing aOinsuf ogr aramic nt ai iv nne sd ip g ia hnr tflt iui ncei tp ona cetei mo gn elo ri gbn ia ninlg sd teuaxsnptdr eyac rtindai tst i i oaa nnti sdv ,e pissrs aa ucll eto sicw eas ns ,u d as rs t i sowk esl.l
• • • • T T T TP PSh h h hue rie e e esr nf t I M W Wco an ir i pi o ot nmne lr ra eir l lanbd dsnn ;gl a eG Gc a At e no oMi s o dl lEs d dinx no a C Cp icnl o oei aC gu uct ot n npiaou c crtnn oi ii l lo g’ ’c s soni r l f R Ca s o Cm oe an a s nn ; pn flMd oa i i cndPn ta soi -in F’s bs rgi lt eT eia eoo Gn wn Gd o a oS lM r dt ldda e M st Ste tiam n als i nne dn g a t rs d; . dNiosctalobslue rceo fmrammitemweonrktss, ainreit idaetitvaeisle, dm ienm thbee rtsahbilpes b aenlodw .
Newmont Corporation 1
Photo: Ghana, Africa
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
28 Overview | Our Approach to Sustainability
HOW NEWMONT USES TECHNOLOGY TO MINE SUSTAINABLY
Newmont’s commitment to operational excellence, − In 2023, Tanami became the first underground − In 2023, Tanami deployed three autonomous − We commenced groundbreaking and pre-work
safety and sustainability is driven by cutting-edge stope mine to initiate testing and validation of systems for its LHD equipment and ordered five for the Electric Operating Zone at our CC&V
technology and innovation. Our cross-functional the MineStar Fleet for Underground, a next- more autonomous LHD machines. These five operation, finalizing the infrastructure design
efforts evaluate a wide range of technological generation mine control platform. The platform new diesel-electric machines have a notable and layout and beginning the construction
solutions and systems that improve safety, reduce is expected to significantly advance mine control 31 percent improvement in fuel efficiency, phase. This preparation is essential ahead of the
emissions, mitigate impacts and enhance and operational visibility for underground increased payload capacity, a redesigned expected arrival of the prototype battery
productivity. Highlights include the following: mining applications when it becomes the bucket for quicker cycles, reduced maintenance electric haul truck, scheduled for the second
operation’s primary production system in needs and extended component life. When half of 2024, marking a significant milestone.
• Automated, electrified mining ecosystem:
mid-2024. paired with automation, these higher efficiency
Newmont and Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) have joined − We continue to evaluate and work with key
and more productive machines are expected to
forces to revolutionize mining by developing a − We began replacing the legacy mine control suppliers to understand lower-emission
result in tangible safety and productivity
comprehensive set of standardized, all-electric and system at Ahafo South with the current emulsion/ammonium nitrate-fuel oil, grinding
improvements at Tanami.
autonomous surface and underground mining generation MineStar Fleet system. Leveraging materials and reagents; battery technology;
solutions. The collaboration, initiated at Newmont’s our strategic alliance with CAT, we deployed the • Transition to a low-carbon economy: To address and power conversion and carbon
CC&V operation (surface) and Tanami operation current generation Fleet mine control solution the impacts of climate change and achieve our sequestration solutions.
(underground), aims to progress our on next-generation hardware, facilitating field 2030 climate targets, Newmont formed a strategic
Recognizing the importance of information
decarbonization goals while enhancing safety and testing and scalability for the upcoming mine alliance with CAT, investing $100 million in
technology and operational technology systems,
operational efficiency. This strategic alliance serves control solution. This system development innovative solutions for emission reduction. This
Newmont continues to deploy high-tech solutions
as a real-world proving ground for the mining initiative will continue through 2024. partnership includes testing early learner battery
while prioritizing cybersecurity. Vigilant measures
ecosystem of the future. We will begin evaluating electric trucks, autonomous vehicles and other
− In 2022, Cerro Negro became the first are taken to manage evolving cyber threats and
electrified autonomous haulage at CC&V and technologies. Highlights in 2023 included:
underground mining operation in Argentina to security breaches. We discuss the management of
Tanami beginning in 2024 and 2025, respectively.
use an automated LHD vehicle. Controlled and − With collaboration and support from Newmont, cyber risks in our 2023 Form 10-K (page 21).
• Modernization Advances: Modernizing our supervised by an operator in a control station, CAT successfully completed its first prototype
Where opportunities arise, Newmont partners with
operations is key to mitigating safety risks, this autonomous solution has improved safety, of a battery electric underground mining truck
mining and mineral processing peers through our
reducing emissions and enhancing efficiencies. operator comfort and efficiency. Through 2023 in 2023. This milestone represents a crucial
various association memberships, including ICMM
Newmont has successfully deployed and into 2024, we are expanding the fleet of step toward demonstrating progress in our
and World Gold Council, on the development and
modernization solutions such as autonomous autonomous LHD vehicles at Cerro Negro, with collaboration. The ongoing collaboration
use of innovative technology and supports the
haulage systems, automated load-haul-dump one unit currently operational and four more between Caterpillar and Newmont aims to
promotion of these solutions across the industry.
(LHD) vehicles, fully remote operations and coming online in 2024. Additionally, we have establish a fully connected, automated and zero-
As technology continues to evolve, we remain
next-generation fleet management solutions at introduced two autonomous drills at Cerro carbon-emitting mining system, enhancing
dedicated to leveraging these advancements to
various mining sites, including: Negro that are controlled remotely. Further safety and sustainability across our operations.
drive sustainable mining practices, foster safety
expansions for both LHDs and drills are planned
and contribute to a low-carbon future.
in the near term.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
29
Overview
LEADERSHIP
REFLECTIONS Suzy Retallack serves as Newmont’s Executive Vice
President and Chief Safety and Sustainability Officer,
bringing over 20 years of experience in the mining industry
We asked three of the newest
to her role. With Newmont for five years and in her current
members of Newmont’s Executive
position since June 2023, Suzy reflects on Newmont’s
Leadership Team to share their
approach to sustainability.
perspectives on sustainability as it
relates to their new role and what
the transformative Newcrest
transaction means for the Company.
Natascha Viljoen joined Newmont in October 2023 as
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. With
more than 30 years of experience in the industry, Natascha
shares her perspective on Newmont and the importance of
sustainability to the business.
Watch the full video interviews on
newmont.com.
Karyn Ovelmen, who joined Newmont in May 2023 as
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, shares
her thoughts on the highly complex, capital-intensive
mining industry and how sustainability and financial
performance are interconnected.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
30 Overview | Leadership Reflections
What aspects of your role as Newmont’s Chief Safety and Sustainability Officer do you
find most compelling?
I’m proud to lead sustainability during this transformational time at Newmont, bringing my years of experience
to really make a difference. The Safety and Sustainability function includes several disciplines – health, safety,
security, environment, social performance and human rights, as well as the Respect at Work program, which is
such an important program for both us and our industry to improve workplaces for everyone by eliminating
harassment, discrimination, bullying and racism.
What does “More Than Gold” mean to you?
It signifies our transformation beyond being just a large gold producer. Now, we’re a large gold and copper
producer that produces the critical minerals that are going to be a key part of the transition to a low-carbon
future. As a recognized sustainability leader, we also do what we say we’re going to do. We think that is a huge
part of being more than just gold.
In your time as Chief Safety and Sustainability Officer, what insights have you gained?
Every day, I’m learning something new about the changing landscape that we’re operating in from an ESG
perspective. Staying up-to-date on the new standards and reporting requirements is really important to ensure
“ As a recognized
we hold ourselves accountable. Another important lesson is that regardless of whether there’s an acquisition
taking place, a severe weather event or a strike that is impacting people, we remain focused on people’s wellbeing,
sustainability leader,
and everyone being treated with respect.
we also do what we
How is Newmont innovating in responsible resource management and sustainability?
say we’re going to do.
It is important that we perform and rebuild the trust with stakeholders that has been impacted by multiple
We think that is a huge incidents in our industry. The work to improve our management of tailings, which was driven by some really
tragic incidents, is an example of how we have collaborated well as an industry to develop robust standards
part of being more and governance that improve accountability.
than just gold.” How does Newmont differentiate itself in the industry when it comes to ESG?
Our integrated approach, from the Board to our operations, ensures we are all talking about the same things
SUZY RETALLACK, when it comes to sustainability. We are committed to continuous improvement, whether it’s access to water,
Executive Vice President and Chief Safety and economic resilience beyond the life of the mine or keeping people safe so everyone goes home to their families
Sustainability Officer
at the end of each day. It is a privilege to serve in this role and build on Newmont’s strong legacy of valuing
sustainability and responsible mining.
Watch the full video interview on newmont.com.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
31 Overview | Leadership Reflections
What excites you most about being the Chief Operating Officer?
Being the Chief Operating Officer at Newmont is incredibly exciting because I get to engage with everybody at
Newmont. Working for more than 30 years in the mining industry has given me amazing opportunities to learn
from those who are on the front lines and do the work every day. The absolute ethos that defines Newmont is
evident in our purpose to improve people’s lives and make a positive impact. This ethos is evident in our values,
how we treat every colleague on a daily basis and how we conduct business.
Why did you decide to join Newmont?
I was attracted to Newmont because of its purpose-led leadership. In times when the answer is unclear, that clear
purpose guides our decisions. If we’re really grounded in why we’re doing what we’re doing, it helps us when we
must make difficult decisions.
What does “More Than Gold” Mean to you?
It is about the broader value we generate for all stakeholders and the value we instill on a daily basis. We produce
more than just gold, and our expansion into copper will provide a metal that’s essential for a greener and
healthier future. That is akin to who we are and Newmont’s purpose.
“ We produce more When you think about sustainability in mining, what comes to mind?
than just gold, and When we look at our assets and how we’re going to extract value, it is important for us to consider how we are
mining today as well as over the life of mine. We must consider what I call the silent stakeholder – the environment,
our expansion into
including our water and energy consumption. At the heart of it is to make sure we are responsibly extracting
optimal value out of an ore body by considering all our environmental and social impacts.
copper will provide a
What makes Newmont a unique place to work?
metal that’s essential
When comparing Newmont with the other mining companies I’ve ever worked with, what sets Newmont apart
for a greener and
is the humility in the organization. This allows us to be impactful because with humility, we consider everybody’s
healthier future.” voice in the room, and bringing so many more people’s wisdom and experience into the room helps us make
better decisions. There’s also humility in learning from mistakes and taking the opportunity to stand back,
admit that we’ve made a mistake and jointly learn from that. This was a pleasant surprise for me when I
NATASCHA VILJOEN, joined the Newmont family, and it’s great to be part of a company that has humility and commitment to
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer continuous improvement.
Watch the full video interview on newmont.com.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
32 Overview | Leadership Reflections
Why did you decide to join Newmont?
Newmont aligns with many aspects that are important to me, and it has a great reputation in the sustainability
space. I was interested in the challenge of working in a new industry, and Newmont is known for not just talking
about the right things but also doing the right things. Newmont is committed to its purpose to create value and
improve lives through sustainable and responsible mining in everything that it does.
What does “More Than Gold” mean to you?
To me, it means that although Newmont is the industry’s leading gold mining company, we are so much more than
that. We are a leading producer of essential metals critical to helping the world transition to a low-carbon future.
We are recognized for creating sustainable value that extends beyond the mine, benefiting all stakeholders. We are
committed to being an industry leader in developing and delivering low-cost operations, environmental responsibility,
and social performance, demonstrating that companies can have a positive impact on stakeholders and the world.
What is your perspective on financing sustainability activities?
At Newmont, doing the right thing is ingrained in our culture. Our core values of safety, sustainability, integrity,
responsibility and inclusion underpin the way we operate. Prioritizing sustainability and allocating capital toward
those efforts help us preserve our social license to operate by reducing environmental impacts, improving social
performance and reducing risks.
“ We are focused on
How does a strong financial framework support long-term value creation?
creating long-term
When we look at our capital allocation strategy, prioritizing our sustainability commitments to support our values
value and delivering on
as an organization goes hand in hand with also supporting the return on investment for our shareholders.
our clear and consistent
How does Newmont quantify the benefits of integrating sustainability practices into
its operations?
strategy, all while
Quantifying the benefits of integrating sustainability practices into our operations is a complex and multifaceted
contributing to a
approach. We use various metrics such as industry benchmarks, internal data analysis and cost savings. We also
look at our market access and reputation. While these are not directly quantifiable, a strong sustainability
sustainable future.”
performance can open doors to new markets and enhance our reputation with shareholders.
What key financial challenges and opportunities does Newmont anticipate in the
KARYN OVELMEN,
evolving mining landscape?
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
It’s a very exciting time at Newmont, and there are a lot of opportunities as well as challenges that we will need
to address. Rising costs, financing and geopolitical risks are challenges, while the increasing demand for critical
minerals and technological advancements present opportunities to attract investors and gain access to new
markets. We are focused on creating long-term value and delivering on our clear and consistent strategy, all while
contributing to a sustainable future.
Watch the full video interview on newmont.com.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
33
Our business is anchored in our values and guided
by our purpose: to create value and improve lives
through sustainable and responsible mining. Our
commitment to environmental, social and
governance (ESG) principles is fundamental to
achieving our purpose.
Photo: Peñasquito, Mexico
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
3344
GOVERNANCE
More than 11,000 integrity and
compliance employee interactions,
35 both online and in-person, throughout
Corporate Governance
the year
36
Business Integrity and Compliance
Advanced Respect at Work
39 program to eliminate disrespectful
Risk Management System
behaviors and foster a work environment
where everyone is treated with respect
Sustainability Compliance and dignity
41
and Assurance
More than 63% of Board
45
Responsible Sourcing
members are gender or
ethnically diverse
Photo: Tanami, Australia
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
35
Governance
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE Board of Directors
Newmont’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) is Guided by our purpose and values, the members of
Effective corporate governance, rooted responsible for providing oversight and our Board leverage their diverse backgrounds, skills
in positive stakeholder relationships accountability for the Company. The Board and experiences to oversee the Company’s strategy
oversees the Company’s Corporate Strategy and and evaluate risk and performance for Newmont’s
and well-defined policies, standards,
maintains a sense of responsibility to Newmont’s long-term success. Our Board has a wide range of
processes and responsibilities, is
stockholders, customers, employees, suppliers leadership and senior management experience in
crucial for managing risks, upholding and host communities. industry and specialized fields as well as across
ethical conduct and guiding the operating regions.
Four standing committees – Audit, Corporate
Company’s direction and operations. Governance and Nominating, Leadership More information about Newmont’s Board
At Newmont, management Development and Compensation, and Safety and members’ backgrounds, skills and qualifications is
Sustainability – assist the Board in carrying out its available in our 2024 Proxy Statement.
accountability and proactive oversight
oversight responsibilities such as reviewing major
by an experienced, diverse Board play
risks, ensuring high standards of ethical business
a pivotal role in cultivating a culture conduct, discussing succession planning and talent
of integrity, meeting stakeholder management, and reviewing safety and
sustainability performance.
expectations and honoring our
sustainability commitments.
Read more about our Board of
Directors, its bylaws, committee
charters, guidelines and other
governance practices on our website.
Photo: Newmont leaders ring opening bell at ASX in Sydney on
November 6, the day Newmont closed the transaction with Newcrest
(from left to right: Suzy Retallack, Chief Safety and Sustainability
Officer; Bruce Brooks and Sally-Anne Layman, Board members; and
Tom Palmer, President and CEO)
NNeewwmmoonntt CCoorrppoorraattiioonn 22002233 SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt
36
Governance
BUSINESS INTEGRITY
AND COMPLIANCE
We measure the effectiveness of our integrity and INTEGRITY AND COMPLIANCE INVESTIGATIONS
compliance risk management approach by
benchmarking against regulatory and industry- Integrity matters opened, substantiated and addressed in 20231
Integrity is fundamental for building leading practices, as well as monitoring several
Number
and preserving the trust that serves metrics and performance objectives.
as a foundation for our business. Integrity and Compliance Total new matters (all matters) captured in the Integrity Helpline 1,066
As a core value, integrity guides our
Performance Total escalated matters addressed (substantiated + unsubstantiated) 375
daily actions, and our global
Total substantiated escalated matters 184
Business Integrity and Compliance We evaluate and investigate, as appropriate,
program establishes robust controls instances of real or potential breaches of our Code
of Conduct, related policies, standards and/or laws. Nature of matters (all matters) received through Newmont’s Integrity Helpline
and cultivates a culture where all our
Employees, contractors, suppliers, community in 20231, 2
relationships are based on integrity.
members and others can anonymously seek
Nature of cases Number Percentage
guidance and/or report a concern through our
third-party-run Integrity Helpline. Code of Concerns about fraud/corruption 18 2%
Read more about Our Approach
Conduct-related cases that originate through other
to Business Integrity and Concerns pertaining to environmental health and/or
channels, such as our People or Security functions,
Compliance, including details on safety regulations 29 3%
are also incorporated into the Integrity Helpline.
our governance, risk, strategy and
Conflicts of interest 68 6%
management approach. Approximately 49 percent (184) of the escalated
matters investigated and closed in 2023 resulted in Incidents of discrimination 47 4%
substantiation of the allegations received. The
Inquiries and compliance reviews 341 32%
substantiated cases resulted in either recommended
changes in business processes or human resources- Misconduct or inappropriate behavior 478 45%
related actions. These actions involved employees
Misuse of company assets 47 4%
across all levels of the organization who were
Updated March 2024
Our Approach to Business Integrity counseled, disciplined and/or terminated. Vendor/contractor issues 22 2%
and Compliance
Isoponeu urt orr rev g d rge ersar ali ait maly y ts i oi aeas nc sfft stuoiahoun binnd plsida ss, m ha aat ernie esodn n br t oo aafubo sl ruerf o g dsor tl u o ob crb nou ba ni il nuld t Brtsi oein un glg sse r i as ina ts nyn e. .dsd As s c p I unare l ttces io ve garr re tv iet ivyn sa g aalun t ceh du,e Ci ltn t uotr me ru egs pt wr ilttihh ay en ag rt ceu e i a d le l s Other types of matters 16 2%
GOVERNANCE
12 4s 3 5O 6in .i . .. .. xu t e A OBH PSro g uesugv epr s soel sai eo et tr i plryb n aa t tal ha ir ee ea ntcl x ,s i n h aC op sSdi b no aen I incd fsVg let i t e a a tap te ylt nyoo gui o d alf raei n ic n C nt Ri Ps de yo de: rs n o s S Sfd o tt eo aeu ucr kcc rm ut c et ri e ho( itt t h on Dh ye l e e d f v e“oC e ruo l n Eod nd pea gm”t a) i eao gnn en td m f ot ehr n eo t ufor llowing T Ae e&p pCC O imh t x r roo u gh Co ope pnm r li og fs o ec lfl eg ee p r ma rbi sal mt cll o a– ssi pmtac l ,b is e a olon t ii a nnalo ea nnco l tntaf c e ad an B e t cmI lu tign r– su ev inc o t s e –sw –t ae a nie l n onr yai ll ,tt ee e ivt d h ms nt d s s eN h u vt c o s arb,e p ee o su nIG y p sw en mmr a ti o e t of m i gs pe git srunt es gt oa oa r ts mi r tsam h n n i oGean t eed t y ru d dr.d na s o pm h a tr oE u ar ned ao fn npr rd s nglet e d a Heo rdq Cn w aorn eu oc ct myt aeai m ohA r ed i ’ne en t sn rp ,om s tr mt dl B i, i i n t c- a ae aue hC o un yn usn eo m o-c it dt tsr ns ue or e pia et su f -( oln so d pB ip iarsd mr arIt sn & i yi Ih n ,Uo pn c C so c en r. ty)S ien o p, s. ge v l tE er ees ix st mmt p .ya eo sn nrdt t . 1 T T hO e T 2A 02L 3 data includes matters received from former Newcrest locations resultin1 g, 0 fr6 om6 the Newcrest 100%
Newmont Corporation 1 acquisition for the period 11/06/2023 – 12/31/2023 only.
2 N ewmont’s Code of Conduct and Business Integrity Policy, both available at Newmont.com, outline our
approach to preventing and addressing matters related to conflicts of interests, gifts, and bribery/corruption.
Read more about our business integrity
and transparency events and performance
in the 2023 Performance Data tables.
NNeewwmmoonntt CCoorrppoorraattiioonn 2023 Sustainability Report
37 Governance | Business Integrity and Compliance
INTEGRITY CULTURE Through our annual integrity award process, we
There were more than 11,000 employee interactions recognize employees who exemplify our value of
with our online and in-person Business Integrity and integrity and serve as role models for ethical
Compliance (BI&C) training throughout the year. behavior. In 2023, 26 employees were nominated
by their peers and four received the award.
In 2023, we conducted our annual online integrity
and compliance training during the third quarter, COMPLIANCE CONTROLS
and 98 percent of eligible employees (i.e., those To uphold our anti-corruption commitment, over
with computer access) completed the training. The 70 business leaders – including Executive Vice
training sessions covered a variety of our BI&C Presidents, Managing Directors, site General
program’s core elements, including anti-corruption, Managers, and key function leaders in areas like
conflicts of interest, gifts and entertainment and Supply Chain, Legal and Finance – personally certified
inappropriate abusive behaviors. Recognizing the each quarter that their specific region or functional
challenge of reporting misconduct, the 2023 area maintained effective controls and that they
training included a dedicated section to enhance were unaware of any interactions on behalf of
CHAMPIONING AN INCLUSIVE AND Photo: Ahafo, Ghana
transparency about Newmont’s Integrity Helpline Newmont, that would violate our Code of Conduct,
and internal investigations process. These efforts policies, standards or applicable laws. RESPECTFUL WORKPLACE
resulted in a 30 percent increase in reporting
We improved our process to centrally and
compared to 2022 (37 percent including matters
consistently screen disclosures from internal and In 2022, Newmont began a systematic journey to • Sharing trends and incident outcomes with all
received from former Newcrest locations after the
external applicants to open positions at Newmont improve its workplaces for everyone by eliminating employees, through our quarterly Organizational
acquisition on November 6, 2023). Throughout the
related to conflicts of interest and government/ harassment, discrimination, bullying and racism. Justice and Integrity Dashboard, protecting the
year, BI&C held several targeted, in-depth outreach
political exposure. Any positive disclosures by We began the journey by conducting an internal privacy of those involved while providing a
sessions (including training) for higher-risk
candidates must be cleared by BI&C before review, gathering insights from our workforce to breakdown of Respect at Work incidents.
functions such as Safety and Sustainability, Supply
advancing a candidate through the talent understand the systemic issues leading to
Chain and high-risk contractors. In 2023, 382 Respect at Work matters were received
acquisition process. disrespectful behaviors.
through our Integrity Helpline and other channels,
Through the quarterly Organizational Justice and
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS In 2023, we appointed a dedicated Head of Respect with 264 assessed as escalated matters. Of the
Integrity Dashboard (OJID), we raised awareness
Newmont’s U.S. political contributions totaled at Work to drive meaningful change by engaging escalated matters, 194 were closed during 2023 and
about Integrity Helpline case details, including
$35,000 in 2023. leadership, setting new standards and raising another 94 non-escalated matters were transferred
outcomes and disciplinary measures taken. Each OJID
awareness. to management. The substantiation rate for closed
shares lessons learned from actual cases and has a
escalated cases was 57 percent.
dedicated section aimed at demystifying Newmont’s View our 2023 Policy In 2023, key activities under the program included:
internal investigations process. This is complemented Influence Disclosure. The program allows business units to tailor actions
• Launching resources in the North America
by a “Respect at Work” dashboard that provides to the local context. For example, in 2023, our Africa
business unit, featuring an “Ask, Listen, Act” video
details on cases related to disrespectful behaviors. business unit implemented a confidential disclosure
series that shares perspectives and highlights
We discuss this dashboard in more detail in the requirement for workplace romantic relationships.
Newmont’s progress.
“Championing an Inclusive and Respectful Workplace” This aims to protect personnel and help the business
story on this page. • Introducing a new Camp and Facilities Standard provide appropriate guidance on these relationships.
that outlines requirements and procedures for
Through these efforts and more, Newmont strives
each site, covering areas such as video
to eliminate disrespectful behaviors, fostering a
surveillance, adequate lighting, routine patrols,
work environment where everyone is treated with
alcohol limits and provisions for internet access.
respect and dignity.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
38 Governance | Business Integrity and Compliance
Public Policy Performance
In 2023, we engaged with government and regulatory officials in all our operating regions. Along with providing regular updates on the Company’s operations, top issues for each jurisdiction, as well as emerging risks and
opportunities, public policy advocacy efforts in the countries where we operate included the following:
Argentina Canada Mexico Suriname
To support supply chain resiliency, the Cerro Negro We engaged extensively with government officials at In June 2023, a strike was initiated by the union The Suriname team is actively engaged with
team worked with authorities to expedite the the federal, provincial and local levels, as well as with representing workers at Peñasquito, citing alleged government officials and other key stakeholders on
bureaucratic approval process for importing goods Indigenous Nations, regarding the Newcrest violations of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. proposed legislation called the Indigenous and
and services. In August, Newmont sponsored the transaction. We also engaged with relevant To resolve the matter, Newmont representatives Tribal Peoples Collective Rights Act. Newmont
Buenos Aires Conference by the Council of the government representatives on other important actively engaged with union representatives and supports the general principles of the act as it
Americas. The event was attended by leading matters such as the need for timely permitting authorities at both national and local levels, enhances the rights of Indigenous peoples in
presidential candidates and representatives from approvals for the Pamour project at our Porcupine including the Ministries of Labor, Economy, and Suriname while also considering the Company’s
government, civil society and the private operation and the importance of infrastructure Foreign Affairs. Discussions also took place with existing Mineral Agreement. The government has
sector. A Newmont representative spoke at the upgrades to support our projects and future congressional representatives, the Governor of publicly stated that it will safeguard Newmont’s
conference on the essential conditions for attracting operations in northern British Columbia. Zacatecas, the U.S. Ambassador, business chambers, interests and adhere to the Mineral Agreement in
mining investments in Argentina. A Newmont and key opinion leaders in Mexico. In October, the any version of the act that is passed.
representative also served as the president of Ghana agreement between Newmont and the union to end
Argentina’s Women in Mining, a term that extends An important priority is advancing the Ahafo North the strike was approved by the Mexican Labor Court, U.S.
through 2024. project, which has faced delays due to community officially concluding the strike. Newmont hosted state-level lawmakers for a tour
challenges. Although 98 percent of the required land of the CC&V operation and worked with regulatory
Australia for the project has been successfully acquired Peru officials on permit approvals for ongoing operations.
The Company met with local, regional and through a community consultative approach, a The Company engaged with the Cajamarca At the federal level, Newmont was part of a
Commonwealth officials to discuss the Newcrest group calling themselves the Concerned Farmers government, civil society organizations, USAID and multisector coalition that supported the U.S.-Chile
transaction and the integration of the New South Association rejected the community-led private sector members to discuss opportunities to Bilateral Tax Treaty (BTT), which provides tax rate
Wales and Western Australian operations into the consultations and called for one-on-one negotiations. improve governance and infrastructure in the security, prevents double taxation and guards
Newmont portfolio. Newmont also directly engaged As a result of the impasse, Newmont engaged with province. Key matters discussed included against barriers to profit repatriation for U.S.
with regulators as part of standard permit reviews the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources and the establishing best practices for government investors in Chile. The BTT was signed into law in
for the Boddington and Tanami operations, and Lands Commission of Ghana. Given the delays, procurement opportunities and exploring potential December. Newmont also participated in the
participated in conversations on regulatory changes the government decided to establish an Executive public-private partnerships for water infrastructure Summit of the Americas event held in Denver,
through our membership in industry associations. Instrument for Compulsory Acquisition, which is the investments in Cajamarca. hosting representatives from Argentina, Canada
first time the Government of Ghana has done this for and Suriname.
a mining project. Newmont continues to try to
engage with the Concerned Farmers and has offered
to include them in the livelihood programs of the
resettlement action plan where applicable.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
39
Governance
RISK MANAGEMENT
SYSTEM
The RMS integrates all of Newmont’s management PLAN-DO-CHECK-ACT MODEL
systems, ensuring a consistent, standardized and
comprehensive approach to risk management. It
Managing risks and opportunities is provides detailed risk information for leaders to Assess gaps, Risk assessment
crucial for businesses, particularly for make informed decisions, comply with obligations incidents and change
Critical controls
and achieve business objectives.
mining companies due to their broad risk Corrective and
Global standards
profile. Identifying, defining, assessing Embedded in our RMS is the “Plan, Do, Check, Act” preventative action
improvement model that focuses on the following Legal requirements
and mitigating risks are critical to
key elements: ct
delivering on our overall business strategy A P
l
• Risk and control – Through processes defined in
and commitment to sustainability. a
the RMS, we have identified global risks and n
Newmont’s global Risk Management
mapped them to the applicable local (site- and
System (RMS) framework clearly defines business unit-level) risks. These are integrated into
processes for managing risks and the RMS Global Risk Library. We then establish the
controls that need to be in place and effective to RMS PLATFORM
opportunities across the business.
manage and mitigate each respective risk.
• Standards and governance – The global RMS
Standard defines the requirements for controls,
C
standards and governance, reporting and h
e o
verification across all functions, business units c D
k
and sites.
• Verification – The RMS-Verify program, based on Critical control Implement controls
the three-lines-of-defense model, assesses verifications
Report and assess
compliance with our global standards and critical
Verify global standards incidents
control verification (CCV) performance.
Independent internal teams conduct formal audits Identify gaps Assess change
of each operation. Action plans are developed to
address any gaps identified and support
continuous improvement.
• Reporting – The RMS technology platform houses
risk information, their rankings, corresponding
controls, RMS-Verify outcomes, event reporting
and action plans.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
40 Governance | Risk Management System
The three-lines-of-defense model is the basis for the • Preparing for a global rollout of the LOD1 program
RMS-Verify program, facilitating strong governance based on agreed-upon critical controls for safety-
and risk management: and sustainability-related risks;
• First Line of Defense (LOD1) – For each • Establishing LOD2 programs that now align with
enterprise-level risk, functional risk owners are the RMS that include:
responsible for identifying the controls to manage
− Sustainability risk audits
the risk, designating which controls are critical (i.e.,
those that significantly influence the likelihood − Fatality Risk Management (FRM) reviews
and/or consequence of an unwanted event), and
− Safety culture reviews
designing the CCV strategy to test the
effectiveness of the controls. CCVs are performed • Effectively using the RMS technology platform,
by the managers and supervisors responsible for including progressing the establishment of a
control compliance at each site. centralized compliance register.
• Second Line of Defense (LOD2) – Functional Key milestones achieved in 2023 across all functions
leaders are responsible for verifying systems and included:
controls are in place to manage risks at our
• Continued support for functional leaders and
locations. Functional verification efforts evaluate
teams in establishing critical controls and
the effectiveness of our global standards and
verification programs.
critical controls to manage our most significant
risks and that these are in place and effective • Captured existing risk management activity and
through evidence-based validation. data in the RMS technology platform.
• Third Line of Defense (LOD3) – Newmont’s • Implemented a standardized risk assessment
Internal Audit team performs independent approach across sites and functions.
assurance of key risk programs as directed.
• Completed the enterprise risk assessment with
Regulators may also perform independent LOD3
the Executive Leadership Team (ELT) to identify
activities at Newmont’s locations where required.
the risks most critical to achieving our short- and
long-term strategic objectives. This assessment
RMS Implementation Progress will be used for ongoing monitoring by the ELT
and Board, ensuring alignment with our overall
strategy and providing direction for functional
Integration of the RMS is a multi-year process that
and site risk mitigation efforts.
began in 2021, with functions being at varying levels
of maturity based on their existing systems, The RMS implementation across the business is
processes and priorities. For example, our Safety expected to continue through 2025.
and Sustainability function is relatively advanced in
The risks and controls identified through the RMS risk
the implementation process, having key RMS
assessment process inform the programs we employ
elements in place, including:
to manage our material and other sustainability
• Identifying, documenting and regularly reviewing top aspects. Details about these programs – including our
risks and critical controls, including at the site level; risk management approach for each material issue –
are discussed in the respective sections of this report.
• Standardizing reporting and sharing of events;
Photo: Tanami, Australia
• Reviewing and aligning governance documentation;
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
41
Governance
SUSTAINABILITY COMPLIANCE
AND ASSURANCE
We manage our environmental, social and
political risks within the framework of our global
Risk Management System (RMS) and its hierarchy
Operating in compliance with laws of policies, standards, guidelines, critical controls
and regulations is a fundamental and procedures.
business priority. We build trust and The management requirements outlined in this
meet stakeholder expectations governance documentation are aligned with the
International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM)
through high standards, responsible
Mining Principles, including Position Statements and
business practices and transparent
Performance Expectations, mandated through our
reporting on performance. Newmont’s membership in ICMM.
compliance and assurance programs
assist us in adhering to our
Sustainability Risks and
sustainability obligations while
Standards Performance
also identifying opportunities for
ongoing improvement. In 2023, the Safety and Sustainability team
continued to implement the RMS for environmental,
social and political risks. This included developing
For more information, visit the enterprise-level critical controls and supporting
Sustainability section on our website. critical control verifications (CCVs).
Line of Defense 2 (LOD2) audits for environment and
social risks were re-introduced in 2023, beginning
with a focus on programs managing key risks
associated with resettlement, cultural heritage and
local content at Akyem and Ahafo South and
biodiversity and water at Boddington. The findings
from these audit activities have helped identify and
prioritize remediation actions, and efforts are
underway to address and close the identified gaps
(see the Risk Management section for more about
the three-lines-of-defense model).
Photo: British Columbia, Canada
NNeewwmmoonntt CCoorrppoorraattiioonn 22002233 SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt
42 Governance | Sustainability Compliance and Assurance
Compliance Audit Program Each site developed an action plan to address • Selected matters as part of Newmont’s PwC provides an annual management report to
gaps. The audit findings and action plans were membership in the following: Newmont that outlines internal improvement
communicated to our enterprise, business unit and recommendations and highlights emerging risks or
Our compliance audit (CA) program uses a risk- − International Council on Mining and Metals
site leadership to guide strategic planning and trends that may require changes to controls or
based approach to assess how sites manage legal (ICMM) – Subject Matters described in the
decision-making, and shared with all operating sites systems. These recommendations are shared with
obligations in regulations, permits and formal assurance report and Performance
to facilitate lessons learned and identify common Newmont leadership and the Safety and Sustainability
agreements. Independent auditors review Expectations; and
risks and opportunities. The information was also Committee and are tracked to completion as needed.
compliance with the relevant obligations using a
shared with the Board of Directors and integrated − World Gold Council (WGC) – Responsible Gold The management report includes recommendations
standardized methodology, reporting format and
into risk assessment activities. Mining Principles (RGMPs) and Conflict-Free for strengthening our internal control systems and
process for following up on and sharing actions
Gold Standard. external assurance processes in anticipation of
associated with audit findings. Approximately a year after the CA, we conduct
forthcoming regulatory requirements related to
formal effectiveness review workshops to verify In 2023, PwC representatives met with the Board’s
The Safety and Sustainability team manages the sustainability data disclosures.
actions have been completed or are sufficiently Safety and Sustainability Committee to keep them
program, and external, independent audit teams
underway to address identified gaps. In 2023, we updated on the assurance process. Additionally, they Read more about 2023 assurance efforts in the
conduct CAs every three years at each Newmont
operating site. These audits are crucial for conducted these reviews for Cerro Negro, CC&V and engaged committee members and management to About This Report section of this report.
Musselwhite CAs. discuss emerging issues and disclosures to help ensure
understanding our compliance with legal obligations
Newmont is prepared to address such matters.
and helping manage any current and emerging
compliance-related trends. Independent Assurance PwC follows relevant assurance standards,
including the International Standard on Assurance
In 2023, we completed CAs at three sites – Ahafo
Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised), Assurance
South, Akyem and Boddington. We engage PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) annually
Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of
for independent assurance on selected performance
Notable themes and opportunities for improvement Historical Financial Information, applying a level
metrics and assertions disclosed in public materials.
were related to: of materiality in its procedures.
In 2021, PwC was selected through a competitive
• Management of water and tailings infrastructure
tender process that included review and approval
and resulting water quality issues;
from our internal ESG Disclosure Subcommittee and
• Social impact monitoring; the endorsement from both our Executive
Leadership Team and the Board of Directors. The
• Air quality, blasting and noise impacts;
engagement with PwC was renewed for the 2023
• Land clearance and biodiversity offset reporting process to conduct independent limited
management; and assurance on the following:
• Hydrocarbon management practices. • Selected performance metrics in our Annual
Sustainability Report.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
43 Governance | Sustainability Compliance and Assurance
Membership-Based Commitments
Our Combined Voluntary Commitments Assessment (CVCA) Program helps us meet the requirements of our various membership organizations. This includes combining assessment criteria for the ICMM PEs
and Position Statements, WGC’s RGMPs, WGC’s Conflict-free Gold Standard and MAC’s TSM program.
The CVCA program streamlines data and reporting management by providing sites with a single self-assessment tool for multiple membership-based obligations. The tool is adaptable to changing requirements
and may be expanded to other responsible mining programs and frameworks in the future.
The table below lists the industry programs administered within the CVCA program in 2023.
INDUSTRY FRAMEWORKS INCLUDED IN NEWMONT’S CVCA PROGRAM
Organization Organization
International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) Mining Association of Canada (MAC)
Minerals Council of Australia (MCA)
Voluntary framework Activities in 2023
Cámara Argentina de Empresarios Mineros (CAEM)
ICMM’s Performance ICMM member companies have committed to perform self-assessments of their
Voluntary framework Activities in 2023
Expectations (PEs) and conformance to the PEs and Position Statements, at the site level (supported by
Position Statements define a company self-assessment) and to obtain third-party validation of these assessments
Established by MAC, the In 2023, TSM was applied to our sites in Argentina and Canada with sites in Australia
good practice in the areas of on a three-year cycle.
Towards Sustainable Mining progressing implementation with reporting planned for 2024. All three of Newmont’s
environmental, social and
governance. As disclosed in the ICMM and WGC Standards Index, all 12 operating sites (along with (TSM) program is a reporting Canadian operating sites (Éléonore, Musselwhite and Porcupine) and Cerro Negro in
our enterprise functions) have completed initial self-assessments against the PEs using framework that aims to Argentina completed their TSM self-assessments in 2023 and conducted the required
the CVCA tool and were validated by an independent assurance provider. All sites will improve the industry’s reporting activities for 2023 data.
again be self-assessed and validated every three years. performance and help
companies evaluate and Self-assessment results for the year ranged from B to AAA across the four sites that
In 2023, Ahafo South, CC&V, Éléonore, Musselwhite and Porcupine completed self- manage their environmental reported against the TSM program, with lower scores generally associated with recently
assessments against their conformance to the PEs. PwC, our independent assurance and social responsibilities. As strengthened Protocol requirements for which associated programs are maturing at our
provider, provided limited assurance over Newmont’s self-assessment of conformance as members of MAC and former operations. Overall, we are seeing an improvement in performance against TSM criteria
part of its assurance activities related to Newmont’s Annual Sustainability Report. members of CAEM, Newmont year-over-year. Results from our TSM self-assessments for our Canadian sites, verified
was subject to TSM at our where applicable, are published on MAC’s TSM website.
Canadian and Argentinian
Gap assessments conducted at Boddington and Tanami have provided a roadmap for the
operations in 2023. As a
two sites to progress toward full implementation of the TSM program, with reporting
member of MCA, Newmont
planned for 2024.
progressed implementation
of TSM at our Australian
operations.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
44 Governance | Sustainability Compliance and Assurance
Organization Organization
Responsible Minerals Institute (RMI) World Gold Council (WGC)
Voluntary framework Activities in 2023 Voluntary framework Activities in 2023
RMI’s Risk Readiness We assess ourselves against RMI’s RRA at the company and site level as part of the CVCA WGC’s Responsible Gold The WGC requires member companies to meet RGMPs – a set of sustainability
Assessment (RRA) is a process. These assessments allow us to track our alignment with what are considered Mining Principles (RGMPs) performance criteria – at the enterprise and site levels. This program was implemented
voluntary assessment tool good sustainability management practices, including those that relate to our value chain. are a framework that using a phased approach with conformance mandated by 2022. Independent assurance
that promotes a common recognizes and consolidates of conformance to these criteria is required for each site, every three to five years.
understanding of good All 12 of our operating sites have completed their CVCA self-assessments, which existing international
practices and a means to highlighted broad alignment with the RRA and identified opportunities related to standards for responsible As disclosed in the ICMM and WGC Standards Index, all 12 operating sites (along with
consistently assess risks in advancing supplier and customer risk assessment and due diligence processes, tracking mining under a single our enterprise functions) completed gap assessments against the RGMPs, achieving full
mineral supply chains. compliance obligations and strengthening community access to complaint systems at structure. conformance with the program. All sites will be self-assessed and validated in the next
certain operations. Projects within Newmont are now underway to address these areas three years.
for improvement. These assessments continue on a three-year basis for all sites.
In 2023, CC&V, Éléonore, Musselwhite and Porcupine completed self-assessments against
the RGMP requirements. PwC, our independent assurance provider, provided limited
assurance over Newmont’s self-assessment of conformance as part of its assurance
activities related to Newmont’s Annual Sustainability Report.
The World Gold Council’s Each year, we collect applicable data and develop a Conflict-free Gold Report in conformance
(WGC) Conflict-Free Gold (CFG) with the WGC’s Conflict-free Gold (CFG) Standard. Per the CFG Standard, we will complete
Standard provides a conflict, company and commodity assessments for Newmont sites in 2023 prior to the
mechanism for gold producers acquisition of Newcrest.
to assess and provide
assurance that their gold does Our annual Conflict-free Gold Report will be published in mid-2024.
not cause, support or benefit
unlawful armed conflict.
OTHER SELF-ASSESSMENTS
In 2023, Newmont performed a self-assessment against the requirements of the Global Industry Standard on
Tailings Management (GISTM). In August, we released our external disclosures and self-assessment for
GISTM conformance at our priority tailings storage facilities (TSFs) that are classified as a “very high” or
“extreme” consequence per the GISTM (as detailed in the Tailings Management section). Upon full
implementation of GISTM, regular self-assessments and verification activities, as mandated by GISTM, are
expected to be integrated into the broader CVCA program.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
45
Governance
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Responsible Sourcing Performance
In 2023, a cross-functional enterprise team reviewed our
Responsible mining includes responsible sourcing approach, examining emerging trends
considering the social and environmental and best practices. Recognizing the growing expectations
for companies to address and resolve adverse impacts
impacts throughout the value chain.
throughout their value chains, we identified gaps and
Newmont works with thousands of
opportunities to improve our approach. We plan to
upstream suppliers and downstream develop a new Responsible Sourcing Standard in 2024.
customers – including direct suppliers,
SMELTING AND REFINING
smelters and refineries worldwide – Key elements of our Responsible Sourcing Strategy include
to implement due diligence practices demonstrating our products are responsibly produced and
optimizing our value chain management. Included in
that align with stakeholder expectations
Newmont’s value chain are downstream users who smelt
and demonstrate responsible
and refine the metals and minerals we mine into finished
business practices. products.
As a World Gold Council (WGC) member, we commit to
disclosing our refining partners where the primary revenue
Read more about Our Approach to
comes from the production of gold. In 2023, the gold we
Responsible Sourcing, including
produced was transported in doré form to the following
details on our governance, risk,
refineries certified by the London Bullion Market
strategy and management approach.
Association (LBMA):
• Argor-Heraeus (Switzerland)
• Asahi Refining (U.S.)
• MKS PAMP (Switzerland)
• The Perth Mint (Australia)
Updated March 2024
Our Approach to Responsible Sourcing
Riustbm hmp ue asps setp t ia nlr atoce eelnt ia srgs ss m s n it ab ph wnsl rre u ao di tcpmu hr tpg e i i csln fihi teei naon sr ku e .sg e rta i hi etnnh osdc e lwl d u dv eod oa rre w l leu ds n xe wc ps co it edhrn ceeas ta i ai –dnm t te. i ooN r c n i ineumswg s atp mot nlh medoe m ne dstreeo s nw mc –tioa oidrnl n k ua c ssn el t uw rd dd a i ie ttiln eh in g g rvt ee hi dnr sooicprnu ee oms c npat sren sain bduct lsptea iopc l efl ise rs, • The Royal Canadian Mint (Canada)
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING STRATEGY Transparency and traceability innovations are a critical
Our Responsible Sourcing Strategy focuses on the following objectives and desired outcomes:
capOinrsrp ed sode uder irp uba ae clnt e eni c o ddd en .a e ta tn hal at ,p tpa e oesr ursf fuo ro rr pram mrn oa adcnne ucc c–ee t s Dir n weedmp eico roaernt t rois en rt ssrg pa aat onen n dtd sh i bro lyu gh aE tfI on hnsr ett d ae i omb er rnl ffp gisa earhl co n tgiv iin zo ve at edve t e ir ic omnr r nnaop.la sl egsn -o mc fvue een narcn tn taaid otn i noccanaelp ascat corc rou oit rc sdyt su i – nr aetsi on aspect of our approach to responsible sourcing. As
caVhta tal ruiane c tm c inhavaneian sgt em omra se n ana ntg dteo dm eenmehn oat n n– sc tOera pbttueim svianiz lee us evs a cvl ruaele au teio, n. c rtE heax sapt pteit oaran nlli gsaa innl b sed l en em xsg otaa eurg rk re ne cm ait nsl e g itnn h ait tr pi oa– pu tS rigvouheap s cep hwno .gir ttah ga Neccmee wes msn tt o o n t’s members of the WGC, we also pledge to join the Gold Bar
Newmont Corporation 1 Integrity (GBI) platform, which is designed to provide a
verifiable ledger of responsibly mined gold. In 2023, we
participated in a WGC pilot to support further development
and operationalization of the GBI platform. The overarching
objective is to enhance the transparency of responsibly
mined gold and assist downstream customers and investors
Photo: Gold pour at Ahafo, Ghana
in conducting due diligence across the gold supply chain.
NNeewwmmoonntt CCoorrppoorraattiioonn 22002233 SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt
46 Governance | Responsible Sourcing
To promote traceability in the precious metals rating and creating appropriate risk mitigation plans
industry and meet increasing market demand, in line with SRiM’s requirements. SRiM will be fully
we partnered with the Royal Canadian Mint to implemented at all our operating sites by the end of
introduce a 1-ounce, 99.99 percent pure Gold 2026. Key activities in 2023 to address potential risks
Maple Leaf bullion coin sourced entirely from our included the following:
Éléonore mine in Quebec.
• We pre-screened all prospective suppliers for
In 2023, we initiated a process to understand and corruption and compliance concerns. In 2023,
track environmental impacts associated with 23 potential suppliers were flagged for corruption,
refining and smelting activities. The work is initially trade sanctions and political exposure risks and
focused on greenhouse gas emissions related to disqualified from doing business with Newmont.
refining and smelting materials produced from our
• We identified and ranked our highest-risk
operations. This information, along with the insights
third parties and conducted anti-corruption
from surveys of buyers and traders, will inform our
training with the top 15. Additionally, as part of
emissions reduction roadmaps.
our anti-corruption detection process, we
In 2023, we continued to work with customers to examined payments to high-risk suppliers in
understand and track environmental impacts Peru, Mexico, Argentina and Suriname during
associated with transport, refining and smelting the first half of 2023.
activities. We began updating our Responsible
• At the end of the year, 100 percent of our
Sourcing strategy and integrating our Product
suppliers with potential extreme or high risks
Stewardship Standard to ensure we have a holistic
had approved risk mitigation plans (supplier
approach and consistent process across all focus
management plans) in place.
areas. This approach will better align our value
chain with environmental and social management • We conducted human rights training for over
standards, improving future disclosures on risk and 180 suppliers in Australia, Ghana, Peru, Suriname
impact. This work also supports our efforts towards and the U.S. More information on managing
early adoption of the Taskforce on Nature-related human rights risks in our supply chain is discussed
Financial Disclosures (see the Biodiversity section in the Human Rights section.
for more information).
GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN CONTINUITY
In response to the ongoing conflicts in the Middle
Procurement Performance East, we are diligently monitoring global supply
status and emerging risks to mitigate operational
disruptions. To address emerging focus areas, our
Our Supplier Risk Management Program (SRiM) is
Supply Chain and Asset Management functions will
the primary tool we use to manage corruption,
continue to collaborate on opportunities that
human rights, environmental, climate change and
optimize our global materials management,
other risks in our global supplier network.
inventory, and refining parts planning and supply
As of the end of 2023, seven Newmont operating processes to ensure timely availability and delivery
sites and the corporate office have fully of the right materials.
implemented SRiM, assigning suppliers a tier risk
Photo: Peñasquito, Mexico
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
47
Newmont prioritizes workforce health and safety,
fosters professional growth opportunities and
contributes to a positive legacy by respecting human
rights and diverse cultures and building enduring
relationships.
Photo: Tanami, Australia
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
48
SOCIAL
Expanded our Fatality Risk
Management program to
49
Health, Safety and Security address risks associated with exposures
to hazardous dust and fumes
53
People and Culture
Completed more than 650,000
56 critical control verifications
Human Rights
to support the safety of our workforce
64
Social Acceptance
Increased female
representation among
senior leaders to 33%, up from
31% at the end of 2022
Commissioned an independent
human rights risk
assessment for our Ahafo North
project’s land access process
Extended our nearly two-decade-long
partnership with Project C.U.R.E. –
world’s largest distributor of medical
donations to developing countries –
pledging $1 million in
support over the next five years
Photo: Akyem, Ghana
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
49
Social
HEALTH, SAFETY
AND SECURITY
We measure the effectiveness of our approach to
managing the wide range of health, safety and
security risks by setting measurable objectives
Safeguarding the health, safety, wellbeing and targets.
and security of our employees, contractors
and communities is fundamental to how
Safety Performance
we operate. Mining activities pose risks
and hazards that must be effectively PUBLIC TARGET
managed and controlled to minimize their The most important target we set for the business
is achieving zero work-related fatalities at any
impact. Safety is one of Newmont’s core
Newmont-operated site or facility. Tragically, in
values, and our global Health, Safety and
December 2023, our colleague Adam Kennedy who
Security Strategy advances our journey worked at our Brucejack mine in British Columbia,
toward a workplace free from fatalities, Canada, was fatally injured while completing
shotcreting activities (i.e., spraying concrete/mortar
injuries and illnesses.
onto a surface) underground. We conducted an
investigation into this tragic event and have begun
to apply the learnings. We discuss this incident in
Read more about Our Approach to more detail on page 52.
Health, Safety and Security, including
Along with setting ongoing safety improvement
details on our governance, risk,
goals, we benchmark ourselves against others in the
strategy and management approach.
industry. Our focus on visible, felt leadership and
critical controls ranks Newmont in the top quartile
for the lowest number of fatalities and injuries
among International Council on Mining and Metals
(ICMM) members as of the latest benchmark in 2022.
Updated March 2024
Our Approach to Health, Safety and Security
Scacatoo onca wtn nf de iv at t g or ri rtoau duic lea rl aets r go dd wpr l oisotn o obsag r e akn m l t pd rh Hii l sn aec ek cio mah s em le a ti fhza nm re el ,d t Seuh t h ah n, f fas e ri eota ziti r mf ae y e irs mt ad y fi nass, p dtw to a ah u ce Sliatrl tel .t ib cp e Sm ue sa a ,i rr fn u iia e ntsgm yt jty u a S bo i rn ts iue re d ao n se tn stf ea fe ec gnec o oc ydumt f ar i iNv li dlmt e ny evl e wyi aot s nmf mm s co ee eaou snn s.nr t a ote. ’g usMm e rci p don jol rio a un eny r g ve nd ae e ls uy, es, Read more about our health
GOVERNANCE
o o esaa p r rO ON bis e eancn n pra e u u q qfs ca sd l e w er raa ot c u uur a tncs te h um a i iryt i r rte cff ec e nte u e eaoc iee aod ntm ma tu nn d as l hr gl tr i dbt t e eha en aai’ s ps t in nn y, hnp l y o irp c s t td t edp mo s suo io ar e a r cisrf fpm f ao eo s le e y oto nog , er a d hts m riul mt dy tctt o u e mrei hr oi z ab r oa int m s ee uem n aa t n bt ko m s ri ndl sp d ja se e H saa .he alp an s c tgn Wso te ec el rt too ie d ir iapa c n vt neo ry v o ulll egsy gt ee et s p rh s y ehs s,e r wci a .s, ta i nc s o , t yt t ros f o, yh teS n t e a r sb . nnea m ht kg f t ru es e f a e-u b osie rrs t n asa e uy lit dt s wldnr l ty se a aed hae a ii n tnn ta ti r ,s n hen a t ddens sl dd ig y as s o ldp s s , fmt aut a e a eh,h gS n p rcr ta ieuee nd yut p cn i nc i o drh l amd cyue i nee t noi rr ynt ula tdmsi ia rg nt ml t akta hy s meh l cin e e an s, P tu cd a t , ogs o und f rav al o rsiif ii tn i c e cs tytg yy uit o ty . so ers s Ae o ea ar B Ff fb ha oe un vn nut e eut rs ers d drs ae a s p t n u tt i l a l h h hn t a Soi trp tc he e sus eei nih rn e a s r s s as aa C msg e ls ts i nt nc ,b a o t i h pt l dot s dr il e mie ,nee.ec r a ss, pe e d aTr pf adats as ,bhouh a ffeo. t niir ec e ne hls rOn i de tti s ytem yn yrG y eu .i o p e n f mme ar Cp ul rl jen n C u ol ol iaf e l ce duh rr v m tm sBr ei tili e s )dal ee omp y e es al e rf a o n c sc sM i aS rtr du o t tdn (a ptia e erem n sf d ain t .oe e tg gd a rp ya fit t.ol ii N yl ,g l lr Dpy n oe f e fe ea e aide ftw c rr wn hr ts e it f aqi ti d l esmts o c sy luh e ti rS Br tot oo a s m ieo ou o ev, rn r su s st ea saattp et ,r h’ rn rns ra o r ssdee p d ci le iin n y v e ggr oPffp s a io h nr eftri orb ec b to ie wo D fi re pil r sltte ct sidi eoise rt h a d yu sear f c et neo t p clr toO s ltn er tS o p so ffie pos t a nie r gl n ofa sa io sc em nn t in .e p bt e id ydr fiil inne l c ii C ta ts aiiE a t ene O ls t . a 2n 0d 23 s a Pf ee rt fy o p rmerf ao nr cm ea Dn ace ta in t ath be le s.
Newmont Corporation 1
Photo: Éléonore, Canada
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
50 Social | Health, Safety and Security
CRITICAL CONTROLS Key activities in 2023 to improve our safety
The quality and quantity of critical control performance and incorporate feedback from the
verifications (CCVs) in the field are important leading reviews included:
indicators for preventing fatalities and significant
• To mitigate vehicle and driving risks, constituting
potential events (SPEs). In 2023, we completed over
27 percent of the SPEs in 2023 (down from
651,000 CCVs in the field (a 4.5 percent increase
30 percent in 2022), we continued to deploy
compared to 2022). More than 86,000 controls were
In-Vehicle Safety Systems (IVSS) as part of fleet
identified as absent or failed, which means we were
refreshes to monitor key driver behaviors,
able to implement the control in the field and
including speed, braking/accelerating and seat
prevent a serious event. However, the number of
belt usage.
SPEs was similar to 2022, demonstrating the
importance of striving to continuously improve our • In addition to sharing lessons learned from safety
safety measures. The top three risk failures for SPEs incidents at Newmont, we discussed learnings
were falling from heights, being struck by falling from other industry events, including the incident
objects and on-site vehicle collisions or rollovers. in August at a Chilean mine when two workers
died after exposure to carbon monoxide. This
OPERATIONS FRM AND SAFETY CULTURE
resulted in identifying any locations where carbon
REVIEWS
dioxide was being used for fire suppression and
To understand the progress made since our last
removing and replacing the systems.
safety culture survey and identify gaps and areas for
improvement, we conducted Fatality Risk • We deployed external Safety Leadership
Management (FRM) and Safety Culture reviews at Coaches to Ahafo South, Akyem, Musselwhite,
three sites (Musselwhite, Peñasquito and Porcupine) Porcupine and Tanami during the year. The
and select exploration sites during the year. The coaches offer constructive feedback to site leaders
reviews identified non-conformances primarily in on coaching styles and engagement in pre-shift
the vehicles and driving, stored energy, falls from meetings and CCVs.
heights and fall of ground risk areas. All sites are
• We updated four Fatality Risk Management
working on corrective action plans, and observations
standards – Hazardous Materials, Explosives
are shared across the business.
Handling, Fall of Ground (Surface and
Underground) and Working at Heights –
and implemented a new Dust and Fumes
Fatality Risk Management Standard.
Photo: Tanami, Australia
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
51 Social | Health, Safety and Security
Health and Hygiene Performance
In early 2023, we implemented three additional WORKPLACE EXPOSURES WELLBEING COMMUNITY HEALTH
global health and hygiene standards. These Throughout 2023, we renewed our focus on In 2023, we conducted a follow-up maturity In early 2024, we extended our long-standing
standards, along with the existing Fatigue Standard, workplace exposures, evaluating the effectiveness assessment against our wellbeing framework and partnership with Project C.U.R.E. – the world’s largest
collectively address Newmont’s primary health and of our critical controls for reducing exposures. In found improved maturity across the three distributor of medical donations to developing
hygiene risks. The new standards are: addition to the new Workplace Exposures standard, “Support, Prevent and Promote” pillars of our countries – for another five years. In 2023, our annual
in August we expanded our Fatality Risk wellbeing framework. contribution of $200,000 supported the following
• Environmental Health Risks: This standard
Management program to address exposures to activities throughout the year:
focused on key control measures to minimize The Support pillar saw the most significant
hazardous dust and fumes, particularly silica, diesel
health risks associated with the workplace improvement, driven by leader and employee • Helped fund the shipments of more than
exhaust and welding fumes. Leaders conduct CCVs
environment. It addresses risks such as altitude, wellbeing training, transitioning to a global Employee $2.9 million worth of donated medical equipment
to ensure our ventilation, extraction and dust
thermal extremes, infectious diseases, and food Assistance Program (EAP), and focused efforts on and supplies to community health facilities in
suppression systems are effective and that workers
and water safety. critical incident response and acute mental health Guatemala and Suriname.
are adequately protected through the correct use
management. Training on stress recovery, rosters,
• Workplace Exposures: Geared toward driving of respiratory protection devices. • Conducted a needs assessment at nine health
fatigue management, flexible work practices, and
consistency in industrial hygiene programs across facilities in the Ahafo South and North regions to
In August 2023, a routine health check uncovered leadership coaching tied to HR frontline leader
the business, this standard ensures key exposure determine the items most required in preparation
early-stage silicosis in an employee at our training is credited for progress in the Prevent and
management controls are effective in protecting for 2024 shipments.
Boddington operation. We reviewed our health Promote pillars.
workers from exposure to hazardous substances
surveillance programs to confirm their • Carried out on-site impact evaluations at select
such as carcinogens in the workplace. During the year, we completed our second annual
effectiveness in the early detection of workplace health facilities in Suriname that received
personal health check program and initiated a
• Health, Wellbeing and Fit for Work: This exposure impacts. This includes verifying that our donations between 2022 and 2023. All of the
six-month pilot project with on-site counselors at
standard outlines key control requirements to business partners’ programs are in place and assessed facilities reported improved staff morale
our Ghana operations. The pilot aims to foster trust
minimize health and safety risks related to equally effective. and service quality as a result of the donations,
and promote the utilization of our Employee
individuals who are not fully fit for work. It with 83 percent of them noting an increase in the
FATIGUE MANAGEMENT Assistance Program (EAP).
includes aspects such as alcohol and drug volume of patients receiving services.
We continued to experience improvements in
programs, medical evaluations, wellbeing and the
fatigue-related SPEs in 2023. During the year, we We expect to ship containers of medical equipment
prevention of musculoskeletal injuries.
focused on improving the visibility and analysis of and supplies to multiple health facilities in the
data from fatigue detection technology installed on communities near Peñasquito in early 2024.
haul trucks, ancillary equipment, buses and light
Additional details on these activities are available
vehicles. These efforts, along with a $94 million
on our website.
investment since 2020 to improve sleeping conditions
in camp accommodations, have resulted in fatigue-
related SPEs declining by 94 percent since 2019.
Learn more about the initiatives
Newmont launched in 2023 to
create a physically and
psychologically safe workplace.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
52 Social | Health, Safety and Security
Security Performance
The greatest security concerns facing Newmont in • Yanacocha – Due to national political unrest,
2023 were at our Ahafo South, Merian, Peñasquito economic challenges and uncertainties related to
and Yanacocha operations. the future of Yanacocha Sulfides, we face growing
security risks. This has resulted in a substantial
• Ahafo South – Artisanal mining activities, which are
increase in thefts and civil unrest incidents. While
often illegal and pose safety risks, on Newmont’s
individual incidents are minor, the volume strains
concession continued to present risks. The Ghanaian
security resources. This trend is expected to
government is attempting to balance the demand for
continue into early 2024.
small-scale mining in specific areas with efforts to
curb its criminal and unregulated aspects. However, • Merian – Small-scale mining around our site,
some community members’ support for mining particularly near the Esperance project on the
activities near Ahafo South conflicts with directives border with French Guiana, is on the rise. This
to limit small-scale mining by higher authorities. In uptick coincides with an increase in criminal LESSONS LEARNED FROM Photo: Brucejack, Canada
September 2023, the Ghanaian government activities and violent encounters with local police.
BRUCEJACK FATALITY
announced a task force to address illegal miner We work closely with the government and employ
intrusion on large-scale mining properties, aiming dedicated military and police to minimize the risk
for a solution beyond forcible removal. The new of direct targeting or getting caught in such On December 20, 2023, a tragic incident occurred at integrating our Fatality Risk Management (FRM)
task force is expected to work in coordination with incidents. Despite the challenges, the Merian our Brucejack mine resulting in the fatal injury of program at Brucejack, we accelerated three aspects –
existing security forces, including the national police buffer zone system remains effective. Newmont is Adam Kennedy during shotcreting activities. FRM standard knowledge and understanding, the
and military. The security improvement project we implementing an Artisanal and Small-Scale Mining critical control verification process and expectations
Adam, along with a co-worker operating the mixer,
began in late 2022 is expected to be completed in (ASM) program in partnership with a collective of for leaders’ field time (i.e., visible felt leadership).
was using a remote control to spray the berm. When
early 2024. This includes hardening perimeter Pamaka ASM miners. As part of that program, a
he had stopped spraying, possibly to inspect the Newmont President and CEO Tom Palmer directed
fencing, installing cameras, improving lighting and small-scale mining zone has been established.
completed shotcrete, the sprayer’s remote control Newmont’s Managing Director of Africa to lead an
training guard dogs and handlers. Newmont’s When unauthorized miners within the small-scale
was unintentionally activated, moving the sprayer’s investigation team who was mobilized to Brucejack
Security and Social Performance teams continue mining zone are detected, they are promptly
boom, which came into contact with Adam and on December 27. Following the investigation into this
to collaborate to ensure we respect human rights removed with police assistance.
pushed him against the wall. His co-worker incident, we began applying the lessons learned,
and work toward positive outcomes.
CRISIS MANAGEMENT immediately initiated an emergency response. reviewing existing work practices in our
• Peñasquito – According to the Global Organized As part of our commitment to conform to the Global underground operations and incorporating the
Post-event, the site paused operations to gather
Crime Index, Mexico is one of the most dangerous Industry Standard on Tailings Management (GISTM) by learnings into our FRM system.
personnel and discuss safety hazards and protocols.
countries in the world, and the presence of August 2023 (discussed in the Tailings Management
Newmont’s North America Managing Director and
organized crime cartels persists near our Peñasquito section), Newmont conducted drills using our Rapid
Group Head of Health and Safety traveled to the site
operation. Additionally, a four-month-long strike Response crisis management system and process at
to provide support. Although we had begun
presented additional security concerns at the site. our Tailings Storage Facilities (TSFs) with “extreme”
We engaged the local police director to demonstrate and “very high” consequence classifications. Eleven
our commitment to peacefully resolving the strike. sites underwent drills, providing valuable insights
Once the strike was resolved, we provided for TSF Emergency Response Plans (ERPs) and the
specialized training to frontline teams on how to Rapid Response system.
de-escalate potential conflicts between workers
and ensure a safe return of workers to the site.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
53
Social
PEOPLE AND CULTURE
We monitor various metrics and performance
objectives to assess the effectiveness of our
People Strategy across its three pillars – leadership;
Adapting to the changing nature inclusion, diversity and equity; and people experience.
of work presents challenges and
opportunities in attracting and
Leadership Performance
retaining top talent. Our global People
Strategy is centered on developing Our leadership approach aims to cultivate leaders
leaders, cultivating inclusion, diversity who inspire their teams to do exceptional work.
In 2022, we launched our Frontline Leadership
and equity, and enhancing the overall
Development program, an in-person two-day
work experience. The goal is to foster
workshop aimed at enhancing operational leaders’
a safe, respectful and equitable skills and competencies and helping them address
workplace where everyone belongs, common challenges. In 2023, 653 employees
participated in the program, bringing the total number
thrives and is valued.
of participants since its launch to around 1,300.
Through a partnership with the Colorado School of
Read more about Our Approach to Mines (Mines), we fund two programs that cultivate
People and Culture, including details a diverse, skilled mining talent pipeline:
on our governance, risk, strategy and
• The Black, Indigenous, People of Color
management approach.
Retention Dig Deeper Program – This program
investigates the factors affecting diverse student
retention through student surveys and focus
groups. In 2023, the survey findings were used to
develop action plans and share insights with
educational institutions around the world.
Updated March 2024
Our Approach to People and Culture • The Engineering Equity Fellows Program – This
AoSiftnohtpd csr rpa a til vuepot ee rsrt sigti aon u a ynsgn n ai, si dat ft eoicn e i, e s dts r nh e v i eten asenp l c uarheeht eactda dr tn na f.o cucg nilt ni in adn gng eg td v hnae eeanlo qt d ou p uv rri iee n te ar tgo aba f lli ll en e w wa i wno dorg oerk k rrt k spo e, p rp xce lp u ast ecae ltreln ie iv et wnas ntt hcc i. n eO eh g r.a u eT l dr l hee ig ev vn el e go gr rbe soyisa oat yl nla P in ease nd bto od ep lole n gs, p acro adgr ea mm ic h ce ulp rrs i cf ua lc uu mlty i nd e scv ie el no cp e a , tr ea cc hia nl oly lo in gc yl ,u sive
eG s aapO tInoum nru s tO ap d iearp tcp srfV ptgl e no o i Dl ec ao rE y we o it teb ves ioR poea . ed rl s nl eTN rk bP sa ha pcy iA e len la t a Co s ysd nN ce oep , e t r v uElh sC ee e e qnto a ar nE ucPs canv ie ho ill id t r o l g yw tai o nl hc ro n aoy ed Mb m nr issk ra di t ei ns flna u ne Iistg nnltte t l gc oas mwp l nn auo ohi nnd su to eedi iar ru m on e rcr Mntd u o rib as emi pm ge l to.o hh a m Ar sn t la e siss i tl q et f i(aam o, Imu Cra nmiee Mrnp en srd el Mtomt em a siy st )t em p , t eb i no ws e mee t cresn et oetf cno fd ot r .t m hem it oc r pO thle oao noau ac mr ser dita s inh tm sP s m ise ose a ui ,m nto b r mb tp a ereo usel une o lia pll st uytP o iwa io r-no ry n fo wtgl e si d src a o aek y trr ronxp e ka p u dlt ptan ar ah lc dod l aleie iga o cs e Crt ef crm iar ihr so ee mi ip n m ane el . r tfo tif ea O nor Sy to a saum ia om at frdi ene f oH ed tn c n ya reot a, ne aar ns is dnr ndt dsua c d g op ln s i ue nSfetd ndi cuxRoa ldiu sue nnr etad s sg, ar pl is d vi dh ni ei edes ia ac s x ec ftr bcp or n ara iil rltm isi t imi c ts t aW yi yi mt ln i l.nl O. oya e Ta r ffit n htiko it io cs,n en , r e Tn hg ei n imee pr lein mg e a nn td a tm ioa nt h o f( S inT cE luM s) i vc eo u ar ns de s e qa ut iM tyin es.
T SpE Ct wh h ua rh oe oec pi re h c pr kcf u e ir l b nyP rs ou e gpes Cms oe swhi -cn p eafit ute l niie hnvs n t e s O cStp etu aMffi ri aof on ea mcn gi tnt ea ry srah al ag oa ( mcw ni ns on s dhl ag l l. a oo SPD b c ure aoie sro lrpe t aap aco ntilt ne rio dot asrl ne Ib na ta iionldnd i tc idte yghl ur ,er e Ee d nw xpPe oh tors ueo e r srt st hnp si edeaa md e lr P it Rn prn ee et loe o c la ar pt ynsl tmly eidw o t e tnoCi e nt s Eh at t hO a m ae n) n . d d e ca mNC ovnoe ae mdmw tr tmypmp e r rqe io o stnu tn geosart ea rr’ es tt s d ceiBo sher on avitna eo iC r r l i ood rmae pm po pc mpf em l eriD eivmi sntei etr te ee ssunec p tatt hmdio sne ar ne g s t fe e’ e u oL ets luse ld o rBaw e nd Podi t ee ap .h or re s dpmrh floeoiap f rn S m aDa tnrge aayev nt me sec il eggoe y npnm.i mt fiTe a hctet aren i nl cet ts aa sntd pedagogy began in 2023 and serves as a model for
Newmont Corporation 1 other STEM universities and across Newmont
partnership universities.
Photo: Musselwhite, Canada
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
54 Social | People and Culture
Inclusion, Diversity and Equity Performance
One way we track our progress in creating an increased their female representation overall, while • Symbols of exclusion – Across our global the current business needs, benefiting both BRGs
inclusive culture and advancing the diversity of our the remaining sites struggled with holding their operations, we continued to identify and eliminate and Newmont’s broader inclusion, diversity and
workforce culture is through metrics around gender, representation levels largely due to factors such as symbols of exclusion and address the gaps equity initiatives. Approximately 350 employees,
nationals, and local and Indigenous employee attrition and difficulty in attracting women to work identified in site facility audits (e.g., introduce including executive sponsors, BRG leaders and
representation. at some of our more remote mines. Gender targets gender-neutral job titles, female-sized uniforms employees in the People function attended the
are aspirational goals that we are striving to achieve, including maternity uniforms, wellness/lactating three-day event. By the end of 2023, we had
We continued to strengthen the gender diversity of
in compliance with applicable law. Newmont is an rooms). We also looked for opportunities to build 29 BRGs globally. These groups encompass
our employee base. At the end of 2023, women
equal employment opportunity employer and does not inclusion through symbols (e.g., LGBTQ+ flags and various diversity dimensions and a wide range of
represented 33 percent of our senior leaders
make employment-related decisions based on gender. symbols of allyship, Indigenous art) and programs interests such as local/Indigenous, LGBTQ+,
(defined as employees within the levels 4 and 7 pay
like the Cree “Word of the Run” initiative at women, veterans, health and wellness, cultural,
grades up to and including the President and CEO), Key activities in 2023 to progress inclusion, diversity
Éléonore that we highlight on page 55. cross-generational and disabilities.
up from 30.6 percent at the end of 2022. Other and equity included:
notable areas of female representation among • Strengthening business resource groups
• Local and Indigenous employment – In 2023,
company leaders included: (BRGs) – Our employee-led BRGs play a crucial
we began to enhance our local/Indigenous
role in fostering a sense of belonging, growth and
• Independent members of the Board of Directors employment targets to go beyond representation
value. Connecting employees locally and globally,
(45 percent) metrics and include retention, inclusion and
BRGs promote inclusivity among diverse groups.
career development for local and Indigenous
• Executive Leadership Team (44 percent) To ensure ongoing evolution and maximum
talent objectives. The goal of this approach is to
impact, we held an inaugural global BRG Leaders’
Enterprise-wide female representation at the end of deliver on our purpose of improving lives and
Summit in 2023. The summit facilitated the
2023 was 16 percent, up from 15 percent at the end creating value for the communities that host our
sharing of insights and best practices and
of 2022. We also monitor female representation operations. We plan to finalize the updated
equipped participants with tools to enhance
among employees in our core Operations (i.e., those targets by the end of 2024. We discuss our local
leadership competencies. The refreshed Executive
within the General Manager’s reporting structure) and and Indigenous employment efforts in more
Sponsor Framework, introduced at the summit,
note that at the end of 2023, five of our 12 operating detail in the Value Sharing section.
aims to create a more strategic, supportive and
sites increased their female representation by at least
sustainable governance structure that aligns with
1 percent. Four of the remaining seven sites also
Photo: Tanami, Australia
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
55 Social | People and Culture
People Experience CREE “WORD OF THE RUN”
INITIATIVE AT ÉLÉONORE
Our near-term focus is on enhancing the overall LABOR RELATIONS LIVING WAGE EXPANDS SYMBOLS OF
experience for all employees. On June 7, 2023, the union representing employees Newmont defines a living wage as a base
INCLUSIVITY
at our Peñasquito operation in Mexico initiated a compensation package for a standard work week
In 2023, we conducted a global employee listening
strike, demanding the Company pay additional profit that affords a decent standard of living for the
survey, with 74 percent of the eligible employee
sharing, equivalent to double the amount agreed to worker and their family. In 2022, our Éléonore operation completed an
population participating. The survey found that
the previous year during the collective bargaining update to the site’s social impact assessment, which
87 percent of participants were proud to work at We conducted our second annual living wage
negotiation cycle, along with other alleged violations evaluates social baseline conditions and actual or
Newmont. Areas of the people experience that survey in 2023, engaging third-party expert
of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. On October potential impacts resulting from our business
scored well were related to having clear Sustainable Business Network and Consultancy
13, 2023, the strike ended following approval from activities. As part of this effort, Newmont engaged
expectations, feeling support from their team and to assist with analyses in all countries where we
the Mexican Labor Court on the agreement reached a local Indigenous business to lead the impact
having a sense that they contribute to Newmont’s have full-time employees. The latest survey
between Newmont and the union. evaluation for the Wemindji community. Using the
goals. Opportunities for improvement include compared Newmont’s compensation for the
UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples
recognizing outstanding performance, providing Learn more about the definitive agreement lowest-paid employees in each country/site
as its foundation, the Cree Nation of Wemindji-led
growth and development opportunities, and between Newmont and the union. against the proportionate amount the primary
assessment findings informed the development of
keeping people informed on developments at worker in a household needs to earn to maintain
In Ghana, we implemented the action plan derived a social management plan. This plan incorporates
the Company. the entire household above a living wage. The
from the 2022 independent human rights actions and programs that mitigate negative social
results for the last two years indicate our pay is
Following the passage of legislation in the state of assessment commissioned by Newmont. This plan impacts and enhance benefits.
above the living wage in all countries, further
Colorado, Newmont introduced a new Family and ensures the business unit’s new employment model
demonstrating Newmont continues to voluntarily In 2023, Éléonore introduced the “Cree Word of the
Medical Leave Plan for all U.S. employees. The plan does not compromise human rights, including union
set the bar higher than required. Run” program to address one of the assessment’s
offers up to 12 weeks of 100 percent paid leave in a rights. In 2023, the Ghana Labor Department issued
findings and recommendations. The program aims
12-month rolling period. Employees with serious collective bargaining certificates to two unions,
to heighten awareness of Cree culture and language
health conditions caused by pregnancy or requiring the unions to negotiate with the Company
among employees and foster a sense of belonging
childbirth complications may also be entitled to up on conditions of service for their bargaining units,
by promoting the Eeyou language. Cree linguists
to four additional weeks of paid leave per 12-month which include employees on the new employment
translate key terms and expressions in both Roman
rolling period, for a total of 16 weeks. model. The priority for 2024 is to maintain open
letters and syllabics and provide pronunciations for
lines of communication to facilitate productive
WORKFORCE RIGHTS various terms and expressions.
engagement with the employees and unions.
Through our Integrity Helpline, we investigated real
Employees are encouraged to engage in the program
or potential breaches of our Code of Conduct, In April 2023, Newmont and the Newmont
by suggesting words or expressions they wish to
related policies, standards and/or laws. This Werknemers Organisatie (NWO), the union
learn. This initiative not only bridges language gaps
included addressing reported concerns about representing employees at our Merian operation,
but also strengthens the bonds of communication
discrimination, misconduct and/or inappropriate concluded negotiations on a new collective labor
and understanding, fostering a more inclusive and
behavior. Details on these matters are included in agreement (CLA). The new CLA features an annual
culturally rich workplace at Éléonore.
the Business Integrity and Compliance section. review of the hourly pay table and special
compensation mechanism. This review for 2023
determined that no changes were required and
confirmed the effectiveness of the special
compensation mechanism.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
56
Social
HUMAN RIGHTS
We monitor various metrics and objectives to assess
our journey to improve our human rights systems,
due diligence processes and performance. We also
Human rights are inherent to set public targets to more effectively manage the
everyone. Demonstrating respect for human rights risks in our supply chain.
human rights is crucial for sustainable
Human Rights Performance
development and addressing global
challenges, such as modern slavery Throughout 2023, several sites reviewed and
and the just transition to a low- updated their human rights management plans or
addressed gaps identified in their human rights
carbon economy. At Newmont,
impact assessments (HRIAs). Refresher training
our practices are guided by
sessions were conducted for cross-functional
universally recognized human rights human rights working groups to build awareness of
principles and our global Human emerging trends in business and human rights and
to train new working group members. We also
Rights Strategy. This strategy is our
expanded our supplier human rights training
framework for integrating respect for
program to suppliers in the U.S. and Suriname and
human rights into all aspects of our continued to improve our supplier human rights
operations and actions. due diligence process.
Read more about Our Approach to
Human Rights, including details on
our governance, risk, strategy and
management approach.
Updated March 2024
Our Approach to Human Rights
Hrcehiosihc ug u u ooa rh mm u nl otl res aoa p n fnmni ersg a r rr yc ae imi g.rg t sAu ih, eh o c ts twt n ui sNsa s o c pla e rahf rr kwo nie n ar fm d o i s csn ri au om ph icns nle eo tt t tr ia sd, oee i o nen agn ur n sa rt nr a. b d t tpo sl ie onlr ae a ugdvv cr eee t rgvri er cyye lsoe o plao bsn en p aae cd lm r. t e HD t f eh oguene rmum t hji dua ao unsenn mtdd s Rt t abra ir a ngad yn ht d rui s itn gr ni setg h iiSsov trs ten se ri rn a s ist ngp toaet e l oga glyc l ya lto ro . l ebf lTwo c aa hr -o sl ic h sg pa u senr tm b cirz taoe sa tnd n eo g f y
GOVERNANCE
A ar rN ( tH hSt hi e fftl uhge ui soagh emew m pskn ct ee“ms ae teaC ec nhd it no o tndh iorn d w n r R ti blt go e ghdii yt h”i u g eehn t ) oth h g r t us ct uhe et oh Enos rg o mnde d fru a( iga e“ eU gmct G at r v n toNe s iu g ue i vcsu tei r nio ydG tr yo m ii,r i t u epu n ie win eseior gsd e .d s n lc oPi i lic t wlo n v bur i im Pegi hd erns o eiuPm cc n, l r oi ar ip gp ei ci lmt r . ln ym aw ea Oc m nsc e ee i u” dtp x i)ni otr, c pl m rt e poe S ilgt iss u eue co h rirnao s t at r lttn Cn sye t a td eo s ocoB i p d nofae u re e a nmex esc bp mdosit mne i i pf oln pc e iieC ttg tlts oc hsya os th ye t t n ai etu o rao hd n sem nn e u sdds a ,c . n t e e oa aa SS r N tww inhi n nd nv pu pg eih ceatv vd d ap eh w lhi yi ui ic n rr p t lr r s mah aes dI ao o io on s b ts irn nrrd oh incds el oit em ms ie n) gi i a ns .n gk at t olpe e M csa e ’g , csm n o n nei cn e al at w c es mt tnoah b nka .i s on vfis ue o diT ml sn i i rca s tr ht r ip k agbh e e uogh ep io c l- se n nn oe ous e tl somi g iim up um oc tvt tu ya re oy irp le e tr a a n c p min lc ii n en een nsi de ofit t m s s g et. a ao r lc .e,p ui mS i rl pcu ag r r r d ae a in lre oh n beog,v n aq tH st d eeae ye ds l u r eslr pu ic o a sma mi e eutrm ( nnl Di wm se boa p dgo ma u haltna p t it wn etcnh o,cee l c lxo dst e i yrn hR rts tyesr h eet , ai em ,c osg sg rEvxu as n n ih lf ne atdu lroo e alt n giil ec lb tr is o rl alv th y i n a w n ue sbeS , s aal hff ert l le te i el assa a,h e n g b s t n F rn eocc lg s ta o rdut nai od oa etni ba kv l se uga d nt ade r euue s rr s cdla h rd m rh hipa s enar o,u ,n od sel a l aam d dn las ni lr ec nt ldea t i rhd e n ses ,
Newmont Corporation 1
Photo: Tanami, Australia
NNeewwmmoonntt CCoorrppoorraattiioonn 22002233 SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt
57 Social | Human Rights
SALIENT HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUES SALIENT HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUES
Although we manage the full spectrum of We used site-level human rights impact
potential human rights risks, our salient human assessments, which incorporate input from local Salient issue More information about how Newmont managed the issue and
rights issues represent the highest potential and stakeholders, to review our salient human rights associated risks in 2023
most severe negative impacts associated with our issues. An indicative list of risks and impacts
Labor rights People and Culture
activities and business relationships. In 2023, we identified were then assessed by Newmont’s
Human Rights
refreshed our assessment of Newmont’s salient cross-functional Enterprise Human Rights Working
human rights issues. Group. The assessment included both severity and Value Sharing
likelihood ratings. The severity rating was defined as
We engaged an external human rights expert to Workplace health and safety Health, Safety and Security
the risk or impact to the rights holder, not the risk or
review our saliency assessment methodology, Materials
impact to the business. Identifying our salient
conduct benchmarking and ensure that our
human rights issues helps guide our human rights Environmental impacts Water Stewardship
assessment process aligned with current best
due diligence approach. Our previously identified Tailings Management
practices. One outcome was shifting from a “rights”
salient human rights were all incorporated into the Biodiversity
framework to an “issues” framework. This approach
new frameworks. In 2024, we will validate the Closure and Reclamation
allows us to recognize all relevant human rights, not
assessment with Executive Leadership and develop Materials
limiting us to a smaller subset of rights. Adopting an
an implementation plan to further embed our
“issues” framework also facilitates clearer Indigenous peoples’ rights People and Culture
salient issues across the organization.
communication both internally and externally, as not
Human Rights
all audiences are familiar with human rights More information about our performance in
Value Sharing
terminology and definitions. managing each of these issues is discussed
throughout this report. Land rights Social Acceptance
Human Rights
Community impacts Social Acceptance
Human Rights
Value Sharing
Security and human rights Health, Safety and Security
Human Rights
Photo: Cerro Negro, Argentina
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
58 Social | Human Rights
Supplier Risk Performance
TRAINING KEY HUMAN RIGHTS ACTIVITIES AND MATTERS
Our online employee training program aims to Newmont regularly engages with key stakeholders • Parliamentary inquiry into sexual harassment
heighten awareness of the Company’s human rights on human rights-related matters and legal cases. We in the mining sector – After the Western Our Supplier Risk Management Program (SRiM)
commitments, potential risks and the collective disclose details on some of the more significant Australian Parliament’s report on sexual remains a key tool for managing corruption, human
responsibility to respect everyone’s rights. In matters on our website, which is regularly updated. harassment of women in the mining sector was rights, environmental, climate change and other
December 2022, we launched a new online training Key activities in 2023 related to human rights issued in 2022, Newmont worked with the risks across our global supplier network.
program, with more than 7,400 employees taking included the following: Chamber of Minerals and Energy of Western
In 2023, the enterprise functions and the seven
the training by the end of 2023. Australia and the Minerals Council of Australia to
• Human rights review of the resettlement operating sites that have SRiM in place issued 1,252
support industry-wide responses. These include
In 2023, all active Newmont security personnel process at Ahafo North – We commissioned an pre-qualification surveys to new suppliers, with 913
the adoption of an Industry Code on Eliminating
(78 employees and 2,034 contractors) completed independent human rights risk assessment for (73 percent) responding and providing information
Sexual Harassment and the development of an
annual training based on the Voluntary Principles our Ahafo North project’s land access process. on human rights risks. Among the suppliers that
Industry Alcohol Guideline for company
on Security and Human Rights. Additionally, 2,489 This review highlighted the need to update our responded, 248 were identified as having an
accommodation facilities. Details on creating a
other Newmont employees, 1,421 members of site-level human rights impact assessment elevated likelihood of impacting human rights and
respectful workplace are discussed in the People
public security/law enforcement and 4,082 external process as local situations and contexts change. underwent further due diligence. Additionally, we
and Culture section of this report and highlighted
stakeholders underwent the training alongside our We discuss this matter in more detail in the Social completed scope-of-work risk assessments to
on page 37.
security personnel. Acceptance section of this report. identify human rights-related risks associated with
• Strike at Peñasquito – In October, Newmont and the nature of the work.
REPORTING COMMITMENTS • Human rights review in Ghana – In early 2022,
the National Union of Mine, Metal and Allied
Since 2019, Newmont has been included in the Newmont implemented a new employment model Newmont’s Integrity Helpline and our local site
Workers of the Mexican Republic reached an
Corporate Human Rights Benchmark (CHRB), in Ghana, transitioning the unionized workforce to community complaint and grievance channels are
agreement to end the strike at the Peñasquito
which assesses a company’s performance across fixed-term renewable employment contracts. This critical for identifying human rights issues, including
mine in Zacatecas, initiated in June 2023. The
several areas (i.e., governance and policy action aimed to create an incentive-based those within our supply chain. In 2023, we investigated
resolution reflects our commitment to respecting
commitments, embedding respect and human rights performance review system and strengthen the and addressed 49 matters related to supplier conduct
the Collective Bargaining Agreement and freedom
due diligence, remedies and grievance mechanisms, supervisor-employee relationship. To ensure the that were reported to our Integrity Helpline or local
of association. Further information about the
company human rights practices, and responses to new employment model respected human rights, site complaints and grievance mechanisms. The
agreement can be found in the accompanying
serious allegations). In the 2023 CHRB, Newmont including union rights, Newmont engaged a third majority of these matters included allegations related
press release.
received the second-highest score among 110 party with internationally recognized expertise in to Respect at Work issues such as discrimination.
companies across the extractive and apparel human rights to assess the actual, potential and Other matters ranged from improper compensation
industries. Our highest scores were in the areas of perceived impacts on human rights. This report is to employment of a minor (a 17-year-old).
embedding respect for human rights and available on our website. Throughout 2023, we
Each case underwent a review. Where violations
implementing our human rights practices. Our score continued to make progress in implementing the
were substantiated, we worked with the supplier to
improved the most in the areas of remedies and recommendations from the assessment. This
provide remedy to those impacted.
grievance mechanisms. We will continue to work on included updating policies, strengthening
areas where we can improve our human rights protections for vulnerable workers, applying
policies and governance as well as our public consistent performance metrics for all employees
responses to allegations. (e.g., junior employees and managers) and
establishing employee feedback mechanisms.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
59 Social | Human Rights
In 2023, we rolled out a revised supplier training For sites that have implemented SRiM, our target for
module across our operations in Australia, Ghana, 2024 remains the same.
Peru, Suriname and the U.S. We employed both
MODERN SLAVERY
in-person and virtual training formats to enhance
In June 2023, we published our 2022 Modern Slavery
engagement and provide suppliers the opportunity
Statement, reporting on our efforts to combat
to ask questions. This training is designed for those
modern slavery in our operations and supply chain
suppliers that work in potential high-risk categories
during the 2022 fiscal year. The statement was
or are identified as having higher potential human
prepared under the Australian Modern Slavery Act
rights risks in the onboarding due diligence process.
(2018) and approved by Newmont’s Board of
The primary goals of the training are to raise Directors. With Canada passing legislation to address
awareness of Newmont’s human rights forced and child labor in supply chains in May 2023,
commitments, inform suppliers about potential we are preparing to comply with the regulation in our
human rights risks and impacts, and provide them upcoming statement to be published in May 2024.
with additional resources and tools, including
Across our operations and supply chain, no reports
grievance mechanisms.
related to instances of forced labor were received,
PUBLIC TARGETS investigated or addressed in 2023. However, one
We set public targets to hold ourselves accountable report was received concerning child labor, involving
for integrating human rights due diligence processes a contractor in Peru employing a 17-year-old. Details
into our supply chain. These targets focus on on this matter and remediation will be published in
engagement with potential high-risk suppliers to our 2023 Modern Slavery Statement.
raise awareness of Newmont’s human rights
commitments, our expectations and risk
mitigation measures.
Our 2023 target was to implement risk mitigation
plans for 100 percent of contracts with suppliers
identified as having an elevated likelihood of
impacting human rights at operating sites where the
SRiM program has been implemented. During the
year, cross-functional teams at Newmont reviewed
supplier human rights risks and identified specific
suppliers for participation in human rights training.
Our approach focused on capacity building as the
foundation for mitigating risks. Across all our
operations where SRiM is in place, we engaged
90 percent (183) of targeted suppliers in training,
falling just short of our target. However, we
successfully expanded our risk mitigation approach
to two new countries – Suriname and the U.S.
Photo: Merian, Suriname
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
60 Social | Human Rights
Indigenous Peoples Performance
As stated in our Indigenous Peoples Standard, Newmont recognizes the unique rights, culture and history of Indigenous peoples, and their distinct interests and concerns, which may differ from other stakeholder groups.
We acknowledge and respect traditional landownership and uses. As members of the International Council on Mining and Metals, we align with its position statement to work toward free, prior and informed consent (FPIC)
of Indigenous peoples, and we actively participate in RESOLVE’s FPIC Solutions Dialogue to translate FPIC into effective on-site implementation.
Notable engagement activities with the Indigenous communities near our operations during 2023 are summarized in the following table.
ENGAGEMENT WITH INDIGENOUS COMMUNITIES NEAR OUR OPERATIONS AND SITES IN 20231
Boddington (Australia) Tanami (Australia)
Indigenous communities Activities
Indigenous communities Activities
Gnaala Karla Booja We continued to collaborate with the CPA Relationship Warlpiri As part of the Tanami Desert TYP, we conducted annual
governance forums and planning workshops and hosted
Committee and GKB Regional Aboriginal Corporation,
hosting visits at both our office hub in Perth and on-site at Background on agreements Traditional Owner delegations, including representatives
Background on agreements from the CLC; Warlpiri Education and Training Trust (WETT);
Boddington. We also worked together on a refreshed cross-
cultural awareness training program. Newmont’s Tanami mine, located within Aboriginal Granites Mine Affected Area’s Aboriginal Corporation
The Moorditj Booja Community Partnership Agreement
Freehold Land, operates under a Consolidated Mining (GMAAAC); Warlpiri cultural authority including
(CPA) is a voluntary Indigenous Land Use Agreement (ILUA)
Agreement (CMA). The CMA is regulated by the Central representatives from the Warlpiri Secret Sacred Project. We
between Newmont, the Gnaala Karla Booja (GKB) Boddington hosted Wiilman Traditional Owners who
Land Council (CLC), which acts as agents for Warlpiri (Yapa) also participated in several engagement events, including a
Aboriginal Corporation, and their representative body – the assisted Aboriginal-owned heritage consultancy Aboriginal
Traditional Owners of the Tanami Region. The Tanami Traditional Owner site visit focused on cultural heritage,
South West Aboriginal Land and Sea Council (SWALSC). The Land Services (ALS) in training on identifying archaeological
Desert Ten Year Plan (TYP) commenced in 2017 and builds work area clearances, priority action updates and other
Preservation of Aboriginal Heritage Agreement (PAHA) artifacts. The training helps teams recognize potential
on the CMA commitments. It is a planning and governance projects.
underpins the CPA and details the operation’s specific artifacts in forest areas. ALS representatives conducted the
framework, guiding the collaborative work among Warlpiri,
cultural heritage management obligations. training, emphasizing the significance of the forest to the
the CLC and Newmont. The TYP focuses on actions that Key TYP priority actions, including the Tanami Regional
Wiilman Noongar people.
improve Yapa employment, Yapa education and Yapa voice Biodiversity Monitoring project and Tanami Highway Safety
and supports the delivery of long-term benefits for Warlpiri and Service project, were collaboratively implemented. The
across the Tanami Region in line with their aspirations. Cross Cultural Awareness Training Program (CCAT)
underwent a tender process, with a preferred Central
Australian Aboriginal service provider selected for
implementation in 2024.
We commenced a review that takes place every 10 years of
the CMA in collaboration with the CLC and Traditional
Owners. The review will continue in 2024.
We partnered with the Warlpiri Secret Sacred Project and
the Warlpiri Media Aboriginal Corporation to facilitate visits
by Warlpiri elders and Project representatives to Australian
institutions to identify Warlpiri secret sacred objects and
plan to repatriate these objects to Warlpiri communities
and places of cultural significance.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
61 Social | Human Rights
Éléonore (Canada) Musselwhite (Canada)
Indigenous communities Activities Indigenous communities Activities
Cree Nation of Wemindji Éléonore offered cultural training to 185 employees, North Caribou Lake First Nation In 2023, four cohorts graduated from the Musselwhite
bringing the total to 735 people who have learned about Stope School, which provides Indigenous students training
Grand Council of the Crees (Eeyou Istchee)/ Cat Lake First Nation
the history and culture of the Cree Nation. This training on fundamental underground mining skills. We highlight
Cree Nation Government Wunnumin Lake First Nation
aims to maintain a caring and respectful work climate, this program on page 63.
foster a sense of belonging and create conditions Kingfisher Lake First Nation
Background on agreements conducive to inclusion, diversity and equity. Elements of Windigo First Nation Council Musselwhite launched an Indigenous Education Training
Cree history and culture enable teams to acquire
Newmont’s Éléonore operation and the Cree Nation of knowledge to share with their colleagues. Shibogama First Nation Council program on National Indigenous Peoples Day, engaging
Wemindji and the Grand Council of the Crees (Eeyou Mishkeegogamang First Nation an Indigenous-owned firm Miikana (meaning “the path”
Istchee)/Cree Nation Government are signatories to the in Anishnaabemowin) to develop online learning modules.
Opinagow Collaboration Agreement. The modules aim to raise awareness of Indigenous
For the Truth and Reconciliation Day in Canada, Éléonore Background on agreements history and culture and equip all employees with
employees sold orange shirts (a symbol to honor Indigenous foundational knowledge for creating safer spaces for
children who were forced to attend residential schools rife The Musselwhite Agreement’s signatories include Cat Lake Indigenous colleagues.
with abuse) and donated the proceeds to the Eeyou Eenou First Nation, North Caribou First Nation, Kingfisher Lake
Community Foundation to support cultural initiatives. First Nation, Wunnumin Lake First Nation, Windigo and
We commenced a review of the Mishkeegogamang
Shibogama Councils.
First Nation (MFN) Cooperation Agreement at the request
The mine also has an agreement with the
We addressed a grievance regarding Cree employment of the MFN.
Mishkeegogamang First Nation.
progression, as well as racial and language discrimination
at site. Following an investigation that found no violation of
In late 2023, the MFN provided a contractor to conduct
our employment policies, we met with the complainant to
maintenance work on the mine’s hydro line. Plans are
clarify our policies, engaged with them on our Indigenous
now in place to provide MFN and their contractor with
employment and development plan, and invited them to
long-term contracts to complete this work.
participate in our Opinagow Employment and Training
Committee meetings.
Members of the Musselwhite team visited the Wunnumin
Lake First Nation and Kingfisher Lake First Nation
communities, marking the first visits since before the
COVID-19 pandemic.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
62 Social | Human Rights
Porcupine (Canada) Merian (Suriname)
Indigenous communities Activities Indigenous communities Activities
Mattagami First Nation At Porcupine, we initiated engagement with the Métis Pamaka Maroon Tribe of the Marowijne River Due to turnover and challenges among community
Nation of Ontario and Taykwa Tagamou Nation following leadership, we held a gran krutu (community meeting) to
Matachewan First Nation Kawina Maroon Tribe of the Commewijne River
the federal government’s recognition of their rights and the discuss concerns and opportunities to improve
Flying Post First Nation
duty of the government to consult with both Nations on communications and the process for community
Apitipi Anicinapek Nation, formerly known as permitting. The goal is to reach an agreement with both Background on agreements investments.
Wahgoshig First Nation Nations that will help facilitate the permits needed to
Newmont has a Cooperation Agreement and Funding
Chapleau Cree First Nation upgrade the Dome tailings management area and progress Agreement with the Pamaka. The Cooperation Agreement with the Pamaka is governed
the Pamour project.
Brunswick House First Nation by the Duurzame Ontwikkeling Pamaka (Foundation for the
Sustainable Development of Pamaka) Executive Committee.
Chapleau Ojibwe First Nation
Porcupine is currently updating its social and human rights However, because the Community Development Fund
Michipicoten First Nation impact assessment (SHRIA), which identifies both direct (CDF) fund manager position was vacant throughout the
and indirect impacts within its social influence area. year, no CDF-funded projects were carried out in 2023.
Background on agreements Expected to be finalized in early 2024, the assessment
involves active engagement with eight communities and
We continued negotiations with the Kawina Negotiation
Newmont has a Resource Development Agreement with the Métis Nation of Ontario.
Committee (appointed by the Kawina Traditional Authority,
the Mattagami, Matachewan, Flying Post and Wahgoshig
including the Paramount Chief) to establish a Cooperation
First Nations.
Porcupine participated in several open houses and job fairs Agreement. We agreed on a framework and will provide
Newmont has a Benefits Agreement with the Michipicoten hosted by its signatory communities. technical support for drafting an agreement.
First Nation and an Impacts and Benefits Agreement with
Chapleau Cree, Brunswick House and Chapleau Ojibwe The site collaborated with Miikana to host a virtual 1 Refer to the 2023 Performance Data tables for specific GRI and SASB disclosures relating to lands, agreements and significant events.
First Nations.
education session as part of the National Day for Truth and
Reconciliation. This session focused on Indigenous history, Our Global Center for Indigenous Community Relations (the “Center”) promotes meaningful engagement
ongoing colonialism, and guidance on creating a culturally with Indigenous peoples and serves as a resource for Newmont and the industry. It also convenes the
safe organization. Indigenous Peoples Working Group (IPWG), a cross-functional community that shares challenges, successes
and resources to foster respectful relationships with Indigenous communities. In 2023, the IPWG’s quarterly
meetings included in-depth discussions on topics such as Australia’s Reconciliation Action Plan and
Musselwhite’s listening exercise to understand the challenges and opportunities to attract, retain and
progress the careers of First Nations employees. The meetings also included presentations from external
experts on Indigenous rights and the industry’s approach to FPIC and Indigenomics in the resource sector.
The Center provided scholarships for six First Nation community members to attend the Champions of
Change leadership program developed and delivered by the Global Indigenous Development Trust.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
63 Social | Human Rights
Cultural Heritage Management Performance
All our sites continue to work toward conformance At the Ahafo North project, we approved a plan
with our enhanced Cultural Heritage Standard, for managing and mitigating impacts related to
which aims to identify, protect and manage cultural cultural resources throughout the project’s
heritage within our area of influence to prevent construction phase. The plan addresses tangible
adverse impacts. In 2023, we incorporated cultural cultural heritage relocation (e.g., shrines, cemeteries,
heritage considerations into our internal technical archaeological sites) and intangible cultural heritage
audits on social performance risks. Other areas of considerations (e.g., sites and days of cultural
focus included updating Cultural Heritage significance). We engaged with Traditional
Management Plans and progressing our cultural Authorities to reach agreements on compensation
heritage governance and awareness training and pacification processes related to cultural
programs. To meet the training program criteria resource impacts.
of the standard and raise awareness among
employees, contractors, visitors and local
stakeholders of how we manage cultural heritage
across Newmont, the enterprise Social
Performance team launched a series of cultural
heritage training videos. MUSSELWHITE STOPE SCHOOL SHAPES Photo: Musselwhite Stope School
training program graduates
FUTURE MINERS
In 2020, Newmont launched the Musselwhite Stope selected for the four Stope School sessions (one
School, a six-week program that offers local cohort each quarter). All participants identified as
Indigenous candidates essential training in Indigenous, with 80 percent from the signatory and
fundamental underground mining skills. affiliate First Nations communities represented in
the Musselwhite and Mishkeegogamang Agreement.
Each Stope School student spends two weeks with
the training department and four weeks with the Those who complete the six-week Stope School
mine department. Students not only receive training are offered a six-month contract with the
comprehensive in-class education but also gain mine department to continue their training and skills
invaluable on-the-job work experience. To ensure development. Those who successfully complete the
the students experience a realistic work schedule, contract terms are offered full-time employment,
students are assigned night shifts during their transforming Stope School into not just a training
training, providing a holistic understanding of the program but a path for local Indigenous youth to
mining profession. pursue a meaningful career in mining.
Fostering an inclusive environment, Musselwhite
actively solicits student feedback on ways to
continue to improve the program. In 2023, 295
people applied for the school, with 10 students
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
64
Social
SOCIAL ACCEPTANCE
We monitor various metrics and performance
objectives to assess the effectiveness of our social
acceptance approach. We also set public targets to
Gaining and maintaining the trust ensure we meet our commitments and respond to
of stakeholders impacted by a concerns in a timely manner.
business is an ongoing endeavor.
Community Relationships
At Newmont, we use a methodical
Performance
approach to managing stakeholder
relationships and earning social PUBLIC TARGETS
acceptance. Through understanding To earn and maintain social acceptance and
continuously work to improve our approach, we set
and managing our activities’
targets to ensure rigor and focus in managing two
impacts on communities and
key areas:
involving local stakeholders in
• Community commitments
decision-making, we aim to build
− Our annual target is for all sites to complete
enduring relationships based on
100 percent of community commitments by
respect and mutually beneficial and
the due date. In 2023, eight of our 12 operating
sustainable development outcomes. sites completed 100 percent of commitments
on or before due dates as captured in the
commitment registers at each site. Ahafo South,
Read more about Our Approach to Boddington, Cerro Negro and Merian were late
Social Acceptance, including details on one or more commitments.
on our governance, risk, strategy and
− We developed a root-cause analysis methodology
management approach.
to better understand the underlying drivers of
complaints and grievances and reduce or
eliminate repeat issues. In 2023, we achieved our
target to integrate the methodology into our site
stakeholder management systems, entering
data from the pilot test in 2022 into the system.
• Complaints and grievances – Sites aim to resolve
Updated March 2024
Our Approach to Social Acceptance
100 percent of tier 1 stakeholder complaints within
Gimuirds nen e a vlaa avdi onn n eteli i va loon r oigs nnng pti sggna ma h nog ln io ei d p nd s nci stg n a ta m b lg okc saa eh uatsi h aa tn n eckol dt dl oeea l d momhnin e nog ei ran le rsdnrg e. .e eaA s l rt ga pt sh t i e N nie io nc get n t drw so au ehm nus cit drp i o so a s min ocf a t ts nu,ni t v w ta mdi utke i ae ae e u la kh s lyrs ’io nn e i bml gi d na e,e p ngm wr a e s s ece fioi tmt accsh ii i maop ao llnad aa tc i c nocct oae c dbmled usap ub mipt ldsy ap tu na ar enoc inb niaetdu ac i. euT bhs si h rl n eit anroe ong s uds g h 3 ad0 dd ra ey ss s eth dr 1o 0u 0g h po eu rct e t nh te o y fe ta ier. r I n 1 c2 o0 m23 p, la al il n s ti st e os r
GOVERNANCE
cd sss rr uO ee ouut e pua qs mpiv httr o uee pe o mlS il s ov rloou d i e rionpf ts t m msu gmgt ooa r le ec o ne cic no nbn i-no attn taa t hsl sm fl l b i e,a fn i sm o r-i cc t gl ectt raiis rht le t n es o ym e pa u vd u tna ac pe a nadon npn r ndd m td otc c is l o ert mamS o t.n s wt i pnt Rutaf a sro lgenk ei t rb aleie maatm nu si ch te edt eti No sni i nd n v rl eg w tid g etgaw i re gh uet te m uo ir e sios d l r E o ap ns te en hu tne laiw iag s oc t nn’t tta s ne ea f d sgu s m sio ene .cl ap ca i omr nuneeb mirde rl mla eea pn t p tu lait e io rm a no.Pn ndA co s ce hl ei dic p wuys r i, et hs ee oa aaE M uPO ECnn c npv a uen offiace cgg pdr ti mn te cf hraa c r .o omy pa m ie gg T sqr mgt rsee ehm aa ui,ii tmm n sit e en w at nae g es sc tree tn h he eted ann rD eco e eie i rtt a e nri n lr ev r , fc apa i e d– uee nvtt tpl c hii p il la egrvv eo lpt een o d iio Bwp sr td pr iro B ooas teu st’ o os sa con a saa wr ic r ad l t faltn aeh s do ui r lttd ta m d. lho– a ot fi dtA hi cho o fa lm mte l cehed in fl sr neo p ae i sei DP gs pgt nl nh so rie niC tgt ri ai oe arm egp ih e figs s uw n n cia i ee t ce rd ct ta ien a mh tn of ecet ha ndet e r .S on em s s t d Tat ma te n’ha m h f c Sff am to ee m er s an ae t tv o et Gy hf ictdeca tes tm oet r mr a ek s ti Cos mv yn e rb aet eEue sdh h ce a me nO pn t o oer ns S ti e . iv l rsH do tubd ss i tt d f aeo ss ue eSi t e e ne acr es uo a s via d di saf in c enc atl hi o ee lh at a n oaas fs i b nd p s irS ri n a mlo i b itc n ey ii l g a nit l ty s . Fog r r 2ie 0v 2a 4n , c oe us r r ce oco mr mde ud n o itn y s ci ote m r meg ii ts mte er ns tw s i ath ni dn 30 days.
Newmont Corporation 1 complaints and grievances targets remain the same.
Photo: Ahafo, Ghana
NNeewwmmoonntt CCoorrppoorraattiioonn 22002233 SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt
65 Social | Social Acceptance
Read more about our site performance on addressing complaints in the 2023 Performance Data tables. KEY COMMUNITY MATTERS AND ACTIVITIES Argentina
At the end of 2023, all sites – except Akyem, Newmont was recognized by the Lazos de Oro 3
TIER 1 COMPLAINTS: SITE LEVEL1
Porcupine and Yanacocha – had a social impact program for its support of the “VinculaRte” project.
assessment (SIA) in place and updated within the This initiative, developed with the Museum Complex
Percent addressed
past five years. Akyem initiated its SIA update, and the Directorate of Cueva de las Manos, uses
Country/site Number received within 30 days
gathering field data and compiling a draft report. virtual reality technology to offer an immersive
AFRICA Ghana 225 Porcupine completed the first phase of developing a experience of Cueva de las Manos in the Santa Cruz
comprehensive SIA, commenced the second phase province. This UNESCO World Heritage Site features
Ahafo South 187 100%
of gathering baseline information in 2023, and cave art believed to have been created around
Akyem 38 100%
expects to complete its SIA in 2024. At Yanacocha, 10,000 years ago. The project aims to make the
AUSTRALIA Australia 10 the team initiated a social baseline gap analysis cultural, natural and scientific features of the
during the year that will be used to develop their archaeological site accessible to individuals with
Boddington 10 100%
updated SIA in 2024. disabilities or those unable to visit in person.
Tanami2 0 N/A
To build our capacity for handling the complexities
LATAC Argentina 5
of social performance, we held several training Australia
Cerro Negro 5 100%
sessions on the social aspects of mine closure and In Australia, Newmont’s Reconciliation Action Plan
Mexico 3 economic transition, the social aspects of the Global states our commitment to reconciliation across five
Peñasquito 3 100% Industry Standard on Tailings Management and dimensions: historical acceptance, race relations,
Cultural Heritage Management. In 2024, the equality and equity, institutional integrity and unity.
Suriname 20
Newmont Social Performance Learning Series will In 2023, we continued to implement the plan,
Merian 20 100%
cover topics on social performance governance, holding quarterly working group meetings and
NORTH AMERICA Canada 113 social standards reviews, ESG reporting, target organizing events related to National Reconciliation
Éléonore 12 100% setting, human rights reviews, and complaints and Week and National Aborigines’ and Islanders’ Day
grievances mechanisms. Observance Committee.
Musselwhite2 0 N/A
Porcupine 101 100% We engaged in several activities throughout 2023 At Boddington, we established two five-year
that exemplify our dedication to cultivating positive strategic investment partnerships aimed at
U.S. 3
relationships and catalyzing a meaningful impact in providing educational opportunities for the Gnaala
CC&V 3 100%
the communities where we operate. The following Karla Booja (GKB). Under the agreement with
PERU Peru 24 summarizes these efforts across our operations. Murdoch University, we will provide tertiary
Yanacocha 24 100% scholarships and support for secondary education
engagement activities in collaboration with the GKB
GLOBAL Total 403
Relationship Committee and Kulbardi School of
1 1 Complaints reported in this table show only tier 1 complaints to be resolved in 2023. Newmont manages complaints through a tiered resolution Aboriginal Studies. The partnership with Shooting
system that follows one or more of the following processes:
Stars aims to empower Aboriginal girls, women and
a. Tier 1: Complaints that can be resolved between Newmont and the complainant.
communities by connecting with and supporting up
b. Tier 2: Complaints that cannot be resolved directly between Newmont and the complainant, and which therefore requires the involvement of a
to 100 Gnaala Karla Booja – Noongar young people.
third party (other than the judicial system).
c. Tier 3: Complaints that require recourse to the judicial system.
2 Tanami and Musselwhite received zero complaints in 2023, across all tiers.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
66 Social | Social Acceptance
At Tanami, we partnered with the Warlpiri Secret Ghana At Ahafo South, 148 farmers affected by mine To build capacity and improve efficiencies in
Sacred Project, Newmont’s Global Center for At Akyem, we launched a year-long radio program to expansion projects received support under the Skills implementing public work projects, ALAC trained
Indigenous Community Relations and the Warlpiri provide clear information about key aspects of the Development for Income Improvement Program 163 authorities and officials from the Regional
Media Aboriginal Corporation to facilitate visits to operation. One of the topics discussed was the site’s (SDIIP). The program aims to enhance the long-term Government of Cajamarca and the local
Australian institutions for Warlpiri elders and Project complaints and grievances process. Listeners were socio-economic wellbeing of PAPs by offering training governments of Cajamarca, Bambamarca, Los Baños
representatives. This aimed to identify and plan the encouraged to use Newmont’s official channels, such programs such as sheep rearing, cookery and bakery, del Inca and La Encañada. The training focused on
repatriation of Warlpiri secret sacred objects to as emails, letters, face-to-face interactions, drop fashion and design, welding and fabrication. SDIIP public policy and management, planning,
Warlpiri country, communities and keeping places, boxes at Newmont offices and community centers, has led to significant improvements in the lives of the administration and budgeting. Newmont is also
with documented activities supported by a complaint forms and the toll-free number to register program beneficiaries. providing technical assistance to the Regional
filmmaker/videographer. their concerns. Government to improve supply and procurement
Newmont collaborated with the Ghana Highway
management, create a plan for fostering micro and
Details about our engagement with Indigenous We began implementing the recommendations from Authority to rehabilitate 8.2 kilometers of road
small businesses, and develop a strategy to reduce
communities in Australia are discussed in the the external consultant who conducted a socio- between Kenyasi and Hwidiem. Newmont is investing
anemia and chronic child malnutrition.
Human Rights section. economic assessment of the project-affected people $9.5 million in the project, which will enhance economic
(PAPs) (e.g., those who are economically and/or and commerce activities, improve pedestrian safety, In collaboration with the National Civil Defense
Canada physically displaced) related to the development of and reduce dust impacts on road users and residents. Institute (INDECI), Yanacocha developed 11
Éléonore held two meetings with the Opinagow the Akyem mine. The Akyem Social Protection A payment dispute between the contractor and the community emergency response plans aimed at
Business Opportunities Committee to promote Program (ASoPP) aims to alleviate project impacts government delayed the completion of the project. saving lives. Each community established an
economic development for the Cree Nation, on vulnerable populations, ensuring transitional However, the issue was resolved, and the road is emergency committee where members received
specifically the Wemindji Cree. In the town of food security. ASoPP provides bi-monthly food expected to be completed in 2024. specialized training. Because national drills
Chapais, we held a networking event where local baskets, a small payment, and assistance with health highlighted the need for improved connectivity to
businesses and the site discussed existing and insurance premiums to 195 PAPs, who were verified Mexico bolster emergency response, Newmont supported
potential economic development opportunities. The by the Technical Sub-Committee of the Livelihood As part of the agreement between Newmont and a project to improve connectivity in the Rio Grande
site also hosted representatives from local economic Committee. This support will be provided until it is the community of San Juan de Cedros signed in 2019, sub-basin, located within Yanacocha’s La Quinua Sur
development organizations in Nord-du Québec to no longer needed or they can join the Government we are advancing 14 community infrastructure tailings facility’s area of influence. The project will
enhance their knowledge of the mining industry. of Ghana’s Livelihood Empowerment Against projects. In 2023, Peñasquito inaugurated the also enhance educational processes in institutions
Poverty (LEAP) Program. “Sports Field San Juan de los Cedros” that seats 250 and communities, benefiting 3,500 residents,
Porcupine partnered with the Timmins Chamber of
spectators, drilled a well for drinking water and 11 educational institutions and 553 students.
Commerce for its Meet the Purchasers trade show in The Agriculture Improvement Program (AIP) and
expanded the water treatment plant. We also
Timmins. The goal of this annual event is to connect Alternative Livelihood Program (ALP) at Akyem serve
rehabilitated a baseball field in El Rodeo.
buyers and sellers and boost the local economy. as interventions aimed at restoring food security to
Nine large corporations participated, providing resettled households and offering small business
Peru
smaller businesses the opportunity to showcase opportunities for farmers seeking alternative
Yanacocha’s development foundation Los Andes de
their goods and services, forge new connections and livelihoods. These programs are now overseen by
Cajamarca Association (ALAC) partnered with the
strengthen existing ones. the Liaison Group for Mining in Forest Reserves
United Nations World Food Program to foster
(LGMFR) with funding support from Newmont. AIP
Additional details about our engagement with financial inclusion and entrepreneurship in local
provides funding to 499 PAPs for acquiring improved
Indigenous communities in Canada are discussed in communities. The program aims to build nutrition
varieties of cocoa, oil palm, or citrus seedlings, along
the Human Rights section. and food security capacity in rural areas by directing
with necessary agro-chemicals to boost agricultural
resources to small community credit unions that
productivity and support farm maintenance. LGMFR
provide low-interest loans to its members, who are
has requested further studies on the ALP, which
farmers and entrepreneurs. We highlight this
were conducted by the Center for Agricultural and
partnership on page 68.
Rural Development (CARD). The draft report has
been submitted for review and implementation.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
67 Social | Social Acceptance
Suriname CC&V representatives participated in various include a clear commitment to human rights by ARTISANAL AND SMALL-SCALE GOLD MINING
Merian hosted its inaugural employee family tour, community events, such as a volunteer day to Newmont, underscored by policies and processes, PERFORMANCE
offering families of team members a unique build homes for those in need, a field trip to buy and the robustness of the human rights impact Work continued throughout the year to manage
opportunity to explore the mine. Along with providing shoes and supplies for local elementary school assessment Newmont undertook in 2019. artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) risks and
in-person access to several areas of the operation, students, STEM education activities with local Recommendations to address the risks include opportunities in Ghana, Peru and Suriname.
the tours included a virtual reality experience. schools, a fly fishing trip with an organization that conducting an update to the human rights impact
supports disabled veterans, a dedication ceremony assessment taking into consideration the Ghana
We partnered with the Government of Suriname on
for a veteran’s memorial wall and a holiday compulsory land acquisition process, maintaining In 2023, we began updating the baseline survey
the Recovery and Resilience Project, being executed
community dinner. dialogue with the CFA and enhancing the site’s conducted in 2016 and assessing the Government of
by Crown Agents, an experienced NGO specializing
complaints and grievances mechanism. An executive Ghana’s Community Mining Scheme (CMS) for
in enhancing health systems for current RESETTLEMENT AND LAND USE PERFORMANCE
summary of the assessment is published online. potential impacts on Ahafo’s mining lease. Ahafo
requirements and future challenges. The project
Ghana South responded to illegal ASM operators near the
focused on COVID-19 and communicable disease At Ahafo South, land access and resettlement
An important priority is advancing the Ahafo North Subika underground mine by collaborating with the
resilience and recovery efforts across the country. projects related to the site tailings storage facility
project, which has faced delays due to community police, the Ghana Minerals Commission, the Ahafo
We highlight this effort on page 103. (TSF) expansion progressed for Apensu South and
challenges. Although 98 percent of the required land Traditional Council and the Regional Coordinating
Dokyikrom. The temporary relocation allowance for
Details about our engagement with Indigenous for the project has been successfully acquired Council to develop an engagement platform that
two Apensu communities was renewed, allowing
communities in Suriname are discussed in the through a community consultative approach, a helps operators better understand the legal
expansion activities to continue in this area. In
Human Rights section. group calling themselves the Concerned Farmers framework of the CMS, emphasizing dialogue over
Dokyikrom, an independent verification committee
Association (CFA) rejected the community-led violence to address concerns. Additionally, the
established by the regional minister continued to
U.S. consultations and called for one-on-one Ahafo Social Responsibility Forum organized a
verify structure owners. Residents from both areas
In July, our CC&V operation in Colorado secured a negotiations. As a result of the impasse, Newmont workshop to develop a collective action plan
protested on the TSF construction site, prompting an
land access agreement with a local nonprofit to engaged with the Ministry of Lands and Natural addressing the adverse impacts of illegal mining
evaluation of legal options to prevent trespassing
build an art installation near a stop on the mine’s Resources and the Lands Commission of Ghana. activities at the mine.
while continuing to engage stakeholders on
self-guided virtual tour. This tour offers an easily Given the delays, the government decided to
concerns related to resettlement. The business unit’s ASM strategy includes providing
accessible way for community members, visitors and establish an Executive Instrument for Compulsory
alternative livelihood opportunities for ASM
other stakeholders to learn about mine operations Acquisition, which is the first time the Government
Mexico operators. In 2022, we piloted a fabrication and
and the mining heritage of the towns of Cripple of Ghana has done this for a mining project.
Our internal Resettlement Work Plan guides the welding training program for select ASM operators.
Creek and Victor. Within the initial three months of Newmont continues to try to engage with the CFA
efforts for relocating members of the Mesas del Participants from Ahafo South who earned
the art installation, over 10,000 people visited the and has offered to include them in the livelihood
Portezuelo (“Mesas”) and Los Charcos communities, certifications upon completing the course then
site, boosting the visibility of the self-guided tour as programs of the resettlement action plan where
both situated near our Peñasquito operation. underwent a three-month on-the-job program with
an educational opportunity on mining. applicable. Despite these challenges, Newmont
Mesas is south of the Peñasquito site and may be leading welding companies across Ghana. After
remains committed to collaborating with
affected by the TSF, while Los Charcos is just east of completing the post-training-to-employment phase
stakeholders to address issues and ensure that all
Mesas and south of one of the mine’s waste rock in November 2022, all trainees received credible job
project-affected people are compensated fairly per
dump facilities. In 2023, we held several engagement offers, with some getting multiple offers. As of 2023,
our Land Acquisition and Involuntary
sessions with the project-affected people, discussing 15 participants are employed, while others are
Resettlement Standard.
proposed housing models and options, conducting waiting for offers that better accommodate their
To ensure human rights considerations are included site visits, and offering financial literacy workshops situation and needs. Lessons from the pilot program
in the resettlement process, Newmont to support responsible fiscal management of any will be integrated into future skills training initiatives.
commissioned an independent review of human cash compensation.
rights risks related to the project. Key findings
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
68 Social | Social Acceptance
The challenging economic environment in Ghana Suriname
and higher gold prices are expected to further Merian’s ASM Strategy aims to protect Newmont’s
increase illegal mining activities. Ghana’s Chamber assets while recognizing the cultural and livelihood
of Mines has urged the government, the Ministry of importance of ASM to the Pamaka community.
Lands and Natural Resources and the Minerals The strategy focuses on offering alternative
Commission to evict illegal miners occupying livelihoods, providing assistance for responsible
large-scale mining concessions under the pretext of ASM operations and facilitating voluntary relocation
CMS. In 2023, we created a dedicated role that is to a Pamaka Mining Reserve (PMR) for those who
focused on the business unit’s ASM strategy for wish to remain active ASM operators. Collaboration
short- and long-term outcomes, including with the government to minimize ASM
opportunities to support legal and responsible ASM. encroachments on Newmont’s mining concessions
is a key aspect of the strategy.
Peru
Among the milestones achieved in 2023 to support
Peru faces an ongoing challenge of informal and
the strategy, Suriname’s Ministry of Natural
illegal mining. Despite government attempts to
Resources granted the exploration license for the
formalize the sector, these efforts have not worked
PMR, allowing our exploration teams to begin
and informal mining operations have grown across
identifying deposits suitable for small-scale miners.
the country. Given the current instability and
capacity constraints of the national and local Work has started to establish access for geologic EMPOWERING FOOD SECURITY AND Photo: Cajamarca Region, Peru
mapping and soil sampling within the PMR.
governments, as well as the escalating violence BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT IN CAJAMARCA
Additionally, Newmont signed an agreement with
associated with ASM in other parts of the country,
Suriname National Development Bank Ltd. to offer a
Yanacocha is reassessing the strategy to address this
special credit facility, enabling loans of up to $30,000 In 2022, the United Nations World Food Program Through the partnership with the World Food
evolving challenge in Peru. We remain committed to
for Pamaka small-scale miners to invest in and Yanacocha’s development foundation Los Andes Program, resources are being directed toward
sustainable practices and will actively engage with
alternative livelihoods. The first loan was awarded to de Cajamarca Association (ALAC) signed an strengthening the local capacity for addressing
stakeholders to find effective solutions.
a Pamaka entrepreneur to grow his brick production agreement to launch a pilot program to empower nutrition and food security. The project aims to
company. A total of four loans were granted to small- local communities through financial inclusion and help more than 1,700 UNICA members become
scale miners in 2023. The goal is to create alternative entrepreneurship. economically independent by dismantling financial
income opportunities for around 200 Pamaka barriers for women, promoting rural financial
The pilot program builds on the success of the
miners. During the year we also introduced inclusion and connecting communities with
Unidades de Crédito y Ahorro de Cajamarca (UNICA)
earthworks reclamation contracts tailored for financial service providers.
initiative that the Development Bank of Peru (CoFide)
small-scale miners, enhanced the Pamaka ASM
and ALAC launched in 2008 to create small credit This alliance is one of the first pilots of its kind to be
co-op’s capacity and skills to map small-scale mining
unions (UNICAs) that provide savings and credit implemented by the World Food Program. An impact
activity on Newmont’s concessions, and continued
services to farmers and small business owners. study in 2024 will assess the project’s impact on
the ASM Workers’ Pool program, which offers
ALAC supports low-interest loans as well as training human development, including health outcomes,
short-term job opportunities to affected miners.
and skills development programs. Today, more than educational achievement, entrepreneurship,
530 UNICAs serve more than 9,000 community leadership, inclusion and family income growth.
members, 58 percent of whom are women. With a The findings of the study will inform future World
loan repayment delinquency rate below 1 percent, Food Program initiatives.
289 UNICAs are self-sustaining.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
69
We recognize the impact mining activities inherently
have on the environment. Along with implementing
best practices, we pursue groundbreaking innovations
and seek partnerships that amplify our efforts to
responsibly produce the metals and minerals the world
needs.
Photo: Cajamarca Region, Peru
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
70
ENVIRONMENT
Advanced work to incorporate
climate projections into site
71
Energy and Climate Change water balance models
Water Stewardship 72 We completed reclamation
on 165 hectares, exceeding our
82 target of 143 hectares
Tailings Management
86 Reduced fresh water
Biodiversity
consumption by 31% globally
89 since 2018
Closure and Reclamation
92 Advanced our Path to Zero
Materials
Cyanide Spills program,
reducing cyanide-related spills above a
certain threshold by 33% from 2022
Photo: Akyem, Ghana
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
71
Environment
ENERGY AND
CLIMATE CHANGE
Due to the integration of the sites acquired from
Newcrest on November 6, 2023, in May 2024 we will
publish a summary of our climate performance and
Climate change poses a significant metrics for 2023.
existential threat. Newmont is
Following the acquisition of Newcrest, we began the
susceptible to the physical and transition process of recalculating baseline data and reviewing
impacts of climate, such as extreme our strategy, scenario analysis and roadmap to 2030
to reflect our new operating portfolio. We plan to
weather and water scarcity, that can
publish a comprehensive report near the end of
affect mine operations and production.
2024, which will include updated scenario analyses,
Through our Energy and Climate baseline data, a roadmap and a full year of
Strategy, we are working toward combined performance data for 2023.
adapting and building resiliency within
our operations, reducing our greenhouse
gas emissions and achieving our
performance objectives. In collaboration
with governments and communities, we
aim to ensure the shift to a low-carbon
economy is just and equitable.
Our public Climate Report (last
published in May 2023) details our
climate governance, risk management
approach, strategy, and public climate
targets and performance metrics.
Photo: Peñasquito Mexico
NNeewwmmoonntt CCoorrppoorraattiioonn 22002233 SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt
72
Environment
WATER STEWARDSHIP
We measure the effectiveness of our water
stewardship approach by monitoring several
performance objectives. We also set public targets
Access to clean and safe water is a to improve water efficiency and advance our water
fundamental human right, and stewardship maturity.
responsible water management
and stewardship are essential to uphold Water Risks
this right for surrounding communities.
Newmont’s Global Water Strategy We focus on understanding and mitigating risks
in two main areas: watershed- and operational-
helps us understand shared challenges,
based risks.
reduce risks and improve our water
management performance. We also
recognize the importance of water
management and stewardship in nature-
positive actions that contribute to the
wellbeing and resilience of ecosystems
and shared natural resources.
Read more about Our Approach to
Water Stewardship, including details
on our governance, risk, strategy and
management approach.
Updated March 2024
Our Approach to Water Stewardship
Arthwmteh hec as ai ec ls tp p n e e wro s as ri gn e s gum lhs et s lbio t ab mu e nflc noe ieal nre d nw g ga se te uan r aamstr nnae troa denr d nu n md rsdn t e ts a d sepsan iwihe lf n iae era ag fg nrw or ee dcc ra dm m eo st h me c oe air h pfn nm i a e st cil n c u elaa e o .nn n nf sWiud aytgin ts eees utd tss eare.,a em lwNrsm -eopsea d e ow rr auedn snmccist tdea oh io v l gi s rp enh i hns tu aa aki’ zs cmr rse e et Ga i a dtoelnhon ns ndeb s sr a e ai iig ttmmnl hu h Wt arppit aa t, ra o ll oa c t r rt ven ot eo aerd ns nu oS tocrpt uu ir ebh rar c uo ot eel tfd s eg w . y tao t er
GOVERNANCE
osa aarO etc cnpu apk tdet irn ove r aS eo ars dtu t w eio edns nlu te rg tga er hd a asi rcgn ngsooe ea d um ws mb g r aami heel tci s enic st tp rey utm o s c swa nse htn ai ns att iihod t lnb l e t alscS oe ntl bte aga ws la eketk anr e sse ot h ow e ah n o lr noa ug l ddmt l tged ie oooare r n pnv sar se ,pa s E .wrg o nane re g a tmh uwnau neg c omen ie rt,t im ka e.t nr stTe oa hr wn n i rigt dhsoh p eeP uta nro g ear thl e i ni fw c n ydy e t Sr mO u Mthe usu aaqee pr nn u pm aW aai or n ggien ra d eetmet mimt ne hel gr i eenfe nneM o t ec tts n yna Spf -cn vo ttll ha aiera rn ne o gpa - dne ugrn ao mm rsd roa i dn ee upc gntn Gnri tov at du.e t n S S ie il d myt ic it ena tem pli tn s in e nl ad egmg en ma r .ha uar eudg ts nemti nd dtd aage ewtn tw iva o aheia ntl les et o e ia rt spr slh t ohatheh ue ,w r drbo a We au tn peg aerph t fi eroc oru i aat c l h.
Newmont Corporation 1
Photo: Yanacocha Peru
NNeewwmmoonntt CCoorrppoorraattiioonn 22002233 SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt
73 Environment | Water Stewardship
WATERSHED-BASED RISKS
Each year, we analyze catchment-level risks in areas Cerro Negro, previously designated as a water-
where Newmont operates, considering baseline stressed site, now indicates that the watershed has
water stress, water quality, water governance and low baseline water stress and low water depletion
climatic conditions. In 2023, we engaged an external (WWF WRF results for Cerro Negro also indicate an
consultant and conducted a fulsome refresh of this area of low water depletion). However, because Cerro
analysis using the latest version of the World Negro is in an area with limited water availability to
Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct Water Risk support the operational demand, which may not be
Atlas. We also cross-referenced the results with the included in the WRI Aqueduct and WWF WRF
World Wildlife Fund Water Risk Filter (WWF WRF) indicators, it is designated as a water-stressed site.
where necessary.
Yanacocha operates in two basins, with one
Baseline water stress measures the ratio of total classified as having high or greater baseline water
water demand (i.e., domestic, industrial, irrigation stress (Pacific basin) and the other as having low
and livestock uses) to available renewable water baseline water stress (East basin). The risk of
supplies (i.e., surface and groundwater sources and baseline water stress is managed through interbasin
the impact of upstream consumptive water users water transfers. The WWF WRF results for Yanacocha
and large dams on downstream water availability). also indicate an area of low water depletion. As such,
Per the International Council on Mining and Metals Yanacocha is not designated as a water-stressed site.
(ICMM) Water Reporting guidance, sites with
Beginning with our 2024 reporting, three sites –
baseline water stress can be identified by baseline
CC&V, Cerro Negro and Peñasquito – are designated
water stress indicator values equal to or greater
as water-stressed.
than “high” (40–80 percent) or classified as “arid and
low water use” when assessed using WRI Aqueduct. In addition to baseline water stress, we refreshed
our watershed-based risk assessment for water
The latest analysis indicates that two operations
quality, excess water and watershed challenges.
(CC&V and Yanacocha) are situated in a watershed
The water quality assessment considered threats
classified as having high or greater baseline water
to watersheds relating to water quality suitability
stress, while two operations (Peñasquito and Tanami)
for beneficial uses (e.g., domestic, agricultural,
are situated in arid watersheds with low water use.
industrial or environmental). The excess water
Groundwater resources used to support Tanami assessment included WRI Aqueduct results for
operations are brackish to highly saline; moreover, seasonal and interannual variability indicators and
there are no other known beneficial uses of these riverine flood risk. The watershed challenges
groundwater resources (including groundwater users, assessment focused on watershed threats related
stygofauna and vegetation). Groundwater abstraction to governance regime (i.e., policy and regulations)
to support Tanami operations is well below sustainable and access to water and sanitation.
yield and represents a very low percentage of aquifer
storage. As such, Tanami will no longer be designated
as a water-stressed site for future reporting years,
although it remains so for 2023.
Photo: Akyem, Ghana
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
74 Environment | Water Stewardship
WATERSHED-BASED RISKS
North America Africa Australia
ÉLÉONORE GW AHAFO SOUTH GW AKYEM GW BODDINGTON3 SW GW TANAMI4 GW
LOW TO MODERATE PRECIPITATION HUMID HUMID SEMI-ARID ARID
MUSSELWHITE SW GW
MODERATE PRECIPITATION
PORCUPINE SW GW
MODERATE PRECIPITATION
CC&V MW
North America
MODERATE PRECIPITATION
PEÑASQUITO GW
ARID
Africa
South America
MERIAN GW
MODERATE PRECIPITATION South America
Australia
YANACOCHA5 GW
Legend
MODERATE PRECIPITATION WITH A DISTINCT DRY SEASON
Main Water Supply 1 Water Risk
CERRO NEGRO GW SW Surface Water MW Municipal Water Water Stress2 Excess Water
ARID GW Ground Water Water Quality Watershed Challenges
1 Main water supply sources are defined as groundwater (GW), surface water (SW), and municipal/third-party water (MW). No operation uses seawater 3 Baseline water stress does not consider interannual variability. Interannual variability can also increase the risk of water stress. For example,
as a water source. Precipitation inputs to operations are not identified as surface water supplies for the purposes of this figure (SW). Boddington can have years of baseline water stress in dry years or excess water in wet years, but overall it is not considered to be situated in a
2 Baseline water stress as defined by WRI Aqueduct and adjusted per the narrative. watershed with high or greater baseline water stress.
4 T he Tanami desert experiences seasonal flooding attributable to cyclonic and tropical low precipitation and topography. Road access may be disrupted.
For the 2023 reporting period, Tanami was considered a water-stressed site, and Tanami’s water stewardship performance data is reported as such.
However, beginning in the 2024 reporting period, Tanami will no longer be designated as a water-stressed site, and as such, the “water stress” water risk
designation has been removed on our Watershed-based Risks map.
5 Portions of Yanacocha are located in water-stressed areas, while other portions are not, and the risk of water stress is managed through water
transfer between areas.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
75 Environment | Water Stewardship
OPERATIONAL-BASED RISKS NEWMONT 2023 WATER BALANCE1, 2 – ALL SITES PUBLIC TARGETS
In 2023, we conducted audits of water risks at Ahafo, AMlEl GSiAteLIsTERS (ML) We set a public target for sites to reduce water
Akyem and Boddington. The reviews identified the consumption from the 2018 baseline (which reflects
following opportunities for improvement: OPERATIONAL our current operating portfolio). All sites aim to
WATER WITHDRAWN 120,965 OPERATIONS WATER DISCHARGED 90,905
• Updating water management plans and water achieve a greater-than-5-percent reduction. To
balance models to meet global standards; regional manage operational risk and support water
water planners and strategic water balance SURFACE WATER 80,589 SURFACE WATER 81,205 stewardship, sites in water-stressed areas aim to
WATER RECYCLED
partnerships will facilitate the updates. GROUNDWATER 39,285 OR REUSED GROUNDWATER 9,494 reduce water consumption by at least 10 percent.
• Developing and monitoring performance metrics SEAWATER 0 SEAWATER 0 Compared to the 2018 baseline, consumption at our
226,725
for water quantity and water quality. THIRD-PARTY WATER 1,090 (73%) THIRD-PARTY WATER 205 12 operating sites decreased by 27 percent. Water
• Implementing and maintaining barriers, detection recycling percentage was higher in 2023 compared
and recovery systems to avoid and mitigate to 2018, supporting our water efficiency targets.
impacts to surface and groundwater. Our water intensity per gold equivalent ounce (GEO)
OTHER MANAGED WATER 52,157 and per tonne decreased by 12 percent. These
• Engaging with stakeholders to align on changing
decreases are attributable to continued water
regulations and regulatory expectations, and
improving the documentation of stakeholder 1 Excludes changes in storage (delta storage): -6,414 WATER CONSUMED 82,217 efficiency activities.
2 Some figures and percentages may not add up to the total figure or 100 percent due to rounding.
expectations, commitments and requirements. At our four operating sites identified as having a risk
of water stress (CC&V, Cerro Negro, Peñasquito and
Tanami), combined consumption was 21 percent lower
Water Management Performance
Definitions for Water Balance Graphic: compared to 2018, primarily due to the reduction in
Transparency around our water management Water withdrawn – Water that is drawn from the Water discharged – Water that is released to the water consumption at Peñasquito. The amount of water
environment (surface water, groundwater or seawater) or environment (e.g., surface water, groundwater or recycled and the intensity of water consumed per
performance is one of the pillars of our Global
Water Strategy. third parties. Newmont reports total water withdrawn for seawater) or to a third party, including operational water tonne of ore processed (76 percent and 0.6,
operational water separately from other managed water and other managed water. respectively) were slightly improved as compared
WATER BALANCE withdrawn.
Water consumed – The sum of all water that has been to 2018.
Newmont’s water consumption decreased by
Other managed water – Water that is actively managed withdrawn, including operational water and other
17 percent compared to the previous year mainly due We continue to identify opportunities to improve
(e.g., physically pumped, actively treated or has material managed water, and not released back to surface water,
to lower consumption at Boddington and Peñasquito. our water efficiency, reduce water intensity and
consumptive losses) by the operation but does not enter groundwater, seawater or a third party.
Boddington reduced withdrawals by increasing the operational water system used to supply the Total consumption = Total withdrawal (including achieve our targets. We also aim to use lower-
recycling and drawing down stored water from a operational water demand (i.e., is not used by the site in an operational water and other managed water) – quality water sources and increase the quantity
reservoir prior to the reservoir undergoing
maintenance. This reservoir is expected to return
1o Ep xce lur da et si o chn aa nl
g
eta
s
is nk
s
to or
ra
a gec t (div eli tt ay s) t.
o rage): 654
Total discharge and quality of the water discharged back to the
environment where possible.
to service in 2024, and refilling it is expected to Water recycled or reused – Water that has been used in Water in storage is not identified as having a significant
increase Boddington’s water consumption in 2024. At an operational task and is recovered and used again in an water-related impact, therefore total consumption is
operational task, either with treatment (recycle) or without not adjusted for changes in water storage.
Peñasquito, limited production during the four-month-
long strike resulted in reduced water consumption. treatment (reuse). (ICMM’s definition of consumption includes water
Our discharge decreased by 13% percent mainly due that is removed by evaporation, entrainment or other
Read more about each site’s
to reduced discharge at Merian, which experienced losses. Consumption based on ICMM definition in
lower-than-average precipitation, and at Yanacocha, 2023 was 94,659 ML.) water data in the 2023
Performance Data tables.
where its treatment systems underwent maintenance
and modifications. Our percentage of recycled/reused
water remained at 73%.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
Total water recycled or reused
000,004
000,003
000,002
000,001
0
100
80
60
40
20
0
20191 20201 20211 20221 2023
LM
668,542
177,99
365,752
294,301
967,752
526,001
571,262
963,99
)%(
egatnecrep
72% 73% 73%
71% 71%
527,622
712,28
WATER CONSUMED, RECYCLED AND PERCENTAGE RECYCLED
MEGALITERS (ML) WATER INTENSITY: TRAILING FIVE YEAR DATA
25 2.5
20 2.0
15 1.5
10 1.0
5 0.5
0 0
20191 20201 20211 20221 2023
Water consumed (ML) /
20.18 18.78 17.16 16.87
GEO (thousands)2
Water consumed (ML) /
tonne of ore processed 0.68 0.67 0.65 0.64
(thousands)3
Total water consumed Percent recycled or reused
(withdrawn minus (water recycled or reused
discharged) divided by water used)
1 Certain prior period values have been restated to correct for site-level errors made in the prior reporting periods and to reflect improvements and changes in measurement methodology. Overall, the changes in the global total values as compared to those reported in the prior periods do not result in
significant material changes.
2 Water intensity by Gold Equivalent Ounces (GEO) is represented as the volume of water consumed (ML) per thousand GEO. The GEO figure includes total produced and co-product GEO as defined in our 2023 Form 10-K, adjusted to match the reporting boundary of our Annual Sustainability Report.
3 Water intensity by ore processed is represented as the volume of water consumed (ML) per tonne of ore processed. The tonnes of ore processed is based on the operational statistics defined in our Full Year & Fourth Quarter 2023 Regional Operating Statistics, adjusted to match the reporting boundary
of our Annual Sustainability Report. Beginning in 2022, our water intensity metric for tonnes of ore processed was updated from only including ore milled to including both ore milled and leached, to more accurately represent total water intensity for all ore processed at the site.
secnuo
tnelaviuqe
dlog
rep
dessecorp
ero
ennot
rep
76 Environment | Water Stewardship
17.50
0.58
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
25 2.5
20 2.0
15 1.5
10 1.0
5 0.5
0 0
2019 20202 20212 2022 2023
Water consumed (ML) /
20.26 14.31 13.95 15.27
GEO (thousands)3
Water consumed (ML) / tonne of ore processed 0.92 0.61 0.66 0.66
(thousands)4
secnuo
tnelaviuqe
dlog
rep
dessecorp
ero
ennot
rep
SITES IN WATER-STRESSED AREAS SUMMARY1
MEGALITERS (ML) WATER INTENSITY: TRAILING FIVE YEAR DATA
19.33
0.61
Read more about our water management performance
in the 2023 Performance Data tables.
785,59
371,03
76%
Total water consumed Total water recycled or reused Percent recycled
(withdrawn minus (water recycled or reused
discharged) divided by water used)
100
80
60
40
20
0
2019 20202 20212 2022 2023
LM
615,601
900,53
224,611
573,43
418,821
363,83
745,911
060,93 )%(
egatnecrep
77% 77% 75% 75%
000,571
000,041
000,501
000,07
000,53
0
77 Environment | Water Stewardship
1 Newmont’s four operating sites that have been identified as having a risk of water stress include Tanami, Cerro Negro, Peñasquito and CC&V. However, after the 2023 reporting period, Tanami will no longer be designated as a water-stressed site for future reporting years.
2 Certain prior period values have been restated to correct for site-level errors made in the prior reporting periods and to reflect improvements and changes in measurement methodology. Overall, the changes in the global total values as compared to those reported in the prior periods do not result in
significant material changes.
3 Water intensity by Gold Equivalent Ounces (GEO) represented as the volume of water consumed (ML) per thousand GEO. The GEO figure includes total produced and co-product GEO as defined in our 2023 Form 10-K, adjusted to match the reporting boundary of our Annual Sustainability Report.
4 Water intensity by ore processed represented as the volume of water consumed (ML) per tonne of ore processed. The tonnes of ore processed is based on the operational statistics defined in our Full Year & Fourth Quarter 2023 Regional Operating Statistics, adjusted to match the reporting boundary
of our Annual Sustainability Report. Beginning in 2022, our water intensity metric for tonnes of ore processed was updated from only including ore milled to including both ore milled and leached, to more accurately represent total water intensity for all ore processed at the site.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
78 Environment | Water Stewardship
NEWMONT 2023 WATER BALANCE1, 2 – SITES IN WATER-STRESSED AREAS Water Stewardship Performance findings from the pilot and select the most aligned
WMEaGteArL-sITtEreRsSs (eMdL s)ites1 global climate models for the water balance model
Our public water stewardship target requires sites to teams at all 12 operating sites to apply to project
OPERATIONAL complete action plans that support collective water planning, enhancing site resilience.
WATER WITHDRAWN 30,540 OPERATIONS WATER DISCHA RGED 1,163
management activities to improve water quality and
• Developing dashboards – Akyem and Ahafo
quantity. These plans include participation in
implemented water dashboards that enhance the
SURFACE WATER 5,715 SURFACE WATER 590 multi-stakeholder watershed governance bodies,
WATER RECYCLED visibility into site performance and track against
GROUNDWATER 23,894 OR REUSED GROUNDWATER 368 such as our site-based community participatory internal and external metrics. Dashboards will be
monitoring programs.
SEAWATER 0 SEAWATER 0 in place across all sites by the end of 2024.
95,587
THIRD-PARTY WATER 932 (76%) THIRD-PARTY WATER 205 For 2023, sites met or mostly met the target, • Engaging on best practices – As active
completing 82 of 103 (around 80 percent) of the
participants in the ICMM Water Working
action plans. Budget and/or supply chain constraints
Group, Newmont supported the following ICMM
deferred most of the remaining actions to 2024. Three
water programs:
OTHER MANAGED WATER 796 actions were canceled as being no longer relevant.
− Provided case studies for an online seminar
Key activities in 2023 to progress our water
1 Excludes changes in storage (delta storage): -497 WATER CONSUMED 30,173 stewardship approach included: series on catchment-based approaches to water
2 Some figures and percentages may not add up to the total figure or 100 percent due to rounding. stewardship and collective actions and shared
• Strengthening governance – We updated our learnings from the series among Global Water
operating model to incorporate dedicated site Strategy Team members.
water leaders and regional water planners. The
Definitions for Water Balance Graphic: − Submitted our 2022 water reporting for review,
planners support the site water teams and work
Water withdrawn – Water that is drawn from the Water discharged – Water that is released to the water meeting our commitment as an ICMM member
closely with our Technical Services and Safety and
environment (surface water, groundwater or seawater) or environment (e.g., surface water, groundwater or to public water reporting by 2024. The review
Sustainability teams on updates and revisions to
third parties. Newmont reports total water withdrawn for seawater) or to a third party, including operational water determined that our reporting fully conforms to
water balances and water management plans.
operational water separately from other managed water and other managed water. ICMM’s Water Reporting Good Practice Guide.
withdrawn. We also began a process of revising our Water
Water consumed – The sum of all water that has been It also identified opportunities to refine our
Management Standard to incorporate the latest
Other managed water – Water that is actively managed withdrawn, including operational water and other water accounting processes.
scientific insights and water quality criteria for
(e.g., physically pumped, actively treated or has material managed water, and not released back to surface water,
various beneficial uses. This aims to minimize the − Launched a water stewardship maturity
consumptive losses) by the operation but does not enter groundwater, seawater or a third party.
the operational water system used to supply the Total consumption = Total withdrawal (including risk of downstream impacts and reduce long-term framework that we will transition to during 2024.
operational water demand (i.e., is not used by the site in an operational water and other managed water) – water management liabilities. • Building skills and capacity – We collaborated
operational task or activity). Total discharge
• Integrating climate into water balances – with sites to align action plans with site water
Water recycled or reused – Water that has been used in Water in storage is not identified as having a significant We formed a strategic partnership with Piteau risks, aiming to reduce the water risk profile and
an operational task and is recovered and used again in an water-related impact, therefore total consumption is
Associates to develop standardized, industry- progress toward water stewardship. In 2024, we
operational task, either with treatment (recycle) or without not adjusted for changes in water storage.
leading predictive water balance models across plan to review our watershed risks, refresh the
treatment (reuse). (ICMM’s definition of consumption includes water
all sites. This partnership leverages the work we sites’ water stewardship maturity status, identify
that is removed by evaporation, entrainment or other
began with NCAR to incorporate climate areas for improvement, and continue to support
losses. Consumption based on ICMM definition in 2023
projections into site water balance models. In competency building, mentoring
for sites in water-stressed areas was 32,658 ML.)
2022, we conducted a pilot study at Ahafo and and communication.
Yanacocha that evaluated different methods for
Key water stewardship activities at our operating
applying climate considerations. In 2023, we
sites are described in the following table.
worked with NCAR and Piteau to incorporate the
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
79 Environment | Water Stewardship
WATER STEWARDSHIP ACTIVITIES IN 2023 WATER STEWARDSHIP ACTIVITIES IN 2023
Business unit Site Activities Business unit Site Activities
Africa Ahafo South Entered into a memorandum of understanding with the Water Resources Commission, North America CC&V Implemented solar-powered aerators to investigate potential water quality
on behalf of the Tano Basin Board (TBB) to fund select activities under the Integrated improvements through passive treatment for the Carlton Tunnel discharge.
Water Resources Management Plan of the Tano Basin and collaborate with the TBB on
implementing and monitoring progress of work under the plan. Continued participation in Colorado Water Conservation Board Arkansas Basin
Roundtable meetings and Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment
Incorporated climate change assessment into the site water balance model to Water Quality Control Division stakeholder meetings.
understand potential water quantity and water quality range to be managed in pit
lakes at closure. Conducted ongoing engagement with Trout Unlimited on the upper Arkansas River
Watershed through projects at three locations that included remediation of historic
Progressed stakeholder engagement for the Dry Season Irrigation (DSI) project with tailings at 11-mile reach and Hayden Meadows; remediation of historic mining legacies
traditional authorities and community members; formed six farmer-based at the Dinero Mine Tunnel and Chalk Creek; and Monarch Park Ponds headcut and
organizations (FBOs) and trained farmers and youth groups to operate the irrigation stream restoration to facilitate fish habitat.
facility; provided compensation for permanent structures and conducted pacification
rites; construction commenced in December 2023 and is expected to be completed in Éléonore Engaged four biologists/scientific fishers from Minnow Environmental Company to
2024. conduct studies on aquatic fauna, water quality and sediment in the Opinaca reservoir
and Lake Menouw. The studies examined the potential impacts of mining activities on
Reduced the operating volume of the water storage facility and erected a fence around surrounding aquatic fauna, comparing the health of populations living near the mining
the facility to prevent access and reduce risk to nearby communities. effluent with those in a reference area (Lake Menouw). The findings were presented to
the Cree families living near the mine, as well as to students who were studying
Implemented and commissioned additional water treatment capacity to treat excess traditional and scientific knowledge in the area.
water from mining and stockpile areas, returning more high-quality treated water to
the environment. Continued the development of a participatory monitoring program with the
Cree community.
Akyem Constructed a cyanide destruction treatment plant that will treat excess water from
the tailings storage facility, returning more high-quality treated water to the Musselwhite Completed a robust assessment of the site’s passive water treatment wetland. The
environment. The treatment plant will be commissioned in early 2024. mine uses a 6-hectare wetland to treat its wastewater before releasing it into the
environment. The review found the wetland is in a healthy state while offering
Engaged with the Pra Basin Board (PBB) to develop a memorandum of understanding recommendations for optimal wetland management and maximized long-term water
to govern collaboration and implementation of watershed action plans. treatment capabilities.
Australia Boddington Renewed our long-standing Hotham-Williams River and Tributaries Natural Resource Implemented a new underground pump station with a solids treatment system that
Management and Conservation Project partnership with Peel Harvey Catchment allows for improved water recycling.
Council (PHCC). The renewal focuses on the next stage of the River Action Plan,
which includes restoration work on four of eight priority areas within the Harvey Continued in-person Environmental Working Committee meetings, water blessing
Williams Catchment. ceremonies, and participatory monitoring with members from First Nations
communities and Musselwhite personnel.
Through the partnership with PHCC, supported the Tunbridge Gully by removing
invasive weeds and planting native species and sponsored and participated in the Continued partnership with Earth Rangers to deliver a water conservation program for
Tunbridge Gully tree-planting event. Since 2017, more than 22,000 seedlings have six neighboring Indigenous communities that highlights the importance of clean
been planted across seven hectares. Yearly ecological monitoring is tracking the drinking water and restoring the health of local First Nations waterworks, and inspires
program’s success. local Indigenous youth to be the next generation of water stewards. The collaboration
included a virtual assembly in 2023.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
80 Environment | Water Stewardship
WATER STEWARDSHIP ACTIVITIES IN 2023 WATER STEWARDSHIP ACTIVITIES IN 2023
Business unit Site Activities Business unit Site Activities
North America Porcupine Completed the construction of the Pamour Water Treatment Plant and Pamour runoff LATAC Peñasquito As part of the Cedros Water Plan to enhance critical water infrastructure for the San
collection areas 1 and 2 to collect and treat impacted water and return high-quality Juan de los Cedros community, commissioned the Cedros Water Treatment Plant
treated water to the Porcupine River watershed. expansion, increasing the plant’s storage capacity by 80 percent for drinking water and
25 percent for fresh water.
Continued to collaborate with local watershed organizations (Mattagami Region
Conservation Authority and Friends of the Porcupine River Watershed, among others), Delivered irrigation project to Matamoros community and undertook survey of
regional authorities, and other water users via the Porcupine Watershed Public Liaison community water supply wells to understand and improve performance and
Committee; shared meteorological and drone survey data to support watershed sustainability.
planning, manage beaver activity in shared waterways, improve collective
understanding of the watershed and identify stewardship opportunities. Raised awareness of water conversation methods and practices with key stakeholders.
We highlight this work on page 81.
Engaged daily with representatives from First Nations communities on inspections,
sampling events and reporting. The representatives provide regular reports to their Peru Yanacocha Recognized at the PERUMIN 36 conference for developing a method to directly treat
communities. mining acidic effluents with reverse osmosis. The method was piloted at Yanacocha for
two years.
LATAC Cerro Negro Developed a new water balance that will allow for improved forecasting of water
demand and improved target setting. Partnered with the Provincial Municipality of Cajamarca and SEDACAJ (Cajamarca’s
water and sanitation services provider) on a campaign to promote efficient drinking
Incorporated water management into community perception studies for 2023, and water use. Each campaign features experiments and modules to educate participants
designed and conducted a participatory monitoring pilot with representatives from on the water cycle, distribution systems and climate change impacts, fostering
Perito Moreno communities. constructive dialogue and encouraging proactive citizenship.
Merian Completed additional trials to assess the effectiveness of flocculation and vetiver mats
within stormwater management infrastructure to improve discharge quality.
Improved quantification of potable water volumes used throughout the site through
the installation of additional flow meters.
Organized on-site engagements with watershed stakeholders to enhance
understanding of water management and stewardship and align on common water
challenges.
Initiated a collaboration with the Anton de Kom University of Suriname to support
watershed investigations and studies through the execution of a memorandum of
understanding.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
81 Environment | Water Stewardship
Emerging Trends and Future Targets
For 2024, our public water efficiency and water stewardship Our Global Water Strategy has enhanced performance,
targets remain the same and are as follows: clarified roles and improved our understanding of water-
related risks. To further address concerns about water use
• Water efficiency – Sites in water-stressed areas
and reduce water storage at tailings facilities, we are
aim to reduce water consumption by at least 10
developing integrated targets for water and biodiversity
percent, and the remaining sites aim to maintain that support and align with our climate goals. Similar to our
our greater-than-5-percent reduction target. climate targets, these targets will be near- and long-term,
globally reaching, ambitious, quantitative, science-based,
• Water stewardship – Sites achieve annual site and aim to eliminate and reverse impacts, not just
targets for participating in multi-stakeholder minimize them. We explain these targets in more detail
watershed governance bodies that support in the Biodiversity section.
collective action/management of water, and
improving water quality and quantity.
For 2024, sites acquired through the Newcrest transaction
will continue to deliver on water stewardship plans
developed by Newcrest prior to the transaction date.
EMPOWERING WATER STEWARDSHIP Photo: Peñasquito, Mexico
AT PEÑASQUITO
A key aspect of water stewardship is collaboration Another water stewardship activity at Peñasquito is
among key stakeholders on responsible water collaborating with the Palmas community to reduce
management. In 2023, we conducted training on water consumption. Since implementing community
responsible water management and conservation water committees, Palmas reduced its water
practices for 269 individuals from Sodexo, a food consumption by 66 percent. These committees work
services supplier, at Peñasquito. to implement improvements aimed at saving and
optimizing water resources, ensuring a sustainable
The primary goal was to create a greater
supply for future generations. This initiative reflects
understanding of the crucial role each person plays
our commitment to responsible water management
in water conservation. The training focused on
and community engagement.
adopting good practices in the dining room, such as
mindful water use, and encouraging the prompt
reporting of leaks for repair.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
82
Environment
TAILINGS MANAGEMENT
Newmont is dedicated to responsible tailings
management for the wellbeing of our workers,
communities and stakeholders. The GISTM serves
To safeguard human health and the as one of several important tools we use to
environment, it is crucial to support our efforts in adopting a considerate and
aligned approach that enhances our tailings
effectively manage tailings, a waste
management practices.
produced by mining and mineral
processing activities. Newmont is
Tailings Management Performance
dedicated to implementing best
practices for the responsible
GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
management of all wastes, with a
IMPROVEMENTS
specific focus on tailings. Our Effective governance and risk management are
commitment extends to conforming crucial tools guiding our commitment to responsibly
manage tailings. Continuous improvement in these
with the Global Industry Standard
aspects enhances operational excellence and
on Tailings Management (GISTM)
responsible tailings management.
and achieving the goal of zero harm
to people and the environment.
Read more about Our Approach to
Tailings Management, including
details on our governance, risk,
strategy and management approach.
Updated March 2024
Our Approach to Tailings Management
TmarcTaeo ao ncsa i t m dls pi inva n o tmaif ghtnegie seig ste s imMu eb .t na Nla aeer vi ne ndl ii m rw an t oh gg eam nu exs n mm, tmo aeang ea n ewt nen dn im ta s sth .s (d teet Goeea n I d cl Stpt oih Torc no M faa d fat on )eu lrald d c mw n e t t dh aido n se agib t m cee y whsn pm , i v iewl tei vhirn imo it nti hnn hge mg aen t t hsGeaipnn en loe gtd gb, c i obm iat fi a e li cis lIsn n otfce o dfpr r cu uzaru eac sl rsti cpa or tor yl i o hcn t Soce a tte s rae a m sf nifsolf idie nrn t c aogtgt h r s pi dv e. e e O ool ny u p r l e
GOVERNANCE
T T dc aa SrmE t fSin aheoa ue ta onn c e s aai m cc pe cddl ipt i t n lh h un pn i r m to HS c d mni og igyc o ent aei ii rse an et scnt s t ar mao ,ia nmke is d n pbr sn l te iee g ,, d u a sl as Lr eh aN n n ce te tne no o ht hhtre ad ada df s el t aw g a d co i t t tle t O sp sa hma i e hn eem c oii p er ell o xvFgo ii l mene i n epE asnn cc rn rg ng lcyfo et m ia ao cst is g rm ap lt li , r g ii a taf ir os tr m lt oa epn e yg yo h tic nn l hane id ce e oi En csl g eomc u xi u n yg mt e ro vSic i r v te pe m etr st e ya T iop as tn rrrs j ae a e a o o no t tc t nm n pin h hr r ndo lP di it aa edet mano n.o a rty srsr e m g eGl r ede aot i dd s dcr I n fu ,f S s n ut y eS i Ttlh Tw n e tc , t aaa m ia M ott sw nh d lieon s rl adi i M h id c s aw an no 1 ih c ggc0 a na aiu gi ut eh p0 n dab gshr i l er d ao Fs im S S re an ma at gv etu na ai ne oec sdl s et rl pi cmrae ei t lg nyo eai oa pp s r t ten n g n oi ypo o on ne a su s r fua et to in Fu tt r b a ae ad ri c id ce. ll h ii i nt lo iy gtf s y T d d cd ssm m rp C O he ooo a e eor io u gaa qo ncc t vic u r hl ann ii ut e su i ao no eiTn aa tillm l- ro rsc c sa gge g ae u i pto i eee tlc s ssl c hi ll o m omn p n e ss tG ae in y nt evg oi ee s o sn ceo crs n nMn trv o te l m esM ,t o stt e lnh i ome swondi or ase c s psn fi feu sn i, -n e tc e ft ac trr a h tuo hg rav ee i hn g as i nn e ie ns a lai ec tt io n p cs inh n o te m N otin t od ga iird noneFso n ge ste n. r tw M a nf asr s esa A aia n na tt m ib gem t a s lt i dG eri zf ti ak loo aaa a i ae oe cpt an tn c l ti lw vmsh ene pi oi ts ol e so di r( s o a tet nra I oel u y aC nnrmd tr .ac rek ndMe af Me hc ea b c dn r hp n .i i hMi aen n l ce .aou inn r e ct c T)n cs er oa, ra o ec e Fig eg w lt lgf o ,a or. ia ar io a ete u mnO a gg sh n m n n yt gee cu e se v tsm so se tr d a iw I t a re m w vng ba e oi li i olt eo n t soin i nm le e nrii cv t rt bt mkr mo tgk e iina i iet s t l or e it Gen a os t tn a ne n o yntd gufa i ,i ff t ol t eo aiin ai d. dn et r tn t lc s eh e cg t aa te sta els hi nl i in v ri gel d i ee nt n ol ,yg s
Newmont Corporation 1
Photo: Merian, Suriname
NNeewwmmoonntt CCoorrppoorraattiioonn 22002233 SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt
83 Environment | Tailings Management
Notable activities in 2023 to enhance our tailings • Third-party, independent reviews – We expanded CONFORMANCE TO THE GISTM TAILINGS FACILITIES INVENTORY STATUS
stewardship approach included: Independent Tailings Review Boards (ITRBs) to all In 2023, a key focus was attaining conformance to As of December 2023, Newmont’s inventory of
our operations with tailings facilities, advanced- the GISTM. In August, we released our external tailings facilities included 26 active, 31 inactive and
• Updated guidelines and standards – To ensure
stage projects and most of our significant legacy disclosures and self-assessment for GISTM 42 reclaimed and closed facilities.
alignment with the GISTM and enhance
sites (i.e., those with the most significant conformance at our priority tailings storage facilities
consistency, we developed a Pillars of Responsible Notable changes in facility status and consequence
consequence classification). Launched at five (TSFs) that are classified as a “very high” or
Tailings Management Guideline and a Tailings classifications from 2022 include:
Newmont sites in 2018, the ITRB program now “extreme” consequence per the GISTM. We highlight
Storage Facility (TSF) Closure Guideline that
includes 20 sites. this achievement on page 84. • The addition of 13 facilities through the Newcrest
supports safe closure. We also updated our TSF
acquisition, including five active facilities and eight
Critical Control Report (CCR) Guideline, expanding • Risk assessments – Our Corporate Tailings and Subsequently, we initiated the next phase of work,
inactive facilities.1
the critical control categories. Dams Team continued to conduct ongoing risk including:
assessments for all sites with tailings. These • The addition of one reclaimed/closed open pit
• Emergency and crisis response – We conducted • Benchmarking: We reviewed the GISTM
reviews inform design, address potential failure tailings facility at the Marlin legacy site.
drills using our Rapid Response crisis management disclosure and conformance approach of ICMM
modes, minimize risks and establish our tailings
system to test the emergency response plans member companies and compared it against our • The removal of one incorrectly identified active
risk profile baseline.
(ERPs) for each site with priority TSFs. Insights approach to identify areas for improvement. tailings facility at the Carlin site per an update by
from the drills were incorporated into action • Industry collaboration – As part of our Barrick who is the operator of the site.
• Engagement: Sites and business units provided
plans to further improve our ERPs and Rapid partnership with the Society for Mining,
feedback on the process, identifying • The removal of two inactive tailings facilities at the
Response system. Metallurgy & Exploration (SME), Newmont is
opportunities for improvement and aligning on Empire mine, as they are not owned or operated
co-sponsoring a webinar series that aligns with
• Internal capacity building – We continued our priority areas for 2024. by Newmont.
SME’s Tailings Management Handbook: A Lifecycle
Tailings and Dams Stewardship Series, hosting
Approach. We also co-sponsored a documentary • Planning: In January 2024, we held an internal • The change of consequence classifications for
four internal webinars in 2023 focused on various
by SME on tailings, released in April 2024, planning session to prepare for reviewing and some facilities as a result of updated risk
topics such as safe and responsible closure,
featuring employees from our Ghanaian updating our GISTM conformance self- assessments, breach analysis and inundation
water storage facilities and updates to the CCR
operations and corporate tailings team filmed at assessments and tailings disclosure. mapping followed by classification in accordance
process. Additionally, we held two in-person
our Akyem operation during an ITRB meeting. with the GISTM.
Tailings and Dams Stewardship On-The-Road
Through our leadership and participation in the
sessions focused on lessons learned and human Further details on our tailings inventory are included
GeoStable Tailings Consortium, Newmont is
factors. We also offered a cross-functional on our website.
trialing guidelines developed by the consortium
training developed by the University of
for geostable tailings solutions.
Queensland Center for Social Responsibility in
Mining on the social aspects of GISTM. This In February 2024, we held an in-person Tailings
training, which was developed for Newmont, Summit, bringing together the Responsible Tailings
has been adopted by industry peers. Facility Engineer/Persons and key tailings management
personnel from other functions. The event centered
around discussions on governance and technical
aspects aimed at preventing catastrophic tailings
failures, drawing insights from lessons learned and
case studies.
1 As a result of the Newcrest acquisition, Newmont is a shareholder of Lundin Gold Inc. Lundin Gold Inc. has a single operation in Ecuador, the Fruta Del Norte mine. Being an equity investment,
Newmont does not exercise control over the operation, therefore, we have not included the tailings storage facility at this operation within our inventory.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
84 Environment | Tailings Management
NEWMONT TAILINGS FACILITIES – AT-A-GLANCE1, 2
9%
16%
26%
42%
11% 25%
CONSEQUENCE
STATUS
CLASSIFICATION
ACHIEVING SAFE TAILINGS FACILITY Photo: Éléonore, Canada
MANAGEMENT AND CONFORMANCE
13%
MILESTONES
31%
25%
The Global Industry Standard on Tailings • The risk assessment process for existing facilities.
Low
Significant Management (GISTM), established in 2020 through
• The critical controls that significantly influence
High collaboration with diverse stakeholders, provides a
the likelihood and/or consequence of an
Active * Includes “N/A” (i.e., the consequence classification is Very high comprehensive framework for the safe management
Inactive n gro ot u a np dp l oic ra inb -le p, i ts u dc eh p oa ss i tf io or n )t h ao ns de ufa nc ki nli oti wes n b elow Extreme of tailings facilities. It outlines expectations for design, unwanted event.
Reclaimed/closed (i.e., classification has not been completed). Other* construction, operation, monitoring and closure. • Summaries of findings from risk and impact
3% assessments, as well as social and environmental
As an active member of the International Council on
knowledge base and monitoring programs.
Mining and Metals (ICMM), Newmont pledged to
24% 23% implement the GISTM at facilities with “extreme” or • Our emergency response planning process and
“very high” consequence classification by August 5, meaningful stakeholder engagement activities.
2023. We successfully met this commitment,
Our self-assessment determined that we meet the
publishing our inaugural external disclosures
majority of GISTM requirements across our priority
CONSTRUCTION 48% LOCATION and GISTM conformance self-assessment for our tailings facilities. Where requirements are not met
4% METHOD priority facilities.
or partially met, we identified gaps and are tracking
9% These disclosures include details on the following the closure of these through an internal action
facilities under Newmont’s operating control at the plan. The next phase involves continuing to focus
65% time (i.e., prior to the close of the Newcrest on conformance at priority facilities and achieving
transaction): conformance for non-priority facilities (with
24% consequence classifications of “low,” “significant,”
• The 11 active and inactive facilities owned and
Africa or “high” per the GISTM) by August 2025.
operated by Newmont with a consequence
AfrUicpastream Australia
AuDstorwalniastream Latin America classification of “extreme” or “very high” and their We will annually review and update our GISTM
AmCeernictearsl:i nNeorth and Caribbean status in meeting the Conformance Protocols. conformance self-assessments and tailings disclosure.
* Includes modified centerline, unknown, multiple
methods of construction and unconfined. AmOetrhiecar*s: South North America The GISTM disclosures published by Newcrest in July
• Our two new tailings facilities – one at our Ahafo
2023 are available on our website.
North project (under construction) and the other
1 R epresentative of Newmont’s current tailings storage facilities portfolio after the acquisition of Newcrest on November 6, 2023 (99 total TSFs).
at our Merian operation (undergoing permitting).
2 Totals may not add up to 100% due to rounding.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
85 Environment | Tailings Management
2023 TAILINGS FACILITY INVENTORY FOR OPERATING SITES
TAILINGS FACILITY INVENTORY AT NEWMONT OPERATIONS
North America Africa Australia
ÉLÉONORE AHAFO SOUTH AKYEM TELFER CADIA
ACTIVE ACTIVE ACTIVE INACTIVE ACTIVE INACTIVE ACTIVE INACTIVE
1 1 1 1 2 4 1 2
RED CHRIS
BODDINGTON TANAMI
ACTIVE
ACTIVE INACTIVE ACTIVE INACTIVE CLOSED
1
1 1 1 3 3 1 1
BRUCEJACK
ACTIVE
1
MUSSELWHITE
ACTIVE North America
1
PORCUPINE GOLD MINES
ACTIVE INACTIVE CLOSED
1 8 4 2 2 1
Africa
PEÑASQUITO
ACTIVE
1
South America
South America
MERIAN Australia
ACTIVE
1 Consequence Classifications
YANACOCHA
Extreme Low Consequence classification is based on the potential downstream consequences of a hypothetical dam
INACTIVE failure: loss of life, environment and cultural values, infrastructure and economics. Consequence
Very high Other* classification for Newmont dams is based on criteria established by the Canadian Dam Association
2 (CDA) and the Australia National Commission on Large Dams (ANCOLD). The consequence
High # Number classification is not a reflection of the stability of the existing dam.
CERRO NEGRO
Significant of tailings * Other Category includes N/A (i.e., classification is not applicable, for facilities like below ground or
ACTIVE in-pit deposition) and unknown (i.e., classification not completed).
1
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
86
Environment
BIODIVERSITY
We monitor several metrics to achieve our No Net
Loss commitment and efforts to achieve nature-
positive outcomes.
Biodiversity encompasses a wide
Biodiversity Management
range of life across four main areas
Performance
of nature – land, fresh water, ocean
and atmosphere – and plays a
In 2023, we conducted audits of biodiversity
crucial role in sustaining and
risks at Ahafo South, Akyem and Boddington. The
stabilizing ecosystems, addressing reviews identified the following opportunities
the issues of environmental for improvement:
degradation and habitat loss across • Update biodiversity risk assessments and
the globe. Newmont acknowledges management plans to ensure new KBVs are
routinely identified, assessed and managed
that thriving local communities and
appropriately.
our operations depend on healthy
• Advance the maturity of our Net Gain-Net Loss
ecosystems. Our commitment to No
accounting processes.
Net Loss of Key Biodiversity Values
• Centralize monitoring data to improve analysis
(KBVs) from mine-related activities
and identification of trends.
is integral to our approach and
We use a systematic method and independent
essential for achieving positive
experts to quantify progress toward our No Net Loss
nature outcomes.
commitment. This process focuses on the four sites
that use offsets to achieve No Net Loss. Our
methodology uses information and data obtained
Read more about Our Approach to
during the closure planning process, such as the
Biodiversity, including details on our
total disturbance footprint and designated
governance, risk, strategy and
rehabilitated areas, to ensure costs are accurately
management approach.
captured in our business plans.
We also partner with the International Union for
the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) – an NGO
dedicated to conserving natural resources – to
assess our progress toward No Net Loss at select
mine sites. In 2023, IUCN published a report,
Updated March 2024
Our Approach to Biodiversity Engaging Industry in Conserving Nature, a
Bnsdte(foKhu ca ei ro Baost g atdu tsVra cyi tr a sv ie h hsn )de t r ifi– a e er in rv s t m volgi ia i it no mn ny sang g .d e n mO al,n pd o f n uc ic o r nsd reo a st e s c im lah t -h ocb ira vp omeiw b el m la i a iz ma ns t tiat ms n eae ie t tg td r us m ul, o e ano ra s e ecc i c stw n o te i oiaets via ud csy itn tt rse oa ic ot e a n oer Ns sna mm ds on id s t o eg s h Na i, u nse et ea .r tm tdo g eo f Ld glo p o ol r rsi ebef aspe rsse lah s ta . o t oeiNc n ifor r oege Ko n uw es– st rys h m da aef Bn eo po iid pu opns esr drtp u on m ial vea adc ey a c ko ros hi snn f n a ieo a t a yhnc nwr r eVv de lu eaia a r ec dlos ltui s hgano sel yem ef s r s n o e tlne ia ti lan l c oo thm ep r i mlat inio inn g o , f e c na es re g ys t au nd die os t f hr eo rm in N de uw stm ryo cn ot man pd a nn ii en se ,
ccG saa S rr n MO S ee oo tvn utau aiO sc ao nmd pnt tro ou ni se pi dV md ng uS r idm o sienu e g rnE tai r c-t v ei es g tp az rm eeR int n e dnno ea l st teso ,gdN s ,x i t n awn pi eo rpt tM ptA eim wa hu hlsv o psb eer .e i aN e p r cr tAi rr a ophn eo al doC si t ao t clut i s ssl otay ce lgE t e h ii h(c n cn o tImai io yC n ps ga ton m M o .e l itc lrs sd hem o e, bM m og eS an s ib a u o)t n i mt ,te nlar r d lhd wri y ik iib Bna nv ow ee du t ig ei of m h eet c b r ii t ds so non uh ua i iim l g tg i vr e mWd l ye n d e mt e I coao n rrwor otr sei t tg en loE ne iq d tl td rn r so uo o y k n H egb p i u i ra Mi rna ea trr evtsog r gl i amab o i tce N t tnti en ao ieoom oa acgan ndw t nt geles tei ua v esC en adSre r mor fnt d ierv oat u ds e P ea r rpni seo t nt aoi .cy alo t isi sl cn i toy a ion nn d e c saS S mEb imo un na tnio a an pf s dv pe n nd u ti p rrt r bd ai or ooyv o ie ga ve orn la e rs ter s dm d sn ms mi s i t di vNe taet eea e yn ns eS nnt r tm du we sc tta idos ,p mm tl at a ym f lan ialo.u ne i ia p ngn nn e og nl sa t tcye r ’.stb st miw T he oi ecl hqei ine offt t i uy hn s mp ow i tt ev rct me o th aa or sa r fln e l i oek l tm wa d mnsBr b im s ti tpw eo o htae a nd ri o ttr bn a thi f sve stuco i e ia t e o tstrhr oec im nos neh - i csb e a ft b ops oy sjn ei u n e sst Mc ce ts sce pt ei e iain. fio lrv ranT se cv e vna h e s as cb ngser o tias e iio nu one ne m dt nn gne d ii ,n iet v to re an eus iur ns rt otp skr do u r i t i sys e h effig oh rli tg sh ot nin ng on na -t ou pre er-p ao tis oi nti av le l ala nn dd s m ana dn a seg ae sm . ent Photo: Cerro Negro, Argentina
Newmont Corporation 1
NNeewwmmoonntt CCoorrppoorraattiioonn 22002233 SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt
87 Environment | Biodiversity
At our sites that use offsets, notable activities in 2023 that contributed toward our commitment to No Net Loss included:
Akyem Boddington • We extended our partnership Yanacocha Merian
• We continued to progress the Akyem • At the 470 hectare Hotham Farm agreement with Peel Harvey • A new species of flora, Nutricastrum • Early-stage planning commenced for
biodiversity offset project. A steering restoration project, we completed Catchment Council for another five sanchesvegae, was identified and the next IUCN biodiversity technical
committee involving Ghana’s Forestry seed collection, propagation, weed and years, focusing on implementing validated by the Antenor Orrego review, which will occur at Merian in
Commission, Environmental Protection wildlife control, pest exclusions and the Hotham-Williams River Action Plan University at a scientific level. early 2024.
Agency, Minerals Commission and perimeter fence repairs. at four of the eight priority sites within Additional studies are underway to
• Work continued on the biodiversity
IUCN sets the strategic direction of the the catchment. The agreement assess the vulnerability status of this
• At the 190 hectare Conservation No Net Loss commitment through
project and oversees the biodiversity includes funding for a Natural species and identify necessary
Covenant area, 10 custom-designed implementation and monitoring of the
offset activities, which take place on Resource Management Officer, mitigation actions.
“cockatubes” – a specially designed offset and rehabilitated areas.
2,640 hectares in the Atewa Range ongoing land management,
nesting hollow – were installed, • Ongoing monitoring and studies are in
Forest Reserve and the southern community-led conservation • A second offset pilot was completed
increasing the total artificial nesting place for the six KBVs present across
portion of the Atewa Extension efforts and collaboration with in a stream restoration area to test
structures for Black Cockatoos in the the site. This aims to enhance
Forest Reserve. Traditional Owners to enhance cultural varying erosion control techniques
canopy to 16. We also erected a fence understanding and monitor the
land management capability. and determine the best performance
• We worked to confirm the technical to protect the area from livestock and progress of the biodiversity action plan
across stream morphology.
and economic feasibility of the project conducted track maintenance. • Our exploration team began using a to achieve No Net Loss. We reached an
and validate the final vegetation cover new drill rig that reduces the pad agreement with Cayetano Heredia • We continued to monitor the first
• We collaborated with the Gnaala Karla
map. We also engaged with community footprint by 70 percent compared to University to provide expertise and biodiversity offset pilot with a focus
Booja (GKB) Aboriginal Corporation
and traditional leaders in more than 44 traditional methods, minimizing input into a new study focused on the on soil fertility to validate and better
and the Southwest Sustainability
communities. An in-depth analysis was biodiversity impact. reptile Petracola ventrimaculatus. understand previous results. Monitoring
Partnership (South32 and Alcoa) to
conducted on the social, economic and will continue to determine what
co-fund phase 1 of an Aboriginal Ranger • Prior to expanding a mining pit, we • For the Polylepis racemose (quinual)
ecological viability and compatibility of treatment technique is most effective.
Program. This involved planning, transplanted slow-growing grass trees plant species, regeneration success
the project’s livelihood options. We
feasibility, strategic assessment, and (Xanthorrhoea preissi) onto the Hotham continues. Our target return of 2,250 • We commenced monitoring historical
completed an initial enrichment
business plan preparation by the farm and relocated over a hundred specimens has been significantly rehabilitation, and this will continue
planting of 50 hectares, closely
Aboriginal Biodiversity Conservation mammals and numerous reptiles. One exceeded and shows a net gain. throughout 2024. The results from this
monitoring tree survival and growth
Foundation. We also helped fund the rescued Western Quoll is now part of monitoring are key to determining the
rates. This work and other studies
grant development and submission by the Taronga Zoo’s national breeding success of applying the mitigation
informed the development of a draft
the GKB Aboriginal Corporation to the conservation initiative, producing 37 hierarchy and quantifying the offset
Biodiversity Offset Management Plan.
Western Australia (WA) Government young that have been released into the area needed to achieve No Net Loss.
• As recommended by the IUCN requesting full funds for the ranger WA Mt Gibson Wildlife Sanctuary.
technical review of the project in 2022, program.
a five-pillar Biodiversity Offset
Strategy was developed to provide an
overarching governance framework
for implementing the project and
achieving No Net Loss.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
88 Environment | Biodiversity
Emerging Trends and Future Targets
Momentum continues to build for developing Because the loss of our natural environment and
nature-positive approaches that contribute to combating climate change are interconnected
improvements across various nature aspects and challenges, the Taskforce on Nature-related
mitigate financial impacts across the value chain. Financial Disclosures (TNFD) has followed the lead
of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial
As part of Newmont’s participation in the Disclosures (TCFD). In September, TNFD finalized its CONTRIBUTING TO NATURE POSITIVE Photo: Merian, Suriname
International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM)
guidelines for disclosing nature-related risks and OUTCOMES ACROSS OUR PORTFOLIO
Metrics for Nature Working Group, we supported
opportunities. TNFD covers land, fresh water, ocean
the development of a Nature Position Statement,
and non-greenhouse gas air emissions, and
which was finalized in January 2024. The statement At all our operating sites, we work beyond achieving biodiversity No Net Loss, actively contributing to nature
requires metrics and targets to be established for
aligns with the Global Biodiversity Framework (GBF) positive in various ways. Examples of these efforts at our sites include:
nature. We completed an assessment to identify
developed at the 2022 Conference of the Parties
any gaps with the guidelines in 2023 and • Field data for Ontario Birds Atlas – Our • Puma monitoring – To protect species like Puma
(COP15) to the Convention on Biological Diversity.
commenced the first phase of implementation. Musselwhite and Porcupine operations concolor (mountain lion or cougar), we prohibit
It includes a focus on nature-positive actions to
This initial phase will continue in 2024 by identifying collaborate with Birds Canada, the country’s hunting across our Cerro Negro operation. Our
halt global impacts to habitats and species.
priority sites and conducting risk evaluations that national organization dedicated to bird monitoring program to study and conserve the
These include:
will transform our approach to nature. In January conservation, providing ongoing support (both species indicates that the puma population is
• Implementing actions to achieve a minimum No 2024, during the World Economic Forum, we in-kind and financial) to update the Ontario Birds thriving and living harmoniously alongside our
Net Loss or net gain of biodiversity by completion announced Newmont would be an early adopter Atlas. We provided support for the collection of mining activities. In 2023, a male and female puma
of closure. of the TNFD. Our intent is to disclose our results three years of field data in Northern Ontario, were equipped with radio transmitter collars,
against this framework, commencing with our progressing toward completing the full five years revealing a home range of 24,000 hectares and
• Mapping all nature risks and opportunities across
2025 reporting. of research. Our ongoing encouragement and providing insights into the species’ movement
the value chain by 2030.
support are vital to the success of the Atlas, which patterns and preferred habitat. This scientific
Supporting this effort is the work we undertook
• Disclosing material nature-related impacts, focuses on understanding regional biodiversity research informs planning and conservation efforts.
with SBTN to initiate the setting of science-based
dependencies, risks and opportunities for priority and mitigating future impacts on species.
nature targets. This includes benchmarking and • Reforestation – Through Newmont’s nonprofit
operations by 2026.
identifying opportunities across our operating sites • Lake Sturgeon conservation – At Éléonore, we FONCREAGRO in Peru, we support the Huella
and mapping co-benefits (i.e., understanding how a sponsored a biodiversity workshop organized by Verde reforestation project in Cajamarca. The goal
primary objective, such as wetland restoration, the Cree Nation Government on changing the is to plant one million trees by 2025 to combat
might have other positive impacts like improved protection status of James Bay Lake Sturgeon. The climate change, conserve biodiversity and foster
water quality). In 2023, we piloted the proposed workshop, which featured speakers from different community development. As of the end of 2023,
target-setting approach at a rehabilitation project ministries and companies, aimed to assess threats more than 570,000 trees have been planted across
at Porcupine and a reforestation program at to the Lake Sturgeon fish population and develop 518 hectares of forest, benefiting more than 380
Yanacocha, completing co-mapping and scoring at conservation measures that will further be families. The project received the Ciudadanos al
each location. We are assessing opportunities to defined in 2024 workshops. Additionally, we Día award for “Good Practices in Public
align this work with TNFD. completed reclamation projects beyond our No Management 2023” in the Public-Private
Net Loss commitments, including the restoration Cooperation category. Additionally, Peru’s
of sandpits along the main mine access road and National Society of Mining, Petroleum, and Energy
land forming of the old Camp La Sarcelle. These recognized it with its “Sustainable Development”
initiatives contribute significantly to biodiversity award in the environment category.
enhancements in the landscape.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
89
Environment
CLOSURE AND
RECLAMATION Closure and Reclamation
Performance
Since mines operate for a finite
In 2023, Newmont’s executive-level Closure Steering
period, careful closure planning is
Committee (CSC) completed a thorough review of
crucial to address the diverse social, the Company’s global Closure Strategy. The
economic, environmental and approved updated strategy refines goals,
incorporates insights and establishes a clear,
regulatory impacts associated with
measurable five-year plan. Stakeholders at all levels
the end of mining operations.
were consulted for input, and functional leaders
Newmont’s global Closure Strategy committed to specific, measurable actions. Both the
integrates closure planning global and site-specific five-year plans are reviewed
and updated annually.
throughout each operation’s
lifespan, aiming to create enduring
positive and sustainable legacies
that last long after mining ceases.
Read more about Our Approach to
Closure and Reclamation, including
details on our governance, risk,
strategy and management approach.
Updated March 2024
Our Approach to Closure and Reclamation
SaaSaas ifdi tmn trsd eaoc rir te c n e e m i gsm gas t iytn eit o n ihd in ne ce tw gs re e d o ig catip evhrtae eae ttr sr heesa ese net s e d.cse lo uf nooc rdsr ii un a a orgl , ef fi e pmn pc oi loit asnen nii t onp invmge ien r oii gaco p n ,d tee dh, rn c ra sova uti uirr soeo gtnfn ahu s im on.l Nc uael bteon welst eu aam lclr e e hao g n p noadl t cpa ’ s ir en e egrn sg a li totun hibolg aaan tti l’ so slC ar c ly slir of tu ei sm l c u osi pnpra eal ga t nc ot , s
GOVERNANCE
s sa aO C t ttw hh oet tn n elu ha a co ed d aan nr hi s c l dm d d tns mc u h hdoo a a ir i ca nr rc r rm e aae end di e na lq sam a s l dle asun ig as f ssi aiit e tdt nr ptnm ha a ce rd egR eb yb ase c cei c gnl en tl si llic ss ue g no ttt lh ry . ieovsat do e Do u if fm oe rno s ru ocle f gr e ia lt e nnn os h f ct a moesu stei onoou usct l em u id lnr rsata ni er h u n lbirMe t,,n ee p g o eeai g c pam mr nnnl leo an oa vsdn u un tm ra uii re m tlog mg rt o ar o- in ie f nnat etr ua e m it a mge eoc rir co q t nm e we ee rn u ct n o nffa ee os ie srt tc od mpan e i stsS r i lrm nv t mv f ,t oo si uaia fir et . tu unto in nen Teut ncn cadl htsrti itm s nn e ta ie t o yhc e fhr se o no iud nd er an fsro m . e lt a , i c p uTn ea asl i ao mhlg dl nea o nshi sdvns u u .o e nr rru ei ant,l g A qedap p rC ffW ur e nc u e l roa rae lvt e lta lmemi in i i sv ve Brru pn ei eetme wts oo eni rtywen ar s yri s tt t lag r.o e a t ym adc e o Adr a nb ir .k en a df n o t a n adtoi ad s onl h naa i ts u ttt e o g nn ihe lt r oe rv e uc hg e ea nCee m are sBr al id a l o ss te b lot, r li s i na ayu egm an u ,n th vs r g sr ’ Nu s indit ie en g ,cl u ea t we olw nSi wo acd s ft i ci ls fi ors mti lD os u yah c ftc .uitr ao h or o ei e Tnnep nr ugu ho c ttl ta ryi i r ’etn u n s cs o c ac h a g gB Cla rl n or ah o so hfy f sd n’ oos au i uS e u ga ru rpn a r fepr dt re e d fe T ep ’et asr a geh cr fg t nm Ao lo oy ceo adh r ua v e av mm m enc d aen nh roaniir at dt nnn ta l nnt oiCe aSlao ouc gn oa un nl e ac yi cmn sfc ll eie llo t Oed s iyama cs t ffiiyc bi ou n nirc ti r cai l tl tt ie ie ee hb tti c is. re ei e a l i stl y
Newmont Corporation 1
Photo: Idarado, USA
NNeewwmmoonntt CCoorrppoorraattiioonn 22002233 SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt
90 Environment | Closure and Reclamation
PUBLIC TARGETS Future targets CLOSURE STUDIES AND ASSESSMENTS • Yanacocha – The operation’s ongoing closure
We set annual targets for concurrent (progressive) To further maximize concurrent reclamation Newmont’s global Investment Standard requires planning study advanced to the feasibility state in
reclamation to reduce our impacted footprint, opportunities over the next five years (2024-2028), in risk-based closure studies for brownfield sites, and December 2023 and continues to address several
minimize acid rock drainage and other 2023, we applied a streamlined process for our updated Closure and Reclamation Management complex closure issues, including water
environmental impacts, and reduce closure liabilities determining concurrent reclamation targets over Standard requires closure maturity to progress management, social impacts and tailings. A
and financial assurance requirements. five years. Each segment of the disturbed footprint throughout the mine life. In 2023, the following long-term water management solution will replace
was analyzed and classified as: site-wide closure studies or assessments were five existing water treatment facilities with two,
Our target for 2023 was to complete 95 percent of
initiated or progressed: addressing the watersheds along the continental
planned reclamation activities, which included both
1 Required for future operations; divide. Approval for project funding is expected in
studies or trials to progress reclamation and closure • Akyem – As open-pit mining concludes in the next
2025 with project completion expected in 2027.
planning as well as reclamation of previously five years, the site’s closure study is addressing
2 Available for concurrent reclamation; or
disturbed footprint. We exceeded our 2023 target by social and community issues related to post- We have commenced closure studies for tailings
completing 96 percent of the work that was planned Constrained by ongoing trials, studies, pilots mining land use. We developed a stakeholder storage facilities at Merian, Musselwhite and
3
globally for the year. This included reclamation on or test work. engagement plan in 2023 to explore sustainable Peñasquito, as well as closure of an open pit at
165 hectares (against a target of 143 hectares), with alternatives to pit backfilling with regulators, Porcupine and an underground mine at Cerro Negro.
This improved process offers transparent
Yanacocha, Boddington, Ahafo South and Cerro communities and other relevant stakeholders. A site-wide closure study at Éléonore is also underway.
information for decision-making and flexibility in
Negro exceeding their planned reclamation targets.
prioritizing concurrent reclamation investments • CC&V – We continued to advance the site’s closure Technical closure reviews
Nine of our 12 operating sites met or exceeded their
within the capital allocation strategy. It also assessments, focusing on better understanding On-site technical closure reviews aim to identify
reclamation activity plans for 2023. Peñasquito did
incorporates multiple benefits and objectives, such the water management needs for the Valley Leach material risks and opportunities and prioritize risk
not achieve its reclamation activity targets due to the
as water, biodiversity, climate and meaningful facilities and evaluating long-term solutions to mitigation and opportunity-capture plans, including
four-month-long strike that suspended operations.
stakeholder engagement, into our closure meet water discharge requirements for the site assessments, trials and studies. In 2023, we
As a result, only six of the 18 targeted hectares for
objectives. Targets will be reassessed in 2024 Carlton Tunnel. conducted reviews at Ahafo South, Boddington and
reclamation were completed. Both Akyem and
following the integration of former Newcrest sites. Merian. Material balances, integrated closure
Musselwhite completed 90 percent of their planned • Éléonore – The site’s closure study aims to better
planning and design, acid metalliferous drainage
reclamation activities. Our approach to developing integrated nature understand closure issues and water management
management, stakeholder engagement and
targets that include closure considerations is requirements. The Opinagow Environment
During the year, an additional 500 hectares globally advancement of site closure plans were identified
discussed in more detail in the Biodiversity section. Committee (formed under the Opinagow
were disturbed by our operations, and a total of as key priorities.
Collaboration Agreement of which Newmont, the
2,535 hectares are in various stages of reclamation
Cree Nation of Wemindji and the Cree Nation Closure technical reviews, originally planned for
as of December 31, 2023.
Government are signatories) participated in a 2024 at CC&V, Musselwhite and Tanami, will be
training session with the University of deferred to complete reviews at former Newcrest
Queensland. This session aimed to prepare them sites (Brucejack, Cadia, Lihir and Red Chris). These
for developing a comprehensive, long-term action reviews will focus on identifying closure risks and
plan addressing social closure aspects. opportunities, developing mitigation plans and
aligning the sites to Newmont’s standards and
processes. Reviews for Akyem, Éléonore and
Yanacocha will be conducted two to three years
after the completion of their closure studies.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
91 Environment | Closure and Reclamation
CLOSURE WORKING GROUP ACTIVITIES
The Global Closure Working Group, with • Disciplined long-term planning – The Global
representatives from each operating site and Closure Working Group supported the
business unit and input from enterprise subject development of a new Life of Asset
matter experts, continued to meet quarterly to align planning framework, which encompasses the
work programs and share best practices and lessons entire lifecycle of an asset, to ensure that closure
learned. In 2023, each site completed its annual aspects are adequately considered. The new Life
closure planning and estimate updates. of Asset process was piloted at Peñasquito in 2023.
Other notable continuous improvement efforts • Social aspects of mine closure – Closure is a time
during the year included: of transition for employees, host communities and
other stakeholders. Planning for closure should
• Global Industry Standard on Tailings
commence at the earliest stage of a mine’s life.
Management (GISTM) Safe Closure – The Tailings
This social transition refers to the process of
and Closure teams collaborated on internal
adapting to a mine’s changing stage in the lifecycle
guidelines aligned with the GISTM on the safe
and includes planning considerations and activities
closure of tailings facilities. These guidelines were
to support host communities transition to a
published in early 2023 and implemented at all GROUNDBREAKING PROJECT AIMS TO Photo: Waste rock from Boddington,
post-mining economy. In 2023, we partnered with
operating sites. Engagement on GISTM guidance ADDRESS ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGE Australia, and Cripple Creek & Victor, USA
the University of Queensland Center for Social
and conformance measures is ongoing through FACING MINING COMPANIES
Responsibility in Mining on a program to train
both the internal working groups and the
cross-functional teams on the social aspects of
International Council on Mining and Metals
mine closure, using scenario planning and case
Tailings Working Group (see the Tailings In January 2023, Newmont, alongside other mining detailed chemical and mineralogical analysis and
studies. We also strengthened social performance
Management section for more information). companies, announced a partnership with the short-term leach testing and developing sequential
aspects in the updated Closure Standard and
Cooperative Research Centre for Transformations in extraction test methods. Researchers also
• Improved closure planning tools and associated guideline. Additionally, an external
Mining Economies (CRC TiME) to address one of the commenced a test that will run for the next three
processes – In 2023, the Closure Group, in expert is developing a practical guide for sites to
most challenging risks mining companies face. This years, pairing indoor laboratory tests with a meso-
collaboration with other functions and an external assess and document essential information for
project, led by Flinders University in Adelaide, South scale outdoor test.
consultant, initiated the development of a Closure social transition planning at closure, regardless of
Australia, focuses on improving the prediction,
Planning Progression guideline. This guideline the mine lifecycle stage. We expect to launch the Early insights include confirming a hypothesis about
remediation and closure of Acid and Neutral
supports the Closure and Reclamation guide in 2024. the behavior of waste rock at Boddington. Despite a
Metalliferous Drainage (AMD/NMD) sites by
Management Standard, outlining maturity minor carbonate mineral content, the abundance of
• Improving acid and neutral metalliferous examining the behavior of mine waste at the
progression requirements for both design and silicate minerals in the waste rock effectively
drainage (AMD/NMD) risk management – meso-scale.
cost estimation based on remaining mine life. We maintains low acidity levels of seepage. The ongoing
As part of our partnership with the Cooperative
expect to finalize the guideline and a revised Since the project launch, the research team has been meso-scale leach testing will further explore this by
Research Center for Transformations in Mining
Closure Standard in 2024. Alongside incorporating actively characterizing waste rock samples from simulating warm summer conditions experienced on
Economies (CRC TiME), we provided waste rock
best practices at the former Newcrest sites, these several mines, including Boddington and CC&V. This site with irregular leach cycles.
from Boddington and CC&V as part of a five-year
documents will support the development of a characterization aims to understand how the
study to improve the prediction, remediation and All testing is conducted at Flinders University’s
robust, efficient and standardized cost estimation composition of these samples influences long-term
closure of AMD/NMD sites. We highlight this College of Science and Engineering. The findings will
solution. environmental behavior, such as sulfide mineral
research effort in the story “Groundbreaking support permitting and better AMD/NMD practices
oxidation, acid rock drainage, neutral mine drainage
Project Aims to Address Environmental Challenge and guidelines for the industry.
and metals leaching. The project involves conducting
Facing Mining Companies” on this page.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
92
Environment
MATERIALS
We monitor various metrics and performance
objectives to ensure we effectively manage the
risks associated with hazardous materials and
Properly managing materials and waste streams.
waste in mining is essential to
Environmental Events Performance
mitigating environmental risks and
protecting public health and safety.
In 2023, we experienced 14 environmental
Mining involves using various events that were designated as having an actual
materials and generating waste like level 3 or higher consequence specific to the
environmental impacts. Among these, seven
chemicals, mercury and waste rock,
were cyanide-related spills.
which, if mismanaged, can have
None of the cyanide spill events resulted in the
negative impacts. Newmont employs
solution leaving the property and there was no
effective management systems and
threat to communities or wildlife. Where required,
controls to prevent adverse impacts the events were reported to regulatory authorities
on people and the environment and and the spills were cleaned up and remediated.
reduce long-term liabilities
throughout the mine’s lifecycle. Read more about these events in the
2023 Performance Data tables.
Read more about Our Approach to
Materials, including details on our
governance, risk, strategy and
management approach.
Updated March 2024
Our Approach to Materials
Peuweitmhn msr ao riv pns oppi t ar ugeleo co g r vn r tyl hoa sym s or c om eik uoe nf,un f ta ew pn tst c ha e ha m tl oeiig vcr pai mi ehsn lt ek ,e mg ii s nrf a i m a eaam nn ’nl sdsa ia d s lt a tigme fhpn eer eri d camao yn el gts cea ne e la ng ec vnn .t tie rei d dn osr y n,gaw sct m tp aa i ennsu emgt b ne h swl t aii cn aaav nn ehsm t dd e ne ai c ren ll ei ot gi kn dh naeg u tta c ri cn vi ohs eed l e se l i oms ms ta ons ief p gc pen aa -t rtt ly ces ei. ta v , r M sel m m . t ni None tl e iirm aancwdbgui mt vir lii ey ign to riava esnot n estiln d vge s
GOVERNANCE
saSm m rNP W wi im n euneoe ana ae qsv dplw sn n o ti uee a tc atm a av r eimc hy riaag g n t e ero lti ess p a omni n g t mo el ba ca go lt e nn k in o’t ey ls m ne v, i d b tnab imSs ty rai nt sm u ne -o t la rdoh fs i s nea n s ot ftta oe ml tn g ra atpt ar r aa tri ei emrw nn a ei ega l n il dd sei sa ac n n tc tp atb .t goc rg hi e or icio sc sarl dre n,i km ki rit as sh ss p say l imk a a i–s bc alsa z e tn li na i e yat nn t sd n d h r r t c md –i ddo tr z l p uho o a eS awm rdeu t ust noi a a i tg o si ap n tan sk h egnr gmbi t ce oim i,e n nl tt ih au rs ih sc gi e nt.o tz hi o e cp gi wtl n sryd th l i he e ahg c ae esl s u eli s re s tnm m o p en m,E g f e wvi an a n icami n nnarg e in fio i sa di m hdnl cn tg i eef im ur tme e a,oe mm c a le i u tyz tn hn hse ca d t eln etea i ot i.l n n , oG gHMPw bl peue eoi at r psn abh nfiode ona ar rr rl ege o t a me suig fl n sn nu aM Sg v uil na taia D nir cft een o eo i isr tta n r e y Dawgym c nia e tr iae tn dor en hs ndr csd ’t t ta s iaS o ht tp l elu r ee ee , ss a tar ewtt edmaac nahenh i tmi n or etd ot sa ra si ihp b pn s r wi e i rgd prl iir ehs st ra ty. s eie e lt , pE eqi a Eo wa o u m ncn c nhi ovhr ,soo im e ria b bvm oin mse u l ne der sa um s ni f an ne m ot enees ircne s Ea asc tms un aon t iu lpvm bd n tn ipe gr eop i or ot atul ni rro mhar temf ian n n .tsc e dh g e na se t t haaenl d
Newmont Corporation 1
Photo: Peñasquito, Mexico
NNeewwmmoonntt CCoorrppoorraattiioonn 22002233 SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt
93 Environment | Materials
Cyanide Management Performance Mercury Management Performance
In 2023, our Tanami operation was recertified to No exports of elemental mercury from sites
the Cyanide Code. The ICMC audit scheduled for occurred in 2023. Although we had planned to
2023 at our CC&V operation was completed as dispose of mercury from Peñasquito in 2023, this
planned, and we received formal certification from was deferred due to strike conditions and logistics
the International Cyanide Management Institute constraints. We will continue to work on a disposal
(ICMI) in February 2024. plan for disposal to take place in 2024.
During Tanami’s recertification audit in early 2023, ENGAGING ON BEST PRACTICES
it was determined that the operation had not As an active participant in the ICMM Mercury
completed the required maintenance on static fixed Working Group, Newmont supported the
hydrogen cyanide (HCN) detectors. This was a development of guidance on best available
nonconformance to the Cyanide Code that resulted techniques and best environmental practices to
in a delay in obtaining recertification, which was control mercury releases to land and water from
obtained in October 2023. We undertook a review relevant sources for publication by the Minamata
to understand what went wrong and the actions Convention Expert Group on Mercury Releases.
needed to prevent a similar issue in the future.
Waste Management Performance
We discuss this review in more detail in the story
“Non-conformance to Cyanide Code Prompts
Lessons Learned” on this page. We are working to improve our waste generation
data so that we can evaluate future site-specific
PATH TO ZERO CYANIDE SPILLS
targets to reduce both general and hazardous waste.
The goal of our Path to Zero Cyanide Spills program NON-CONFORMANCE TO CYANIDE CODE Photo: Tanami, Australia
is to eliminate spills of cyanide-bearing solutions or Newmont is partnering with the Cooperative PROMPTS LESSONS LEARNED
materials with weak acid dissociable cyanide (WAD Research Centre for Transformations in Mining
CN) levels above 50 milligrams per liter (mg/L) Economies Operational Solutions Program on a
In February 2023, Tanami underwent a Cyanide Code Tanami addressed the findings by inspecting and
outside of secondary containment. project to demonstrate and test operational
recertification audit and was found fully compliant in calibrating the monitors, reinstating preventative
interventions to reduce the long-term post-closure
In 2023, we experienced 29 cyanide-related spills, most areas. However, the audit revealed that the maintenance processes and fixing issues. Although
risks to water, ecosystems and people, and deliver
six of which were above 50 mg/L, representing a fixed hydrogen cyanide (HCN) monitors in the Tanami initially did not receive recertification due to
fit-for-purpose post-mining land use. This project
33 percent decrease from 2022 in the number of process plant were not regularly calibrated from the missed calibrations and was out of compliance
will continue through 2025.
spills containing greater than 50 mg/L WAD CN. 2020 to 2022. with the Cyanide Code for a few months, it later met
Investigations showed that equipment failures/ reporting requirements and obtained recertification
Although workers in the plant wear personal
maintenance and operator error were common in October 2023.
monitors, the fixed monitors are important for
contributing factors related to these spills.
detecting levels of cyanide in the air, and the missed Lessons learned from the audit findings included the
Our operating sites advanced the implementation calibrations on these devices posed an increased need to improve internal review systems, processes
of control improvements to address identified risk to workers. and communications. Efforts are underway to
vulnerabilities. Examples of control improvements in enhance internal auditing capabilities and define
2023 include repairs and replacement of equipment cyanide management responsibilities, linking
and improvements of secondary containments, Cyanide Code principles to functional owners.
process control logic and leak/spill detection systems.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
94
Mining, as a long-term endeavor, drives our
commitment to creating shared value. This commitment
shapes our policies and practices, aiming to contribute
to Newmont’s long-term success while catalyzing socio-
economic development in the communities we serve.
Photo: Tanami, Australia
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
95
ECONOMIC
Paid nearly $1.3B in taxes, royalties
and other payments to governments
96
Value Sharing
Spent approximately $1.4B with
local and national suppliers in host
countries
Contributed $37M in community
investments and $2.2M through
the COVID-19 Global Community
Support Fund
Photo: Boddington, Australia
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
96
Economic
VALUE SHARING
We monitor various metrics and performance
objectives to measure our performance in managing
our value-sharing risks and opportunities.
Businesses are increasingly expected
Economic Impact Performance
to actively contribute toward
solutions that address societal
Newmont’s direct economic contributions in 2023
challenges, enhance outcomes and
totaled $11.1 billion. This includes $4.3 billion in
involve communities in decisions operating costs, $1.7 billion in employee wages and
that impact them. To fulfill these benefits, $2.1 billion in capital spending, $1.7 billion
in payments to providers of capital, $1.3 billion in
expectations, Newmont aims to
taxes, royalties and other payments to governments,
create shared value, act as a catalyst
and $37 million in community investments.
for sustainable development, and
build trust and credibility through
Contributing to Public Revenue
meaningful engagement and
Transparency
transparent reporting.
As part of Newmont’s commitment to strengthening
transparency in reporting on tax and royalty
Read more about Our Approach to
payments, contracts and beneficial ownership, we are
Value Sharing, including details on
members of the Extractive Industries Transparency
our governance, risk, strategy and
Initiative (EITI) and supported a statement that
management approach.
makes several commitments to Beneficial Ownership
Transparency in line with the expectations for EITI
supporting companies. In June 2023, EITI published
its assessment of 62 companies, including Newmont,
and their adherence to EITI’s expectations. The
review confirmed Newmont met each of the nine
expectations. The review is available online.
Updated March 2024
Our Approach to Value Sharing
BscNdeoo neu elm vgu ws ei atn mmli gooe epun os ms mnnse tit ets e h ai ne naa im ts trt ,e a ia ans nid nn t ddd odc e r tr cbec re r aisa ues nss i ia o lsis dtn pno e g tasc srl ri uy the eh st ae na ta rx t tel ap rc di nee mh dpc vap t a oclelal rre ud tc en ie t ndtg , o t giabeh .a c s ie ltc, i m tte ayin sv . t e Th ahl oa y rc on fac u uco tle agfin l hlo yt lr s ut mi tb ht fcu e eoos at reme ns t iuee no xss gw pt a afa e un ir nc ldd taa bitn lieovo nlsv,e Read more about our economic
GOVERNANCE
AA e oos prpO t whet ff fu s oru ea s q eo s tr o su tr h-ou cs ie ro g tiS op ecit ts irrp oe su i m e oe a Io e nns r tom utu mr oi t e tt f snaa er y e d tc igt dr ti ac ni ron l no g o e tto itf ea omu an sam bt mt b is th f id ia pe t.m o oi e se ell l r ne i s l ni st Mg it mahi ny t tm do l .aa i e eea v nCre n snne en oin d natr tdd ut ain a n gf ntt vym rS d io Pa ci odt n ie lp aa nc s lug no r rk o e,o ao t tn ne m s u n nctth ht edMr ea aloi rdi n rb nn co il su ndud a oe u hr i gt me s nc ge ii i nr po ghnt sp hg sm E g aalo e in ft ansam u o og sm ndnr ria ut c s d mi Mhg e Dn n t e m .e i i ti ee t m ne Am ig tvoe ia asnr u ense m lo g am sl in t ow t sh (oa mt pI ta Cw crh mP eitt Mn i i o mta vh eg hl Minoi nt b c oid os )e tey ,ut n s r r -. T aa SEF R tt wi ln e hoh i nn aaen ivv - ete fc ddl deao ha e h fac ln tl t CC us v ti yr y qc o h. ooe lo le u aEn m e mmss B, nax s sc BH a opp e r d -o t tf n o ael cu eu eil Sua aa rnlm a rna u dn rgt s,mb c i ds a e ac mv ot to n se me ti oa fo ir a , oa if aRa Len nnS nte D nte na a aa i tao ys il t Cf bgh r deo nm eo oe sie ltu e im icf my a gta re r ty tm nsn c oa en mh ,he ina rnt Ae fios i se ig d tpi tcun, ’r r te ar c S dp eg S Trm e nou eiur ee vs t tmi spe s ,s as ie e m.pt an p emv ma w Cne,t le a iy ob cn idsro m tt ta mC u tta f vi L ee l evhbs a c emret emiar i le sn al su e ii i aa dteb ,n toea y r tm ps ee, r-t ee, s s i arB r ean a ds h ss ruu, n sg eh ta coni .s i d vn hi rcs i pvi ei n utch anE e lle Dl ioaa x gu r a rs snr pt s ed rmsee e ld v mi ay rd enI e a pnn s e tg lttv hoi pat nth ta e el pe e rt el g ir s u ms r s .d ee i et a y ny t- c P 2o 0en 2rft 3or i Tb rm au xt a eio n sn c as e n in D d at Rh t oae y t2 aa0 lb t2 il e3 e s s and
Newmont Corporation 1 Contribution Report.
Photo: Cerro Negro, Argentina
NNeewwmmoonntt CCoorrppoorraattiioonn 22002233 SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt
97 Economic | Value Sharing
Local and Indigenous Employment Performance
ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED: COUNTRY LEVEL (MILLIONS)1
Employee Payments to PUBLIC TARGETS
Operating wages and Capital providers of Payments to Community We set annual local/Indigenous employment targets for 11 of our 12 operating sites (excluding CC&V, where
Country costs2 benefits3 spend4 capital5 governments6 investments7 Total
the majority of the workforce is from the local communities). This ensures we identify and provide
opportunities that deliver mutual benefits to both local communities and Newmont. These targets are often
Argentina $153 $108 $160 – $90 $15 $526
based on formal agreements, and the following table summarizes our performance.
Australia $1,069 $322 $620 $42 $527 $1 $2,581
2023 LOCAL/INDIGENOUS EMPLOYMENT PERFORMANCE1
Canada $743 $293 $408 $10 $18 $2 $1,474
Ghana $680 $143 $320 $15 $316 $12 $1,486
Business unit Site
Mexico $636 $184 $110 $18 $136 $2 $1,086
Africa Ahafo Local community members represented 44.6 percent and 48.5 percent of employees
Papua New Akyem at Ahafo and Akyem, respectively, exceeding our annual target of 40 percent at Ahafo
Guinea $135 $30 $53 $1 $22 – $241 and 35 percent at Akyem.
Peru $440 $95 $262 $33 $51 $3 $884 Australia Boddington Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander employment at Boddington and Tanami was
Suriname $272 $87 $82 $1 $67 $1 $510 Tanami 5.9 percent and 12.5 percent, respectively, exceeding the sites’ targets of 5.6 percent
and 11.2 percent, respectively.
U.S. $174 $422 $101 $1,616 $40 $1 $2,354
North America Éléonore The site did not achieve its target to achieve a 5 percent improvement from the prior
year (falling behind by 7.1 percent compared to 2022) across a suite of metrics that
TOTAL $4,302 $1,684 $2,116 $1,736 $1,267 $37 $11,142
include employment, development and retention among Cree employees.
1 The value sharing data disclosed in this report (economic value generated and distributed) have been adjusted to exclude Nevada and other Musselwhite The site set a target to improve Indigenous employment among employees and
operations where we are not the operator to ensure comparable reporting boundaries across value sharing data is disclosed. contractors from signatory and affiliate First Nations and the Mishkeegogamang First
2 Operating costs comprise costs applicable to sales of $5,450 (excluding Nevada of $1,249), exploration of $240 (excluding Nevada of $25), advanced Nation by 2 percent from the prior year. Although the number of employees from
projects, research and development of $196 (excluding Nevada of $4) and general and administrative expenses of $288 (excluding Nevada of $11) on an signatory, affiliate and Mishkeegogamang First Nations increased by 14 percent in 2023,
accrued basis and cash paid for reclamation in 2023 of $206 (excluding Nevada of $11 and legacy sites of $85). Operating costs omit employee wages the number of contractors from these communities decreased by 28.7 percent, resulting
and benefits of $1,670, included in the employee wages and benefits column; $505 in payments to governments for royalties, employer taxes, property in the site missing its target. The site fell behind by 1.9 percent compared to 2022.
taxes and sales/production taxes included in the payments to governments column; $20 of indirect costs; $73 of byproduct sales, which are recognized
as credits to costs applicable to sales in our 2023 Form 10-K, and $37 of community investments included in the community investments column. Porcupine The site missed its target to achieve a 20 percent improvement from the prior year
(achieving a 16.1 improvement) in employment and capacity, realized through
3 Employee wages and benefits are presented on an accrued basis and include employee wages and benefits of $1,665 and severance expense, which
recruitment and training among Indigenous people (employees and contractors) from
is reported within Other Expense in our 2023 10-K, of $19.
signatory and non-signatory communities at the Porcupine site. This was due to
4 Capital spend is presented on an accrued basis and excludes employee wages and benefits capitalized of $76, capitalized interest of $81 and
voluntary turnover of contractors.
Nevada spend of $472.
5 Payments to providers of capital include interest expense of $240 (excluding Nevada of $3), net of capitalized interest of $81 (excluding Nevada of Latin America Cerro Negro At the end of the year, 69 percent of the workforce was from the Santa Cruz Province,
$8), and dividends paid to common stockholders of $1,415. and Caribbean up from 65.7 percent at the end of 2022 but slightly missing the target of 70 percent.
6 Payments to Governments include current year cash payments for income and mining taxes, governmental royalties, accrued employer, property, This continues to be due to a lack of certain expertise and certifications available in the
sales, production, and withholding taxes. The above also includes export duties paid in Argentina. Amounts may not calculate due to rounding. province of Santa Cruz.
7 Community investments data includes direct spending for community benefit, monetary donations and the monetary value of in-kind donations. Merian At the end of the year, 18.3 percent of the total workforce was of Pamaka ancestry,
Australia includes Perth regional office; Canada includes Vancouver regional office; U.S. includes the Denver corporate headquarters and excludes missing the target of 19 percent.
Nevada. All former Newcrest sites and offices are excluded from community investment data for 2023. Community investment data excludes the
COVID-19 Global Community Fund contributions. Peñasquito At the end of the year, 77.4 percent of the unionized workforce was from the State of
Zacatecas, just missing the site’s target of 78 percent. This was due to voluntary turnover.
Peru Yanacocha Residents of Cajamarca represented 65.8 percent of the workforce, exceeding our
target of 60 percent.
1 For more information on the local/Indigenous employment definitions and targets by site, review the 2023 Annual Sustainability Report Methodology
document on our website.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
98 Economic | Value Sharing
Local and Indigenous Procurement Performance
2024 Targets
We continuously work to improve the collection of data from all our sites and gain insights into trends for
better inclusion, diversity and equity outcomes. The goal is to evolve our targets to measure improved In 2023, Newmont spent $1.4 billion with local/Indigenous suppliers, exceeding our target of $1.209 billion.
retention, increased representation, and meaningful career development for local and Indigenous talent. Our 2023 local procurement target is lower than in 2022, reflecting a change in the definition of “local”
suppliers at Merian to only include businesses owned by members of the Pamaka or Kawina Tribes or by
Our 2024 public targets for local and Indigenous employment are summarized in the following table.
members of the communities between Moengo and Merian (the transport corridor).
2024 LOCAL/INDIGENOUS EMPLOYMENT TARGETS BY SITE1, 2 Read more about our spending with local suppliers in the 2023 Performance Data tables.
2024 Targets
Business unit Site
For 2024, our local/Indigenous procurement target for all sites combined is $1.36 billion and is based on the
Africa Ahafo 53 percent local employment by the next review of the Local Employment Agreement work undertaken in each region to understand and identify opportunities within the context of the 2024
in 2026 regional business plans.
Akyem 35 percent local employment
2024 LOCAL/INDIGENOUS PROCUREMENT TARGETS BY SITE (IN MILLIONS)
Australia Boddington 5.7 percent Indigenous employment
Business unit Site
Tanami 11.2 percent Indigenous employment
Africa Ahafo South $17
North America Éléonore 5 percent improvement from the prior year in a suite of metrics (including
employment, development and retention) among Cree employees
Akyem $8
Musselwhite 2 percent improvement from the prior year in Indigenous employment among
Australia Boddington $482
employees and contractors from signatory and affiliate First Nations and
Mishkeegogamang First Nation Tanami $65
Porcupine 10 percent improvement from the prior year in Indigenous employment and capacity Other $11
Latin America Cerro Negro 70 percent of the workforce from the Santa Cruz Province North America CC&V $88
and Caribbean
Merian 19 percent of the workforce from the Pamaka community Éléonore $57
Peñasquito 78 percent of the unionized workforce to be from the State of Zacatecas Musselwhite $74
Peru Yanacocha 60 percent of the workforce from Cajamarca Porcupine $170
Latin America Cerro Negro $140
1 F or purposes of this report and our global governance documents, we follow UN guidance and use “Indigenous” and “Indigenous peoples” as a broad
umbrella term for the diverse groups – including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders in Australia, First Nations and Métis in Canada, the Pamaka and Caribbean
Merian $2.5
and Kawina in Suriname and Native Americans in the U.S. – with whom we engage and collaborate.
2 For more information on the local/Indigenous employment definitions and targets by site, review the 2023 Annual Sustainability Report Methodology Peñasquito $50
document on our website.
Peru Yanacocha $200
GLOBAL TOTAL $1,364
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
99 Economic | Value Sharing
Key activities at our operating sites in 2023 to support our local and Indigenous employment and 2023 LOCAL/INDIGENOUS EMPLOYMENT AND PROCUREMENT HIGHLIGHTS
procurement objectives are discussed in the following table.
Country Activities
2023 LOCAL/INDIGENOUS EMPLOYMENT AND PROCUREMENT HIGHLIGHTS
Canada • We launched a Canadian Local and Indigenous Supplier platform that facilitates collaboration by
Country Activities providing suppliers with real-time business opportunities, supplier-specific news, workshops and
access to resources. In December, Musselwhite hosted a procurement workshop, providing live
training on the platform and sharing success stories for future Indigenous procurement
Global/ We advanced efforts to refine our public local and Indigenous employment and procurement targets
opportunities. Future enhancements include business education modules.
Enterprise to highlight the progress made to enhance career and supplier development opportunities. These new
targets will be finalized in 2024, and we plan to begin reporting against them in 2025. • Éléonore’s Cree Miner Apprentice Program offers on-the-job training and coaching, with job
placements at the mine upon program completion. In February 2023, we launched the program’s
Argentina In compliance with Argentina’s local procurement law, Cerro Negro prioritizes competitive bids from second round for another four participants.
properly registered local suppliers. The site’s supplier evaluation process for contracts greater than
• Musselwhite conducted four Stope School sessions, which provide students from signatory and
$250,000 or involving more than 10 people on site has resulted in new employment opportunities and
affiliate Indigenous communities training on fundamental underground mining skills. We highlight
our main contractors purchasing nearly $270 million in goods and services from local suppliers since
this program on page 63.
launching the process in 2022.
Ghana As part of efforts to prepare youth in the communities near our Ahafo North project for job interviews,
The site’s Supplier Development Program focuses on strengthening the technical and leadership
we introduced a Community Youth Soft Skills Training Program. Nearly 300 people from five host
capabilities of local suppliers for long-term community benefits. Around 50 local and local-local
communities participated in the program’s resume writing, interviewing skills and basic work etiquette
businesses participated in more than 650 hours of training between 2022/2023. The operation’s local
training courses.
procurement spend increased by 9 percent compared to 2022.
The Enhanced Local Procurement Program (ELPP) and the Local Economic Diversification Support
Australia Activities to support local and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander employment and procurement
(LEDS) program at Akyem and Ahafo aim to boost the skills and capacity of local suppliers and
commitments included the following:
contractors. These initiatives also focus on diversifying the economy and creating business and
• We reviewed and refreshed the Gnaala Work Ready (GWR) program, resulting in 10 participants, livelihood opportunities. The ELPP aims to improve the capacity of at least 150 businesses, with
including five women, completing the three-month entry-level training and transitioning into women-owned companies being given equal opportunities to participate in the program. To date, 93
full-time employment with Newmont. businesses have agreed to participate in the program.
• At Tanami, we held additional Pathways to Employment information sessions, focusing on Central Newmont’s Female Top-Up Training Program at Ahafo aims to develop the skills needed for women to
Australian Language Group candidates (CALG), and further matured the operation’s employment pursue a career in mining. Since the program was introduced in 2019, 29 women have graduated,
programs. This includes increasing the number of the Indigenous Training and Familiarization three are currently employed by Newmont and 24 are enrolled as equipment trainees.
Program participants to seven, reviewing the Yapa Crew initiative, developing a foundational skills
program, addressing employment pathway gaps and building capacity for Warlpiri and CALG Through the LEDS program, Newmont contributed $1.3 million in funding in 2023 (nearly $4 million
candidates to transition into full-time roles. total to date) to establish the Asutifi Processing and Services Centre (APSC) pepper and ginger factory
at Ahafo South. In 2023, Newmont joined the regional minister, traditional leaders and key
• Through our tertiary and vocational scholarship partnership with Charles Darwin University, three
stakeholders to inaugurate the center. The facility collaborates with over 1,000 farmers and 80
tertiary scholarships were awarded, with one student progressing into the Vacation program.
farmer-based organizations through an out-grower model, focusing on processing chili peppers and
ginger for both local and export markets.
Mexico Peñasquito, the state of Zacatecas and the Ministry of Economy developed a local business platform
tool that includes the requirements and processes to conduct business with Newmont and provides
support or training the potential supplier may need. As of the end of 2023, 227 local and local-local
suppliers were registered on the platform, up from 176 at the end of 2022. The platform has also
helped reduce performance gaps to ensure local suppliers meet the necessary standards. Other 2023
activities included:
• Signed new contracts with local and local-local suppliers for inventory control; and
• Supported local and local-local suppliers during the four-month strike period when operations
were suspended.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
100 Economic | Value Sharing
Community Investments Performance
2023 LOCAL/INDIGENOUS EMPLOYMENT AND PROCUREMENT HIGHLIGHTS
Country Activities In 2023, Newmont invested $41 million in community projects and programs. Direct investments and
donations totaled $4 million and $37 million, respectively. Compared to 2022, our overall community
Peru Yanacocha’s development foundation supports the “Entrepreneurs for Integrity” program led by investments decreased due to fewer large-scale infrastructure projects, such as the $15 million investment in
USAID. The program provides local suppliers with ethical business practices training. Upon completion
Ghana for road resurfacing and repaving. Additionally, factors, such as funding delays for the Yanacocha
of the program’s courses, suppliers are certified as Integrity Ambassador Companies. In 2023, seven
Sulfides project and weather events impacting construction projects at Merian, altered some sites’ planned
local suppliers completed the first stage of the program.
community investments for 2023.
Yanacocha – through its nonprofit FONCREAGRO and community foundation Asociación Los Andes de
Cajamarca (ALAC) – collaborated with the Universidad Nacional de Cajamarca to organize the “From The following table summarizes notable community investments and activities at our operating sites in 2023.
Industry to the Classroom” conference series. A total of 1,220 students participated in conferences
covering topics such as leadership, mining project feasibility studies, groundwater, environmental 2023 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT HIGHLIGHTS
monitoring, climate change, and sustainable development. Additionally, 62 graduates were granted
pre-professional and professional internships through Yanacocha’s local supplier companies’ social
Country Activities
responsibility initiatives.
Suriname Merian hosted its inaugural Pamaka Suppliers Network event to introduce Pamaka entrepreneurs to Global/ Since 2005, Newmont has partnered with Project C.U.R.E. to distribute more than $42 million worth of
Newmont’s local procurement system and register them for potential business opportunities. Enterprise much-needed medical supplies and equipment through multiple sponsorship initiatives. In early 2024,
Approximately 90 people, mostly Pamaka, attended, and three local banks, the chamber of commerce we extended our agreement for another five years, contributing $200,000 annually for a total of
and government-permitting institutions held a fair as part of the event. Around 40 new suppliers, $1 million. Our support helps facilitate several programs and activities such as delivering medical
including 18 women, were registered during the event, and two of these registered businesses are supplies to hospitals and clinics near our operations in Ghana, Suriname and Guatemala. More details
currently participating in a tender process with Newmont. are discussed in the Health, Safety and Security section.
Merian continued to focus on building capacity through projects that translate to procurement In 2023, Newmont’s corporate Socially and Environmentally Responsible Volunteer Employees
opportunities. We offer textile vocational training for members of the Pamaka, Kawina and transport Committee (SERVE) provided over $65,000 to 15 different volunteer organizations and charities
corridor communities. Merian currently sources all room linens from local suppliers, and we have throughout Denver. Additionally, Newmont employees volunteered more than 260 hours of their time.
begun purchasing additional items such as seat covers and laundry bags. Organizations Newmont partners with include Volunteers for Outdoor Colorado to assist with trail
maintenance and STEM Generation to pack STEM kits for K-12 students.
Our vegetable and cultivation training program teaches participants techniques to increase
production. We added an additional crop to the program (for a total of three crops). The mine has Argentina Cerro Negro and the Municipality of Perito Moreno established a Municipal Trust Fund in 2022 that
doubled the purchase order of the first two vegetables and the third crop will be added to the serves as a long-term funding source for sustainable development in Perito Moreno. In 2023,
mine’s order. Newmont contributed $1.6 million to the fund and advanced key infrastructure and economic
development projects.
U.S. As part of CC&V’s local procurement plan to identify, assess and integrate procurement opportunities
within the local communities, the site: As part of its partnership with the Inter-American Development Banks, Cerro Negro committed
$36 million toward a project to connect the communities of Perito Moreno and Los Antiguos to the
• Identified new local suppliers to provide services/goods needed by the operation;
national electric grid. The project was completed in 2023. Other projects during the year included
• Required a minimum of one local supplier to be included in the bidding and contracting process; and strengthening internet connectivity for Perito Moreno and Los Antiguos, and upgrading the local
• Strengthened relationships through ongoing meetings with local suppliers. airport to promote the fruit industry and tourism.
CC&V participated in a program where volunteers from CC&V provide training in local schools. Newmont partnered with Fundación Leer, a non-profit NGO dedicated to promoting literacy among
children and young people in Argentina. Under the partnership, Newmont is supporting the “Leer Te
These sessions help students understand mining concepts and nurture an interest in mining careers
Ayuda” program, which provides training to educators and delivers books to schools and libraries.
with the next generations of talent.
During 2022 and 2023, approximately 3,200 books were distributed to 20 educational institutions in
the towns of Perito Moreno, Los Antiguos and Rio Chico. More than 90 teachers received training,
supporting literacy for more than 5,400 children, young people and adults.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
101 Economic | Value Sharing
2023 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT HIGHLIGHTS 2023 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT HIGHLIGHTS
Country Activities Country Activities
Australia At Boddington, we extended our support for the Bibbulmun Track Foundation’s “Eyes on the Ground” Ghana Contributions to the Newmont Ahafo Development Foundation (NADeF) in 2023 totaled $3.8 million.
volunteer program and the Aboriginal Community and Regional Economic Development Project for Through NADeF’s micro-credit project, we provided 411 community members at Ahafo North with
five years. This program assists volunteers in preserving the iconic walking trail in a global biodiversity $62,000 in disbursements to support their small businesses and improve income levels. NADeF also
hotspot by providing skills training and the necessary equipment and materials. provided $217,000 in scholarships to support 510 students in their tertiary education, and invested
$210,000 in school infrastructure upgrades to strengthen teaching and improve learning outcomes.
At Tanami, we continued to provide support for the Central Land Council’s Community Development
role. The role assists the nine Warlpiri communities that receive income through the Granites Mine Funded by the Newmont Akyem Development Foundation (NAkDeF), the Akyem Vocational Training
Affected Areas Aboriginal Corporation (GMAAAC) with planning, implementation and administration of Institute (AVTI) is a community project launched in 2022. It offers training in four programs – welding
community projects like community elections and governance initiatives. We also continued our and fabrication, general electrical, plumbing, and building and construction. Currently, more than 250
strategic partnership with the Melbourne Football Club to extend chronic health prevention programs, students are enrolled, and the goal is to increase female enrollment to 35 percent by 2024. The AVTI is
community education and development outreach activities into Warlpiri communities. accredited by the Ministry of Education’s Technical and Vocational Education and Training Services.
We awarded more than A$380,000 in grants to community organizations. Recipient organization The Women Economic Resilience Program (WERP) helps women-owned businesses enhance their skills
programs included Murdoch University’s Gnaala Karla Booja Tertiary Scholarship & Secondary in both industrial and domestic garment production. The program, which began in 2021 with
Education Outreach Programme, a four-year strategic partnership aimed at providing higher education dressmakers at Ahafo North, has been replicated at Ahafo South. Participants are trained in
and transition opportunities to Gnaala Karla Booja–Noongar community members, and Warlpiri Media dressmaking skills and techniques and important business skills. In 2023, 30 women completed
Aboriginal Corporation’s Warlpiri Project, a one-year strategic community investment partnership to training on sewing industrial uniforms and security uniforms.
increase economic development in the Walpiri region.
Mexico We awarded 678 scholarships to students who live in the communities near the mine and State of
Canada The Éléonore IT team donated 125 computers to various organizations across Quebec and to Zacatecas under the “Impulsa tu futuro” (Improve Your Future) program. We also provided computers
employees. Recipients of the donation include the CPE Awash Utamet daycare, which provides for four classrooms and seven school libraries, held workshops on inclusion, diversity and equity for
play-based learning to around 60 Indigenous and non-Indigenous children in Chibougamau. We also nearly 600 students, and delivered more than 2,700 Christmas gifts to people of all ages.
donated nearly CAD$20,000 to make essential upgrades to the daycare’s kitchen.
Peru Yanacocha, the Provincial Municipality of Cajamarca and the drinking water and sanitation service
Musselwhite entered into several agreements including: provider (SEDACAJ) collaborated on a project to increase the city of Cajamarca’s drinking water supply.
• A three-year CAD$50,000 agreement with NorthWind Family Ministries in Thunder Bay, Ontario for The initial well, which is under construction, was financed directly by Yanacocha. The following six wells
their Next Steps program that provides those who are homeless or at risk with counseling, mental will be funded through Works for Taxes, a public-private funding mechanism that allows companies to
health and other vital services. fund public works projects through their taxes.
• A five-year CAD$225,000 agreement with the Thunder Bay Regional Food Distribution Association Since launching the Happy Schools Project (supported by the Newmont COVID-19 Global Community
to enhance food security in remote communities. Support Fund), more than 8,000 students from 114 educational institutions in Cajamarca have
• A three-year CAD$90,000 agreement with North Caribou Lake First Nation to help them purchase a benefited from improved classroom environments. The project also provided specialized training to
Zamboni for their community arena. nearly 350 directors and teachers.
Porcupine made an in-kind donation of a pick-up truck worth CAD$15,000 to Brunswick House First Suriname Newmont completed the first two phases of turning an existing community center into a multi-
Nation for their Mountbatten Climate Change Project. The project, in partnership with Water First, aims functional center (the Snesie Kondre Multifunctional Center Project). The center will house a modern
to monitor climate impacts at six locations on the Mountbatten Reserve. police station, victim care agency, legal office, central bureau for civil and social affairs, first aid room
and observation posts. The third phase is expected to commence in early 2024.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
102 Economic | Value Sharing
2023 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT HIGHLIGHTS COVID-19 GLOBAL COMMUNITY SUPPORT FUND
In April 2020, Newmont established a COVID-19 Global Community Support Fund (the Fund) dedicated to
Country Activities addressing the impacts of the pandemic. In January 2024, Newmont successfully reached the Fund’s established
goal of distributing $20 million in critical financial resources to host communities. These donations were targeted
U.S. CC&V donated $270,226 through its Community Investment Fund and $80,555 through the Newmont toward addressing immediate impacts and helping catalyze long-term resiliency and community development.
Legacy Fund to 115 local organizations and nonprofits. CC&V also awarded $55,000 to school districts
in Teller and Fremont Counties, $18,500 to various scholarship funds, and $50,000 to Trout Unlimited Between 2020 and 2023, we directed 54 percent of contributions toward workforce and community health
to support its Colorado Abandoned Mine Reclamation program. initiatives, 16 percent toward local economic resilience, 10 percent toward food security and 8 percent toward
vaccine access and distribution.
CC&V employees completed 151 volunteer hours to support various events and nonprofits within the
local communities, plus an additional 46.5 volunteer hours of providing Alaska Resource Education
Fund donations in 2023 totaled $2.2 million and were largely directed toward supporting long-term
programming in local elementary schools.
community resilience and community health. Notable contributions included:
COVID-19 GLOBAL COMMUNITY SUPPORT FUND
Country Activities
Argentina In 2022, Cerro Negro launched its three-year “Mas Emprendedores” (More Entrepreneurs) program
aimed at financing projects that promote the development and growth of entrepreneurs in the
nearby communities of Perito Moreno and Los Antiguos (with women-owned or -operated new
businesses receiving priority). Following a call to all local micro and small businesses, we awarded
13 entrepreneurs in 2023 with loans that are up to 50 percent lower than the Central Bank of
Argentina’s base interest rate.
Australia We donated 1,000 rapid testing kits to the South West Aboriginal Medical Services in Bunbury.
Canada Contributions from the Fund during 2023 were largely directed toward women’s and family shelters
($150,000) in Indigenous and local communities near our operations in Canada. These shelters support
employment, childhood development, education and food security, all of which were adversely
affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. We also contributed $25,000 toward the repair of three homes in
Iskut that were damaged by fire, displacing several families.
Ghana At both our Ahafo South and Akyem operations, we donated medical supplies valued at $23,000 to the
respective District Health Directorates. The items included testing kits, masks, gloves, needles and
syringes, disinfectants and hand sanitizers.
Mexico We launched the “Reactivarse” (Reactivate) program to empower local businesses with enhanced
financial, marketing, sales and other essential business skills. This initiative aims to boost economic
resilience and foster business growth.
Peru Since 2008, Yanacocha’s Asociación Los Andes de Cajamarca (ALAC) foundation has sponsored the
Unidades de Crédito y Ahorro de Cajamarca (UNICA) microfinance project that supports farmers and
entrepreneurs in the region. The Newmont Global Community Support Fund has contributed to the
UNICA program to help address the economic challenges brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic. In
2023, we contributed $100,000 to further grow the UNICA network. We highlight the UNICA program
on page 68.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
103 Economic | Value Sharing
COVID-19 GLOBAL COMMUNITY SUPPORT FUND
Country Activities
Suriname In late 2022, we partnered with the Ministry of Health to support a program being implemented by
Crown Agents (a nonprofit organization). The initiative focuses on enhancing the health sector through
technical training and programs aimed at building resilience and preparedness for ongoing and future
communicable disease outbreaks. We highlight some of the program activities in the “Strengthening
Healthcare and Resilience in Suriname” story on this page. We also contributed $80,000 to support an STRENGTHENING HEALTHCARE AND Photo: Merian, Suriname
existing program that trains local farmers along our transport corridor on business practices so the
RESILIENCE IN SURINAME
mine’s camp services can purchase the vegetables produced by the farmers.
U.S. We contributed $300,000 to the American Red Cross Global Disaster Preparedness Center, which
supports learning, knowledge sharing, innovation and networking among disaster preparedness Suriname faces a twofold challenge posed by both • Address healthcare worker hesitancy – Develop
practitioners worldwide. Our donation aids in the development of an Early Warning System for non-communicable diseases (NCDs) and COVID-19. strategies, modules and training to encourage
communities in the Latin America and Caribbean region. Additionally, it supports a global initiative
NCDs, encompassing cardiovascular ailments and healthcare workers to adopt healthier lifestyles.
called Limitless, which identifies and supports youth-led innovations that enhance community
diabetes, contribute to approximately 70 percent of
resilience to climate change impacts. • Strengthen cold chain capacity – Improve the
deaths. The repercussions of COVID-19 have been
proper storage and distribution of vaccines.
substantial in Suriname, particularly affecting
individuals with NCDs who face a higher risk of In March, the Healthy Lifestyle Officer (HLO)
severe illness and mortality. program was launched, with 14 individuals selected
as HLOs to visit schools, neighborhoods and
In response, Newmont partnered with Suriname’s
community centers and provide information and
Ministry of Health to launch the Recovery and
discuss ways people can adopt healthier lifestyles.
Resilience Project in October 2022, engaging Crown
Agents to execute the project initiatives. The project To reduce healthcare worker hesitancy, Crown
aimed to strengthen Suriname’s health system, Agents conducted a study that found a need to
reduce NCD and COVID-19 burdens, and enhance equip healthcare workers with practical skills that
emergency response capabilities. It consists of four promote a healthy lifestyle. In response to these
work streams: findings, a three-day training for healthcare workers
was held in August, covering topics such as smoking,
• Strengthen NCD services and COVID-19
alcohol abuse, healthy nutrition, physical activity,
vaccination uptake – Enhance information
mental health, and social and behavioral change
availability and patient care during routine
communication. Approximately 20 healthcare
appointments, promoting vaccine uptake.
workers participated in the workshop.
• Coordinate behavior change communications –
In October 2023, Newmont donated medical supplies
Focus on healthy lifestyle choices and COVID-19
worth $425,000 to 13 clinics. Procured by Crown
vaccines, ensuring coordinated and unified
Agents, the supplies included point-of-care diagnostic
messaging.
devices, solar-powered vaccine refrigerators and
mobile ultrasound machines. This donation expands
health services and improves access, particularly for
vulnerable groups like those with chronic diseases.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
104
PE R FO R M A N C E DATA
105
PERFORMANCE DATA Order of Performance Data Tables
Performance data tables for Newmont sites prior to the acquisition of Newcrest are presented in alphabetical order by category:
Detailed performance data, reflecting the annual
disclosure of our sustainability performance at
Business integrity and transparency Health and safety Value sharing
wholly owned operations and joint ventures where
Newmont is the operator is available in our 2023 Compliance and significant events Emergency preparedness COVID-19 Global Community Support Fund
Performance Data tables. Energy and climate Integrity and anti-corruption measures Workforce safety Community investments
change data for 2023 will be published in May 2024
Policy influence Economic value generated and distributed
alongside Newmont’s 2023 Climate Performance
Social Supply chain spending
disclosure.
Environment Artisanal and small-scale mining Tax transparency
Air emissions Community impacts
Biodiversity Complaints Workforce
Closure and reclamation Human rights assessments Breakout of total workforce
Cyanide management Human rights supplier screening Compensation and equal remuneration
Significant materials consumption Human rights security personnel training Diversity
Spills Human rights workforce training Labor management relations
Tailings management Indigenous peoples Talent attraction and retention
Waste Land or resource use disputes Training and professional development
Water stewardship Resettlement and/or relocation activity
Social impact assessment and engagement
Performance data tables for Newcrest sites during the period November 6 – December 31, 2023 for select material data are presented
in alphabetical order by category:
Environment Health and safety Workforce
Water stewardship Workforce safety Workforce demographics overview
Compensation and equal remuneration
NNeewwmmoonntt CCoorrppoorraattiioonn 2023 Sustainability Report
106
R E P O R T I N G I N D E X
107
REPORTING INDEX Order of Indices
GRI Standards
The disclosures in this report align with the
requirements in the following sustainability standards
SASB Standards
and frameworks:
• Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards;
UN Guiding Principles
• Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
Version 2023-12 of the SASB Metals & Mining EITI Expectations
Industry Standard;
• United Nations Guiding Principles (UNGP) on ICMM Social and Economic Reporting
Business and Human Rights Reporting Framework Framework and Guidance
and Guidance;
ICMM Mining Principles
• Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI)
Expectations;
WGC Responsible Gold Mining Principles
• International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM)
Social and Economic Reporting Framework and
Guidance;
• ICMM Mining Principles;
• World Gold Council (WGC) Responsible Gold Mining
Principles; and
• Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
(TCFD) (2017 version) and the TCFD supplemental
disclosures for the Materials and Buildings Group
(which includes the metals and mining industry).
Our Reporting Index complements this report,
guiding readers to our disclosures under the
respective reporting frameworks. We also include
several references to our website, 2023 Annual
Report (or 2023 Form 10-K Report), CDP Climate
and Water 2023 responses, our Climate Report
and other sources.
Photo: Akyem, Ghana
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
108
ABOUT THIS REPORT
SCOPE Where noted, references may be made to historical BOUNDARIES SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN REPORTING
This report is our annual disclosure (January 1 results. We have published our global sustainability We prepared our 2023 Annual Sustainability Report PARAMETERS
to December 31, 2023) of our sustainability reports on an annual basis since 2003. The previous in accordance with the GRI Standards, including the There were no significant changes to the basis
performance at wholly owned operations and joint report was published in April 2023, and this report Mining and Metals Sector Supplement, and the of our reporting in accordance with the GRI
ventures prior to the acquisition of Newcrest where was published on April 18, 2024. Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards in 2023. Note, selected metrics for
Newmont is the operator. Select performance data Metals & Mining Sustainability Accounting Standard sites acquired from Newcrest for the period
All financial figures are quoted in U.S. dollars unless
for sites acquired as part of the Newcrest transaction (version 2023-12). In May 2023, we published our November 6–December 31, 2023, are included in
otherwise noted. Some figures and percentages may
is available in our 2023 Performance Data tables. third annual Climate Report, which was prepared in the 2023 Performance Data tables.
not add up to the total figure or 100 percent due to
See Report Assurance for more details. Unless accordance with the Task Force on Climate-related
rounding. POLICIES AND STANDARDS
otherwise noted, Newmont’s corporate office, Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations.
Newmont’s six global policies state our intentions,
regional offices, exploration sites and legacy sites Exceptions to this scope are noted in the applicable
Newmont Corporation’s consolidated financial aspirations and commitments across key aspects
are not included in this report. sections and data tables.
statements included within its 2023 Annual Report of our business. These policies are supported by
References to “Newmont,” “the Company,” “we” METHODOLOGY AND BASIS OF PREPARATION and Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, more than 100 global standards that set the
and “our” refer to Newmont Corporation and/or The methodology and basis of data preparation 2023, filed with the SEC on February 29, 2024, were minimum acceptable requirements for behaviors,
our affiliates, joint ventures and subsidiaries. related to the selected performance metrics in audited by Ernst & Young LLP decisions and performance, and many of these
References to “Newcrest,” “former Newcrest” or scope for 2023 assurance are available on our (PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP audited the financial standards are mentioned throughout this report.
“new-to-Newmont” refer to Newcrest Mining Limited website. statements of the Nevada Gold Mines LLC and its
prior to its acquisition by Newmont in 2023. subsidiaries.) Ernst & Young’s opinion on the
CAUTIONARY
References to “Goldcorp” or “former Goldcorp” refer December 31, 2023, financial statements does not
This report contains forward-looking statements that
to Goldcorp, Inc. prior to its acquisition by Newmont extend to the data included in this report.
are intended to be covered by the safe harbor created
in 2019. Data presented in this report covers our
by securities laws. Words such as expect, feel, believe, RESTATEMENTS
performance for the 2023 calendar year, which
will, may, anticipate, estimate, intend, target and Continuous improvements to our data collection
corresponds to our fiscal year.
similar expressions are intended to identify forward- systems and measurement methodologies may lead
As part of an organizational design undertaken in looking statements. Such statements may include, to restatements of previously reported data.
2023, Newmont revised references to business without limitation, expectations regarding future Restatements will be provided when a change in
descriptions and some function names and titles. performance, innovation and efficiencies, measurement methodology or an error in previously
This includes changing “corporate” to “enterprise achievement of targets, performance indicators and reported information has the potential to impact a
and “regions” to “business units.” The “Sustainability goals, including emissions and other ESG targets, and users’ decision-making. Restatements will also be
and External Relations” function is now split into two long-term value creation, which are subject to risks provided in cases of significant changes in reporting
functions (“Safety and Sustainability” and “External and uncertainties that could cause actual results to parameters (e.g., mergers, acquisitions,
Relations”), and “Human Resources” is now the differ materially. See Forward-Looking Statements divestments). These restatements are included as
“People” function. and Risk Factors in the 2023 Form 10-K for footnotes where applicable.
additional information.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
109 About This Report
All our policies, as well as the following standards, are posted on our website (available in English, Spanish, ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTACT INFORMATION
Dutch and French). More information about Newmont is available on our We welcome feedback on this report or any other
website. For details on our financial performance aspect of our sustainability performance. For a full
Policies Asset and Value Protection and governance structure, please refer to our 2023 list of contacts at Newmont, please visit Contact Us
Business Integrity Form 10-K, an annual overview of Newmont’s on our website.
Health, Safety and Security business and financial condition submitted to the
REPORT ASSURANCE
Operations and Resource Development U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Our 2024
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) is Newmont’s
Proxy Statement includes details on shareholder
People independent assurance provider for 2023
voting matters, our Board of Directors and practices
Sustainability and Stakeholder Engagement sustainability reporting. PwC’s assurance scope
related to executive compensation.
involves reviewing disclosures at the enterprise
Social and Air Emissions Management
environmental Biodiversity Management Our new Sustainability section on our website includes level, which encompasses data from the 12 operating
standards information on our approach (i.e., governance, risk sites managed by Newmont before the Newcrest
Closure and Reclamation Management
management, strategy and management approach) acquisition in November 2023. The scope also
Community Investment and Development
for the following material sustainability issues: includes some disclosures that are only reported
Cultural Heritage
at the site level (e.g., local employment).
• Business Integrity and Compliance
Hazardous Materials Management
Assurance on select publicly reported material data
Human Rights • Responsible Sourcing
was completed using the internationally recognized
Indigenous Peoples
• Health, Safety and Security ISAE 3000 Standard, aligned to recommendations
Land Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement
from ICMM.
Local Procurement and Employment • People and Culture
Product Stewardship PwC’s assurance is reflected in the Independent
• Human Rights
Limited Assurance Report for the following
Social Baseline and Impact Assessment
• Social Acceptance disclosures:
Stakeholder Relationship Management
Tailings Storage Facility and Heap Leach Facility Environmental Management • Energy and Climate Change • Selected performance metrics in our Annual
Tailings Storage Facility Technical and Operations Sustainability Report;
• Water Stewardship
Waste Management
• Our self-assessment of conformance with ICMM
Waste Rock and Ore Stockpile Facility Management • Tailings Management
Subject Matters as described in the assurance
Water Management • Biodiversity report and Performance Expectations; and
Human Compensation and Benefits • Closure and Reclamation • Our self-assessment of our conformance with the
resources Conduct and Non-discriminatory Treatment in Employment World Gold Council Responsible Gold Mining
standards • Materials
Employment Principles.
Global Inclusion and Diversity • Value Sharing
Ernst & Young (EY) provided assurance over select
Labor Relations
We also include details on our Responsible Mining publicly reported material data for sites acquired in the
Talent and Performance Management
Standards and Disclosures, Stakeholder Engagement Newcrest transaction. EY’s assurance is reflected in a
Third Party Worker and our support for the United Nations Sustainable separate Independent Limited Assurance Report.
Development Goals.
Newmont Corporation 2023 Sustainability Report
Newmont Corporation
6900 E. Layton Avenue, Suite 700
Denver, Colorado 80237 USA
303.863.7414
newmont.com
