Environmental, Social
& Governance Report
NOVEMBER 2023
Table of Contents
Introduction Fostering an Inclusive and
• About This Report 2 Engaged Culture 25
• Message From Our CEO 3 • Talent Management and Development 26
• About Nordson Corporation 4 • Inclusion and Diversity 31
• Our Approach to ESG 6 • Workplace Health and Safety 34
Measuring and Managing Caring for Our Communities 38
Our Environmental Footprint 7
Operating With Integrity
Delivering Responsible Products 15 and Responsibility 43
• Product Innovation 16 • Corporate Governance 44
• Product Quality and Safety 20 • Ethics and Compliance 47
• Supply Chain Responsibility 22 • Cybersecurity 50
ESG Data Summary 52
1
INTRODUCTION
About This Report
Thank you for your interest in Nordson Corporation’s
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) report.
This report carries forward strategies and commitments from our In preparing this report, we have been influenced by established
2021 and 2022 ESG publications, provides updates on metrics and ESG reporting standards, ratings organizations, and similar ESG
progress, and previews areas of expected evolution and maturity frameworks, including the Sustainability Accounting Standards
going forward. This year marks our third ESG disclosure in this Board (SASB), the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Task
format and second comprehensive report. There is intentional Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and the
consistency in the way we communicate many of our commitments, United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs).
accomplishments, and aspirations through an ESG lens, which We are cognizant of emerging global reporting requirements and
reflects how the underlying elements of ESG have been and remain believe our existing ESG foundation and strategy position us well to
central to Nordson’s culture and are embodied in our long-standing fulfill these upcoming requirements.
philosophy and values.
We welcome your questions and feedback regarding this
report at corporatecommunications@nordson.com.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 2
INTRODUCTION
Message
define our culture and fuel our successes,
and as such, we prioritize ongoing engagement,
From Our CEO career advancement, and a positive and inclusive work experience
throughout every phase of the employee life cycle.
For example, more than 250 leaders from across our global divisions
Dear Nordson Stakeholders, and support functions have participated in our NBS Next Accelerator
training program, which facilitates an in-depth understanding of the
At Nordson, the strength of our organization is reflected in the ways we
NBS Next business system and strengthens our company culture.
continue to embrace our values, demonstrate our team-focused culture,
and execute our vision on behalf of our customers, investors, employees, To recruit and develop our next generation of leaders, we launched our
communities, and other stakeholders. Our 2023 ESG Report demonstrates Commercial and Finance Leadership Development Programs, which
these commitments in action and outlines our progress in protecting the rotate recent college graduates through different roles in the Company.
environment, building Winning Teams, investing in our communities, and In support of employees from all background and circumstances,
delivering technology solutions that support sustainable development. we introduced new Employee Resource Groups that encourage our
employees to bring their authentic selves to work every day, and refined
Supplying products that matter while reducing our policies and benefits to ensure Nordson remains an employer of
our environmental footprint choice. We also remain vigilant in prioritizing the health and safety
of all our employees as part of our Journey to Zero initiative aimed at
Throughout Nordson’s history, we have leveraged our world-class ingenuity
eliminating all accidents through continuous improvement.
to develop products that help customers reduce their environmental
footprint by improving yields, maximizing efficiency, and reducing
Investing in our communities
scrap and material waste. We also deliver innovative solutions that
enable customers to utilize recycled and ecofriendly materials in their Beyond our own operations, we believe in giving back to our
manufacturing processes and to manufacture products that support communities through philanthropic contributions and participation
important environmental and social end uses, such as clean energy, medical in volunteer opportunities that reflect the causes we are passionate
and life sciences, and food security. Our recent acquisition of ARAG Group about. In FY22, Nordson and the Nordson Corporation Foundation
expands our market share to include sustainable agriculture. donated more than $13 million to programs in our communities. I
am particularly proud of the ways we expanded our matching gifts
The emissions reduction and clean energy targets we set last year have program by doubling our employer match to a 2:1 contribution and
motivated our teams to bring forward various ways to improve our expanding our network to more than 3,000 global nongovernmental
environmental footprint. Solar panels, insulation upgrades, process organizations that are now eligible to receive matching gifts.
improvements, and other impactful solutions that emerged position us well
to achieve our climate targets while also improving operations, providing In closing, thank you for your continued support as we continue to
long-term cost savings, and engaging our employees. We will continue implement our ESG strategy on behalf of all our stakeholders. I am
to foster a culture that recognizes the positive interconnection between proud to share the ways that, together, we are leveraging Nordson's
sustainability and lean manufacturing and uses data-driven frameworks to history of innovation and action to make the world a better place for
identify and pursue high-impact opportunities for improvement. all those we serve.
Building Winning Teams
At its core, the Winning Teams pillar of our Ascend strategy is about Sundaram Nagarajan
creating an engaging culture that attracts, retains, and develops top talent. President and Chief Executive Officer
We believe the diverse backgrounds and contributions of our people help
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 3
INTRODUCTION
Nordson by the Numbers*
$2.6
billion in sales
7,300
employees
About Nordson
35+
Corporation countries
Founded in 1954 and headquartered in
Westlake, Ohio
Delivering precision technology solutions to
help customers succeed worldwide. *For fiscal year ended October 31, 2022
Nordson Corporation is an innovative precision technology Our values – the principles by which we operate – provide a foundation
company that serves global customers in a wide variety of non- that reinforces the highest level of ethical behavior across all Nordson
durable, durable, and technology end markets, including packaging, operations. By integrating these values into every aspect of our business,
nonwovens, electronics, medical, appliances, energy, transportation, we assure the best for ourselves and our stakeholders.
construction, and general product assembly and finishing. We
• Integrity: We are honest with employees, customers, shareholders,
engineer, manufacture, and market differentiated products used
the media, and ourselves. We will do what is right. We will not
for dispensing adhesives, coatings, sealants, biomaterials, and other
compromise standards.
materials; for fluid management; for test and inspection; and for UV
curing and plasma surface treatment. We support our products with • Respect for People: We value employees. We thrive on teamwork,
direct global sales, service, and application expertise. collaboration, and diversity. We will not compromise safety.
We communicate openly and honestly. We give back to our
Our Corporate Philosophy and Values communities.
Nordson strives to be a vital, self-renewing global organization • Customer Passion: Quality and service come first. We expect more
that produces and grows wealth for our employees, customers, from ourselves than our customers do.
shareholders, and communities within the framework of ethical • Excellence: We expect the best from management, co-workers, and
behavior and enlightened citizenship. Our employees are the engine ourselves. We are not satisfied with work that is “average” or “OK.”
that drives our progress in this pursuit. We seek innovative approaches to create value.
• Energy: We approach challenges with an attitude of “lean forward,
let's get it done.” Enthusiasm drives the pace of our work. We care...
complacency is worse than our toughest competitor.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 4
INTRODUCTION
Our Growth Strategy for a Stronger Nordson
In 2021, we introduced our Ascend strategy, which is designed to deliver The Ascend strategy is guided by three interconnected pillars,
top-tier revenue growth with leading margins and returns. By FY25, with our culture and values serving as the foundation for
our financial goal is to deliver $3 billion in revenue and a 30% EBITDA everything we do. Our ESG program is intentionally aligned with
margin through organic and acquisitive growth. We are pursuing the principles of the Ascend strategy and NBS Next framework.
this goal in a manner consistent with the principles of sustainable
development, growing the Company in an environmentally and socially
responsible manner and within a sound governance framework.
Top-tier growth with leading margins and returns
NBS Owner Winning
Next Mindset Teams
GROWTH FRAMEWORK DIVISION-LED TALENT STRATEGY
■ Sustain organic growth ■ Data drives action ■ Enhance depth and diversity
■ Accelerate acquisitions ■ Entrepreneurial, accountable ■ Enrich inclusive culture
Culture & Values
NBS Next Owner Mindset Winning Teams
IMPACT ON HOW Driving profitable growth Creating an agile organization Creating an engaging culture that
WE MANAGE THE by selecting and investing where our leaders are empowered attracts and retains top people
BUSINESS OVERALL disproportionately in the best to make growth-focused who are key to delivering on the
growth opportunities. decisions close to the customer. long-term growth objectives of
the Company.
IMPACT ON HOW Applying disciplined, data- Encouraging and enabling Developing a purpose-driven,
WE APPROACH ESG driven analysis to prioritize division and site leaders to make inclusive, and diverse culture
improvements and opportunities decisions and execute strategy that helps to create a shared
with the most beneficial impact. most impactful to their business strategic vision and attract,
and their stakeholders, within a retain, and motivate top talent.
centralized framework of guiding
principles, corporate support,
and oversight.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 5
INTRODUCTION
Our Approach to ESG
Guided by our corporate philosophy and values, we are focused on the ESG issues most important
to our Company and our stakeholders.
OUR COMMITMENT PRIORITIES AND ACTIVITIES
Our Footprint – Pursuing capital investments, process improvements, clean energy, and
Measuring and Managing carbon offsets to reduce our environmental impact and preserve our environment
our Environmental
Risks and Opportunities – Monitoring and addressing climate-related risks and
Footprint
opportunities
Product Innovation – Solving customers’ challenges and supporting sustainable
development goals
Delivering Responsible
Products Product Quality and Safety – Uncompromising quality and performance
Supply Chain Responsibility – Sourcing materials in an ethical and compliant manner
Talent Management and Development – Recruiting, developing, engaging, and recognizing
our workforce
Fostering an Inclusive Inclusion and Diversity – Fostering an inclusive, diverse, and supportive workplace
and Engaged Culture for all employees
Workplace Health and Safety – Ensuring the safety of our employees through prevention
and preparation
Charitable Giving – Impacting through direct grants and matching gifts programs
Caring for Our
Communities Volunteering – Organizing and encouraging volunteer opportunities
Corporate Governance – Attentive oversight structures with diverse skills, experience, and
attributes
Operating With Integrity
Ethics and Compliance – Unwavering commitment to acting with integrity
and Responsibility
Cybersecurity – Protecting through technology controls, training, planning, and incident
response
Read about Nordson's approach to ESG oversight in the Corporate Governance section of this report.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 6
Measuring and Managing
Our Environmental Footprint
IN THIS SECTION
• Philosophy and Strategy
• Board and Management Oversight
• Climate Targets and Performance
• Risks and Opportunities
7
MEASURING AND MANAGING
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
Measuring and Managing
Our Environmental Footprint
Environmental Responsibility Philosophy
Nordson is committed to operating safely and efficiently to minimize our environmental footprint,
improve and protect our environment, serve emerging market opportunities, and reduce risk to our
business, our communities, and our stakeholders.
OUR FOOTPRINT OUR PRODUCTS
Preserving Resources & Procuring and Generating Higher Yield, Less Waste, Environmentally Conscious
Reducing Consumption Clean Electricity Less Scrap End Uses
CLIMATE TARGETS DELIVERING RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS see page 15
50% reduction net zero 70%
Achieve a Achieve Procure of electricity
in net Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO from renewable sources
2 2
emissions by 2030* emissions by 2050 by 2050
39% complete 19% complete 3% complete
For detailed data, please see the ESG Data Summary.
* Based on a 2021 gross emissions baseline, adjusted for acquisitions/divestitures NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 8
MEASURING AND MANAGING
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
Our Climate Strategy
Nordson’s climate strategy is guided by the emergence of science-based targets and leading frameworks and standards, including
recommendations from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the Science Based Targets initiative to limit global
warming to within a 1.5° C scenario. Our strategy is comprised of the following tenets and underlying activities:
INITIATIVE PROGRESS
Multimillion dollar annual capital allocation for sustainability-related projects.
Over 30 projects proposed in 2022 and 2023. Read more on page 11.
External energy consultant and internal corporate subject matter experts
Operational
support site leaders in evaluating projects and opportunities.
Improvements
and Efficiency
Cellular manufacturing improvements drive efficiency and reduce waste,
Enhancements
providing sustainability, operational, and financial benefits.
Preserving
Resources
Biennial facility survey monitors for best practices, areas of focus, and
& Reducing
overall progress.
Consumption
Nature-based carbon offsets help sequester carbon emissions, promote
biodiversity, improve air and water quality, and support local and indigenous
cultures and communities. Read more on page 12.
Carbon Offsets
Carbon offset costs internalize the cost of emissions and keep us accountable
to our long-term climate goals. Carbon offsets are in parallel to – not in lieu of –
emissions abatement and clean energy efforts.
Through the sustainability capital allocation program, four key onsite solar
generation opportunities emerged in 2023 – at one of our highest-consuming
sites (Loveland, Colorado, U.S.), at one of our highest-cost sites (Aylesbury,
Onsite Solar Generation
UK), at our global headquarters (Westlake, Ohio, U.S.), and at a site expected to
generate 100% of electricity demand from solar (Bangalore, India). Read more
Procuring and on page 11.
Generating
Clean Energy Increased purchasing of certified renewable energy credits in U.S. and Asia
during 2022 and 2023.
Offsite Procurement
Evaluating in-region or bundled renewable energy credits and local virtual
power purchase agreement opportunities to support clean energy development
within the grids in which we consume energy.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 9
MEASURING AND MANAGING
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
Oversight and Responsibilities
Our Environmental Policy outlines Nordson’s commitment to Our disciplined, data-driven approach seeks to prioritize and
conduct business in a manner consistent with the objectives of allocate our resources to the most impactful opportunities and
sustainable development, carefully balancing economic success with risk mitigation needs.
environmental stewardship and social progress. We are mindful
of our role in addressing climate change, and we are committed Nordson’s 2022 Environmental Performance
to measuring and reducing our impact on the environment in
In 2022, we significantly decreased our net emissions against our
alignment with our organizational values.
2021 baseline, primarily due to continued nature-based carbon
Consistent with Nordson’s Ascend strategy, we foster an Owner offset purchases and improved emissions factors (i.e., a cleaner
Mindset that empowers division and site leaders to be proactive grid in certain regions). We recognize the transitional nature
in managing their business and operations within a framework of this progress and remain committed to pursuing abatement
of centralized governance, support, and oversight. Division and through facility improvements to reduce consumption and
site leaders are responsible for local execution, while a centralized increasing clean energy generation and procurement. Our
team is responsible for Company-wide oversight, support, sustainability capital allocation program began in late 2022,
and identification of any key risks or negative trends. We share and some projects came online in 2023, though many remain
information about positive trends, key opportunities, and best in the planning, approval, or installation stage. We therefore
practices within the Company to enhance employee awareness, did not expect a measurable impact in our 2022 data from our
drive further adoption, and develop a culture that recognizes sustainability capital allocation program. As projects come
sustainability and environmental stewardship as important online during the remainder of 2023 and in 2024, we expect
Company values. Targeted communications and engagement with that our energy and emissions data in future reports will
site operations and commercial leaders reinforce the availability of reflect their impact. In the meantime, we will continue to
sustainability-related resources, as well as Company leadership’s invest in nature-based carbon offsets and focus on offsite
commitment to sustainability and achieving our climate targets. clean energy procurement.
Learn more about our 2022 environmental performance
in our ESG Data Summary.
Our Commitments and Progress
2021 2022 2023
• Committed to improving our • Established a Scope 1 and • Focused on the rollout and
environmental data collection Scope 2 CO emissions baseline execution of our climate
2
capabilities to establish and climate-related targets. framework strategy.
baselines, set targets, and take
• Introduced Company-wide • Established Governance and
impactful, data-driven actions to
climate strategy, including Sustainability Board Committee.
reduce our own environmental
sustainability-focused capital Read more in the Corporate
footprint.
allocation. Governance section of this report.
NNOORRDDSSOONN EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall && GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt 1100
MEASURING AND MANAGING
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
Delivering Diverse Energy and Environmental
Conserving Water in a High-Risk Region
Solutions With Our Division-Led, Owner Mindset
In 2023, our Guaymas, Mexico, facility installed
Nordson’s division-led, Owner Mindset encourages a wide variety
a water filtration system expected to save
of projects based on individual sites’ needs and opportunities,
approximately 750,000 gallons of water per year in
within the larger Company-wide framework and climate targets. We
a geographic area of “extremely high” water risk,
encourage strategic projects that deliver environmental benefits as
as defined by the World Resources Institute. We
well as financial, operational, safety, or other overlapping benefits.
identified Guaymas’ water consumption as a high-
impact opportunity in our 2021 facility survey and
Examples of emerging sustainability improvement opportunities at
approached the site operations team, who had
Nordson include:
previously considered a water filtration solution but
• Loveland, Colorado, U.S.: We have scoped a large-scale solar
encountered barriers due to the highly regulated
ground mount array, and the project is under consideration
nature of medical device manufacturing at the facility.
for future implementation. The system would provide With support from a renewed leadership focus on
approximately 2 million kWh per year of green energy to one of sustainability, the team successfully completed the
our highest-consuming electricity sites. Loveland implemented installation and qualification. It is a great example
LED lighting improvements in 2023 and is planning equipment of site operations exercising an Owner Mindset to
upgrades and other measures to reduce overall energy develop and implement an impactful solution, with
consumption. the support of a company culture that increasingly
recognizes the importance of sustainability.
• Aylesbury, UK: A planned rooftop solar installation is
expected to provide renewable energy to one of our highest-cost
electricity sites, helping to reduce our emissions, control costs,
and reduce summer sun exposure to better control the facility
temperature and improve employee comfort. The project is
underway and expected to come online in late 2023 or in 2024.
• Muenster, Germany: The team is planning to install thermal
strip curtains to improve building efficiency while loading
dock doors are open. The strip curtains will serve as insulation
to retain warm air during the winter and cold air during the
summer, while allowing forklifts, employees, and trucks to
move in and out of the loading docks. Muenster installed a
combined heat and power solution several years ago, among
other measures to improve building efficiency.
• Bangalore, India: We have scoped and are reviewing plans
to replace the facility’s existing roof with insulated roofing to
better control the facility temperature and improve building
efficiency, and to install a solar system sized to generate
approximately 100% of the facility’s annual electricity needs.
Any excess electricity generated from our solar panels would
feed back into the grid, providing clean energy to our neighbors
in the community.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 11
MEASURING AND MANAGING
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
• Westlake, Ohio, U.S.: At our LEED Silver certified global Investing in Carbon Offsets
headquarters, plans are scoped to install rooftop solar panels.
We purchase nature-based carbon offsets in the
By leveraging all available roof space with bifacial panels and communities and regions where Nordson operates and/or
a white membrane roof, we expect to offset approximately in areas of recognized high biodiversity. In 2023, we invested
25% to 30% of facility energy use. We purchased certified in the following nature-based carbon offset projects:
carbon offsets from the Western Reserve Land Conservancy
United States
to protect the Whittlesey Beach Ridge Forest in Northeast
• St. Elmo Forest Preservation (Tennessee)*
Ohio equal to 100% of our 2022 emissions from our
Westlake headquarters. • Anneewakee Forest Preservation (Georgia)*
• Boyle, Ireland: We improved windows and insulation in • City of Providence (Rhode Island)*
2023, which solidified the building’s envelope and enhanced • Cold Hollow to Canada (Vermont)*
efficiency, in addition to improving site security and
• Two Hearted River Forest Reserve (Michigan)*
employee comfort.
• Green Minneapolis (Minnesota)*
• U.S./Canada Hybrid Cars: In 2023, we began replacing
• Whittlesey Beach Ridge Forest (Ohio)*
our gas-powered U.S. and Canadian fleet vehicles with gas/
electric hybrid alternatives and will continue to do so as • National Forest Recovery (U.S.)
vehicles cycle out. We expect to transition substantially all
Brazil
our U.S. and Canadian fleet to hybrid gas/electric vehicles
• Reforest the Amazon Basin
over the next three to five years.
India
• Waste Reduction: Throughout 2022 and 2023, we
• Reforestation of Degraded Land by MTPL in India*
implemented several waste reduction initiatives, including
• Trees for Tigers
a packaging simplification effort in Norwich, Connecticut,
to reduce corrugated cardboard and the introduction of Kenya
reusable shipping containers in Swainsboro, Georgia, to • Bore Subsistence Farming
reduce single-use packaging materials and waste.
Anneewakee Forest Preservation, Douglas County, Georgia.
* Indicates a third-party certified project.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 12
MEASURING AND MANAGING
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
Tracking Performance Understanding Our Climate Change Risks
and Opportunities
Successful environmental management and meaningful
sustainability and efficiency improvements require accurate, Our annual global enterprise risk management (ERM) survey
complete data, which enables us to set targets, prioritize the most is an important tool in assessing a variety of risks across our
impactful opportunities, and track our progress. Our utility Company. Our ERM survey includes a question set influenced
bill management (UBM) system allows us to centrally track and by Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
analyze electricity, natural gas, water, and waste data. recommendations pertaining to transition risks and physical risks
associated with climate change.
In 2022, we completed the implementation of all global sites into
our UBM system for electricity and natural gas data and began In addition, on a biennial basis, we survey Nordson facility
the process of implementation for water and waste consumption operations leaders to gather information and insights into the
data across our facilities. We have made substantial progress in adoption of sustainability practices and climate-related risks or
our efforts and are reporting water data for approximately 75% opportunities at a facility level. This information helps us react
of our sites over 5,000 square feet in this report, with plans to appropriately to emerging trends or business needs.
implement water data collection for the remainder of our sites
in 2023 and 2024. Implementing waste data collection from our We believe the increasing focus on counteracting climate change
sites into our UBM system has proven challenging due to the presents several opportunities for Nordson:
lack of standardization for waste data and invoicing. We have • Higher precision: Nordson’s precision technology solutions
successfully onboarded approximately 50% of our sites over support customers who seek efficient and sustainable
5,000 square feet into our UBM system for waste data and will manufacturing by improving yields, reducing material
continue to pursue waste data collection throughout our sites. consumption, and delivering innovative capabilities relating
to material recycling and the use of more sustainable
materials.
• Premium quality and durability: Nordson equipment is
generally designed around a long-lasting core with routine
wear-and-tear replacement parts, which extends the overall
product life and reduces waste.
• Innovative features: Many of our product innovations take
the form of new accessories, software upgrades, or other
methods that do not require a full system replacement to
realize continuous product improvements.
The BKG® HiCon™ R-Type is ideal for recycling polymer melts from the family
of olefins and styrenes with a high contamination degree.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 13
MEASURING AND MANAGING
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT
The need for climate change solutions also opens new markets and
applications for our products. For example, we have developed
a robust, cross-divisional approach to battery markets serving
Acquisitions Support
electric vehicles and the electric grid. We also continue to partner
Sustainable Innovation
with customers to provide solutions that enable more sustainable
manufacturing methods and the capability to incorporate Nordson’s recent acquisition history reflects how
biomaterials and more environmentally friendly materials into their our growth strategy is consistent with sustainability
manufacturing processes. Through our Ascend strategy and NBS principles and opportunities. Most recently, in August
Next growth framework, we will continue to target strategic growth 2023, Nordson completed the acquisition of the ARAG
segments and apply a disciplined approach to product innovation Group. Originally established in 1976 and based
and development that anticipates and responds to customer and in Rubiera, Italy, ARAG is a precision agriculture
market trends, including the increasing focus on environmentally company that offers innovative spraying, dispensing,
conscious and climate change-related end markets and applications. and software solutions to help customers boost crop
yields while reducing the usage of fertilizers and
chemicals. Our acquisitions of NDC Technologies in
2021 and CyberOptics in 2022 provide innovative
solutions for quality-related testing, inspection,
measurement, and control processes that enable
customers to closely monitor production, optimize
manufacturing processes, and minimize scrap
and waste.
ARAG precision agriculture products at work.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 14
Delivering
Responsible Products
IN THIS SECTION
• Product Innovation
• Product Quality and Safety
• Supply Chain Responsibility
1155
DELIVERING RESPONSIBLE
PRODUCTS
Product Innovation
Nordson is a global leader providing precision technology Bolstering Our Product Offerings
solutions to solve customer needs in a wide range of Aimed at the Future
end markets and applications. As customer needs and
In 2023, Nordson acquired the precision
market opportunities increasingly involve environmental
agriculture company, ARAG Group. ARAG
and social considerations, our product innovations and specializes in precision-based agriculture
commercialization strategies naturally follow suit. applications and smart control systems,
which allow farmers to manage their land and
crops more effectively and sustainably. This
Delivering Products With Environmental and
technology is crucial for farmers and our society,
Social Benefits
as the dispensing and control systems allow for
Nordson technology solutions contribute to a diverse array of environmental greater crop yield, increased profitability, and
and social benefits, including several of the UN Sustainable Development decreased resource usage. With a decreasing
Goals. The precision, durability, and innovative features of our equipment amount of arable land and an increase in the
drive resource efficiency and reduce waste, creating value for our customers world’s population, ARAG’s products remain
and benefits to the environment. Our technology enables methods of all the more important for a stable food supply
manufacturing by our customers that utilize environmentally friendly while limiting environmental impact.
materials in everyday items, such as baby diapers, hygiene products, and food
and beverage packaging. We also deliver products and solutions that support
growing opportunities in connection with climate change, clean energy,
and converging environmental topics, such as the advanced battery market,
plastics recycling, precision agriculture, and the avoidance of solvents
through powder coating systems.
The end-use applications of our products deliver a variety of social benefits.
For example, we contribute to the health and well-being of our communities
by developing and manufacturing medical devices and components. Our
product applications in agriculture and food and beverage manufacturing
and packaging also contribute to food security and production stability.
Industrial manufacturing using Nordson equipment helps sustain
productive work and economic growth across our communities and supports
advancements across international industry, innovation, and infrastructure.
Products manufactured using Nordson equipment – ranging from
family care necessities to semiconductors, from construction materials to
automobiles – help to provide basic services and fulfill essential needs.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 16
DELIVERING RESPONSIBLE
PRODUCTS
Our Portfolio of Products Delivering Environmental and Social Benefits
» CLEAN ENERGY AND RECYCLING » MEETING BASIC NEEDS
Clean Energy and Advanced Battery Advancing the Circular Economy Precision Technology Throughout
Manufacturing Solutions for Plastics Agriculture and Food and Beverage
Life Cycle
Our advanced battery production capabilities As the demand for innovative waste solutions
play a vital role in increasing the capacity and has increased, Nordson delivers sustainable Nordson products are used throughout the
adoption of renewable energy, as some forms – and reliable technologies that promote a agriculture, food, and beverage industries,
such as wind and solar – require extensive energy circular economy. In our Polymer Processing helping to meet basic needs and provide
storage. Our cross-divisional approach serves the Systems division, we have advanced a line food security and production stability.
battery market at all stages of manufacturing, of products that targets efficient resource Nordson dispensing equipment is used
including manufacturing components such use by extending the life and quality of to fabricate cartons and containers, apply
as anodes and cathodes; cell manufacturing recycled plastic and facilitating the use labels, seal boxes, and other important steps
with our custom-engineered extrusion and die of bio-based solutions. Products include in delivering food to kitchens and grocery
systems; and module production and battery BKG®CrystallCut®, BKG®FlexDisc™, BKG® stores. We are continuously innovating to
pack assembly using our fluid dispensing HiConTM K-SWE-HD/RS, and EDI® find more environmentally conscious and
systems. Nordson products, such as the AXI Extrusion Die Systems. These and other material-efficient means of production. For
X-Series x-ray inspection system and the AMI product lines support the recycling and reuse example, our Triple Manifold Dies used in
D9650 acoustic microscopy system, are used of different plastics, including plastics with multi-layer packaging film provide a better
throughout the value stream in the manufacture a high degree of contamination that present layer of thickness uniformity compared
of electric vehicles and green energy production difficult manufacturing challenges. with alternative methods, allowing users to
technologies, including the manufacture consume less plastic. This product also plays
and testing of key electronics component an important role in reducing food spoilage
and subassemblies. Nordson powder coating and waste in the global distribution chain.
equipment is used to manufacture items for Nordson measurement and control food gauge
the electric grid infrastructure. solutions are critical for ensuring food quality
and safety during the preparation, baking, and
production process.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 17
DELIVERING RESPONSIBLE
PRODUCTS
Our Portfolio of Products Delivering Environmental and Social Benefits
» MEETING BASIC NEEDS » HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
Safe and Sustainable Family Care Life-Saving Medical Devices Healthcare and Life Science
Manufacturing Equipment
Nordson’s bonding technologies enable Our biomaterial delivery devices allow surgeons
the creation of baby products made from to precisely and accurately place biomaterials, In addition to manufacturing medical devices
natural and plant-based materials. We invest such as injections of bone graft material and components ourselves, we manufacture the
in technologies such as our TrioTM Variable during spinal and other orthopedic surgeries. equipment that companies use to produce and
Dispense Slot Applicator, which bonds natural Our fluid management components – package medical devices, personal protective
materials to form disposable hygiene products. including a range of fittings, couplings, valves, equipment (PPE), and other medical and life
In addition, these bonding technologies are and other connectors – enable healthcare science products. Nordson equipment is vital
compatible with other diaper production providers to quickly and safely connect fluid to the manufacture of respiratory equipment
solutions, including our PureFlowTM hoses, management systems, such as IV and drug such as ventilators. Nordson applicators, such
which reduce adhesive stress and degradation, delivery components, dialysis equipment, and as the Harmony® Applicators, and gear pumps
thereby contributing to higher yields and biopharmaceutical manufacturing. These and screen changers are instrumental at different
less material waste and consumption. Our items played an important role during the stages of producing masks, medical gowns, and
Harmony® Applicators enable customers to development and production of COVID other PPE and medical supplies. Nordson also
run precise production at high speeds, and vaccines. We produce leading catheter, cannula, developed solutions that dispense reagents for
the platform’s tiered product portfolio provides tubing, nitinol, and balloon components, diagnostic test strips, including diabetic test kits,
options for melting and applying adhesives, and finished devices, many of which enable COVID tests, and more.
lotions, or fragrances to family and elder minimally invasive and other innovative surgical
care products. procedures. We are continuously innovating to
incorporate more environmentally conscious
materials in our products and to improve
manufacturing processes to reduce our energy,
water, and waste.
Learn more about how Nordson products support
environmental and social benefits on our website.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 18
DELIVERING RESPONSIBLE
PRODUCTS
Demonstrating Our Commitment to Sustainability
Through Product Design
New regulations in the EU to promote the circular economy have a
significant impact on packaging practices by requiring a higher proportion
of recycled content in packaging materials. The use of recycled content
creates manufacturing challenges for packaging manufacturers because
there is a higher degree of contaminants in the raw materials than in virgin
materials. Melt filters are an important aspect of plastics production as they
filter out those contaminants. With recycled materials, screens used in the
filters become clogged more quickly and require more frequent changing,
but they are expensive and changing them can be time-consuming. To
address this problem, Nordson introduced the BKG® HiConTM K-SWE-HD/RS
recycling filter, which is specially designed for blown film lines. The product
uses backflushing to clear screens of contaminants and deposits without
any pressure loss, which is crucial for blown film applications, significantly
reducing the need for screen changes and encouraging the use of recyclate
in production by reducing downtime, increasing yields, and improving
quality. Read more in our case study.
BKG® HiCon™ K-SWE-HD/RS Recycling Filter
for Blown Film Applications.
Nordson Recognized for Sustainable Packaging Innovation
Nordson was recently awarded a bronze medal in the Blue Planet
Sustainable Packaging awards at the International Packaging Innovation
Forum (IPIF) in Shanghai. The theme of the 2023 IPIF was “gathering
the whole industrial chain to promote the sustainable development of
packaging.” Nordson’s award was based on our innovative approach to
palletization – using precision adhesive dispensing to secure items on
pallets in a way that significantly reduces other packaging materials,
such a pallet wrap film or separation inserts.
Nordson team receiving a bronze medal in the Blue
Planet Sustainable Packaging awards.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 19
DELIVERING RESPONSIBLE
PRODUCTS
Product Quality and Safety
The quality and safety of our products are foundational to our reputation and
relationships with customers. We source responsibly and evaluate thoroughly to ensure
that our products meet or exceed the highest standards and regulations.
Our Approach to Product Quality and Safety
Nordson’s strategy for regulating the quality and safety of our We are closely monitoring legislation related to cobalt and
products is twofold. First, we maintain awareness about and oversight per- and polyfluoroalkyl (PFAS) substances that may impact
of general product content regulations and requirements to ensure our sourcing and products. Nordson’s commitment to safe and
that we are prepared for our own compliance and to support our ethical product content means that these topics are a priority,
customers’ compliance. Second, we cascade communication and and we are exploring alternatives and other mitigation approaches.
resources to the division level through newsletters, meetings, and a We offer divisional resources and training on PFAS and update
centralized knowledge base accessible to all employees. Each division is our employees whenever new or updated legislation or initiatives
responsible for disseminating information and managing compliance are announced.
for their products, with corporate and external subject matter
expert support.
The Corporate Product Compliance Council, which consists of cross-
functional corporate and division representatives, is responsible for
managing Nordson’s compliance with product content regulations
and standards. The Council meets quarterly to discuss emerging
regulations and potential solutions for any impacted products. The
Council leader also distributes a monthly newsletter regarding these
regulations to maintain Company-wide awareness. In addition
to internal resources and expertise, we work closely with outside
expert advisors to understand current and future requirements and
regulatory trends.
In September 2022, Nordson hosted a two-day training event to
build our knowledge base and foster cross-divisional connections.
We received positive feedback from the session and anticipate hosting
periodic future product compliance events to maintain awareness,
share lessons and best practices, and continue to develop and support
a strong compliance culture among cross-divisional specialists.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 20
DELIVERING RESPONSIBLE
PRODUCTS
Compliance With Regulations and Standards
In order to assemble safe, high-quality products, we must ensure
that we are in full compliance with regional, national, state, and local Leveraging New Resources to Enhance
regulations and standards in all countries where Nordson products Due Diligence and Compliance
are sold. These include the European Union (EU) Registration,
In early 2023, we engaged a leading third-party
Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH)
expert provider to streamline and enhance many
Regulation, and the EU Restriction of Hazardous Substances
of our in-house product content and product
(RoHS) Directive, among others. Our adherence to these regulations
compliance processes across the organization.
is supported by our Restricted Substances Program. Our Conflict
The new platform centralizes resources relevant
Minerals Policy includes our disclosures of due diligence and sourcing
for conflict minerals, suppliers, and due diligence
practices concerning the use of “conflict minerals.”
reporting, among other areas. As a result, we can
deliver information to our customers quicker,
Our Restricted Substances Program includes guidance on restricted
provide more thorough details and data, and
substance regulations, planning, analysis, and procedural discipline.
standardize our reporting. We can also offer
Our Corporate Product Compliance Council developed the program
supplier training to Nordson’s suppliers, which
to define, create, and implement effective restricted substance control
expands our capabilities as we work collaboratively
policies consistently across operations.
with our supply chain in several areas, including
We maintain the quality of our products through: product compliance.
• Division-specific quality management systems (QMS) that
document the structure, responsibilities, and procedures
required to identify, measure, control, and improve core business
line processes.
• Quality assurance representatives throughout each division in
charge of its QMS.
• Processes to monitor for product safety issues and to
conduct appropriate investigation, root cause analysis, and
corrective action.
Many of our facilities pursue International
• Reduction or elimination of the Cost of Poor Quality (COPQ),
Organization for Standardization (ISO)
which includes defined targets and objectives.
quality management certifications. Visit
• Thorough review of new acquisitions to ensure safe operations,
our ISO Information page for a list of
including an analysis of substances or chemicals used and
Nordson’s ISO-certified facilities.
appropriate substitution of less hazardous chemicals.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 21
DELIVERING RESPONSIBLE
PRODUCTS
Supply Chain Responsibility
Nordson is committed to purchasing materials of the highest quality from suppliers and
vendors who adhere to safe and ethical practices at their own facilities and promote the
same values throughout their value stream.
Our Approach to Supply Chain Responsibility After emerging from COVID-related supply chain disruptions –
and while remaining cognizant of potential logistical, geopolitical,
Consistent with other areas of our business and our Ascend
and climate-related supply challenges – we are working to establish
strategy, Nordson employs a division-led supply chain
more regional ecosystems for sourcing. Nordson is also continuously
management program to enable agile, close-to-the-customer
working to improve the integration and interconnection between
decision-making within a centralized framework of oversight,
different key databases to enhance our compliance and monitoring
support, and cross-divisional collaboration.
capabilities while also streamlining our sourcing processes.
We recently focused on consolidating and strengthening
Our Policies
relationships with strategic suppliers, especially those with
a geographic footprint that aligns with Nordson’s. Sourcing Our suppliers are expected to comply with our Code of Ethics for
personnel at the division and site levels drive decisions around Suppliers and Third-Party Service Providers (Supplier Code), which
material flow and operational needs, while centralized personnel includes requirements for safe and fair working conditions, ethical
provide support in managing strategic cross-divisional vendor business practices, continuous improvement, and overall legal and
relationships. Monthly calls with central and division supply regulatory compliance. In particular, suppliers are expected to:
leaders provide an opportunity to share solutions, challenges, and
• Manage their business in an ethical and responsible way with
resources and to strengthen our overall culture.
respect to human rights.
• Manage their business in a sustainable and responsible way,
meeting all applicable environmental rules, regulations, and
laws in the countries where they do business.
• Comply with applicable laws and standards relating to
hazardous or restricted substances, and cooperate and comply
with Nordson’s reasonable requests, requirements, and
instructions relating to hazardous or restricted substances.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 22
DELIVERING RESPONSIBLE
PRODUCTS
We take appropriate corrective actions against suppliers that violate Supplier Symposium
our Supplier Code. Where possible, we first try to work collaboratively
To better collaborate with our suppliers, our
with noncompliant suppliers to address the issue at hand, thereby Swainsboro, Georgia, facility hosted a Supplier
improving the supplier’s performance while maintaining our supply Symposium in 2022 for its top strategic suppliers.
chain. However, where significant issues are identified or issues persist This event showcased the efficiencies we
without remediation, we will terminate the relationship. We will never are creating with our products and included
do business with any supplier that we know is in violation of Nordson’s an open forum on how other suppliers and
standards or applicable laws regarding child labor, slavery, human partners can do the same. The topics discussed
trafficking, or other human rights issues. included cellular manufacturing and creating
efficiencies, methods for reducing waste, and
The Supplier Code incorporates other key human rights and ethics
simplification of components for increased
policies, including our Policy Against Human Trafficking & Slavery
reliability and quality. Through these supplier-
for Suppliers, which seeks to align with the California Transparency in
focused collaborations, we simplify our business
Supply Chains Act of 2010 and the United Kingdom Modern Slavery
processes and enhance relationships.
Act. All Nordson employees are assigned annual Code of Conduct
training that includes content on forced labor prevention. Additionally,
we recently introduced a more in-depth forced labor prevention
training for Nordson’s Human Resources and Supply Chain groups.
The training focuses on potential risk areas, warning signs, and how
to respond to and report any potential concerns. It also helps Nordson
personnel understand forced labor from a survivor’s perspective.
Nordson is aware of the evolving global regulatory landscape with
respect to forced labor and we are taking steps to fulfill our own
requirements and to support our customers in fulfilling theirs.
Our Conflict Minerals Policy outlines our commitment to comply
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission disclosure
requirements. We will refrain from knowingly, directly or indirectly,
taking or supporting any action that contributes to the financing of
armed groups that are committing human rights abuses in certain
covered countries. We evaluate our supply chain annually for the
potential presence of conflict minerals and survey suppliers that may
have conflict minerals in the products supplied to Nordson.
Optimizing Our Supplier Locations and
Shipping Routes
As part of ongoing efforts to simplify our supply chain, we are
focused on establishing regional ecosystems of suppliers closer to our
manufacturing facilities. This involves strategic partnerships with
global suppliers whose geographic footprint resembles Nordson’s.
Where a regional source is not possible, we are evaluating regional
supplier-managed warehousing so that products are more quickly and
reliably available to our production teams. In addition to strengthening
our supply chain and manufacturing operations, these initiatives can
reduce our environmental footprint by shifting our transportation
method away from air travel and reducing the distance that products
need to travel overall.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 23
DELIVERING RESPONSIBLE
PRODUCTS
The Value of Supplier Collaboration
Engaging With Trusted Suppliers
We recently collaborated with a supplier to our Norwich,
We work to thoroughly understand and develop our relationships
Connecticut, U.S., facility to reduce the number of SKUs
with suppliers. Our policy for supplier onboarding and risk
for specific product packaging. The project was initially
management incorporates both initial due diligence and
implemented to minimize needed storage space,
ongoing monitoring:
decrease the amount of inventory necessary on hand,
• Third-Party Due Diligence and Risk Evaluation: Before
and reduce complexity. The initiative also resulted in
engaging with a new supplier, we perform a credit and risk
cost savings and significantly reduced waste in our
report through a third-party partner to assess potential
warehouse. Additionally, we were able to reduce the
controversies, including environmental, social, and legal/
number of corrugate suppliers, which aligns with our
compliance issues. Our third-party partner monitors active
overall strategy to simplify our supply chain. As a result,
suppliers for new controversies and will flag any concerns we can more accurately track our existing stock and
for Nordson’s review. In 2022, we improved the integration simplify our ordering system.
between our central planning software system and our
third-party diligence provider so that supplier due diligence
information is more readily accessible to our team.
• Supplier Assessments: New suppliers are required
to complete our comprehensive supplier assessment
questionnaire, which covers topics such as ethics, compliance,
Supplier Diversity
diversity, human rights, and health, safety, and security.
• Supplier Evaluation: New suppliers are subject to a formal Our support for diversity extends to our supplier engagements,
supplier evaluation prior to being added to our approved and supplier diversity is integrated into our Ascend strategy.
supplier list. Subsequent supplier evaluations are conducted We value inclusive economic growth and aspire to increase our
on a risk-based frequency, with the intent of evaluating top annual spend with diverse suppliers, which we define in the U.S.
and critical suppliers on an annual basis. Evaluations cover as a company that is at least 51% owned, controlled, and operated
topics such as risk management, employee training, health, by a racial or ethnic minority, woman, veteran, disabled person,
safety, and security, and compliance with our Supplier Code or lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender person. We have recently
and applicable laws and standards. Supplier evaluations are focused on improving our collection of supplier diversity data,
typically conducted onsite at the supplier’s premises. which we make available internally for divisions to consider in
their purchasing discussions and decisions.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 24
Fostering an Inclusive
and Engaged Culture
IN THIS SECTION
• Talent Management and Development
• Inclusion and Diversity
• Workplace Health and Safety
2255
FOSTERING AN INCLUSIVE AND
ENGAGED CULTURE
Talent Management
and Development
Attracting and retaining Winning Teams relies How We Develop and Sustain Winning Teams
on our ability to offer personal and professional
• Inspiring trust through clear communication,
growth opportunities, create a rewarding employee respect, honesty, and authenticity
experience, and foster an inclusive and diverse
• Focusing on inclusion, diversity, collaboration,
workplace. We strive to uphold a culture of shared and a strong community
knowledge, appreciation, and success.
• Creating an engaging culture that encourages
experimentation and embraces change as an
Winning Teams
opportunity to create differentiation
Winning Teams, one of three interconnected pillars of Nordson’s
Ascend strategy, guides our approach to talent management and
development. Winning Teams supports – and is supported by –
an agile and inclusive culture. This drives profitable growth by
ensuring that everyone at Nordson can learn, adapt, grow, and lead
inclusively in an increasingly complex and diverse world. Employees
at all levels should feel empowered and responsible for contributing
“It is imperative that we invest intentionally in our
to our goal of fostering Winning Teams.
people, ensuring that we are building deep and
diverse teams, developing leaders that inspire
collaboration and trust, and creating a culture
Interconnected NBS Next Elements –
Positive Culture, Sustainable Growth that is inclusive and engaging for all employees
from all backgrounds. We want everyone to feel
STRATEGIC DISCIPLINE (drives the focus) safe, valued, and included as part of the Nordson
team. Without carefully nurturing the right
culture and engaging all employees, the other
CUSTOMER SUCCESS pillars of our strategy cannot succeed.”
PRODUCT INNOVATION
Sarah Siddiqui
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT Executive Vice President and
Chief Human Resources Officer
ORGANIZATIONAL AGILITY (fostering the culture)
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 26
FOSTERING AN INCLUSIVE AND
ENGAGED CULTURE
Nordson’s Foundational Attributes
To guide our Winning Teams and maintain an agile and inclusive culture, we have a carefully curated set of
Foundational Attributes that helps guide our employees and Company toward growth. Embodying these attributes
builds our strength and resilience, individually and together. Our Foundational Attributes are incorporated into our
performance management and review process to reinforce their importance.
Our Foundational Attributes Guide Our Growth
1 2 3 4 5
Create a Shared Deliver Results Embrace Build Flexible Teams Inspire Collaboration
Strategic Vision: Through NBS Next: Innovation and and Organizations: and Trust: Influence
Align the Remain focused and Change: Proactively Quickly adapt our teams and collaborate with a
organization nimble to achieve seek improvement and organizational One Nordson mindset
through actionable, best-in-class results and champion structure to changing by being humble, self-
strategic guidance customer success priorities and create aware, and transparent
deep, diverse, agile
teams
Our Talent Management Priorities
RECRUITMENT
Our talent management strategy encompasses the full employee
life cycle, attracting top talent, supporting and developing our
employees, and planning for leadership succession.
• Strategic Partnerships
• Scholarships,
Recruiting Top Talent
Fellowships, Internships
• Recruiting and
Nordson leverages multiple channels and strategies to recruit
Referral Network
talent for our organization. We build brand awareness by
partnering with carefully selected colleges and universities
in the regions where Nordson operates. We connect with
promising candidates and future leaders through career fairs, WINNING • Training
and Education
• Competitive
s
a
ac
n
nh
d
do
o
ola
t
tr
h
hs
e
eh
r
ri p
o
in
pa spn tiod
tr
u
i
t
tn
u
it one nr itn
si
.es Oh
s
i
a
up
n
r
do pff
i
ane rr
i
tti iin
ca
ig
t
pis
v
a, teo
is
on
w
n-c
i
ia
t
nhm ipp nau
dr
us
t
nm
ste
ra
r
y
r
s
k ce ht oin og ls,
•
a
B
O
Hn
e
opd
n
ne
e
n
eIn
fi
s
ac
tt
n
slu ds ive TEAMS •
•
aS
A
Fe
nt sr
es
de
i
d
gt Cc
bn
ah
am
r
c
eke en
r
ts
D
associations, community engagement, and philanthropy also Communication Planning E
V
helps cultivate a positive reputation and brand awareness that N
O
• E ann dga Vg ai ln ug
e
C sulture OLE
support recruiting efforts at all levels of the Company. I P
T M
N E
T
NE
E T
R
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 27
FOSTERING AN INCLUSIVE AND
ENGAGED CULTURE
In addition to more traditional recruiting methods, such as internal Development, Promotion, and Succession Planning
recruiters, external search firms, and public job postings, we Nordson is committed to the education, development, and
encourage employees to refer candidates within their professional advancement of our employees. We monitor the ratio of job
network for open job postings, with a referral bonus given to the vacancies filled internally versus external hires – seeking a balance
employee if the candidate is hired. between internal promotions to provide career advancement to
our employees, stability in our culture, and continuity to our
To attract high-potential, early-in-career candidates, Nordson
organization, with external hires who can expand our capabilities
offers scholarships, internships, and post-graduate leadership
and provide new perspectives.
develop programs. These vary across sites and divisions and include
both corporate-led programs and division- and site-led initiatives. We invest in our employees by offering training, education,
For example, our corporate leadership development programs stretch assignments, and other development opportunities to help
are designed to be competitive with other leading post-graduate them enhance their skills and advance in their careers. Annual
programs, offering attractive compensation, relocation stipends, performance reviews and mid-year check-ins support timely
and opportunities to rotate between multiple Nordson facilities feedback, recognition, and career development conversations, as
around the world. well as individualized training and development plans. An annual
talent review process focused on current and prospective division,
segment, and executive leaders proactively identifies and develops
“ready now” leaders and successors within the Company.
Developing the Next Generation
of Nordson Leaders
• Our Financial Leadership
Development Program
began in 2021 and recently celebrated its first
graduating class. The two-year program is designed
for recent graduates, who rotate through various
finance-related assignments and interact with
senior leaders on a career track to a role within the
Company’s Finance department. A second class
began in 2022, and our third class recently came on
board in September 2023.
• Launched in 2022, our Commercial Leadership
Development Program offers participants the
opportunity to rotate among commercial positions
through two six-month rotations. They are mentored
by business leaders and other Nordson professionals
throughout the program and are on a career track
to employment in a commercial role in their area of
interest. The first cohort ended in September 2023
and a second cohort started the program in
August 2023.
Nordson leadership development participants.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 28
FOSTERING AN INCLUSIVE AND
ENGAGED CULTURE
Our learning management system, Nordson University, provides a Advancing Nordson’s Ascend
dynamic curriculum that includes a wide range of topics, including Strategy Through Employee and
environment, health and safety, legal compliance, ethics and Leadership Training
integrity, employee onboarding, inclusion and diversity (I&D), and
• NBS Next Accelerator training focuses on the
manager-focused training. The dynamic curriculum is regularly
NBS Next business system pillar of the Ascend
refreshed with new courses and materials, and we embed LinkedIn
strategy. Topics include the development of
Learning courses within our system. Given the global nature of our
cellular manufacturing flows, organizational
Company, we provide courses and materials in multiple languages.
change management, product innovation
Manager-level employees at Nordson complete a course on inclusive
strategy, customer relationship management,
hiring practices, consistent with our support of I&D.
and interpreting financial statements. More than
250 leaders from the U.S., Europe, and Asia have
We believe learning is a lifelong process and offer tuition
participated in the training to date.
reimbursement opportunities for eligible employees to pursue
degrees, certifications, or new skills and knowledge. We also provide
• Leadership Excellence and Development (LEAD)
reimbursement for required professional education certifications in
training will focus on the Winning Teams pillar of
some fields, including legal, accounting, and human resources.
the Ascend strategy. The purpose of this program
is to develop and enhance well-rounded leadership
capabilities in our existing and emerging leaders
through practical application. LEAD training
will emphasize the importance of coaching,
development, care, well-being, mental health,
what and why leadership, accountability, self-
awareness, and other key leadership skills. The
program is currently being piloted.
Nordson employees in NBS Next Accelerator training program.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 29
FOSTERING AN INCLUSIVE AND
ENGAGED CULTURE
Our average
global tenure of
9
Employee Engagement and Retention reflects the strong engagement
years of our employees and our
Nordson’s development opportunities, engagement programs,
positive workplace culture.*
and competitive total rewards package are designed to ensure our
*Data as of October 31, 2022.
employees feel valued and rewarded for their contributions to
the Company.
Employee Engagement
An environment that is inclusive and encourages open and honest
engagement helps to establish collective trust and genuine self- Supporting Our Employees
reflection, empowering employees to pursue their full professional
We strive to offer and maintain market-competitive total rewards
potential while respecting diverse personalities, backgrounds, and
programs for our employees. We maintain equitable standards for pay
circumstances. To grow as a company, it is important that we are
and complete a formal pay equity study every two years. In addition, we
humble and self-aware about potential challenges or shortcomings
monitor compensation actions as part of normal hiring, promotion, and
so that we can address and improve in a timely manner.
annual merit practices. Nordson is committed to the importance of pay
equity and promptly remediating any disparities that may arise.
We use surveys to understand employee sentiment and engagement,
gathering feedback to guide our decisions. We conduct an employee
We frequently evaluate our benefits programs to ensure that our
engagement survey on a biennial basis and distribute topic-specific
offerings are competitive, inclusive, and meet the needs of our
surveys as needed. Recent surveys highlighted that our employees
employees. For example, many of our locations offer wellness programs,
want more visibility into development opportunities and career
including mental health support and access, telemedicine, and healthy
pathways at Nordson. In response, we are recalibrating our job and
lifestyle maintenance. Telecommuting and flexible schedules are
career frameworks and leveling job roles to help employees more
available for employees at our sites across the globe, though specifics
clearly understand their role and see the opportunities available
vary by role and location.
across the Company.
We continue to evolve our benefits for parental leave, reproductive
Our most recent biennial engagement survey, completed in July
rights, and LGBTQ+ medical needs. We offer parental leave in
2023, had strong participation at 87%. Survey results identified
accordance with legal requirements around the world, with expanded
positive areas for the Company to nurture, including I&D efforts,
parental leave in certain areas. For example, we enhanced our parental
manager effectiveness, and the availability of resources and training.
leave policies for our employees in the UK and Ireland effective
It also identified areas for improvement where the Company
January 1, 2023. The parental leave policy in the U.S. is also being
has opportunities to strengthen communication of our future
updated for 2024 to enhance the period of paid leave for both birth
vision, reinforce culture and values, and expand our approaches to
and non-birth parents (including adoption/foster), without the
employee recognition.
use of vacation time and with no waiting period after initial hire.
Effective in 2022, we approved medical benefits coverage for infertility
In addition to surveys, we undertake personal exit interviews with
treatments and gender-affirming surgery. We also added adoption cost
employees in leadership roles who choose to leave Nordson. We use
reimbursement and enhanced travel benefits to support reproductive
feedback from these experiences to monitor for emerging trends
rights and other medical procedures.
and identify areas of improvement.
Learn more about our benefit offerings and career
opportunities by viewing our Careers page.
Nordson supports employee mental health through a variety
of programs, including mental health coverage through
medical benefits, flexible work arrangements, employee
resource groups, and workplace training.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 30
FOSTERING AN INCLUSIVE AND
ENGAGED CULTURE
Inclusion and Diversity
Our core value of Respect for People reflects our intention to support an inclusive and diverse culture.
Fostering an environment that invites and respects all perspectives is an essential component of our
focus on Winning Teams and shared responsibility for success.
Our Inclusion and Diversity Strategy and takes many forms, including gender, ethnicity, tenure, age,
and job function. Diverse interview panels help candidates from
We aspire to have a workforce that is reflective of the markets
varying backgrounds relate to their interviewers and to our
in which we operate, and leadership that is reflective of that
Company, supporting a more inclusive interview process and
workforce. A diverse mix of backgrounds, experiences, and
overall recruitment.
perspectives supports agility, innovation, and flexibility,
generating organizational strength and driving our profitable
Our partnerships with external organizations, such as the
growth strategy.
National Society of Black Engineers, Society of Women Engineers,
and Women in Manufacturing, help us increase the diversity of
Nordson’s focus has been the development and implementation
our candidate pools. We also maintain strategic connections with
of strategies to enhance collaboration and inclusion, as well
universities near our manufacturing and office facilities in the
as the diversity of our workforce. Our approach encompasses
U.S. to build employer brand awareness and attract early-in-career
awareness and skill-building, intentionality in our recruitment
talent. For example, we include several historically Black colleges
and interview processes, and performance management and
and universities (HBCU) in a limited pool of eligible schools for
succession planning that recognize the importance of inclusion
our Leadership Scholars program.
and diversity (I&D) to our Ascend strategy.
We regularly reflect on our progress and explore opportunities to
improve our I&D programs at all levels. The executive leadership
team specifically dedicates time to I&D strategy building,
which is shared with the Board of Directors. These leaders, in
partnership with Human Resources, help our managers cultivate
an inclusive, diverse work environment within each of their
respective areas.
Attracting Diverse Talent
We structure our talent acquisition efforts to uphold the ideals of
inclusivity, belonging, and diversity, and a key focus of our I&D
strategy is to improve our recruitment and interview processes.
Nordson's President and CEO speaking with a leadership development class.
We launched an initiative to encourage inclusive and diverse
interview panels and candidate slates, where possible. Diversity
on interview panels includes both candidates and interviewers
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 31
FOSTERING AN INCLUSIVE AND
ENGAGED CULTURE
Empowering Our People Through Employee Resource Groups
Nordson’s employee resource groups (ERGs) strengthen our commitment to fostering an inclusive, diverse workplace where
everyone feels like they belong. Participation in these groups is open to all employees.
Launched in 2021, the Nordson Black Employee
In June 2023, we introduced the Organization for
Network (NBEN) increased its programming and offered
Pride and Equality at Nordson (OPEN). OPEN
webinars on topics related to I&D, as well as mental health.
aims to empower employees to be their most authentic
For example, NBEN hosted a workshop led by a clinical
selves at work, promote allyship and inclusivity, and
psychologist about the mental health challenges facing
grow personally and professionally. OPEN is developing
racial and ethnic minority communities. NBEN also
programming for the upcoming year, including
organized activities for Black History Month.
anticipated reflection and discussion sessions with
third-party moderators.
The Women’s Internal Nordson Network (WINN)
strives to support and empower Nordson women with a
A fourth ERG, Minds of All Kinds, is in the early
dynamic internal network, though events and membership
stages of formation. This ERG is focused on supporting
are open to all genders. Programs offered by WINN are
employees of all neurotypes and creating a culture where
global, regional, and local in scope, and many are offered
everyone can thrive.
virtually to encourage all employees to participate.
A Focus on WINN:
Supporting the Women of Nordson
Mentoring Programs POWER Up With WINN and EY
Mentorship cohorts are a crucial source of support and WINN collaborated with the Professional Women’s Network
empowerment for women across all our sites. WINN’s at Ernst & Young (EY) to present POWER Up, a five-week
Americas and Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) groups leadership development program that focused on helping
recently concluded their first mentorship cohort program. female employees gain an understanding of key behaviors
The WINN Americas group launched a fourth cohort in fall that would help accelerate their careers. The program
2023, available to all genders, and with the support of the served as a means to springboard female professionals
EMEA group, our WINN chapter in the Asia-Pacific (APAC) with high potential into deep conversations as they seek
region plans to offer their first cohort this year. the next level of success.
Employees at a WINN event
in Carlsbad, California.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 32
FOSTERING AN INCLUSIVE AND
ENGAGED CULTURE
Creating a Talent Pipeline Providing Meaningful Opportunities
Through Scholarships for All
The Nordson Leadership Scholars To expand our Winning Teams with diverse,
program, launched in 2023, quality candidates eager to contribute their skills,
aids relationship-building and recruiting with the goals our Nordson MEDICAL facility in Galway, Ireland,
of attracting diverse talent, building strong connections, partnered with Down Syndrome Ireland, an
and developing a pipeline of undergraduate students into organization dedicated to providing support and
future leaders. In partnership with six schools around services to people with Down Syndrome and their
the U.S., female students or students who come from an families. In June 2023, we successfully hired our
underrepresented racial/ethnic group and are studying first employee through this partnership as a facility
business, supply chain, accounting and finance, engineering, assistant, which has brought positive energy to the
economics, or liberal arts are encouraged to apply for facility and valuable learning experiences for our
scholarships. The program provides scholarship recipients employee and his colleagues.
with exposure to career pathways at Nordson as a way of
developing a multistage talent development pipeline. In
2023, we awarded scholarships to 12 students.
A Nordson Leadership Scholarship recipient.
NNOORRDDSSOONN EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall && GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt 3333
FOSTERING AN INCLUSIVE AND
ENGAGED CULTURE
Workplace Health and Safety
At Nordson, a healthy and safe workplace means that our employees leave in the same condition
as they arrive. Prioritizing health and safety is a cornerstone of our responsibility as an employer.
This commitment is demonstrated through our leadership support, employee engagement, and our
Journey to Zero initiative.
Our EHS Vision: Journey to Zero Journey to Zero’s Guiding Principles:
Nordson continuously evaluates and enhances our environmental, • Embrace the mindset that all incidents are preventable:
health, and safety (EHS) program to advance our safety culture. By proactively identifying risks, hazards, and threats, we can
In recent years, we have placed an increased emphasis on more integrate defensive measures and encourage safe behaviors.
timely and robust data collection and analysis, leveraging digital
• Support our timeless value, Respect for People: We are
tools to help our sites better understand their safety performance
making our people and planet the priority and taking the
and opportunities for improvement. By collecting and analyzing
initiative to make adjustments in our daily operations.
data near real-time, we can more quickly identify negative trends
• Strengthen commitment and engagement: Employees at all
and take remedial action.
levels of the organization are responsible for safety. We must be
Our Journey to Zero program reinforces our belief that all dedicated to working together to promote a safe, secure, and
incidents are preventable through continuous improvement in our healthy environment for all employees, shareholders, customers,
behaviors and risks. This program is a key building block of both and communities.
Nordson’s Ascend strategy and NBS Next Accelerator training.
• Persist for continuous improvement: Journey to Zero is a
multiyear focus on a safe and environmentally friendly workplace.
Zero represents an ideal state against which we can measure to
drive continued improvements.
In addition to our guiding principles, Journey to
Zero is characterized by six elements that support
our pathway to a safer workplace: EHS ASSESSMENTS
& AUDITS
CONTINUOUS
EHS TRAINING & IMPROVEMENT
DEVELOPMENT
EHS OBSERVATIONS
EHS PERFORMANCE &
INCIDENT MANAGEMENT
MANAGEMENT
& EMPLOYEE
ENGAGEMENT
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 34
FOSTERING AN INCLUSIVE AND
ENGAGED CULTURE
Each element includes specific key performance indicators (KPIs) and Implementation in Action
milestones, some of which are established at a corporate level based on Journey to Zero is an ongoing initiative across our global
global requirements and best practices. Others are established at the facilities through which we are refining and continuously
division or site level based on localized considerations. This approach improving Nordson’s EHS programs. Key elements of the
is designed to enable an Owner Mindset with respect to site safety, led program include:
by personnel with the best visibility of “on-the-ground” conditions,
• Leadership commitment to and formal endorsement of the
within a centralized framework of governance and oversight.
importance of EHS
Our Journey to Zero and EHS vision includes our contractors and • Formation of site EHS Committees with regular agendas,
vendors, who are required to review and adhere to our Contractor/ actions, and follow-ups
Vendor Safety Program. This document details Nordson’s
• Development and implementation of EHS performance
requirements to permit a contractor or vendor to perform work or
metrics that are posted and communicated out
conduct business at a Nordson facility. Additionally, all Nordson
suppliers and vendors are expected to adhere to our Code of • An EHS-focused message board posted in a visible
Ethics for Suppliers and Third-Party Service Providers, which location and routinely updated
includes workplace safety standards and expectations. Our supplier • Injury communications and a posted summary for
onboarding and risk review process includes consideration of employees
suppliers’ workplace health and safety programs and incidents.
• Personal protective equipment policy visibly posted in
relevant areas and enforced
• Confirmation that aisleways and egress paths are clearly
marked and unobstructed
Journey to Zero Dashboards • Verification that safety equipment areas (e.g., fire
extinguisher, eyewash station) are clearly marked and
Enhance Accountability
unobstructed
We believe everyone is responsible for upholding a
• An EHS observation program and walk-through processes
culture where safety is a priority. Many of our sites across
to identify and report potentially unsafe conditions
the globe display Journey to Zero data on dashboards
in common areas for all to see. The dashboards often
include EHS meeting minutes, new initiatives, safety
tips, and reminders. We plan to incorporate Journey to Read more about our Journey to Zero initiative on our
Zero Self-Assessment information on the dashboards to Workplace Health and Safety page.
encourage individual accountability.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 35
FOSTERING AN INCLUSIVE AND
ENGAGED CULTURE
Our Health and Safety Policy Statement EHS Observation Programs Encourage
Engagement and Ownership
We document our commitment to maintaining the highest standards
of health and safety in our Environmental, Health, and Safety Policy We designed our EHS Observation Program to
Statement. This statement reinforces our commitment to EHS engage employees in the process of identifying
excellence through strong compliance, effective communications, and correcting hazards, with the goal of preventing
consistent engagement, informative training, and executive incidents from occurring. Employees may submit
leadership support. observations by name or anonymously.
Nordson’s EHS Observation Program continues to
Reinforcing Our Focus on Health and Safety
grow, and in line with our Journey to Zero initiative,
Our Environmental, Health, and Safety Management System each site is tasked with completing a monthly internal
(EHSMS) is designed to empower each facility to implement and safety assessment. The accompanying checklist
adhere to the safety processes and controls that deliver effective encourages sites to take ownership of the assessment
outcomes by considering unique circumstances at each facility along process, which should be a joint effort led by the site
with general best practices. Our EHSMS provides standards and with support from corporate EHS.
supporting documents to empower each facility to take ownership
Nordson managers and leaders periodically
of its safety culture, recognizing that the exact requirements for each
conduct Gemba Walks to assess processes on
site will vary depending on the nature of the work performed at the
an operational level, streamline operations, and
site and applicable local laws and regulations. Our global training
identify opportunities for continuous improvement.
programs include content on local regulations and are offered in local
Additionally, employees are required to complete a
languages. We actively monitor site progress centrally based on the six
Safety Basics Self-Assessment each quarter as part
elements, KPIs, and milestones associated with our Journey to Zero.
of Journey to Zero. We developed and implemented
To further strengthen our EHSMS, we hold quarterly calls with a customized training in 2023 to ensure consistent
commercial, operational, and executive leaders across our U.S. sites program execution. In addition, members of
to discuss safety data and dashboards. Each business segment also our central corporate EHS team perform virtual
holds a quarterly EHS meeting with managers, division leaders, walkthroughs with EHS leaders from our international
and executive officers. These meetings provide the opportunity for sites, which continue the connections made possible
by technology during the COVID-19 pandemic.
standardized training and discussion of safety-related topics. Division
EHS leaders who attend are responsible for implementing the policies
and procedures discussed at their respective businesses. Executive
leaders’ presence and participation establish a tone from the top and
create a culture in which the environment, health, and safety are
considered executive-level priorities.
EHS Committees
Every major Nordson manufacturing site in the U.S. has a
cross-functional EHS Committee. The purpose of these committees
is to establish a safe and secure workplace where employees take
ownership of their own safety, the safety of their peers, and
continuous improvement practices. The EHS Committee provides
a forum to communicate, identify, and resolve issues related to
workplace health, safety, security, and environmental management.
Sites that do not have a formal EHS Committee designate a local EHS
point of contact, who provides appropriate resources and support.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 36
FOSTERING AN INCLUSIVE AND
ENGAGED CULTURE
EHS Committees meet monthly, and representative teams Our Safety Performance
periodically conduct internal inspections, ensuring compliance We record the number of workplace injuries and illnesses that
with corporate standards and regulatory requirements. Inspection require professional medical treatment beyond first aid. This
items include housekeeping, egress, emergency response equipment information is reported in the U.S. as Total Recordable Incident
and procedures, hazardous waste accumulation and storage areas, Rate (TRIR) and Days Away, Restrictions, and Transfers
and recordkeeping. EHS-related processes, procedures, and written (DART) Rate. For our international locations, injury and notice
programs are regularly reviewed for accuracy and updated as needed of violation data is collected from sites with 10 or more employees.
to address any changes in regulatory, corporate, or site standards.
Each site is encouraged to implement a process for employees to As we continue to enhance our culture of safety, we are shifting
identify and report unsafe conditions. our focus to be more proactive and reflect observations that can be
corrected on the front end.
Emergency Preparedness
Our security mission is to protect Nordson’s personnel and its
assets. Each U.S. location has an Emergency Action Plan that
meets the requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health
Conserving Noise – and Employees’
Administration (OSHA). A centralized, cross-functional
Workplace Threat Response team comprised of personnel from Hearing – in Chippewa Falls
Security, Human Resources, and Legal evaluates, investigates, and
Although Nordson’s noise levels are generally low
helps site leaders and other employees navigate incidents related to
across sites, we regularly conduct noise testing to
workplace violence around the world. ensure that our levels are below 85 decibels (the
threshold that would require a noise conservation
All U.S. employees receive workplace threat training, which
program). We routinely conduct these tests on new
outlines what to do if an incident occurs, including Run–Hide–
equipment or processes as part of our efforts to
Fight. U.S.-based managers receive more detailed training on
maintain a safe and healthy workplace environment
behavior recognition and working with local incident commanders.
for our employees.
These locations use an emergency notification software system to
notify employees of threats, inclement weather, utility outages, and For example, our Extrusion Dies Industries (EDI)
other emergencies that may impact a facility. Site-specific evaluation facility in Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin, U.S.,
and shelter-in-place plans exist at all U.S. sites, with periodic drills manufactures extrusion and fluid coating die
and information sessions to ensure continued awareness. We systems used by processors and converters
regularly test and inspect all emergency equipment. worldwide. After identifying an area at our site
that had the potential to produce unsafe noise
Similar policies and procedures are in place in non-U.S. locations
levels, our team implemented a project to reduce
and are managed locally. We are working toward bringing non-U.S.
noise and bring the decibel level below a
locations under more centralized oversight while retaining primary
safety threshold.
responsibility for site-specific preparedness and response plans at
the local level, with corporate resources and support as needed.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 37
Caring for Our Communities
IN THIS SECTION
• Charitable Giving
• Volunteering Our Time
• Partnerships and Priorities
3388
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES
$13M+ donated by Nordson and
the Nordson Corporation
Foundation in FY22
Caring for Our Communities
Nordson has a long and proud history of investing in the communities where our employees live and work.
We believe it is our social responsibility to share our success with our communities. By encouraging our
employees to support the causes that matter most to them, the Nordson Impact benefits people and
organizations across the globe.
Our Commitment to Community Support
Investing in our communities has been an integral part of our Our global impact priorities include:
business since our founding in 1954. Our growth as a company over
• Continue to grow national charitable programs and
the years has allowed us to expand and enhance our positive impact.
expand our reach
This is evident through the founding of the Nordson Corporation
• Distribute larger, more impactful grants that support
Foundation in 1989, the long-standing nonprofit partnerships we
students and partner organizations
have developed, our employees’ engagement in their communities,
and the growth of our charitable giving. • Identify and implement additional opportunities to support
causes that matter to our employees
The primary source of funding for the Nordson Corporation
Foundation is our contribution of 5% of U.S. pretax profits, which Giving to the communities where we live and work is strongly
is then dispersed for charitable activities. We are committed to the ingrained in our history and culture. Our Ascend strategy has
sustainability and growth of our nonprofit partners and proudly led to continued, profitable growth, which better positions us to
provide consistent support to organizations that have proven to be deliver a bigger impact through our charitable endeavors.
the backbone of our communities.
Enhancing Our Matching Gifts Program to Amplify and Expand Our Impact
Through our Matching Gifts program, Nordson matches the monetary contributions employees make to eligible nonprofits
or charitable organizations. In 2022-23, we made three important enhancements to our Matching Gifts program.
1 2 3
Increased our standard Expanded our program Transitioned to a monthly
donation match from 1:1 to internationally to allow all donation match, which
2:1 for all donations global employees to donate accelerates the impact of our
to more than 3,000 approved charitable contributions
organizations
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 39
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES
The Nordson Impact
We encourage all employees to make a difference in ways that are meaningful to them.
The Company provides opportunities to get involved through six community engagement
programs that collectively create The Nordson Impact.
Nordson Corporation Foundation is dedicated to were given to Nordson’s valued and long-standing partners, such as
enhancing the quality of life in our communities by Boys & Girls Clubs of America local chapters, Junior Achievement
improving educational outcomes that enable individuals local offices, National Inventors Hall of Fame, and TECH
to become self-sufficient, active participants. The Foundation, CORPS. The Foundation conducts an annual review of current
which is primarily funded through 5% of Nordson’s pretax profits, and potential partnerships to ensure strategic alignment and aid in
awards grants to global nonprofits. More than $152 million has been prioritizing fund allocation.
awarded since 1989.
Time ‘n Talent represents Nordson’s employee
Our employees take an active role in supporting the Foundation volunteer efforts worldwide, including general and
with direct employee engagement during the process of reviewing skills-based volunteering, participation in our major
grant applications, determining how to distribute Foundation funds “Big Build” construction projects, and nonprofit board service.
to local causes, and evaluating progress and impact. Grant requests We encourage employees to take advantage of Nordson’s volunteer
for Human Welfare, Arts & Culture, and Civic organizations release time, which provides U.S. employees with up to 16 hours of
are reviewed by a local Community Affairs Committee, which is paid time off to volunteer at Nordson-sponsored events. Nordson
comprised of non-Foundation employees in select locations across also supports employees who volunteer with an organization for
the globe. The local Community Affairs Committee then meets at least 40 hours in a year by awarding a $500 “Dollars for Doers”
quarterly to vote on grant allocations. Our Ireland location will be grant to that organization.
joining this committee in 2023.
A Time to Give is our annual employee giving
In addition, employees support the Foundation through donations
campaign in the U.S. Teams of Nordson volunteers
during our annual “A Time to Give” campaign and participation
across the country plan localized campaigns, including
on our Community Affairs Committees. Our current distribution
pledge drives, fundraising events, and volunteer events through
targets 65% funding to education and 35% funding to arts and
Time ‘n Talent. Nordson matches all funds raised during the
culture and human welfare. In 2022, the Foundation awarded
campaign, doubling its impact. The 2022 campaign raised more
477 grants, totaling approximately $8 million. Many of these grants
than $380,000 for our communities by combining the corporate
match with employee donations.
“The fact that this section is named Caring for Our Communities says it all. That community is
made up of our employees, nonprofits, and the surrounding communities where we live and
work. It’s a special part of our culture. The pride that Nordson employees have in working for
a company that values commitment to our communities is apparent every day. We often hear
that our involvement in communities is what drew an employee to Nordson or why they stay.”
Cecilia Render
Executive Director, Nordson Corporation Foundation
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 40
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES
Nordson BUILDS Scholarships support college students Celebrating 10 Years of Nordson
residing or attending college near a Nordson facility and Tech Time
pursuing majors related to manufacturing. Our goal is
Nordson offers a variety of K–12 education
to help students from our communities build brighter futures, while
programs in schools across the U.S. to introduce
aiming to develop a diverse, highly skilled talent pool for the future.
students to science, technology, engineering,
In 2022, 125 students received scholarships totaling $767,000. Of the
arts, and mathematics (STEAM) careers. In 2022,
recipients, 46% were women and 55% were racially/ethnically diverse.
we celebrated 10 years of our Nordson Tech
Time program, which challenges middle school
Matching Gifts amplifies the donations Nordson employees students to research, analyze, and create a project
or retirees make to qualifying nonprofits across the globe. on a STEAM topic. Each participating school holds
Nordson provides a 2:1 match for any donation of $25 an assembly to showcase student work, and the
or more to qualified educational, cultural, civic, or human welfare Nordson Tech Team leads fun, hands-on activities.
organizations, up to a total of $10,000 per calendar year per individual. Over 17,000 students participate in the program
The matches are enhanced to 3:1 matches during specified time periods each year.
for certain affinity, disaster relief, and other defined causes. Recent
examples of enhanced 3:1 matches include Pride Month and Juneteenth,
disaster relief following the earthquake in Turkey and Syria, and support
for organizations in Ukraine. Gifts of securities, real estate, and other
tangible property are eligible for matching funds when their current
market value is clear.
Nordson Corporate Donations support programs around
the world that fall outside the priorities or eligibility of the
Foundation. Corporate donations from Nordson fund
our BUILDS scholarships, international giving, Time ‘n Talent events,
and matching gifts programs. They also support meaningful for-profit
organizations in our communities and may include sponsorships that
promote awareness of Nordson.
Nordson President and CEO participating in the American Red
Cross blood drive.
Employees from Carlsbad, California, participate in beach cleanup.
Nordson employees tying blankets to donate
to local community organizations.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 41
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES
Providing Global Support for Providing Support for Elyria, Ohio,
Our Neighbors Robotics Teams
Nordson encourages employees at locations around the world to With sponsorship from Nordson, students in grades 7–12
invest in their local communities, whether through time, talent, of the Elyria City Schools system in Northeast Ohio have
or money. We provide a framework and process to help our the opportunity to join the Elyria Robotics Team and learn
employees identify opportunities for service, engage with local about everything from mechanics to coding to social media
nonprofit organizations to understand their needs, and make and promotion. Students on the team learn from teachers
recommendations for philanthropy and volunteerism based on and mentors about the VEX Robotics System; design, build,
what they learn. The Nordson Corporation Foundation executive program, and drive robots; and participate in tournaments
director advises and supports each team through this process and against other teams. Elyria sent multiple teams to local,
empowers them to employ an Owner Mindset in managing their regional, and national tournaments during the 2022–2023
local philanthropy. academic year, including an all-female team.
Our Ongoing Partnership with the
Second Harvest Food Bank
For more than 30 years, Nordson and our employees have
provided support for the Second Harvest Food Bank of
North Central Ohio. In addition to monetary support, our
teams regularly volunteer at the food bank to pack and
organize meal boxes. In 2023, Nordson’s President and
CEO served as the Honorary Chair of the Second Harvest
Food Bank’s annual Harvest for Hunger food and funding
drive, and Nordson made a $500,000 contribution to the
organization. We are proud to continue providing support
for Second Harvest as the food bank advances its fight
against food insecurity in our local communities.
Nordson employees preparing food supplies (top) and tying
blankets to donate to a local community organization (bottom).
Nordson President and CEO attending a Harvest for Hunger Event.
NNOORRDDSSOONN EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall,, SSoocciiaall && GGoovveerrnnaannccee RReeppoorrtt 4422
Operating With Integrity
and Responsibility
IN THIS SECTION
• Corporate Governance
• Ethics and Compliance
• Cybersecurity
43
OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY
AND RESPONSIBILITY
Corporate Governance
The founders of Nordson adopted a corporate philosophy by which the Company strives to be a vital,
self-renewing, worldwide organization within the framework of ethical behavior and enlightened
citizenship. Today, that ethical foundation remains the bedrock of our corporate governance practices,
as our executive officers and Board of Directors set the strategic direction of the Company, manage risk,
and define our values and culture.
Board of Directors
Our Board of Directors oversees the management of the business that the Board requires to be effective. Our directors reflect
and affairs of the Company in accordance with all applicable the Board’s efforts to achieve diversity with respect to gender,
laws and regulations. Our directors possess proven and relevant race, and ethnicity. As of October 31, 2023, our Board was
business experience, maintain high ethical standards and composed of nine directors, including three women (33%) and
behavior, and demonstrate commitment to strong corporate two racially or ethnically diverse men (22%), representing 56%
governance and appropriate oversight across the Company. overall diversity (with rounding). It is the Board’s policy to
include, and to request that any search firm it engages include,
We believe in the importance of Board membership that
women and racially or ethnically diverse persons in the pool of
collectively reflects the diverse nature of the business environment
candidates from which director nominees are chosen.
in which the Company operates with a combination of
background, skills, experience, independence, and knowledge
Nordson Corporation's Board of Directors (from left to right): John A. DeFord, Frank M. Jaehnert, Ginger M. Jones, Sundaram Nagarajan,
Jennifer A. Parmentier, Michael J. Merriman, Jr., Milton M. Morris, Victor L. Richey, Jr. Not pictured: Mary Puma, who retired from the Board effective
November 1, 2023, after 22 years of service.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 44
OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY
AND RESPONSIBILITY
Our Board recognizes the importance of periodic refreshment to ensure that directors BOARD INDEPENDENCE
possess a composite set of skills, experience, and qualifications necessary to provide
1
insightful leadership and effective oversight of our strategic priorities. We do not enforce
a specific limit for the overall length of time an independent director may serve; however, Independent
Non-Independent
we believe that the tenure spectrum of our directors should provide an effective mix of
deep knowledge and new perspectives. We periodically rotate the chairs of each of our 8
committees to ensure continued diverse perspectives. The majority of our directors
have a tenure of 0 to 5 years on our Board. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines
BOARD DIVERSITY*
provide that a director is expected to retire on or before the annual meeting immediately
following a director’s 72nd birthday. The Company does not grant exceptions to the
mandatory retirement age for Board members.
Diverse
44% 56%
Non-Diverse
MIX OF SKILLS, EXPERIENCE & ATTRIBUTES
Accounting & Financial 6
Additional Public Boards 6
BOARD TENURE
Business Strategy & Operations 8
Corporate Governance 9
1
Ethnic, Gender, National Origin, 5 0-5 Years
or Other Diversity 2 6-10 Years
Global Business 9 11-15 Years
5
>15 Years
Industry & End Market Expertise 2 1
Mergers & Acquisitions 8
Public Company & C-Suite 9
Technology 3
Governance Highlights
100% 75%
Board, committee, and peer
self-assessments
independent or greater
committee members and attendance at Board and committee conducted on a regular basis
committee chairs meetings by each director
8 Hedging/pledging Share ownership
transactions guidelines
years
Strict policy of no pledging or hedging Directors – 5x cash retainer
average tenure
of Company shares by directors or CEO – 5x base salary
executive officers CFO – 3x base salary
Other executive officers – 2x base salary
*Includes women and racially and ethnically diverse individuals
Source: 2023 Proxy Statement
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 45
OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY
AND RESPONSIBILITY
Board Committees and ESG Oversight
In 2023, we renamed our Governance & Sustainability
Nordson’s Board of Directors is led by our independent Chair. All
Committee (formerly Governance & Nominating Committee)
directors other than our CEO are independent as defined by our
and updated the committee’s charter to better reflect the
Corporate Governance Guidelines and the Nasdaq Stock Market
important work already being executed by the committee with
regulations. The Board and Board committees play an important
respect to Board-level ESG oversight. While all committees
role in the oversight of Nordson’s ESG program, goals, and related
contribute to our ESG efforts, this change designates primary
activities, with additional responsibilities and oversight carried out
ownership to one committee.
by Company leadership and employees. The Company’s progress
on ESG goals is part of the performance evaluation for our Chief
At the Company level, Nordson’s Executive Vice President and
Executive Officer to ensure our leadership is held accountable for
General Counsel is the executive sponsor of Nordson’s ESG
making responsible business decisions.
working group, which is comprised of a cross-functional team
from Operations; Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS);
The Board’s three chartered committees are comprised entirely of
Legal; Finance; and Corporate Communications. The working
independent directors and include the following responsibilities:
group coordinates global ESG efforts and is supported by
• Audit Committee: Oversees the policies, guidelines, and subject matter experts from Human Resources, Supply Chain,
processes by which management assesses and manages the Product Compliance, EHS, IT/IS, Audit, Product Innovation,
Company’s risks, including its financial, cybersecurity, Legal, and Continuous Improvement. The working group
environmental, and other risk exposures; reviews the reports several times per year to an executive steering committee
Company’s compliance with applicable laws and regulations that includes Nordson’s President and Chief Executive Officer,
and the Company's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. Chief Financial Officer, Chief Human Resources Officer, and
other executive leaders.
• Governance & Sustainability Committee: Responsible for
oversight of the Company’s ESG strategy; oversees corporate
governance practices and procedures, including identifying
Read more about the Board and its committees in our
best practices; determines the qualifications, qualities, skills, Corporate Governance Guidelines and 2023 Proxy Statement.
and other expertise required to be a director and to develop,
and recommend to the Board for its approval, criteria to be
considered in selecting nominees for director; responsible for
and committed to an inclusive director search process.
• Compensation Committee: Reviews executive
compensation, executive talent management, equity-
based compensation plans, and oversight of the Company-
sponsored tax-qualified plans that are subject to the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act; reviews executive talent and
succession planning on an annual basis; provides oversight
of the Company’s diversity, equity, and inclusion strategy
including any related initiatives, metrics, or goals.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 46
OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY
AND RESPONSIBILITY
Ethics and Compliance
We have an unwavering commitment to a strong culture of ethics, integrity, and responsible business
conduct. Our ethical practices stem from our founders’ steadfast commitment to treat all stakeholders –
shareholders, customers, suppliers, communities, and, most importantly, our fellow employees – the right
way. Our values of Integrity, Excellence, Customer Passion, Energy, and Respect for People reflect the
behaviors we strive to include in every aspect of the way Nordson conducts business.
Integrity and Ethical Behavior
As a global company, Nordson operates in over 35 countries form that they have read and understand the Code. All employees,
with diverse cultures and ever-changing laws and practices. including management, are assigned and expected to complete
We conduct ourselves with integrity at all times and operate in annual training on the Code, including anti-corruption and fair
full compliance with the laws and regulations that govern our competition elements, among others, and certify that they have
global business activities. completed and understood the training. This also applies when
we acquire a new company – Code of Ethics & Business Conduct
Our Code of Ethics & Business Conduct and training is a priority action during our acquisition integration
Company Oversight process. A senior member of our Legal department who is a
Our Code of Ethics & Business Conduct (Code) promotes Certified Compliance & Ethics Professional typically leads
ethical business practices and provides the guidelines needed to the training.
understand our responsibilities in conducting business on behalf
of Nordson and making ethical decisions. The Audit Committee of
our Board of Directors is responsible for monitoring and evaluating
the effectiveness of the Code. Our Executive Vice President and
General Counsel serves as our Ethics and Compliance Officer.
Compliance and ethics practices are implemented and monitored
As part of our commitment to ethics, integrity,
by our Ethics and Compliance Officer, Global Trade Compliance
Group, Product Compliance Council, Environmental, Health and and responsible business conduct, we strive to
Safety (EHS) Group, and other departments, including Internal avoid any actual or apparent conflict of interest or
Audit, Legal, Human Resources, and Communications. situation where we might have to choose between
doing what is best for Nordson and what is best for
The Code of Ethics & Business Conduct applies to all Nordson
us personally or for a member of our family.
employees, management, executive officers, and our Board of
Directors. The Code outlines expected behavior on a full range
of ethical considerations and is a global policy available in 12
languages. New employees are required to sign an acknowledgment
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 47
OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY
AND RESPONSIBILITY
Nordson’s Code of Ethics & Business Conduct is periodically Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Organisation for
reviewed and was recently expanded and enhanced to reflect Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines
a renewed focus on Nordson’s values. Additional topics, such for Multinational Enterprises, and the United Nations Guiding
as cybersecurity, social media, responsible sourcing, human Principles on Business and Human Rights.
trafficking, child labor and forced labor prevention, corporate
We comply with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations
citizenship, and environmental initiatives, were added to the Code,
governing human rights in the countries and jurisdictions where
as well as a refreshed Q&A section. The entire Code was redesigned
we do business, including those that address labor, safety, health,
to provide a more interactive, modern, and user-friendly experience
anti-discrimination, and other workplace laws. We expect all
with features such as updated graphics and active links.
Nordson employees will work to reduce the risk of potential human
Working with responsible and ethical third parties is an important rights violations by identifying risks, monitoring those risks, and
element of our overall compliance and ethics program. We remediating any noncompliance. For more information, visit our
undertake due diligence on third parties with which we work Human Rights page.
in different ways depending on the nature of the relationship
and corruption risk assessment. Whenever supplying Nordson Compliance and Training
with products or services or operating on our behalf, Nordson’s
Nordson's compliance and training programs are designed
representatives, agents, suppliers, service providers, vendors,
to comply with the laws around the world that apply to our
distributors, and consultants are expected to uphold standards
business, including:
corresponding to the Code, which are outlined in our Code of
Ethics for Suppliers and Third-Party Service Providers. Suppliers • U.S. Export Administration Regulations
to Nordson undergo an initial evaluation and subsequent periodic • European Union Registration, Evaluation, Authorization
evaluations, and are subject to ongoing screening for any new and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) initiative
controversies or adverse information. Read more in the Supply
• International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR)
Chain section of this report.
• Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS)
Nordson’s policies and practices for distributors, sales
• California Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010
representatives, and other third-party sales organizations require
that they undergo an initial background check, are subject to a • UK Modern Slavery Act
written agreement, and receive periodic compliance education
Our facilities also comply with the Automated Export Systems
and reminders as appropriate. We recently enhanced our processes
(AES), which is used by U.S. exporters to electronically declare
around the onboarding, due diligence, and ongoing monitoring of
their international exports. These export declarations are known
third-party sales organizations. In particular, we launched an online
as Electronic Export Information (EEI) and are reported to the
portal that will continuously screen third-party sales organizations
Census Bureau to help compile U.S. export and trade statistics.
for adverse media or other ethical or compliance concerns. This
This information is also shared with the Bureau of Industry and
continuous screening is in addition to a mandatory background
Security Directorate of Defense Trade Controls and other federal
check prior to initial onboarding and other due diligence
agencies involved in monitoring and validating U.S. exports.
precautions. The online portal will also enable better training and
compliance-related communications with our third-party sales Nordson’s Global Trade Compliance Policy, Conflict Minerals
organization partners. Policy, and Supplier Code of Conduct supplement our adherence
to the aforementioned regulations. Each year, we conduct global
Human Rights
compliance training to address our policies and codes, including
Nordson is committed to promoting and protecting human rights human rights training, with an enhanced training launched in 2022
throughout our business in a manner consistent with human rights
principles set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 48
OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY
AND RESPONSIBILITY
for targeted job roles. Additional online training modules include telephone line or the internet. Web-based reporting is offered in 25
topics such as Intellectual Property, Insider Trading, International languages, and telephone-based reporting is offered in more than
Trade Compliance, Ethical Choices: Thinking Things Through, 150 languages. Web-based reporting includes the capability for
Workplace Health & Safety, Workplace Harassment for Employees anonymous back-and-forth correspondence between the individual
and Managers, Antitrust and Competition Law, and Social Media: making the report and the Nordson employee responsible for
Sharing Responsibly. conducting the ensuing investigation, which enables more effective
fact-gathering and investigation.
We compile and retain records of all employee training sessions,
due diligence efforts, and internal investigations and compliance We take all reports seriously, investigate all reports of suspected
reviews, as well as accurate books and records that fairly reflect violations, and take action as necessary. If misconduct is identified,
our transactions. We have a detailed process and approval we are committed to evaluating and remediating any root cause
requirements for all expenses, including travel, entertainment, and/or systemic issues, if present. Employees are never subject to
and gifts. Our Audit department maintains a thorough system disciplinary or retaliatory action for reporting, in good faith, a
of internal accounting controls and conducts risk-based audits possible violation of our Code or applicable law or for cooperating
of our transactions to ensure compliance with our policies in any investigation of a possible violation.
and requirements.
Through digital signage, posters, and other corporate
Nordson’s internal audit group conducts an annual enterprise risk communications initiatives, we have enhanced emphasis and
management (ERM) process during which employees throughout education on how to report an issue or potential violation.
the Company participate in interviews and online surveys designed Employee engagement with the EthicsPoint hotline has more than
to collect a range of perspectives on emerging and ongoing potential doubled since a renewed Company-wide awareness effort began in
risks. The Company’s executive leadership and Board of Directors 2021, which we view as a positive development demonstrating a
receive a report of the findings. We recently adjusted the process strong compliance culture and broad understanding of resources
to include a Certified Compliance & Ethics leader from the Legal available in case of any concerns. We track metrics related to our
department alongside Internal Audit. The distinct perspectives ethics helpline activity and any investigations of noncompliance
and closer collaboration between Internal Audit and the Legal with our Code of Ethics & Business Conduct and provide quarterly
department achieve a more robust examination of compliance and reports to the Audit Committee.
ethics risks faced by Nordson.
For more information, visit our Ethics & Responsibility page.
Reporting Ethical Concerns
Nordson is committed to maintaining an environment of open
and honest communications. Our employees are encouraged
and expected to report all suspected policy or ethics violations,
including incidents of harassment, discrimination, or safety
concerns, directly to their manager, Human Resources, or the
Ethics and Compliance Officer. Through our third-party helpline,
EthicsPoint, we also provide employees, suppliers, and other internal
and external stakeholders with confidential, anonymous reporting,
which is available 24 hours per day, 7 days per week via a toll-free
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 49
OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY
AND RESPONSIBILITY
Cybersecurity
Protecting the confidentiality, integrity, and reliability of Nordson’s systems, networks, and information
is essential to our business and our customers. We have a defined cybersecurity roadmap and employ a
continuous improvement approach to safeguarding our systems.
Nordson’s Cybersecurity Roadmap FIRST LINE
and Oversight Technology Controls and Due Diligence
Nordson’s cybersecurity roadmap includes multiyear investments Nordson’s cybersecurity approach is based on the National
aimed at protecting data, managing and improving privacy controls, Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) framework. On
and increasing maturity. Our defined program has been in place for a routine basis, we self-assess our maturity with respect to the
many years with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors following areas of focus: identify, protect, detect, respond, and
providing primary oversight. With input from management, the recover. Every two years, we conduct external cybersecurity
Audit Committee identifies, assesses, and monitors the Company’s maturity assessments to measure our progress, using the results to
cybersecurity and other information technology risks and threats drive investments in areas of potential risk or weakness.
and the measures implemented to mitigate and prevent cyberattacks.
Nordson remains focused on strengthening our systems against
Our Head of Information Technology provides regular
potential risks and outside threats. Throughout 2022 and 2023,
cybersecurity reports to the Audit Committee.
we have reinforced protection controls on systems and devices
to limit and/or more closely monitor accessibility to sensitive
Nordson’s Three Lines of Defense company information. As part of our roadmap maturity
assessment, we retired legacy authentication methods and fully
implemented multifactor authentication (MFA).
FIRST LINE Technology Controls
and Due Diligence In addition, when engaging a third party who will provide
software or cloud-based services, Nordson conducts due diligence
on the prospective vendor’s cybersecurity controls and negotiates
appropriate contractual protections relating to cybersecurity,
audit rights, data privacy and protection, disaster preparedness,
SECOND LINE Cybersecurity Training and/or other topics relevant to the nature of the engagement.
and Testing
THIRD LINE Threat and Incident
Response Planning
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 50
OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY
AND RESPONSIBILITY
SECOND LINE THIRD LINE
Cybersecurity Training and Testing Threat and Incident Response Planning
In addition to technology controls, we are focused on training Threat and incident response planning is another important
employees to recognize and prevent cybersecurity threats. We have aspect of our cybersecurity program. In 2022, our executive
also improved our planning and response processes to manage any leadership team engaged in a tabletop incident response exercise,
threats or incidents quickly and effectively. facilitated by a leading independent audit firm. The exercise
simulated a potential malware attack and was designed to test
Upon hire, and then annually, all Nordson employees with network
and improve our leadership’s prevention and response strategies.
access are required to complete mandatory cybersecurity training.
Additionally, a group of key site leaders participated in an online
Our training program includes incident response procedures and
cybersecurity incident response planning session similar to the
learning modules on topics such as recognition of phishing attacks,
executive leadership’s tabletop exercise. We have recently taken
how to keep information secure, and best practices to protect assets.
steps to strengthen relationships with key third-party service
Additional modules are available to employees through our learning
providers to ensure a state of readiness in case of a cyber incident.
management system, Nordson University, and may be assigned based
This reduces administrative hurdles that can otherwise delay time-
on job roles.
sensitive responses.
Nordson also conducts bimonthly phishing tests to reinforce
training and help employees identify potential threats. In 2022, the
Company implemented targeted “spear fishing” testing to groups
with more sensitive data access, such as Human Resources, Legal,
and Finance.
Nordson is a proud founding member of the Northeast
Ohio CyberConsortium (NEOCC). NEOCC is focused
on building an active, trusted network of public and
private organizations across industries to enhance
cybersecurity resilience and response, better protect
digital and physical assets, create safer and stronger
communities, and advance the technology leadership
of the region.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 51
ESG DATA SUMMARY
ESG Data Summary1
MEASURING AND MANAGING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT2
20213 2022 Targets
Scope 1 CO emissions (mT CO) 6,257 6,388
2 2
Natural gas and other onsite fuel consumption (gigajoules) 94,218 96,144
Natural gas and other onsite fuel CO emissions (mT CO) 4,726 4,831
2 2
Owned/lease fleet vehicle emissions (mT CO) 1,531 1,557
2
Owned/lease fleet vehicle energy usage (gigajoules)4 21,519 21,951
Facility electricity consumption (gigajoules) 294,634 298,147
Facility electricity consumption (mWh) 81,845 82,819
Scope 2 CO emissions (mT CO) 30,380 30,478
2 2
Total facility and fleet energy consumption (gigajoules)5 410,371 416,242
Total gross Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO emissions (mT CO) 36,637 36,866
2 2
Gross Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO emissions intensity 15.51 14.23
2
(mT CO / million revenue)6
2
Forest conservation and reforestation carbon offsets (mT CO) 7,323 7,157
2
Net Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions (mT CO)7 29,314 29,709 (1) 50% reduction by 2030
2
against 36,877 mT CO
2
gross emissions baseline
(39% complete)
(2) Net zero by 2050
(19% complete)
Net Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO emissions intensity 12.41 11.47
2
(mT CO / million revenue)6
2
Electrical power and/or energy from renewable sources 0% 2% (3) 70% by 2050 (3% complete)
Electricity from grid 100% 100%
Water (thousands of gallons)8 Not reported 42,069
FOSTERING AN INCLUSIVE AND ENGAGED CULTURE
2020 2021 2022
Talent Management and Development
Employee average global tenure (years)9 10 10 9
Voluntary employee turnover rate10 6.0% 10.4% 11.5%
Inclusion and Diversity
Board composition - women (value/percentage)11 3 / 33% 3 / 33% 3 / 33%
Board composition - racially/ethnically diverse (value/ 2 / 22% 2 / 22% 2 / 22%
percentage)11
Board combined gender and racial/ethnic diversity 56% 56% 56%
(percentage)11
Women in global leadership position - manager level and 18% 20% 21%
above (percentage)
Women in global senior leadership position- vice president 28% 26% 25%
and above (percentage)
Female workforce diversity - global (percentage) 28% 29% 30%
Minority workforce diversity - U.S. only (percentage) 33% 36% 39%
Workplace Health and Safety
U.S. total recordable incident rate12 1.8 1.6 2.3
U.S. days away, restricted or transferred rate12 1.3 1.2 1.4
Workplace fatalities13 0 0 0
This table contains a significant amount of references that are located in the footnotes section that follows the second table.
1 All data is calendar year (January-December), unless otherwise noted. Data has not been audited by an independent third party nor subject to assurance. Refer to the statement on
page 54 for additional context.
2 Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions information reflects actual data collected from utility bills for sites equal to or greater than 5,000 sq. ft. Sites for which actual data was not available and sites below
5,000 sq. ft. are included in Nordson's consumption and emissions data using estimated values based on site characteristics such as square footage, climate/geographical region, and facility type
(office, manufacturing, or warehouse) using actual data from comparable sites in Nordson's portfolio and/or anonymized data from other clients of Nordson's utility bill management vendor.
3 Nordson is adjusting the 2021 data to remove January through October consumption / emissions data for the sites acquired when Nordson completed its purchase of NDC Technologies in
November 2021; the full-year site data originally included in our prior report is being updated to reflect only the post-completion November and December data. Nordson is also
adding U.S./Canada fleet vehicle CO emissions, which were not included in the prior report.
2
4 U.S./Canada fleet vehicles only.
5 Facility fuel, facility electricity, and U.S./Canada fleet vehicles.
6 Based on fiscal year (November-October) revenue.
7 The baseline for Nordson's 2030 target is based on our 2021 emissions data, adjusted for acquisitions/divestitures, and will continue to be adjusted with new acquisitions/divestitures.
8 Based on actual invoice data for approximately 75% of sites over 5,000 square feet. Not intended as a baseline.
9 As of October 31 for each respective year.
10 Does not include retirees.
11 As of the proxy record date for each year (e.g., the 2022 numbers are based on a Dec. 30, 2022 proxy record date).
12 Inclusive of COVID-19 related incidents.
13 In 2021, there were zero non-COVID fatalities. One workplace fatality was recorded due to an apparent workplace COVID transmission. Following the submission of Nordson's report,
OSHA conducted an onsite inspection and issued no citation related to the incident. Nordson took steps to reiterate and reinforce all COVID-related safety protocols.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 52
ESG DATA SUMMARY
ESG Data Summary 1
(cont'd)
CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES
2022
Donations through Nordson and the Foundation since 1989 ($ amount) $152+ million
Total giving through Nordson and the Foundation ($ amount) $13 million
Volunteer hours since 1989 114,000+
Foundation grants awarded (value/$ amount) 477 / $8 million
Nordson BUILDS scholarships (value/$ amount) 124 / $766,840
OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY AND RESPONSIBILITY2
2022
Board independence - independent/non-independent 8 / 1
Board independence - Committee members and Committee chairs (percentage) 100%
Attendance at Board and Committee meetings by each director (percentage) 75% or greater
Board average tenure of independent directors (years) 8
1 All data is calendar year (January-December), except revenue, which is fiscal year (November-October).
2 Data as of our proxy record date, Dec. 30, 2022.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 53
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Forward-Looking Statements
This ESG Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements
may be identified by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “projects,” “forecasts,” “outlook,” “guidance,”
“continue,” “target,” “seeks,” “target,” “design,” “strive,” “objective,” “ambition,” “goals,” or the negative of these terms or comparable terminology. All
statements in this report, other than those relating to historical information, facts, or current conditions, are forward-looking statements, including, but not
limited to: the Company’s targets, objectives, commitments, ambitions, designs, and goals regarding environmental, social, and governance (ESG) matters;
expectations regarding strategies, plans, prospects, and opportunities; advancement of strategic or sustainability initiatives; expected market and industry
conditions with respect to the Company’s products and services; the Company’s ability to develop innovative and sustainable solutions; acquisitions and
divestitures and anticipated results thereof; goals, aspirations, and targets; and our roll-out of sustainability and renewable projects. Although these forward-
looking statements reflect management’s current expectations, they are subject to assumptions, risks, and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our
control, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed, implied, or anticipated by the forward-looking statements. As such, these
statements are inherently uncertain and you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement. The risks and uncertainties and
other events or circumstances that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to:
changes in laws, regulations, or public policy; the evolution of technology relating to energy and environmental management; the complexity of commodity
supply chains; recycling and waste management infrastructure and capabilities in local markets; the volatility of markets for raw materials, recycled materials,
and energy; the available supply of clean energy technology; the capital and operating cost of implementing clean energy, water reduction, recycling, and waste
management technologies; competitive pressures on product pricing and services; success, impact, and timing of our business strategies; the performance of
third-party service providers in connection with energy and environmental management; general global economic, market, and business conditions; interest
rates, supply chains and the global economy generally; our ability to execute on our strategies related to ESG matters, and achieve related expectations; and the
risks, uncertainties, and other factors discussed in Item 1A (Risk Factors) and elsewhere in the Company’s most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended October 31, 2022 and any subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which should be
reviewed carefully.
This ESG Report and related information made available on or through our website does not cover all information about our business. The inclusion of
information or references in this report, including the use of “materiality” or similar terms, should not be construed as a characterization regarding the
materiality of such information to our business or financial results or that such information is necessarily material to investors or other stakeholders for
purposes of U.S. federal securities laws.
The Company’s targets, objectives, commitments, ambitions, designs, and goals presented in this ESG Report or made available on or through our website are
aspirational and not guarantees or promises that the targets, objectives, commitments, ambitions, designs, and goals will be met. New risks, developments,
and changes to the targets, objectives, commitments, ambitions, designs, and goals emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to
predict all risks, developments, and changes, nor can management assess the impact of all factors on the Company’s targets, objectives, commitments,
ambitions, designs, and goals or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained
in any forward-looking statements the Company may make. In addition, historical, current, and forward-looking information included in this ESG Report may
be based on standards, methodology, and practices for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve,
and assumptions that are subject to change. Accordingly, historical, current, and forward-looking information, including goals, targets, and commitments
and underlying assumptions and data, may be subject to modifications in future reports due to developing standards, methodology, practices, and controls
and processes. In light of the significant uncertainties in these forward-looking statements, investors should not regard these statements as a representation
or warranty by the Company or any other person that the Company will achieve its targets, objectives, commitments, ambitions, designs, and goals in any
specified time frame or at all. The forward-looking statements in this ESG Report are made as of the date it was first published and the Company undertakes no
obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement in this report.
NORDSON Environmental, Social & Governance Report 54
28601 Clemens Road Westlake, Ohio 44145-4551 www.nordson.com
