2023
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2
About this report
The content and structure of this report provide
stakeholders a comprehensive update highlighting NRG’s
dedication to people, commitment to environmental
stewardship, and the governance principles that inform
our work. Sustainability has become increasingly
integrated into the fabric of who we are as a company;
this report reflects its importance and impact across
all parts of our business.
This sustainability report is aligned with our fiscal year (FY) and is a
snapshot of the period from January 1 to December 31, 2023, unless
otherwise noted in individual disclosures. Featuring highlights from the
reporting period as well as relevant data and disclosures, our report
contains information and issues pertinent to NRG and complements
our other reporting and financial filings. Unless otherwise stated, NRG
refers to NRG Energy, Inc. as well as its subsidiaries and affiliates. While
this report’s scope is FY 2023, some longer-term projects and goals
are discussed, as are certain significant current events that occurred
between the end of FY 2023 and the time of publication.
Where applicable, sustainability-related disclosures are in line with the
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), which was recently
incorporated into the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
Foundation, and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs). Additional details on NRG can be found in our Environmental,
Social, and Governance (ESG) Data Download as well as in our reports
and proxy statement on the NRG Investor Relations website. The
Appendix section contains our SASB table and resources with more
information linked throughout the report.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 3
Table of contents
INTRODUCTION 4 ENVIRONMENTAL 17 GOVERNANCE 40
CEO letter 5 Powering a lower-carbon future 18 Corporate governance 41
CSO letter 6 Our climate goals and progress 19 Board of Directors 41
About NRG 7 Environmental management and operations 22 Governance approach for environmental 42
stewardship and social responsibility
Sustainability at NRG 8 Advancing a sustainable supply chain 25
Stockholder and stakeholder engagement 46
Looking ahead 25
Public policy 48
FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL 10
ENERGY TRANSITION
Data, technology, and security 48
SOCIAL 26
Our balanced approach 11
Supporting and empowering our people 27
APPENDIX 49
Customer-driven solutions 12
Upholding safety and well-being 30
Sustainable products and services 13 Glossary 50
Fostering diversity, equity, and inclusion (DE&I) 32
Technology and data analytics 15 Further reading 51
Giving back to communities 36
Public policy and advocacy 16 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 52
Vivint Gives Back 37
and progress
Looking ahead 16
Looking ahead 39
SASB standards 54
Key issues assessment 60
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 4
Introduction
IN THIS SECTION:
CEO letter 5
CSO letter 6
About NRG 7
Sustainability at NRG 8
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 5
CEO letter
Dear Stakeholders,
Today, NRG is proud to be working at the intersection of energy and increasingly cleaner supply, continued electrification, and tremendous
consumer services, placing sustainability at the core of everything we demand-side growth. NRG is harnessing technology, our customer-
do. Our strategy ensures we make responsible decisions that consider centric approach, and incredible talent to advance our business. We
every aspect of our business. are not just adapting to change—we are leading it, championing an
intentional energy transition that is safe, affordable, reliable, and
In 2023, we achieved some great milestones, thanks to the steps beneficial for future generations.
we’ve taken in recent years to strengthen our business. NRG made
significant progress in advancing our long-term energy transition and Thank you for your continued support and interest in NRG. It is
electrification strategy. your belief in our vision that inspires us to do better every day. I am
grateful for our employees, partners, customers, and communities’
We achieved a 58% reduction in GHG emissions, bettering our 2025 dedication. Together, we are shaping a bright future.
target, and our demand response programs effectively helped to
balance market needs and reduce grid demand. The NRG team’s
commitment to the community remained steadfast, contributing
31,000 volunteer service hours across North America. The integration
of NRG and Vivint has been a ‘better together’ story, enriching both
our offerings and our teams. Reflecting our new collective identity, we
introduced an updated purpose statement: To power a brighter future
together. One that is safe, smart, and sustainable.
Looking ahead, there is still much to accomplish. Our goals for the
coming years are ambitious as we enter a new era of energy, driven by
Larry Coben
Chair, President and
Chief Executive Officer
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 6
CSO letter
Dear Stakeholders,
Looking back on my first nine months as Chief Sustainability Officer for Our whole-home experience delivers comprehensive, tech-forward
NRG, I am filled with hope and excitement. I feel honored to have joined energy management to our customers. For our gas business, we
a sustainability program with such a strong legacy. The opportunity to are exploring ways to evolve our customer solutions as we continue
now spearhead NRG’s sustainability initiatives as we shape the future reducing our carbon intensity. The anticipated power demand
of energy is a privilege. Today, I am proud to share with you both our increase driven by the technology sector presents both challenges
progress over the past year and our vision for a more sustainable future. and opportunities.
In 2023, we achieved many milestones and expanded our portfolio to NRG’s strategic shift to sit at the intersection of energy and technology
offer more sustainable alternatives for both homes and businesses. marks a new chapter in our sustainability story. As we navigate this next
Our efforts to progress our emissions targets were reflected in a 58% phase of NRG and the energy industry as a whole, I remain focused on
decrease in GHG emissions from our base year, including a 30% cut maintaining our unwavering commitment to putting our customers
from 2022 in our Scope 1 emissions. We retained our top-decile safety first as we continue to elevate our sustainability approach and set a
performance, and our commitment to our people and communities benchmark for the industry.
was strengthened through integration with our Vivint colleagues.
I am proud of the progress to date, which is a testament to our
Throughout an atypical year for our business, we maintained
company’s dedication and to those leaders before me who paved the
shareholder engagement and strong governance principles and
way. As we move forward, I will continue to collaborate closely within
ensured our strategies remained aligned with stakeholder values
NRG to ensure that sustainability remains at the core of our business.
and expectations.
I am grateful for the support and engagement of our stakeholders as
My time in this role has deepened my commitment to advancing NRG’s
we pursue our sustainability goals and for the opportunity to lead as we
sustainability agenda and reinforced my belief that sustainability is not
drive tangible results through our collective efforts. Together, we can
a destination, but rather a journey that requires constant adaptation,
create a more prosperous and sustainable future for all.
learning, and dedication. I am anticipating many more opportunities to
engage with customers in new ways.
Lynda Clemmons
Chief Sustainability Officer
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 7
ESSENTIALS FOR THE HOME AND BEYOND OUR PURPOSE AND VALUES
About NRG
Throughout 2023, we focused on the integration of Vivint Smart Home Our purpose and values inform how we move forward and achieve more
NRG sits at the intersection of energy and home services.
as a catalyst in accelerating our consumer-focused growth strategy for the people we serve. We constantly aim higher to provide a better
With our customers’ needs and aspirations at the
— to bring customers a best-in-market home services platform fueled experience for our customers, employees, and communities. In 2023,
forefront, we are bringing peace of mind, customization,
by unparalleled insights, proprietary technologies, and complementary we rolled out a new purpose statement. This new statement reflects
and convenience to the home. Our leading brands and sales channels. our growth, aspirations, and the evolving needs of our stakeholders.
customer experience as an energy provider have paved
NRG serves approximately eight million residential consumers in
the way for trusted relationships inside the home, and
addition to commercial, industrial, and wholesale customers, supported
today, we are much more than simply a power and natural
by approximately 13 GW of energy generation capacity as of December
gas retailer. We are empowering consumers with a unique
31, 2023. We sold 152 TWhs of electricity and 1,892 MMDth of natural
platform that combines innovative energy services gas in 2023, making us one of the largest competitive energy retailers in
and controls with home automation, smart devices, the U.S. NRG PURPOSE STATEMENT
and protection. To power a brighter future together.
As of 2023’s end, we had recurring electricity and/or natural gas sales in
25 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, and eight provinces in Canada. One that is safe, smart, and sustainable.
Other products and services are available nationwide in both the U.S.
and Canada. Vivint served customers in all 50 U.S. states. NRG’s retail
brands collectively have the largest share of competitively-served
residential electricity customers in Texas and nationwide.
Our power values
Safety and Customer focus Collaboration Accountability Diversity, equity,
well-being and inclusion
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 8
OUR SUSTAINABILITY GOALS
Sustainability at NRG
In addition, we have established three ambitious targets for reducing
Sustainability is a philosophy that underpins and
NRG’s environmental footprint and reporting our progress:
facilitates value creation across our business for all
stakeholders. It is an integral piece of our corporate
50%
strategy and ties directly to business success, reduced
reduction in GHG emissions by 20251
risk, and enhanced reputation.
We are committed to affecting positively the communities in which our
Net-zero
customers and employees live and work. We are focused on reducing
emissions by 2050
our environmental footprint while ensuring the long-term reliability,
competitiveness, and success of NRG.
100%
As we help to drive the energy transition through increasingly more
sustainable products and solutions, our goal is to provide more electrification of company-owned, light-duty fleet vehicles by 2030
clean energy choices to our customers and help reduce overall
environmental and social impacts associated with the use of our
products. This includes:
• Providing sustainable energy solutions to customers, optimizing
our generation on an ongoing basis
• Reducing the carbon footprint of our operations
• Leveraging cleaner energy technologies such as battery
storage and the incorporation of renewables
• Supporting the advancement of our employees through
initiatives spanning health, safety, personal and professional
growth, and DE&I
1 From our 2014 base year, includes scopes 1, 2, and 3 business travel
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 9
YEAR IN REVIEW
2023 by the numbers
We’re on a mission to power, protect, and intelligently manage all things
home and business — and 2023 was another year of outstanding
progress. We advanced our strategic priorities, expanded our
A Fortune Approximately
152 TWh
sustainability initiatives, and reinforced our support for NRG employees,
partners, and the communities we serve. 150 electricity sold 31,100
Company hours of volunteer service by employees
Together, we are building a
58%
brighter, cleaner, and more Approximately
reduction in GHG emissions1 1,160+
resilient future.
$28.8B
charitable organizations impacted by
in revenue volunteers and donations
SELECTED 2023 AWARDS
54%
AND RECOGNITION
Approximately Board of Directors’ ethnic or
gender diversity
• Newsweek’s Most Responsible Companies
18,000
• Forbes America’s Best Midsize Employer
employees
• Forbes Global 2000
1.9 GW
• Forbes Best Employer for Diversity
of renewable power purchase
13 GW agreements (PPAs)
• Forbes America’s Best Employer by State (Texas)
total generation capacity
• Fortune Global 500
• HRO Today’s Talent Acquisition Leader of the Year, Top decile
Lifetime Achievement
8MM+ safety performance
• Finalist HRO Today’s Talent Acquisition Team of the Year
customers
• IABC Houston Bronze Quill Award of Excellence
Approximately
• Illumi: Creative Development Award (UserTesting)
$7.2 MM
1,892 MMDth
• Ragan Communications CSR & Diversity Awards Finalist
donated to charitable organizations
natural gas sold
1 From our 2014 base year.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 10
Facilitating an
intentional
energy transition
IN THIS SECTION:
Our balanced approach 11
Customer-driven solutions 12
Sustainable products and services 13
Technology and data analytics 15
Public policy and advocacy 16
Looking ahead 16
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 11
Our balanced approach
The energy industry is at an inflection point, transitioning
from a century-old system built upon combustible fuels
to one that fulfills the requirements of a world
contending with climate change and being reshaped by
technological innovation.
At NRG, we are committed to the responsible transition to a lower-
carbon economy. Our sustainability strategy recognizes and embraces
that together with NRG’s customers and partners, we have an
unprecedented opportunity to rethink what power can be.
While much of today’s energy landscape is transforming, our
fundamental approach — delivering energy that is safe, affordable,
and available when it’s needed — still holds true. From development
to strategy, our customers are crucial in helping us navigate and find
success in an ever-evolving sector.
We all want to leave a better world for the
next generation. By using the technology
we have now to manage our resources,
we believe we can turn the tide on
climate change.”
— Lynda Clemmons
Chief Sustainability Officer
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 12
Customer-driven solutions
We are empowering NRG customers to play a greater role in shaping
a sustainable energy future. From data center growth to continued
electrification, our customers are inspiring industry change and
influencing how we think about solutions to meet the needs of their
homes and businesses. To empower and mobilize our customers
to achieve their sustainability goals, we are aligning smart home
technologies that manage usage with cleaner energy options.
Whether generating power from our fleet with diverse fuel sources and
geographic proximity to our customers, selectively purchasing power
from the market, or entering long-term power purchase agreements
(PPAs) for renewables, we’re sourcing power in ways that meet our
customers’ needs and values.
Our vision is to orchestrate all of these
instruments — wind power, solar panels,
Energy-saving innovations in the tech-smart home
smart thermostats, EV charging, and
more — to continue providing energy As modern living spaces become increasingly electrified broader efforts to level out demands on the energy grid by
and technologically interconnected, consumers have offering attractive incentives for customers to change their
whenever and wherever people need it.
unprecedented opportunities to manage their residential electricity usage.
In concert with our customers, we can energy usage more flexibly. Aided by our Vivint products, we
In 2023, we continued to advance our customer EV rate
are accelerating this shift toward a more demand-driven model
make sustainable energy usage a way
plan offerings. This includes a new EV interface that helps
through our combined solutions.
of life.” customers connect their cars automatically with a time-of-use
By controlling their thermostat, lighting, appliances, electric electricity plan. Our new interface also gives customers the
— Mark Parsons vehicle (EV) charging, and other in-home devices from option to see both gasoline and CO savings. This is just one
2
Head of Texas, Consumer Energy anywhere via a single app, our customers have greater example of how NRG’s products are making customer’s
control over their energy usage without sacrificing comfort energy experience seamless.
or convenience. In addition, the Vivint platform supports our
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 13
For example, the Reliant app now provides insights on solar
Sustainable products
savings, KWh imported and exported, environmental impact,
and services and weather. In addition, we launched a new buyback program,
Solar Unlimited, for our Direct Energy customers.
We are continually innovating to support the energy transition with • EV charger plan. EV owners receive a discounted rate every
more responsive products and services that put greater control in night between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m. to support overnight charging.
customers’ hands. The plan is supported by 100% renewable energy and comes
with a complimentary Level 2 EV charger.
SOLUTIONS FOR THE HOME
• Renewable energy add-on. This program allows our
customers to add renewable energy to cover 25%, 50%,
We believe smart home solutions are an essential catalyst in the
or 100% of their load.
transition to a lower-carbon energy future. Our retail brands are built
around making sustainability easy for customers. Gone are the days • SolarSPARC. When customers enroll in this plan, they help fund
where being efficient was seen as sacrificial, old-fashioned, and difficult. a variety of projects that make solar energy more accessible in
Instead, that’s been replaced by technology, transparency, and flexibility. local communities.
In addition, we have participated in small pilot projects that provide
Our offerings include:
insight into expanded demand side management capabilities that
• Degrees of Difference, Reduce Your Use, and Ready benefit both consumers and the grid.
Set Relax These demand response programs adjust
These efforts include:
customer’s electricity use during times of high demand. In
2023, NRG’s programs resulted in nearly 1,155 MWh saved
• A pilot project that allows Reliant customers in Texas to
across 24 demand response events and an additional
enroll their energy storage system in the state’s aggregated
~520 MWh saved through customers’ voluntary participation.
distributed energy resource (ADER) program
• Flextra Credits. As part of this 100% solar electricity plan,
• Involving NRG employees with EVs in a proof-of-concept test to
Reliant customers receive their two highest-use days each
integrate “smart car” technology as a lever for EV charging
week for free. The program also provides up to $200 in bonus
bill credits over the length of a customer’s term. • Conducting an assessment among select Reliant customers
to gauge how they perceive the value of receiving a smart
• Solar buyback programs. In 2023, we grew our Reliant
thermostat with free installation. The results of this study
solar buyback portfolio by nearly 20% while also enhancing
will help us further hone our integration of Vivint Smart
customers’ experience with online account management.
Home capabilities
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 14
SOLUTIONS FOR BUSINESS We also have several teams dedicated to helping our commercial and
industrial customers optimize sustainability in their operations: Community solar
We guide our business customers to what’s optimal for their unique
goals and needs — leveraging our energy industry knowledge, a • Our sustainability advisory group educates commercial and NRG takes a market-leading approach to maximizing the value
industrial customers on how to reach their sustainability goals
technology-agnostic mindset, and our customer-first approach. Our of community solar and minimizing the effort required. We
by providing insight into their carbon footprint, helping them to
ultimate goal is to make each customer’s energy strategy a competitive work with organizations to scale community solar based on
decide the appropriate way to access renewable energy as well
advantage for their business. unique footprints. An offsite solar facility generates electricity
as the tools available for benchmarking and reporting. This team
that’s delivered directly to the grid. Afterward, bill credits are
NRG’s diverse portfolio for businesses includes: helps customers establish a solid strategy and make it easier
assigned to specific customer sites and the customer pays a
to navigate the evolving clean energy landscape, understand
discounted price.
Carbon intensity-reducing and socially-responsible solutions the ESG implications of energy commodity and services
procurement, and improve business performance.
• Community solar brokerage
Support for a customer’s climate
• Our renewable brokerage team focuses on assisting Fortune
• Renewable Select™ planning journey
500 companies with VPPAs, community solar portfolio
• Renewable power purchase agreements (PPAs) and virtual origination and management, transferable tax credit financing As a trusted advisor on implementing ESG and disclosure
power purchase agreements (VPPAs) solutions, distributed generation solutions, and long-term REC strategies, NRG recently helped a large consulting firm
purchases. With over two GW in recent transactions, the team
• Renewable Energy Credits (REC) successfully apply for several respected climate planning
continues to assist clients in an ongoing effort to maximize
and sustainability certifications. These efforts included:
• Carbon offsets both ESG and financial benefits.
• Assisting with the customer’s latest CDP submission
• ESG advisory services • Our renewable and new product innovation team works
with NRG business operations to bring new products such as
• Fleet electrification advisory services • Helping the firm prepare for a climate scenario
renewable energy credits, carbon offsets, renewable natural gas
planning analysis in accordance with the International
Customizable demand-side solutions (RNG), and certified gas (CG) to market. They identify customer Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB)
needs and market opportunities and collaborate with internal
• Demand response and external partners to design, develop, and launch innovative • Assisting with deliverables to the Taskforce on
solutions that address sustainability challenges. This team also Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
• Responsive Economic Dispatch
supports the scaling and adoption of these products across
• Energy efficiency and management tools • Supporting the firm’s Science-Based Targets initiative
different regions and sectors, ensuring they deliver value to our
(SBTi) submission, which led to final certification in
customers and stakeholders.
• Peak load management
December 2023
Energy storage and resilience solutions
• Helping the firm create its playbook for achieving
sustainable longevity and continuing to quantify its
• Emergency back-up generation
climate change-related activities
• Distributed energy resources (DERs)
• Supporting the firm’s assessment and verification of
metric data for upcoming sustainability deliverables
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 15
Some of our key accomplishments in 2023 include: In addition, we are committed to facilitating customers’ sustainability
Technology and
efforts through solutions that make renewables, energy efficiency,
• Expanding the customer data platform, providing industry-
data analytics and home management more accessible to everyone. Our robust
leading insights, and enabling real time personalization
technology platform helps customers be better energy users by
providing data and insights into their consumption. Paired with the right
Data, technology, and security play a major role in our business. We • Delivering enterprise-wide data projects to strengthen the
electricity plan, we reward customers for leveraging this information to
have the data to make informed decisions, the technology to support core business, executing on the digital strategy to personalize
modify energy use — without disrupting their lives.
business execution and optimization, and internal security controls offers, and advancing our Artificial Intelligence (AI) capabilities
based on the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology to unlock value within the business
With the help of smart home technology, consumers can easily control
Cybersecurity Framework (NIST CSF).
• Continuing to develop preventative protections, identifying their power usage with a simple tap on a phone app. Lower power usage
and remediating information security risks and vulnerabilities, can mean lower bills, less strain on the grid, and less environmental
The unique power of harnessing data, technology, and security keeps
testing incident response procedures, and providing ongoing impact. This literally puts control over their sustainable energy use in
us on the cutting edge of our business, allowing us to deliver excellence.
employee cybersecurity training and awareness the palm of a customer’s hands. Multiplied by thousands or millions of
Our approach groups data and technology under the same roof. households, the potential impact is substantial.
Through this combination, we are building enterprise-wide platforms to
capture individual consumer insights and behavioral trends that enable
us to continue innovating and enhancing customer engagement and
satisfaction with our products and services.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 16
More specifically, we advocate for state and federal policies that give
Public policy and advocacy
customers access to a greater array of renewable and emissions-free
energy options, with the right to choose their preferred providers and
Renewable energy policies are rapidly evolving, due in part to the need
shop for the lowest prices. We also help customers optimize their use
to address climate change. These policy changes present challenges
of renewable energy incentives created under the Inflation Reduction
and solutions for businesses operating in the energy sector.
Act (IRA), which includes tax credits for adopting decarbonization
technologies such as wind and solar power.
We recognize that consumer choice is an important component in
achieving a sustainable energy transition. Therefore, NRG advocates for
NRG has been a market leader in guiding businesses toward
legislation and policy pillars that allow customers to leverage the power
opportunities to save money while achieving their sustainability goals
of the free market to influence and shape the energy future.
through renewable energy tax credits. In addition, we commission and
prepare energy policy research to help guide legislators, regulatory
Four overarching policy principles guide our political advocacy work:
agencies, and non-governmental organizations in making decisions
• Competition and consumer choice. Consumers should that affect our business, customers, and broader industry.
be able to choose their electricity and natural gas providers.
Learn more on our Energy Policy page.
Competition promotes a customer-centric approach to
business and drives companies to innovate and develop
products and solutions, while helping to keep them affordable.
• Sustainability and lower-carbon-intensity energy.
Looking ahead
Competitive markets allow energy providers to cater to
consumers who would like to support renewable electricity
from wind and solar resources, and meet their energy Technology continues to expand the opportunities for at-home
efficiency goals. and business customers to take charge of their energy choices
and usage. We are focused on continuing to equip and mobilize
• Innovation and technologies. Retail innovation-focused
NRG customers to achieve their sustainability goals through the
policies improve consumer experiences by spurring the
combination of advanced digital smart home technologies and
development of innovative technologies, products,
renewable, resilient energy.
and services.
• Resilience and reliability. Retail energy-focused policies help
ensure customers have access to energy when they need it,
helping support a market system where reliability and resiliency
are prioritized.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 17
Environmental
IN THIS SECTION:
Powering a lower-carbon future 18
Our climate goals and progress 19
Environmental management 22
and operations
Advancing a sustainable supply chain 25
Looking ahead 25
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 18
Powering a
lower-carbon future
58%
We’re committed to managing our business in an decrease in GHG emissions compared to
environmentally responsible way while also offering our 2014 base year, from approximately
58 million metric tons CO e to
energy products and services that help our customers 2
approximately 24 million metric tons
achieve their environmental goals. Our focus on reducing
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to achieve our climate
goals remains at the forefront of NRG’s strategic planning
71%
as we transition to a decarbonized global economy.
In addition, we continue to invest in water-saving and decrease in water withdrawal associated
with NRG operations compared to our
waste-reducing innovations.
2014 base year
Approximately
36 GW
fossil fuel-fired power generation capacity
retired or divested since 2014
68%
of coal combustion residuals (CCRs)
generated by our facilities were recycled
for beneficial reuse in 2023
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 19
Since 2014, our CO e emissions have decreased 58%, from 58 million
Our climate goals 2
metric tons to 24 million metric tons. Key drivers of this change include
and progress reductions in our fleet-wide annual net GHG generation and a market-
US GHG emissions (MT CO e)
2
driven shift from coal to natural gas as a primary fuel for
power generation.
Our emissions reduction goals encompass Scope 1, Scope 2, and the
employee business travel portion of Scope 3 emissions. To ensure 35,000,000 34,708,791
We achieved a 30% reduction in our Scope 1 emissions in 2023, 33,004,376
consistency and relevance, our 2014 base year GHG emissions are
primarily resulting from reduced output by our power plants along with
30,000,000
reviewed annually and recalculated as warranted to reflect any changes
a 34% decline in net electricity generation from our coal-powered
to our generation asset portfolio. Such recalculations are made 24,375,429
facilities compared to 2022. 25,000,000
according to The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting
and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition, 2004.hicle fleet by 2030 While we are excited about our 58% reduction in 2023, the achievement 20,000,000
of NRG’s 2025 emissions reduction targets could be impacted by
15,000,000
volatility within the power markets, driven by market conditions and
NRG GOALS
changes in regulatory policies. We target the continued achievement
5,000,000
of this goal.
0
50%
Please see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion FY21 FY22 FY23
carbon emissions reduction by 20251 on NRG’s generation from all fuels — natural gas, coal, nuclear, oil,
and renewables — represented in our portfolio.
US tCO e/$M revenue2
Net-zero 2
carbon emissions by 2050
In 2023, less than 5% of our 1500
1,223
100% consolidated operating revenues
1200 1,100
electrification of our vehicle fleet by 2030 were derived from coal-fired
900 846
operating assets, and our
carbon intensity by revenue 600
has decreased 31% since 2021.
300
0
FY21 FY22 FY23
1 Compared with our 2014 base year.
2 These numbers have been updated since publishing our 10-K, and therefore do not match what is listed in the 10-K.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 20
CLIMATE TRANSITION STRATEGY LEVERS
Retired and divested fossil fuel-fired power
We are using four main levers to advance our carbon transition strategy:
generation capacity (MW)
• Decarbonization of existing business lines, which includes
retiring fossil fuel generation assets when they reach end of life 50,000 48,792 Total capacity
Cumulative
46,247
• Diversification into low-emissions businesses, which includes retired and
44,037 divested capacity
providing our customers with renewable electricity and options
to reduce the carbon footprint associated with their natural
40,000
gas consumption
• Divestment of select high-emissions assets
30,000
• Deployment of new technologies and innovations
27,097
21,527 21,272 21,343
Asset retirements and divestitures
20,000
Since 2014, we have retired or divested approximately 36 GW of fossil 16,524 15,164
fuel generation, a reduction of 73%. In 2023, we sold or retired natural 12,998
gas-fired capacity equivalent to approximately 2,200 MW.
10,000
As part of our portfolio optimization strategy, we intend to retire all
remaining fossil power plants in Illinois in time to comply with the
Illinois Climate and Equitable Jobs Act, which mandates that private 0
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
coal- and oil-fired electric generating units reach zero emissions by
-2,545
no later than January 1, 2030. Our overall plan includes deactivating
-4,755
the 410 MW Indian River Unit 4 coal-fired power plant in Delaware
-10,000
upon the termination of a Reliability Must-Run (RMR) agreement with
the PJM regional transmission organization (RTO). The end of RMR
service is dependent upon notice of termination by PJM and successful
completion of certain transmission system upgrades which is currently
-20,000
expected no earlier than December 2024. The 1,538 MW Powerton
-21,695
coal facility in Illinois is projected to close by December 31, 2028 to
comply with ELG regulations. In Maryland, the 167 MW Vienna oil facility -27,265
-27,520-27,449
-30,000
is planned for retirement in June 2025. In Texas, we plan to cease
operating Cottonwood, a 1,166 MW natural gas-fired facility when our -32,268
-33,628
lease expires in May 2025 and operations revert to the facility owner. -35,794
Additional details about our asset retirements and divestitures are
-40,000
available in our Form 10-K.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 21
BROADENING RENEWABLE
ENERGY OPTIONS
Knowing that our customers increasingly want sustainable energy
solutions, we partner with developers to bring new renewables to the
grid through medium and long-term PPAs. At the end of 2023, NRG had
signed agreements for 1.9 GW of renewable power capacity through
these PPAs, of which all were online as of July 2024. The average tenor
of these agreements is 11 years.
We expect to continue evaluating and entering into additional PPAs that
support our business needs as well as the objectives of our customers.
NATURAL GAS
Natural gas remains an important part of the overall energy mix, and
we support its continued use within our diversified portfolio. We expect
that natural gas will become less carbon-intensive over time through
advancements in emerging forms such as RNG, CG, and hydrogen.
NRG delivers reliable, competitively priced natural gas supply and
related solutions to households, companies, and state and local
Fleet electrification
governments, helping them to achieve their climate goals. We also work
to help reduce the carbon impact of gas consumption with products like We employ a test-and-learn framework to develop
high-quality carbon offsets.
new electric vehicle (EV) products and services for our
customers. In addition, EV innovations help us advance
toward our 2030 climate goals.
In 2023, we grew our fleet of EVs by 14, adding all-
electric trucks. Also, we applied lessons from our own
fleet electrification and home charging experiences in
the development and deployment of new solutions.
Our framework included testing these concepts at the
Houston Boat & Auto Show.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 22
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
Environmental
management and operations We carefully measure and track compliance with environmental
requirements and NRG standards using our EKPIs, which measure
leading and lagging indicators such as Notices of Violation (NOVs),
We integrate environmental considerations into our strategic decisions
reportable spills, and compliance with laws. We report on EKPIs to our
as part of our commitment to operating sustainably and complying with
management monthly, and our Board also receives regular reports. In
all applicable environmental requirements. Our Environment-Over-
2023, 93% of our generation fleet met or exceeded their respective
Production policy sets a clear understanding among NRG employees
performance targets.
that environmental compliance takes precedence in the company’s
operational decision-making. For more details, see our Environmental
Our environmental performance metric counts environmental
Policy Statement.
incidents such as reportable spills, permit deviations, and receipts
of NOVs. Having fewer incidents results in a lower, more favorable
BIODIVERSITY score. The chart below shows the company’s EKPI score by year as a
percentage of base year 2014, which is indexed to 100%.
Recognizing the potential impact of our operations on the local natural
ecosystem, we strive to support and protect biological diversity in the
areas where we operate. Environmental performance record1
(% compared to base year – 2014, 100%)
All active NRG plants have a site-specific Biodiversity Plan that outlines
practices to limit the local impact of operations. In 2023, our plants 100
100
completed 31 econrgSM projects, with each plant completing at least 94
one. Project highlights:
Intelex Environmental Management
80 76 77 Information System (EMIS)
• $18,000 in scholarships focused on environmental matters
provided to high school students
63 We use a system called Intelex to track, assign
59
• Lighting upgrades (installation of solar lighting, motion sensors, 60 responsibility, and report on our full range of
53
and LEDs, all reducing energy use) 49 environmental tasks and requirements. This EMIS
42 system helps us maintain environmental compliance
• Beach/creek/community cleanup volunteer events
40
34 by efficiently capturing data related to incident
• Planting native grasses/wildflowers
management, audit findings, corrective actions,
• Recycling materials that had historically gone to landfill root cause determinations, and the performance of
20
our generation fleet. We continuously analyze this
Annually, each plant chooses, designs, and implements one econrgSM
information to identify opportunities for improvement.
project, and this work contributes to the plant’s environmental key
performance indicators (EKPIs) score. Our econrgSM projects span 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
multiple program areas including biodiversity, climate change, and
1 The score associated with the base year is updated as the composition of the NRG
resource reduction, reuse, and recycling.
generation fleet changes. In some cases, this has resulted in differences from percentages
previously reported.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 23
AIR EMISSIONS WATER WITHDRAWAL AND DISCHARGE
Over the last decade, our annual air emissions have declined To effectively operate our power plants, we use fresh, recycled,
NRG water withdrawal, discharge, and recycling
significantly. These improvements were driven in part by actions like brackish, and ocean water to cool condensers during electricity power
(million cubic meters)
emission controls and decommissioning of coal-fired units. We expect generation and create steam for the turbines that produce electricity.
to achieve similar results from future plant retirements.
2021 2022 2023
Water usage, scarcity, quality, and the effects of these factors on
SO emissions (million KG) biodiversity are important site-specific considerations for us. To Freshwater
2 1,807 1,101 487
conserve freshwater, we use non-potable options like brackish and withdrawal
% change since grey water from sewage treatment plants and leachate collection, and
2021 2022 2023
2014 baseline reuse water in plant cooling and process systems. In addition, we invest Non-freshwater
1,065 1,039 1,067
in water-saving technologies such as cooling towers that mitigate withdrawal
39 41 32 -71%
effects on aquatic life and significantly reduce water consumption at
generating stations. Total water
2,872 2,140 1,554
withdrawal
Since 2014, we have reduced our total volume of water withdrawal
NOx emissions (million KG)
by approximately 71% and our total volume of water discharge by Freshwater
1,727 991 394
discharge
% change since approximately 72%. Our net amount of water consumed has decreased
2021 2022 2023
2014 baseline by approximately 37% since 2014. In addition to our conservation
Non-freshwater
efforts, NRG’s water usage is affected by variables such as weather, 1,059 1,023 1,067
16 18 12 -59% discharge
plant capacity utilization, and plant retirements.
Total water
2,786 2,014 1,461
discharge
Mercury emissions (US tons)
Total water
% change since consumption2 86 126 93
2021 2022 2023
2014 baseline
0.08 0.07 0.04 -96%
2 Total water consumption represents the net difference between total water withdrawal and total
water discharge.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 24
WASTE
Coal combustion residual recycling rate (%)
We work to reduce, reuse, and recycle materials used in our daily
2021 2022 2023
operations to help preserve natural resources, save money, and improve
NOVs and spills in 2023
operational efficiency. The scope of our waste management programs
72 80 68
includes both corporate offices and generation facilities.
7
Electronic waste recycled (US tons)
Coal combustion residuals
NOVs from events occurring between 2021 and 2023;
We continually research options for the beneficial reuse of CCRs 3 with fines totaling $15,780
2021 2022 2023
from NRG operations. Examples include diverting CCRs for use in
construction products, concrete, and cement. This practice helps 10 22 60
reduce the need for mining virgin resources like native soil, gravel,
1
and gypsum.
reportable oil spill to land of approximately 3 gallons during
In 2023, NRG facilities generated approximately 743,253 metric tons the demolition of a site. Oil remained in the immediate area
of CCRs, 68% of which — more than 504,000 metric tons — were of the spill and the oil and impacted soil was removed from
beneficially reused. The remainder was disposed of in accordance with the property
applicable state and federal regulations.
Electronic waste 0
NRG works with Compucycle to recycle electronic waste (e-waste) unauthorized discharges of process water
such as old computers and other electronic products. We recycled
60 US tons of e-waste in 2023 — raising our total since 2014 to
more than 530 short tons. The increase in e-waste in 2023 was
0
primarily driven by office closures and decommissioning efforts at the
Waukegan, Will County, and Joliet plants. reportable chemical spills
NOVs and spills
An NOV can be issued for any violation of law, regulation, permit,
certification, or license, regardless of significance, and may or may not
result in a fine. Historically, the vast majority of NOVs issued to NRG
have not included a fine. All NOVs issued to NRG, regardless of final
disposition, are recorded as an incident against our EKPIs.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 25
In 2023, we continued advancing transparency and disclosure by
Advancing a sustainable
participating in the world-leading CDP (formerly known as Carbon
supply chain Disclosure Project) Supply Chain engagement program. This initiative is
very important to NRG and supports our vision to create a sustainable Looking ahead
energy future. 2023 marks NRG’s seventh year participating in CDP’s
We strive to work with suppliers that share our commitment to
Supply Chain Engagement program. We have also been disclosing
sustainability. Some of our supply chain initiatives include: NRG’s supply strategy and fuel mix will continue to evolve
to CDP our climate change information for 15 years and our water
to meet the needs of our customers and the electric grid,
• Promoting environmental disclosure practices for those management information for nine years. as we are committed to supporting the transition to a lower-
with whom we do business carbon-economy.
As members of this program, we ask all suppliers that comprise the
• Developing strong manufacturing standards and top 90% of our total spend to participate and report their water- and
Recognizing our essential role in the energy system, our approach
internal policies climate-related information in the CDP Climate Change and Water
will continue to balance the important affordability, reliability, and
Security Questionnaires.
sustainability factors of our products.
Opportunities to support this approach will include leveraging
innovations in both the supply and demand side of the energy
equation, helping support a cleaner natural gas and power supply
chain, and continuing to be good stewards of the environment
and efficient, safe operators of our facilities.
2023 CDP Supplier
Response highlights
82%
suppliers reporting to CDP that have
an active target for reducing their
emissions, compared to 76% in 2022
88%
suppliers reporting to CDP that are
integrating climate-related issues
into their long-term objectives
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 26
Social
IN THIS SECTION:
Supporting and empowering 27
our people
Upholding safety and well-being 30
Fostering diversity, equity, 32
and inclusion (DE&I)
Giving back to communities 36
Vivint Gives Back 37
Looking ahead 39
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 27
Supporting and
empowering our people
NRG employees are the heartbeat of our purpose and
the engine that drives our success. We’re dedicated to
fostering a workplace where every person can thrive
— with a dynamic corporate culture, a dedication to
safety and well-being, and a keen focus on diversity and
inclusion. Together with our employees, we also foster
strong communities through philanthropic and
volunteer projects.
Top decile
ALIGNING CULTURES AND safety performance
MULTIPLYING STRENGTHS
Approximately
Our acquisition of Vivint Smart Home in 2023 added a groundswell of
1
31,100
new talent, viewpoints, and practices to NRG’s workplace culture. We
brought more than 11,000 Vivint employees into our corporate family hours of volunteer service by employees
with a goal of melding the best traits within both organizations.
Bringing the best of Vivint and NRG
This intentional process continues to evolve through efforts such as: 1
1,160+ together has created many opportunities
• Finalizing a new set of companywide values that align Vivint and charitable organizations impacted by for enhancing our culture by allowing
NRG’s foundational beliefs and behaviors volunteers and donations
diverse perspectives to come through in
• Making Vivint’s extensive training and professional development
resources available to all employees within one system Approximately conversations. Looking at our business
1 through new lenses has been so rewarding
• Standardizing our benefits packages and other support for $7.2MM
employees across NRG business groups
for my team and me.”
donated to charitable organizations
• Strengthening our performance management, leadership
— Jennifer Brunelle
development, and succession planning opportunities
Vice President, Talent Acquisition and DE&I
1 Figures include positiveNRG and Vivint Gives back.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 28
ATTRACTING AND RETAINING
THE BEST AND BRIGHTEST
To stay competitive in our industry and continue delighting our
customers, we need innovative and talented people who are excited
about building their careers with NRG. Our recruitment and hiring
programs focus on attracting highly-qualified candidates whose diverse
backgrounds, interests, and perspectives reflect the communities that
we serve.
We cultivate a robust pipeline of future talent by raising NRG’s profile
through regional job fairs, university programs, on-campus events, and
Patrol to Power
recruiting websites. In addition, we provide internships in many of our
corporate locations. Now in its fourth year, our Patrol to Power internship program
helps former military personnel transfer their valuable
Through the NRG Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU)
experience and skills into career opportunities at NRG.
Academic Excellence Scholarship program, we award $10,000 annually
With support from the U.S. Department of Defense, Patrol
($100,000 total) to ten students at Prairie View A&M and Texas Getting to come home a little early from
to Power gives participating veterans a 12-week paid work
Southern University. Administered by the Thurgood Marshall College
my enlistment and getting that time experience in fields such as instrumentation and control,
Fund and supported by our BELIEVE (Black Employees Leading in
Inclusion, Excellence, Vision, and Education) Business Resource Group back with my family has been absolutely engineering, plant operation, and equipment operation.
(BRG), the scholarship program also provides career development,
Of the 14 interns who completed Patrol to Power
amazing. I really appreciate my manager
mentorship, and networking opportunities. This partnership helps
through the end of 2023, we have hired 11 into
empower talented individuals from historically underrepresented and NRG for making this possible for me.”
full-time positions.
backgrounds to pursue their academic and professional aspirations.
— James Walker
While these service members gain on-the-job training and a
Learn more about our diverse and inclusive recruitment practices.
Military Veteran, U.S. Marine Corps, Patrol to Power Recruit
deeper understanding of what our industry does, the traits
that they bring — including leadership, integrity, commitment,
and a strong work ethic — benefit our company just as much.
Building on the two-way value that Patrol to Power creates,
we are currently expanding it to include other positions and
locations across the company.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 29
Total Rewards
We aspire to grow and improve as a company for decades to come
— powered by employees who feel recognized and rewarded for
contributing to NRG’s success. Our Total Rewards compensation and
benefits program reflects the value that we place in cultivating a highly
talented and deeply engaged workforce for the long term.
To help us retain high-performing talent, we regularly benchmark
our offerings against those of NRG’s industry peers as well as other
employers in the communities where we operate. As a result, we
enhanced several categories of benefits in 2023. Changes included
raising our 401(k) matching contribution from 4% to 6% and increasing
paid parental leave to six weeks, regardless of gender. Also, we
instituted fully employer-paid disability leave for our workforce
in Canada.
Each time I hear of a
Leadership and professional development
candidate’s reaction, I am
We provide a broad and growing array of professional development
reminded of how fortunate I
experiences designed to help NRG employees pursue meaningful
career growth. Along with presenting various in-person courses and am to lead a team that delivers
role-specific training throughout the year, we offer more than 10,000
NRG talent lead honored by HRO Today the good news, impacts lives
on-demand resources through our online learning portal.
positively, and helps NRG
Robyn Antoine, director of talent acquisition, received a
Recognizing that many of our future executives and senior managers
prestigious Lifetime Achievement honor from HRO Today acquire the talent needed to
are already part of today’s NRG workforce, we invest in preparing high-
as part of the organization’s 2023 Talent Acquisition of the
potential employees for leadership roles. Each year, we select 30 people succeed in our strategic goals.
Year Awards. During her 11 years with NRG, Robyn has been
to participate in our Emerging Leaders Program (ELP). They spend
instrumental in many of our initiatives to enhance diversity, It’s a humbling experience that
the next two years working on business-critical projects and receiving
mentorship from current NRG executives and past ELP graduates. inclusivity, and employee engagement. We are proud of always warms my heart.”
Robyn’s exceptional work and this well-deserved recognition.
In addition, our people managers support the development goals of — Robyn Antoine
their direct reports through annual performance reviews and ongoing Director of Talent Acquisition
conversations. Our talent and culture department also works closely
with business leaders on succession planning, management coaching,
and organizational design initiatives.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 30
KEEPING CONTRACTORS SAFE
Upholding safety
and well-being NRG %-year safety record We engage a third-party service provider that specializes in providing
Better than top decile detailed reviews of contractor-written safety programs to ensure
regulatory compliance and uphold safety performance criteria. This
Keeping all personnel safe and well is our top priority. This includes
robust review process ensures contractors demonstrate the safe
employees’ physical, emotional, and mental wellness, which we
0.60 practices that we expect. We audit contractors in the field to verify they
support through our holistic well-being programs and comprehensive
are working in accordance with their written safety programs.
safety standards. 0.50
0.49
0.40
In early 2023, we introduced a contractor program focused on reducing
ALWAYS STAYING SAFE 0.30 0.32 incidents with serious injury and fatality (SIF) potential. The SIF program
0.30
0.27 focuses on preventing incidents associated with working at heights,
0.20
Our power plant-based employees work tirelessly to provide 0.20 dropped or falling objects, and lines of fire. Contractors are required to
uninterrupted energy to our customers. However, our Safety-Over- 0.10 identify a hazard mitigation plan to address the SIF potential prior to
Production policy prioritizes all safety rules and requirements even if 0.00 performing their work.
FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23
generation facilities must stop production.
Our comprehensive safety program includes anyone working within an
NRG facility. We continually evaluate our safety practices to ensure all
NRG programs satisfy regulatory requirements. Every year, we strive
to rank in the top decile for total recordable incident rate (TRIR), which
is defined as the number of work-related injuries per 100 full-time
workers during a one-year period. NRG ended 2023 with a 0.20 TRIR1,
well under the Edison Electric Institute top decile benchmark of 0.36
and 26% lower than our 2022 TRIR. It also marks our fifth consecutive
year of top decile safety performance and fifth straight year-over-year
reduction in TRIR.
etar
yriuqni
esac
latoT
NRG actual
EEI top decile target
Safety by the numbers
26 30.5K+
owned or operated plants with hours of safety training
zero recordables status
2,200+
6
employees completing safety courses
facilities with OSHA Voluntary Protection
Program (VPP) Star status
26%
decrease in total recordable incident rate
600
contractors completing safety courses
1 Excludes Vivint and Airtron.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 31
WELLNESS RESOURCES JUST TRANSITION
We offer resources that promote our employees’ physical, emotional, We are committed to ensuring a just transition in the event of a large
and financial wellness to help them achieve a healthy and secure future. plant downsizing or closure. Therefore, our plant operations leaders
take a proactive approach to notifying employees of upcoming changes
In 2023, we continued partnering with EHE Health to provide an annual and explaining available options.
physical for employees who may not have a primary care doctor.
EHE Health physicians completed nearly 1,500 exams in 2023; 82% Plant Operations and corporate leaders maintain an open dialogue
of the metabolic conditions identified in these exams were previously with union leadership, share job openings at NRG, prioritize displaced
unknown to the patients, giving people an opportunity to address qualified internal employees for open roles at other plants, and relocate
issues early. impacted employees willing to take those positions.
EHE Health also followed a cohort of 636 returning patients from In addition, NRG offers outplacement services, resume writing skills
our company. Of the 298 people who were diagnosed with unhealthy workshops, and tuition assistance for retraining.
conditions in 2022, only 247 still had the same condition in 2023
— a 17% improvement.
Among our other wellness initiatives in 2023:
• We maintained well-being goals within our Annual Incentive Plan
as further motivation for participants to improve their physical,
emotional, and financial well-being
• We continued the Mental Health First Aid (MHFA) at Work
program, which trains employees to serve as mental health
ambassadors and help colleagues find trusted support
professionals. Currently, NRG has nearly 200 MHFAs across
the company
• We offered free support to find childcare, manage finances,
obtain legal guidance, and locate counseling through the
Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
• We provided education on retirement planning, mortgages,
and other financial wellness topics
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 32
Gender breakdown of NRG employees in 2023
Male Female
Fostering diversity, equity,
Total NRG employees 70% 30%
and inclusion (DE&I)
Corporate
56% 44%
At NRG, we celebrate the power of DE&I as a catalyst for building (16% of all employees)
Gender diversity in leadership roles in 2023
stronger teams and inspiring better performance across our business.
Residential and business
Through encouraging diverse perspectives and cultivating a work 68% 32% Male Female
(62% of all employees)
environment in which all people feel empowered to contribute as their
Generation Middle management
best selves, we grow more adaptive and responsive to our customers
93% 7% 69% 31%
(11% of all employees) (19% of all employees)
and communities.
Services VP and above
79% 21% 79% 21%
(11% of all employees) (<1% of all employees)
ASSESSING OUR PROGRESS
We track the ethnic and gender makeup of NRG’s workforce as one
means of building greater accountability behind our efforts to identify Ethnic diversity at NRG in 2023 Ethnic diversity in leadership roles in 2023
and remove any barriers for recruiting and retaining the most talented
people available. Corporate Middle management VP and above
Total NRG employees
(16% of all employees) (19% of all employees) (<1% of all employees)
To help accelerate progress in cultivating a progressively more
<1% 1% <1% <1%
diverse workforce, we spearheaded the development and successful 4%
2%
3%
integration of a focused space within our PowerUp talent hub in 2023. 2%
6% 10% 9%
This dedicated space not only showcases our diverse culture but also 18% 4%
11% 6%
3%
serves as a comprehensive resource encompassing our daily initiatives,
continuous learning opportunities, and the adoption of inclusive 61% 9% 59% 10% 72% 80%
17%
hiring practices.
11%
We also conducted our second annual DE&I-focused employee
survey to gauge the effectiveness of our initiatives and identify areas
for improvement. Team members’ candid feedback on how they
Residential and business Generation Services
experience DE&I in our company culture helps sharpen our focus on (62% of all employees) (11% of all employees) (11% of all employees) White (non-Hispanic or Latino)
continuous improvement. Hispanic or Latino
1% 1% <1% 1% <1%
Black or African American
4% 1% 3%1% 4%1% Asian
Two or more
4%
7% 8% (non-Hispanic or Latino)
12% American Indian or
13%
Alaskan Native
60% 75% 57% Native Hawaiian or other
17% 28% Pacific Islander
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 33
DIVERSE AND INCLUSIVE AWARENESS AND TRAINING
HIRING PRACTICES
We have developed and implemented safety-centric training and
We are committed to an inclusive hiring process without degree development programs that are accessible to all employees across the
requirements, where appropriate, and without resume details that may company. These programs encompass a wide range of topics, including
convey a candidate’s gender identity, race, religion, or socioeconomic inclusive leadership training, unconscious bias mitigation, and fostering
background. Also, we actively seek qualified and diverse job candidates psychological safety in the workplace. By equipping our workforce with
through our connections with affinity groups and other organizations these invaluable skills and insights, we aim to cultivate a culture where
that focus on elevating talent from underrepresented communities. every individual feels valued and respected.
In 2023, we developed an updated interview guide that reinforces best In 2023, we rolled out two new programs:
practices for hiring managers to evaluate candidates in an inclusive and
• Psychological Safety. An initial cohort of 20 employees
unbiased manner. The guide includes step-by-step tips on selecting a
completed this live, facilitated training over ten weeks. The
diverse interview panel, formulating questions that invite a broad range
interactive sessions focused on building and maintaining
of perspectives, and reducing conscious and unconscious biases during
psychological safety, active listening, emotional intelligence
the evaluation process. Our hiring teams began using the new guide
and vulnerability, inclusivity, diversity and belonging, and safety
in 2024, and we plan to analyze its impact on the number of diverse
in conflict.
candidates who advance through our selection process.
• How Was Your Day. This four-part e-learning series focuses on
unconscious bias in the workplace. Participants examine how
bias can negatively affect productivity and limit opportunities by
perpetuating inequities. The series also provides strategies to
counter stereotypes, promote inclusivity, and foster empathy.
Accolades for our DE&I efforts
In early 2024, Forbes magazine named NRG among
America’s Best Employers for Diversity — an honor that
we also received in 2023.
Also, Reliant Energy received a 2023 Vets Indexes
Employer Award for its efforts to hire, retain, promote,
and support military veterans.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 34
BUSINESS RESOURCE GROUPS
Our employee-led BRGs are safe and collaborative spaces for
individuals from all backgrounds to share experiences. In 2023, we had
18 BRGs with nearly 1,300 participating employees. These include nine
DE&I-focused groups and seven based on employees’ shared interests. Black Employees Leading in Inclusion, Fosters cultural diversity among Promotes diversity and inclusion
Our newest group, RISE — Reconciliation with Indigenous Peoples and Excellence, Vision, and Education Latin and Hispanic members for Indigenous persons
Supporting Equity — formed in 2023.
The groups help break down barriers and promote psychological
safety at NRG by providing venues for all employees to share common
interests and make their voices heard. Our BRGs also play a vital
Promotes social, recreational, and health Supports living an eco-friendly lifestyle and Brings together employees
role in fostering curiosity and raising awareness about the diverse
aspects of cycling sustainable living culture who enjoy running
perspectives that shape our business.
Learn more about our BRGs.
Jumpstarts early career professionals Promotes and builds awareness Committed to bettering the lives of all
through development for the LGBTQ+ communiity Military Veterans
Facilitates improvement Builds one community to promote diversity Celebrates diverse perspectives and
of project management and inclusion awareness by facilitating experiences of employees and customers
open dialogue and discussions
Educates members about the EV Empowers member’s public speaking Serves as a platform to Asian American
market and trends and leadership skills and Pacific Islander employees
ETHNICALLY DIVERSE
Promotes and advocates for outdoor activities Promoting diversity and inclusion by Empowers, strenthens, and connects
highlighting an array of ethnic communities female employees
and diverse racial backgrounds
https://www.nrg.com/assets/
documents/suppliers/signed-ceo-
committment-letter-2017.pdf
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 35
DAY OF UNDERSTANDING EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION TIED
TO METRICS
An annual highlight for our organization is the Day of Understanding,
where we come together to delve into critical topics related to DE&I. Our Board Compensation Committee designs and implements an
Each year, we select a theme of significance and invite a professional or executive compensation program that is intended to complement
keynote speaker to share their insights. and advance NRG’s power values, which include DE&I. Among the
performance metrics is increasing the pipeline of diverse candidates
Our 2023 Day of Understanding focused on accessibility in the who advance to the interview stage for manager-level and higher
workplace, shedding light on the importance of creating environments positions at NRG.
that are inclusive and accommodating for all individuals. Catarina Rivera,
a prominent DE&I consultant and disability rights advocate, shared
PAY EQUITY STUDY
her perspectives on working as a legally blind person and a Latina in
society. The interactive session was moderated by a co-lead for the Every three years, we hire a third party to conduct a company-wide
visABILITY BRG, who also shared his experiences as a traumatic brain gender- and ethnicity-based pay equity study. We conducted our first
injury survivor. pay equity study in 2020, to ensure our employees are compensated for
their contributions, not based on gender, race, or other similar factors.
The 2020 study showed equitable pay practices after accounting for
education, experience, performance, and location. The 2023 study
produced similar results to the 2020 study, in which no statistically
significant pay gaps were identified.
EXPANDING DIVERSITY
WITHIN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
Our business grows stronger and more responsive to customer needs
through the partnerships that we build with diverse-owned suppliers.
In turn, our support helps these enterprises contribute to economic
growth in local communities.
We formally measure subcontracted small and diverse business spend
for our top 25 suppliers and intend to increase this number annually.
Learn more about our commitment to supplier diversity.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 36
Giving back to communities PositiveNRG is our primary community giving and volunteering initiative, POSITIVENRG IMPACT WEEK
while the Reliant Gives program supports community causes across
Texas. In addition, Vivint and its employees made a sizable philanthropic This annual event mobilizes our employees to volunteer and
Whether through volunteering or charitable giving,
impact through the Vivint Gives Back program in 2023. donate to their communities. In 2023, PositiveNRG Impact Week
our philanthropic initiatives are dedicated to making
continued its focus on increasing food security. Approximately
a meaningful difference in the communities where we Collectively, PositiveNRG and Vivint Gives Back donated approximately
2,900 NRG employees participated, our highest volunteer turnout
live and work. $7 million to nonprofit organizations and charitable causes in 36 U.S. in the event’s 16-year history.
states and Canadian provinces. NRG employees donated $500,000 to
Philanthropy and volunteering various causes and, together with their Vivint colleagues, logged more
than 31,000 hours of volunteer service throughout the year.
2021 2022 20231
PositiveNRG contributions in 2023 included:
NRG donations to
$9,635,088 $6,207,947 $7MM
charitable organizations • Providing approximately $64,000 to aid residents affected by 2023 PositiveNRG Impact Week highlights
the wildfires in Maui, Hawaii, through the American Red Cross,
Employee-reported
Hawaii Community Fund, and the Maui Food Bank. In addition,
donations to charitable $251,122 $188,476 $235,220
we donated to wildfire relief in Alberta, Canada, and tornado
organizations 50+
relief in Pasadena, Texas
Charitable participating cities
• Collaborating with United Way, Mercer Street Friends, Boys &
organizations impacted
970 1,015 1,160+ Girls Club of Pittsburgh, and the Foundation Academy to collect
by volunteers and
and donate nearly 800 books in honor of MLK Day of Service 60
donations
• Supporting approximately 50 NRG employees who Nonprofits benefited
Total reported hours
volunteered in a tree-planting event to benefit Houston
volunteered by NRG 6,388 13,739 31,100
Parks and Recreation
employees 2
710K+
• Donating to Nonprofit Connect, a New Jersey-based program
% of employees who meals packed
that trains NRG employees and others to serve as volunteer
volunteered and/or 15% 27% 32%
board members for various nonprofit organizations. We
donated
3
also contribute directly to those nonprofits on behalf of our ~2.9K
% of employees who employee volunteers
4% 20% 19% employee volunteers
volunteered
# of U.S. states and
6.7K
Canadian provinces
17 21 36
where employees volunteer hours
volunteered
1 Includes contributions by Vivint employees through Vivint Gives Back program.
2 Total number of meals calculation includes the equivalent number of the pounds of food sorted & packed and meals served. Inclusive of Vivint Gives Back.
3 Total volunteer number includes individuals who volunteered more than once.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 37
With the unwavering support of the community, Vivint, and dedicated MEXICO CITY IMPACT TRIP
Vivint Gives Back
company employees, VGB made a positive impact on the lives of
62,211 people worldwide. VGB hosts annual international humanitarian trips. Each year, Vivint
Established in 2008, Vivint Gives Back (VGB) initially
employees volunteer their time, money, and labor to help improve the
dedicated its efforts to assisting families with children An impressive $3.1 million was raised, supporting a diverse range of
quality of life for communities in need.
affected by autism and other neurological disorders. charitable initiatives – from addressing hunger and ensuring clean water
access to constructing homes for families in need. For the 2023 impact trip, VGB teamed up with a local charity in Mexico
Over the years, VGB has expanded its mission to create a positive City, Mexico, to provide homes, clean water, and a community center.
influence in both local and global communities. Transitioning into a
public charity in October 2020, the statistics on this page showcase the Over 630 volunteers devoted a collective 12,960 hours to VGB
cumulative contributions made by VGB since its inception. throughout the month of October, constructing 52 homes with clean
water systems and a community center and positively impacting the
lives of 260 individuals.
2023 at a glance
1 in 5
Vivint and VGB together capped off another
stellar year of successful charitable endeavors. employees volunteered
632
62K+ 23,083 volunteers
people impacted volunteer hours
15,168
5,022 $750K volunteer hours
volunteers contributed by Vivint
52
$3.1M+ $483 homes built
raised average Vivint employee donation
52
124% 1 in 3 clean water systems installed
increase in volunteer efforts over 2022 employees donated
1
community center built
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 38
GIVING TUESDAY CAMPAIGN NRG GIVES
During the Giving Tuesday campaign as part of PositiveNRG Week, NRG cares deeply about the people and communities we serve.
we match employee donations 2:1, allowing employees to double their Through both NRG Gives and the Choose to Give program, we partner
impact on their favored causes and organizations. with customers to change lives for the better. Through the annual NRG
Gives program, employees can nominate their favorite nonprofits in
the Northeastern U.S. to receive funding. Eligible organizations are
then ranked by a committee, which selects eight finalists to be voted
on by employees.
Our 2023 NRG Gives winners, which collectively received $100,000, were:
Giving Tuesday highlights
• Lower Valley Community Food Bank, which serves the Springdale,
Pennsylvania area
• Girls on the Run, a national organization that seeks to inspire all
$126K
girls to build their confidence, kindness, and decision-making
in employee and NRG-matching donations
skills through fitness
• Hannahtopia Foundation, which provides support for children
164
living with epilepsy
nonprofit organizations supported
• Lunch Break, a one-stop resource center for homeless families in
the Red Bank, New Jersey area
42%
When customers enroll in a Choose to Give plan, their energy use can
increase in employee giving compared to 2022 help fund nonprofit organizations in their area. Since 2017, NRG’s
Choose to Give program has empowered customers to support local
nonprofits just by paying their electricity and natural gas bills. When a
customer enrolls in a Choose to Give plan, we contribute to their chosen
nonprofit on their behalf. In addition, a percentage of the supply portion
of each of their monthly bills is contributed annually—all at no additional
cost to the customer. The Choose to Give program in the East Region
supports eight nonprofits – Big Brothers Big Sisters Independence,
Boston Children’s Hospital, Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, Lurie
Children’s Hospital, Nationwide Children’s Hospital, Nemours Children’s
Health, Philabundance, and UPMC Children’s Hospital. Since 2017, we’re
proud to have contributed $18 million total and counting to these local
organizations.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 39
RELIANT GIVES CARE program Texas State Aquarium
Since 2002, Reliant has provided more than $17 million to help We joined forces with the Texas State Aquarium to continue to expand
The mission of Reliant Gives is to support causes that are important
Texans who need assistance with electricity costs through the wildlife rescue and education efforts. Wildlife Rescue on the Road is a
to Texas communities. In 2023, Reliant Gives focused on supporting
Community Assistance by Reliant Energy (CARE) program. STEM-based program that teaches kindergarten through fifth-grade
community programs, utility assistance, sustainability efforts, and
In 2023, our support included: students about wildlife conservation and educates them about the
educational programs.
work of rescuing and rehabilitating animals.
• $1.2M in donations to more than 70 agencies that directly
Reliant Gives donations support customers Reliant’s $25,000 donation in 2023 enabled the Aquarium to build out
its rescue vehicle fleet and bring Wildlife Rescue on the Road to more
• Another $159,355 donated by Reliant customers through their
Texas students.
2021 2022 2023
utility bill payments
Amount of
$5,628,065 $4,109,656 $4,848,334 GREEN MOUNTAIN ENERGY SUN CLUB
donations ($) Beat the Heat
# of nonprofit In partnership with city governments, local health departments, and We collaborate with nonprofit organizations on projects that advance
organizations 151 224 206 nonprofits, Reliant has opened 45 Beat the Heat centers across Texas renewable energy, energy efficiency, resource conservation, and
supported over the past 18 years. These facilities provide a safe place for seniors environmental stewardship. Since 2002, Sun Club has donated more
and other vulnerable neighbors to cool off during warm weather. than $14.2 million to 163 unique projects and has avoided more than
# of employee
~4,000 4,078 4,109 20,000 metric tons of CO .
volunteer hours 2
Reliant also provided more than 1,000 personal cooling devices for
residents to use at home in 2023.
Read on to learn about selected Reliant Gives highlights from 2023.
Choose to Give
Habitat for Humanity Launched in 2023, this program enables Reliant customers to support Looking ahead
Reliant partnered with Houston Habitat for Humanity to build the the American Heart Association and March of Dimes by doing
first home in its new Robin’s Landing project, a 127-acre housing something as simple as turning on their light switch. When customers In both our Talent organization and philanthropic efforts, we are
community. In addition, this new homeowner received a year of free enroll in a Choose to Give plan, they can channel a $100 upfront working to operate more effectively as one unified organization.
electricity from Reliant. donation from Reliant to either of the two nonprofits. From there, Our CEO, senior leadership team, and operational managers
Reliant donates an amount equal to 5% of the customer’s annual continue to focus on growing NRG’s culture and aligning
We contributed: energy charges to the chosen organization. employees behind a cohesive set of values that guide how we
move forward. The outcomes of this work will define our approach
• $115K Choose to Give replaced two previous Reliant customer-directed giving
to enhancing professional development, DE&I, community
campaigns that also benefited the American Heart Association and
• 100 smart thermostats engagement, employee well-being, and more at NRG.
March of Dimes. Since 2013, the initiatives have contributed a total of
• 300 doorbell cameras $2.7 million to those organizations.
• 19 volunteers and 124 volunteer hours
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 40
Governance
IN THIS SECTION:
Corporate governance 41
Board of Directors 41
Governance approach for 42
environmental stewardship
and social responsibility
Stockholder and 46
stakeholder engagement
Public policy 48
Data, technology, and security 48
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 41
In 2023, the G&N Committee introduced a third-party facilitator
Corporate governance
as a new component of its Board evaluation program. We believe
this addition will strengthen Board effectiveness as the third-party
We build our corporate governance on a strong
facilitator will bring broad market insight and candid perspectives on a
foundation of ethical standards and conduct. Robust
wide range of governance matters, including board dynamics, structure
and comprehensive governance practices strengthen
and composition, information practices, meeting schedules and
our culture, support our business strategy, and underpin agendas, and decision-making.
all our actions.
We are proud to have a diverse Board in terms
Board of Directors
of director tenure, age, gender, and ethnicity.
Of our 13 directors, seven are gender or
Our Board of Directors is dedicated to maintaining the highest integrity
for our company, and we are proud of its contributions to the evolution ethnically diverse. In addition, four of our five
of NRG. Together with management, the Board is responsible for
Committee chairs are women.
establishing our operating values and Code of Conduct as well as
setting our strategic direction and priorities. The Board has adopted
Corporate Governance Guidelines that, together with the Amended
and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, and the Charters
Board of Directors gender and ethnic diversity,
of the Board Committees, constitute our governance framework.
tenure, independence, and age
The Board is composed primarily of independent directors. In 2023,
we expanded the Board from 11 to 13 directors and welcomed a total 2021 2022 2023
of four new directors. Following the November 2023 sale of NRG’s
Number of women on Board 4 4 5
interest in the South Texas Plant, NRG dissolved its Nuclear Oversight
Committee. Our Board includes four standing committees: Audit,
Number of Board
Compensation, Governance and Nominating (G&N), and Finance and members who identify 3 3 2
Risk Management. In addition, the Board established a non-standing as ethnically diverse
CEO Search Committee in November 2023.
0-4 years 5 5 7
The G&N Committee of our Board seeks to reflect the gender and
ethnic diversity of our people and those we serve. In choosing director Tenure 5-10 years 2 2 2
candidates, our definition of diversity goes beyond race and gender
and includes valuing a diversity of viewpoints, experience, and tenure. 11+ years 4 4 4
Differences in expertise allow the Board to hear various perspectives
Number / % of
from its members, leading to better outcomes and a robust decision- 10 (91%) 10 (91%) 12 (92%)
independent directors
making process.
Median age of Board members 60 61 62
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 42
RISK MANAGEMENT
Governance approach for
environmental stewardship Together with the Board of Directors, our risk management
professionals oversee risks related to our capital structure, liquidity,
and social responsibility financing, and other capital market transactions. In addition, they
oversee NRG’s management of risks associated with our trading of fuel,
transportation, energy and related products and services, regulatory
Sustainability is a philosophy that serves to create greater value across
compliance, information technology systems, data privacy and security,
our business and for all our stakeholders. It is an integral piece of NRG’s
and cybersecurity matters.
strategy and ties directly to business success, reduced risks, and
enhanced reputation.
We also maintain a robust business continuity program as well as
a corporate crisis management team that oversees planning and
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
preparation for emergency response initiatives. This team meets
quarterly to train for various scenarios that may impact our business,
At NRG, we care about doing the right thing — and not just when
such as hurricanes, plant incidents, pandemics, winter storms, and
it’s convenient. By demonstrating our commitment to act ethically
other events.
and transparently, we preserve trust and help to ensure we meet our
legal obligations as a company. Our Code of Conduct helps keep us
BOARD OVERSIGHT
focused on enhancing NRG’s reputation through our decisions and
actions. Beyond highlighting potential risks, our Code helps us maintain
We take an integrated governance approach to overseeing
a Culture of Care in which we can all thrive. It provides guidance with
environmental and sustainability issues, including climate change.
respect to competition and fair dealing, confidentiality, conflicts
Our full Board has ultimate responsibility for climate risk oversight as
of interest, corporate opportunities, protection and proper use of
a component of NRG’s business strategy. Board committees conduct
the Company’s assets, recordkeeping, reporting illegal or unethical
more in-depth reviews of specific sustainability issues, with the
behavior, and compliance procedures.
G&N Committee formally responsible for our sustainability policies
By adhering to the Code, we are living our values and ensuring that NRG and programs.
continues to be recognized for modeling integrity and ethical behavior.
By formalizing our governance structure for climate and other
All employees are required to complete Code of Conduct training
sustainability-related issues, we help enable the Board and its
annually and attest that they will comply with the Code.
committees to ensure that all material risks to the company are
mitigated. This structure also helps the Board effectively guide our
pursuit of significant business opportunities.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 43
At least once per year, sustainability is formally included as an agenda
item at a full Board meeting and is also discussed separately by the G&N
Committee. In addition, sustainability-related matters are discussed Board of Directors and Board committee responsibilities
at other Board and Committee meetings as the context requires.
For example, the Compensation Committee regularly discusses ESG Oversight responsibilities Selected ESG topics addressed at least annually
compensation metrics in the context of annual compensation plan
design and achievement of compensation plan metrics. Board Overall oversight of ESG risks and opportunities, and • Climate strategy, goals, and progress
integration of ESG risks and opportunities into our
• DE&I
The Board oversees environmental and sustainability issues and other long-term strategy
ESG topics with the support of its committees as outlined to the right. • Safety and well-being
• Annual sustainability update and review of
• Cybersecurity and data analytics
sustainability reporting
Sustainability is a philosophy that serves • Community relations and philanthropy
• Certain responsibilities delegated to board
committees for more in-depth review
to create greater value across our
and analysis
business and for all our stakeholders.
Audit Oversight of ESG disclosure, including processes • Quarterly review of disclosure in Form 10-K/Qs
and controls to ensure disclosures are accurate, and earnings releases
consistent, and comparable
• Ethics and compliance
Compensation Oversight of accountability for ESG goals and the • Review of executive compensation program and
talent and management succession to execute the succession planning for senior management
ESG strategy
• Incorporating ESG into compensation
G&N • Oversight of ESG engagement, Board • Annual sustainability update
composition, and ongoing Board education on
• Annual review of political spending
ESG matters
• Ongoing Board refreshment and director
• Oversight of corporate sustainability issues
onboarding and training program
Finance and Risk Management Oversight of risk assessment of material ESG • Review of new and emerging risks
sustainability risks such as climate change
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 44
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT
Responsibility for our overall sustainability approach begins with our Sustainability oversight at NRG
CEO, who is tasked with reviewing all sustainability-related strategies,
goals, and metrics. These components are then finalized and approved
EXECUTIVE LEVEL
by the Board prior to implementation.
President and CEO has ultimate Standing meeting with Reviews all sustainability disclosures
Sustainability strategy development, implementation, and reporting
responsibility for sustainability Sustainability team and strategic direction
are led by our CSO and our sustainability group. In particular, the
sustainability group is responsible for developing our climate-related
policy positions, coordinating policy and commercial initiatives, CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY TEAM
engaging with our stakeholders, and advising on decarbonization
Sustainability
pathways as well as business and residential low-carbon energy
Corporate Sustainability team oversees creation, Sustainability team works with corporate functions to
team provides
solutions. Our sustainability group reports to our SVP, Administration.
and communication of key ESG-related strategies, goals, develop and implement issue-specific goals, scenarios,
oversight and
It also maintains a direct line of communication with our CEO through
and initiatives and projects
implementation
standing one-on-one meetings.
PROGRAMMATIC INPUT FROM CROSS-FUNCTIONAL DEPARTMENTS
Environment Corporate compliance Finance
Corporate
Regulatory and government affairs Treasury Asset management
functions provide
subject matter
Operations Legal Talent expertise
Home, business, and retail services Risk Market structuring and fundamentals
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 45
Climate opportunity and climate risk While all 17 development goals are important for global sustainability,
we have chosen to focus our time and resources primarily on the
Each pillar of our sustainability strategy addresses climate risks
following four SDGs that are most applicable to NRG’s business:
and opportunities that are continually evolving based on external
developments as well as NRG’s strategy and activities. While we
currently face certain climate risks, we believe our strategy is
increasing the company’s resilience while also positioning NRG to
realize climate opportunities.
Tying ESG to compensation A more in-depth analysis of our climate risks and opportunities can
be found in our 2020 TCFD Report here.
We incorporate an ESG metric into the company’s annual cash incentive
plan, linking our executive compensation program directly to our ESG
commitments and objectives. The ESG metric includes: Environmental stewardship
For more detail
As further discussed in the Environmental section, we are committed
• Customer satisfaction regarding our
to operating in an environmentally responsible manner and in
SDG-aligned initiatives,
• eKPIs compliance with all applicable environmental requirements. Our
see the full chart in
Environment Over Production policy sets a clear directive to prioritize
• Update internal Scope 3 GHG inventory for current year data the Appendix.
environmental compliance across NRG, and we empower every
• Diversity recruiting practices employee to continuously maintain this priority. NRG’s Environmental
Policy Statement can be found here.
• Employee well-being
Sustainability reporting
For Named Executive Officers (NEOs), the ESG metric has a 15% weight Sustainable Development Goals
We strive to be a leader in sustainability, transparency, and disclosure.
in the determination of annual cash incentive plan funding.
Launched in 2015, the 17 SDGs are a global set of goals, targets, We assess our disclosure quality and overall sustainability performance
and indicators developed by the United Nations. These SDGs guide through ongoing stakeholder feedback, including through investor
countries, communities, and organizations in their work to end poverty, relations and engagement in voluntary disclosure organizations such as
fight inequality and injustice, and tackle climate change by 2030. the CDP, TCFD, and SASB. View our comprehensive reporting approach
and historical reports here.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 46
Stakeholder Key topics How we engage
Employees • Recruitment and retention • Fair hiring practices, competitive benefits,
Stockholder and and programs to assist employees when plants
• DE&I
are retired
stakeholder engagement • Safety and well-being
• BRGs
• Just transition
• Safety standards and well-being programs
Engaging with stockholders and implementing their feedback is integral
to continuous improvement for our Board, governance, compensation,
Customers • Affordable energy • Customer call centers, customer-facing
and sustainable practices.
websites, and direct email, social media,
• Reliable energy
and mail communications
Stockholder engagement informs our Board’s decision-making
• Sustainable energy and related products
• Home, Business, and Services products
process and has driven changes to our governance and compensation
and services
and solutions
practices. In 2023, members of management spoke with stockholders
• Overall customer experience and satisfaction
representing 2/3 of our outstanding shares. • Diverse supply fuel sources
In addition to stockholders, our vast network of stakeholders is highly Community • Community impact and engagement • Employee volunteerism
valued for providing diverse expertise, perspectives, and insights that
• Economic development • Nonprofit partnerships
support the evolution of our organization.
• Community events and philanthropy
• Sponsorships
Government • Public policies and regulations impacting • Engagement with regulators and local officials
energy markets (e.g., reliability, affordability,
• Compliance with federal, state, and local laws
market design, retail choice, and environment
and regulations
and climate)
Investors • Company financial performance and strategy • Shareholder meetings
• Various ESG topics including climate, DE&I, • Quarterly earnings conference calls
and Board governance
• SEC disclosures
• Voluntary sustainability disclosures
Non-governmental • Various ESG topics including climate, • Industry and trade associations
environmental conservation, DE&I, Board
• Community development initiatives
governance, and community relations
• Voluntary sustainability disclosures
Suppliers • Compliance with NRG policies • NRG Supplier Code of Conduct
• Supplier sustainability goals and progress • NRG Manufacturers Standards Policy
• NRG supplier diversity standards
• CDP Supply Chain program
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 47
ENGAGING ON CLIMATE ISSUES • The Rice University Baker Institute Center for Energy • Carbon-to-Value (C2V) (founding member and part of
Studies (Working Group on CCUS and Hydrogen) – The Working Carbontech Leadership Council (CLC)) – C2V is a multiyear
Building relationships with non-governmental organizations, Group is exploring the deployment of CCUS and hydrogen program driving the creation of a thriving innovation ecosystem
community and industry groups, and academia, among others, helps us technologies in the state of Texas and consists of a diverse set for the commercialization of carbontech. The CLC is creating a
to identify and pursue potential decarbonization opportunities for our of stakeholders representing corporations, industry groups, technology road map for the future of the carbon-tech industry
business and our customers. academic institutions, and non-governmental organizations and is fostering opportunities for technology validation, testing,
active in the state. and demonstration of carbontech.
As part of these efforts, we have established relationships with a variety
• Rice Alliance for Technology and Entrepreneurship (founding
of organizations that are helping us both set and make progress toward
supporter, Rice Alliance Clean Energy Accelerator) – A clean
our goals. These organizations include the following.
energy accelerator at Rice University in Houston that supports
• Climate Group EV100 – Climate Group EV100 is a global early-stage energy start-ups from around the world, all of which
initiative bringing together forward-looking companies have access to the Rice Alliance network of energy companies,
committed to accelerating the transition to EVs by 2030. investors, advisors, and Rice’s energy tech venture forums.
• Zero Emission Transportation Association (ZETA) – ZETA is • EVolve Houston (founding member) – EVolve Houston
a coalition focused on advocating for 100% EV sales in the U.S. is a coalition of sustainability-minded civic, business, and
by 2030. academic leaders who seek to accelerate clean transportation
through electrification, improve regional air quality, and reduce
• Greentown Labs (founding sponsor, Houston Expansion)
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in the greater Houston area.
– Greentown Labs is the largest climate-tech start-up incubator
in North America and brings together start-ups, corporations, • Greater Houston Partnership (Houston Energy Transition
investors, policymakers, and many others, with a focus on Initiative (HETI) Steering Committee and Working Groups on
scaling climate solutions. Capital Formation; CCUS; Hydrogen; Industrial Decarbonization;
Power Management; Energy and Sustainability Advisory
• The United States Business Council on Sustainable
Committee; and Energy 2.0 Committee) – The Partnership
Development (Founding member, Gulf Coast Carbon
prioritizes efforts that will position Houston to lead the global
Collaborative (GCCC)) – The GCCC convenes working groups
energy transition to a more efficient and sustainable future
on the energy transition, nature-based solutions, Carbon
while accommodating growth in global energy demand.
Capture, Use, and Sequestration (CCUS), and hydrogen.
• University of Houston and Southern States Energy Board
• Rice University (Carbon Hub) – The Rice Carbon Hub aims
(SSEB) (CCUS Commercialization Effort) – University of
to accelerate the energy transition such that clean hydrogen
Houston and Southern States Energy Board (SSEB) CCUS
energy and advanced carbon materials are co-produced
Commercialization Effort is a public-private consortium of
efficiently and sustainably from natural gas and oil.
experts who promote the rapid and transformative deployment
of CCUS technologies.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 48
Our security approach encompasses both data and technology.
Public policy Data, technology,
We maintain robust internal security controls based on the NIST
and security Cybersecurity Framework.
NRG participates in the political process to advance our long-term
strategy and the interests of our stockholders, employees, customers, All employees receive annual IT and cybersecurity training that
Governing our business effectively and sustainably requires strong
and stakeholders. focuses on anti-phishing, malware prevention, and how to recognize
protection of NRG technology systems as well as the data that we rely
and prevent cybercrime. Our Cyber Integration Center team also
upon for making informed decisions. The unique power of harnessing
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS provides tips and awareness to help employees stay safe online during
data, technology, and security keeps us on the cutting edge of our
Cybersecurity Awareness Month.
business, allowing us to deliver excellence.
Dedicated to transparency, we appreciate the need to disclose our
Within our protective framework, we are building enterprise-wide
political and policy-related activity and do so annually through our
platforms to capture individual consumer insights and behavioral
Public Policy Engagement and Corporate Political Contributions report.
trends. This knowledge enables us to continue innovating and
The report lists all membership organizations, trade associations, and enhancing customer engagement and satisfaction with our products
social welfare organizations to which NRG paid annual dues in 2023 of and services.
$25,000 or more, and which were registered to lobby at the state or
Our key accomplishments in 2023 include:
federal levels and who did, in fact, engage in such lobbying, as well as
the total amount paid to such organizations in 2023. The report also
• Expanding our customer data platform, which provides
lists all political contributions the company made in 2023. We share
industry-leading insights and enables real-time personalization
more details about our engagement with third parties in our Industry
Association Climate Review and Climate Change Principles. • Delivering enterprise-wide data projects that strengthen our
core business, execute our digital strategy to personalize offers,
and advance our Artificial Intelligence (AI) capabilities to unlock
NRG POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE (PAC)
value within the business
Along with participation in civic, charitable, and volunteer activities, NRG • Continuing to develop preventative protections, identifying
encourages its employees to be active members of their communities and remediating information security risks and vulnerabilities,
by participating in the political process. Employees may contribute testing incident response procedures, and providing ongoing
voluntarily to the NRG PAC, which pools these contributions to support employee cybersecurity training and awareness
candidates seeking elective office who understand our industry.
Zero
Material cybersecurity
incidents in 2023
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 49
Appendix
IN THIS SECTION:
Glossary 50
Further reading 51
UN Sustainable Development 52
Goals (SDGs) and progress
SASB standards 54
Key issues assessment 60
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 50
Greenhouse Gas (GHG): Traps heat in the atmosphere, resulting Watt (W): A measure of electricity generation capacity at a particular
Glossary
in global warming and climate change. In the power sector, GHG point in time. Variants include kilowatts (kW, thousand watts),
emissions are released during the combustion of fossil fuels, such megawatts (MW, million watts), gigawatts (GW, billion watts), and
Business Resource Groups (BRGs): Voluntary, employee-led groups
as coal, oil, and natural gas, while producing electricity. In the natural terawatts (TW, trillion watts).
at NRG organized around a particular shared background, interest,
gas sector, GHG emissions are released during the production,
or issue. transportation, and consumption of natural gas. Measured in metric Watt Hours (Wh): A measure of the amount of electricity provided
tons of carbon dioxide equivalent. over a particular period of time (typically one year or one month).
Carbon intensity of electricity: the amount of carbon dioxide
1 Wh is equal to 1 Watt of average power flow over the course of an
equivalent (measured in metric tons) emitted per unit of electricity
Power Purchase Agreement (PPA): A medium- or long-term contract hour. Variants include kilowatt hours (kWh, thousand-watt hours),
measured in a variant of watt hours (terawatt hours, gigawatt hours,
between two parties, one which generates electricity (the seller), megawatt hours (MWh, million watt hours), gigawatt hours (GWh, billion
megawatt hours, kilowatt hours). See also revenue carbon intensity.
and one which is looking to purchase electricity (the buyer, either watt hours), and terawatt hours (TWh, trillion watt hours).
a corporate end-user or a power company reselling the electricity
Carbon offset: Mechanism to compensate for the greenhouse
to a corporate end-user). PPAs are often used in renewable energy,
gas (carbon dioxide equivalent) emissions of a household or larger
especially solar, as a way for buyers to access solar electricity without
organization due to its combustion of fossil fuels. An example of a
having to directly install solar generating capacity onsite. Buyers
carbon offset is afforestation (planting trees).
take ownership of the physical energy and receive renewable
Certified Natural Gas (CG): Natural gas certified by a third-party to electricity credits.
have a lower methane/CO e intensity. This is achieved by reducing
2
Renewable Natural Gas (RNG): Captures methane that would have
methane leaks in the natural gas value chain.
gone into the atmosphere and injects it into the natural gas distribution
Community solar: local solar facilities shared and financially supported system. Methane can be sourced from farms, food waste, wastewater
by multiple community subscribers who might not otherwise be able to plants, landfills, and biomass.
access solar.
Revenue carbon intensity: the amount of carbon dioxide equivalent
Demand Response (DR): A program that provides financial incentives (measured in metric tons) per unit of revenue typically measured in a
to end-users to reduce their consumption of electricity during periods variant of dollars (millions of dollars, thousands of dollars).
when the electricity grid is experiencing high electricity demand (for
Virtual Power Purchase Agreement (VPPA): A variation of a PPA
example, when temperatures are very high or very low).
in which the buyer does not take ownership of the physical energy
Distributed Energy Resources (DERs): Modular energy generation and generated. Instead, a VPPA is a financial transaction whereby a
storage technologies that provide electric capacity or energy where corporate customer agrees to purchase power at a negotiated price
and when it’s needed. Usually deployed close to load (at the point of from a wind or solar project over a predetermined number of years,
customer demand) and behind the customer’s meter, giving customers committing to pay a fixed price to the owner of the facility for each unit
greater control, predictability, and stability when it comes to their of electricity produced. As with a PPA, the buyer receives renewable
energy usage. electricity credits, but the developer takes responsibility for managing
the delivery and sale of the electricity produced on the open market.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 51
• Backup power • 2020 TCFD Report
Further reading
• Smart technology • 2019 GRI Content Index
• Home services • Energy policy and regulatory filings
Our 2023 Sustainability Report is designed to provide stakeholders
with a comprehensive update on NRG’s commitment to people, the • Smart Home • The path to one and a half
environment, and the governance principles that inform our work. To • Home security • Environmental Policy Statement
delve deeper into certain topics, the list below is a catalog of the most • Cameras • Climate Change Principles
recent publications spanning our business.
Solutions for Business • Coal Combustion Residuals Rule Compliance Data
and Information
This list is also posted on our website and will be refreshed as additional • Power
• Suppliers overview and working with NRG
materials are published. We hope this provides an even more complete • Natural gas
• NRG Manufacturers Standards Policy
view of NRG. As always, if you do not find what you are looking for, • Load management
please email us at communications@nrg.com.
• Sustainability and renewables
Governance
• Energy brokers
Business • The Power to Become: NRG Code of Conduct
• Case studies by goal and industry
• Corporate Governance Guidelines
• 2024 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and Proxy Statement
People • NRG Management
• 2023 Form 10-K
• Life at NRG • NRG Board of Directors
• Other U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Filings
• Diversity, equity, and inclusion • NRG Board Committee Composition
• NRG Sustainability-Linked Bond Framework
• NRG Statement on Addressing Racial Injustice • Audit Committee
• Second Party Opinion on NRG’s Sustainability Linked
Financing Framework • CEO Commitment Letter on Supplier Diversity • Audit Committee Procedures
• 2021 NRG Investor Day • 2022 Equal Employment Opportunity Report (EEO-1) • Compensation Committee
• Pillars of positiveNRG • Governance and Nominating Committee
Insights
• Employee goodwill programs • Finance and Risk Management Committee
• Energy education
• positiveNRG Week 2023 • NRG Political Contribution Policy
• People and community
• 2023 Conflict Minerals Disclosure • NRG Manufacturers Standards Policy
• Sustainability
• Environmental Policy Statement
• Innovation
Environment • Climate Change Principles
• 2023 Third Party Assurance of NRG Greenhouse Gas
Customers
Emissions Report
Residential Solutions
• 2023 SASB Standards table
• Energy plans • 2023 CDP Climate Questionnaire
• Sustainable living • 2023 CDP Water Security Questionnaire
• Electric vehicle driving • 2023 Industry Association Climate Review
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 52
UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and progress
For a comprehensive look at our SDG-aligned efforts, see the chart below. For more information regarding NRG’s approach
to incorporating SDG guidance into our business strategy, click here.
SDG Sub-Target Alignment 2023 Featured Contributions and Progress
5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women At NRG, diversity, equity, and inclusion (DE&I) is one of our core values because it is a catalyst for building stronger teams, inspiring
and girls everywhere better performance, and empowering our people to show up as their most authentic selves. A core component of our DE&I strategy is
promoting gender equality and ensuring equal opportunities for women at NRG. Among our key initiatives:
5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective participation
and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels • We updated our hiring interview guide in 2023 to ensure candidates are evaluated in an inclusive and unbiased manner. The guide
of decision-making in political, economic and provides step-by-step tips — from selecting panel participants, to formulating questions, to reducing bias — during the interview and
Achieve gender equality
public life evaluation process.
and empower all women
and girls 5.5.2 Proportion of women in managerial positions • Our Women in Power BRG hosts regular events throughout the year and focuses on connecting female colleagues to foster career
growth and prepare for leadership roles at NRG.
• We conduct equal pay audits, and our most recent study found no evidence of gender- or race-based pay discrimination.
For more information on how we assess our progress on hiring and promoting women and other employees from diverse backgrounds,
please see pages 32-35 of this report.
Our commitment to promoting diversity and inclusivity in leadership extends to our Board of Directors. Of our 13 directors, seven are
gender or ethnically diverse and four of our five committee chairs are women.
SDG Sub-Target Alignment 2023 Featured Contributions and Progress
6.4 By 2030, substantially increase water-use Recognizing that water usage, scarcity, and quality are important considerations for NRG, we work to increase our water-use efficiency.
efficiency across all sectors and ensure sustainable We have implemented several initiatives to effectively operate and reduce our water use over time, including:
withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address
• Using non-potable options like brackish and grey water from sewage treatment plants and leachate collection
water scarcity and substantially reduce the number
of people suffering from water scarcity • Reusing water, when possible, in plant cooling and process systems
Ensure available and
6.4.1 Change in water-use efficiency over time • Modeling water risk scenarios and identifying risk mitigation efforts where needed to minimize risk to water resources
sustainable management
For more on our water-use efficiency projects and insight into our progress over time, please see page 23 of this report.
of water and sanitation
Also, see SASB IF-EU-140a.3.
for all
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 53
SDG Sub-Target Alignment 2023 Featured Contributions and Progress
7.1 By 2030, ensure universal access to affordable, We take a balanced approach to facilitating an intentional energy transition. Our strategic initiatives include sourcing our power in ways that
reliable and modern energy services align with our customers’ needs and priorities, providing sustainable home solutions, and partnering globally to expand infrastructure and
upgrade technology to support sustainable and modern energy. Highlights from our efforts in 2023 include:
7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of
renewable energy in the global energy mix • Partnering with developers to bring new renewables to the grid through medium- and long-term renewable power purchasing
agreements (PPAs), including an additional 1.9 GW of renewable energy capacity through these PPAs by the end of 2023
Ensure access to affordable, 7.b By 2030, expand infrastructure and upgrade
reliable, sustainable and technology for supplying modern and sustainable • 100% renewable plans offered in all of NRG’s retail markets, including plans tailored for EV charging and rooftop solar
energy services for all in developing countries, in
modern energy for all • Providing a wide range of home and energy solutions, including energy efficiency tools enabled by smart thermostats, voice control,
particular least developed countries, small island
and mobile apps. For more on our home solutions, please see page 13 of this report.
developing States and landlocked developing
countries, in accordance with their respective Since 2002, Reliant has provided more than $17 million to help Texans who need assistance with electricity costs through the Community
programs of support Assistance by Reliant Energy (CARE) program. In 2023, our support included:
• $1.2M in donations to more than 70 agencies that directly support customers
• Another $159,355 donated by Reliant customers through their utility bill payments
SDG Sub-Target Alignment 2023 Featured Contributions and Progress
12.6.1 Number of companies publishing We support the UN goal of encouraging companies to adopt sustainable practices and integrate sustainability information into their
sustainability reports reporting cycle in order to demonstrate their commitment to sustainable development to stakeholders. We support these goals and
targets by publishing an annual sustainability report since 2010.
Ensure sustainable
consumption and
production patterns
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 54
SASB standards
The mission of SASB, now a part of The International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Foundation, is to develop sustainability metrics for public
corporations to disclose material, decision-useful information to investors. NRG supports work that contributes directly to providing comparable and
Electric Utilities & Power Generators
consistent data. The nature of our business directs us to consult the SASB Standard as defined by the Sustainable
Industry Classification System (SICS). Below is a table which contains relevant SASB disclosures against which we are able to report as a publicly-
traded company. Topics that are not applicable to NRG are denoted as such. Additional activity metrics that may assist in the accurate evaluation and
comparability of disclosure may be found in NRG’s 2023 Form 10-K.
Code Category Unit of Measurement Metric Response
Greenhouse Gas Emissions & Energy Resource Planning
IF-EU-110a.1 Quantitative Metric tons (t) CO e (1) Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage covered (1) 26,835,867 MT COe1
2 2
Percentage (%) under
(2) 0.3%2
(2) emissions-limiting regulations and
(3) 99.7%2
(3) emissions-reporting regulations
IF-EU-110a.2 Quantitative Metric tons (t) CO e Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions associated with The calculation of this metric is under consideration and will not be disclosed this year.
2
power deliveries
IF-EU-110a.3 Discussion and Analysis N/A Discussion of long- and short-term strategy or plan to NRG’s goal is to reduce its U.S. Scope 1, 2, and 3 (business travel) COe emissions by 50% by 2025 from a
2
manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets, and 2014 baseline and achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2050.
an analysis of performance against those targets
For more on our strategy to reduce our emissions and progress on our goals, please see pp. 18-21 of
this year’s Sustainability Report.
2022 CDP Response
TCFD Report
Sustainability-Linked Bond Framework
1 Scope 1 includes only direct GHG emissions associated with fuel combustion in boilers, turbines, and engines used to produce electric power. Scope 1 GHG emissions were determined by using methods specified within Title 40, Chapter I, Subchapter C, Part 98, Subparts A (Jan. 1, 2018 update), C (Sep. 21, 2018 update), and
D (Jan. 3, 2017 update). The determination of the equity share of GHG emissions is consistent with equity share methodologies for equity share accounting for greenhouse gas emissions as described in the GHG Protocol. GHG emissions from combustion of fossil fuels used for other activities or equipment, such as auxiliary
boilers, starter engines, and company fleet vehicles are not included at this time as the associated emissions are immaterial. Scope 1 emissions do not include emissions from fugitive sources such as hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) releases from use of refrigeration and/or air conditioning equipment, sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) from
electrical equipment, and methane releases from natural gas transport as they are not material sources of greenhouse gases for the Company. Includes 37.5% ownership of a 605 MW capacity coal plant in Australia. Reported GHG metrics include emission and consumption data from all facilities located in the United States
that were owned, controlled, or for which the Company had an equity interest as of December 31, 2023. The Company employs a hybrid methodology of operational and financial control, as defined in the WRI / WBCSD GHG Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition, 2004 (GHG Protocol), to
determine facilities within the organizational boundary. Emissions and consumption data from jointly-owned electric generating facilities are allocated based on the Company’s equity share of ownership at the plant level. Note that tolling agreements are currently excluded from the organizational boundary.
2 Nearly all (>99%) of NRG’s emission sources are subject to mandatory U.S. federal (Environmental Protection Agency [EPA]) greenhouse gas reporting regulations. In addition, some of these emission sources (0.6% specified under IF-EU-110a.1 (2) and (3)) also report to regional and state CO 2e reporting programs (RGGI,
AB32) that are disclosed annually as part of NRG’s financial reporting data.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 55
Code Category Unit of Measurement Metric Response
Air Quality
IF-EU-120a.1 Quantitative Metric tons (t), Air emissions of the following pollutants:
Air Quality SASB table
Percentage (%) (1) NO (excluding N O), (2) SO, (3) particulate matter (PM ),
x 2 x 10 Air emissions Air emissions Percentage from production facilities
(4) lead (Pb), and (5) mercury (Hg); percentage of each in or source (metric tons) within urbanized areas
near areas of dense population
NO 12,339 39%
x
SO1 31,990 81%
x
PM 2 1,252 67%
10
Pb3 0.140 50%
Hg3 0.040 36%
Water Management
IF-EU-140a.1 Quantitative Thousand cubic meters (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed;
Total water withdrawn
percentage of each in regions with High or Extremely High
Percentage (%)
Baseline Water Stress Water Source Total (in millions of cubic meters) Percent
Fresh water 487 31%
Non-Fresh water 516 33%
Ocean 551 35%
Total 1,554 100%
(2) 93 (in thousands of cubic meters)
Percentage of Each in Regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
Baseline Water Stress High (40-80%) Percent of Percent that is
or Extremely High (>80%)4 Total Water Non-Fresh5
Withdrawal from areas with High/Extremely
0.01% 0%
High Baseline Water Stress
Consumption from areas with High/Extremely
0.10% 0%
High Baseline Water Stress
Discussion of accounting, estimations, and uncertainty for Air Emissions: 3 In the case of lead and mercury emissions, volumes are estimated for some facilities due to incomplete data at time of publication.
Data collection varies based on the generation facility and may include engineering calculations or continuous emissions monitoring systems (CEMS). 4 NRG uses the WRI Aqueduct tool to model and help assess water basin risks in combination with regional internal expertise
1 NRG only has SO emissions so SO emissions are equivalent to SO emissions. 5 Non-fresh water has a total dissolved solids greater than 1,000 mg/l and is not used for agriculture or municipal water supply.
2 x 2
2 The requirement to report PM emissions in annual emissions inventories or emissions statements varies across states. In addition, the earliest reporting deadline for a
10
reporting year is July 1 of the following year. For sites in NRGs fleet that have not yet, or are not required to, report PM emissions at the time of publication of this SASB table,
10
NRG has used the U.S. EPA’s AP-42 emission factors to estimate emissions.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 56
Code Category Unit of Measurement Metric Response
IF-EU-140a.1 Quantitative Metric tons (t), (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed;
Type of Generating Facility in Baseline Water Stress Areas Number
continued
percentage of each in regions with High or Extremely High
Percentage (%)
Baseline Water Stress Fossil fuel (natural gas, coal, oil) 2
Renewable (solar and wind) 1
Nuclear 0
Thermal (district heating and cooling) 0
Total 3
IF-EU-140a.2 Quantitative Number Number of incidents of non-compliance associated with 4
water quality permits, standards, and regulations
IF-EU-140a.3 Discussion and analysis N/A Description of water management, risks and discussion of NRG’s definition of substantive risk from water is the possibility that an event will occur and significantly
strategies, and practices to mitigate those risks affect the achievement of NRG’s business goals. Risk identification and assessment process applies
to both direct operations and supply chain. NRG uses measures, metrics, and indicators for water risk
assessment leveraging management and professional judgment from the perspective of:
Financial impact: including, corporate earnings, capital expenditure on technologies to reduce water
consumption and risk
Environmental impact: including, availability, quality of river basis, and regulations that impact supply
and/or management of water
Plant operations: including, operation disruption due to shortage, increase in water costs, or supply
chain risks
We use the WRI Aqueduct tool annually to develop high-level views of basin-level risk that informs
strategic decision-making and the setting of goals and targets. This tool is open source and provides
ease of use. Because each generating facility is unique, the risk approach identifies and addresses risks
related to water availability and quality, relevant regulatory, financial, operational, and environmental
concerns, as well as stakeholder and supply chain impacts.
Water risk is monitored by risk owners (individual plant operators) and reported to management upon
material changes, with a threshold of 20% in water consumption and withdrawal levels.
Plant Operations team members review modeling scenarios to identify if a water supply risk could impact
projected generation levels at any point within a two-year time frame. If so, risk mitigation efforts are
identified and economically evaluated for implementation. Plant water usage is reviewed annually by the
senior leaders of NRGs Operations, Engineering, and Commercial Operations teams. Risk response
decisions are primarily made and executed by managing plant operations to maintain compliance with all
relevant regulations.
NRG also reports supply chain water risk annually through the CDP Water Security Questionnaire.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 57
Code Category Unit of Measurement Metric Response
Coal Ash Management
IF-EU-150a.1 Quantitative Percentage (%), (1) Amount of coal combustion products (CCPs) generated, (1) 743,253
Presentation currency (2) percentage recycled (2) 68%
IF-EU-150a.3 Discussion and analysis N/A Description of coal combustion products (CCPs) Coal combustion residuals
management policies and procedures for active and
inactive operations
Energy Affordability
IF-EU-240a.1 Quantitative Rate Average retail electric rate for (1) residential, (2) commercial, This topic pertains to regulated electric utilities, and NRG is not a regulated utility. Therefore, this
and (3) industrial customers disclosure is not applicable to NRG.
IF-EU-240a.3 Quantitative Number, Percentage (%) (1) Number of residential customer electric disconnections This topic pertains to regulated electric utilities, and NRG is not a regulated utility. Therefore, this
for non-payment, (2) percentage reconnected within 30 days disclosure is not applicable to NRG.
IF-EU-240a.4 Discussion and analysis N/A Discussion of impact of external factors on customer This topic pertains to regulated electric utilities, and NRG is not a regulated utility. Therefore, this
affordability of electricity, including the economic conditions disclosure is not applicable to NRG.
of the service territory
Workforce Health & Safety
IF-EU-320a.1 Quantitative Rate (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR), (2) fatality rate, and (1) .201
(3) near miss frequency rate (NMFR) for (a) direct employees
(2) 01
and (b) contract employees
(3) 8.21,2
End-use Efficiency & Demand
IF-EU-420a.2 Quantitative Percentage (%) by megawatt Percentage of electric load served by smart grid technology This topic pertains to regulated electric utilities, and NRG is not a regulated utility. Therefore, this
hours (MWh) disclosure is not applicable to NRG.
IF-EU-420a.3 Quantitative Megawatt hours (MWh) Customer electricity savings from efficiency measures, This topic pertains to regulated electric utilities, and NRG is not a regulated utility. Therefore, this
by market disclosure is not applicable to NRG.
1 Data excludes Airtron and Vivint
2 Process for classifying, recording, and reporting: # of Near-Misses Reported / Total Hours Worked x 1,000,000 = Near Miss Frequency Rate. The National Safety Agency defines near-misses as “an unplanned event that did not result in injury, illness, or damage, but had the potential to do so.” NRG uses an electronic Incident
Management System to document, communicate, track, and trend specific factors about each event including causal factors and corrective actions; this system provides automated fleet-wide notifications. The number of near misses is derived from a report pulled from the Incident Management System. NRG’s Operational
Health and Safety (OHS) management system applies to 100% of U.S. operations. The system also includes notifications to executive management when significant safety events occur that meet the defined criteria for a Significant Event notification. The system also generates weekly reports to communicate any events
from the previous week to NRG personnel
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 58
Code Category Unit of Measurement Metric Response
Nuclear Safety & Emergency Management
IF-EU-540a.1 Quantitative Number Total number of nuclear power units, broken down by results NRG South Texas Project LP (STP) was a 44% owner of a joint undivided interest in STP. As As of
of most regent independent safety review November 1, 2023, NRG Energy, Inc. sold its interest in STP. Page 13 of 2023 10-K.
Reactor Unit Action Matrix Current Regulatory Oversight
South Texas 1 License Response Baseline inspection
South Texas 2 License Response Baseline inspection
IF-EU-540a.2 Discussion and analysis N/A Description of efforts to manage nuclear safety and As a former holder of ownership interest in STP, NRG South Texas Project LP operated under NRC
emergency preparedness licensing and regulations. However, NRG’s license only granted possession rights, not operational control.
As a non-operating co-owner, NRG’s compliance with NRC regulations primarily concerned financial and
decommissioning funding assurances. To fulfill these obligations, NRG and its subsidiaries had a support
agreement, committing up to $120 million for STP operations. As of November 1, 2023, NRG Energy, Inc.
sold its stake in STP. Source
Grid Resiliency
IF-EU-550a.1 Quantitative Number Number of incidents of non-compliance with physical or NRG does not have transmission and distribution operations. Therefore, this disclosure is not applicable
cybersecurity standards or regulations to NRG.
IF-EU-550a.2 Quantitative Minutes, Number (1) System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI), (2) NRG does not have transmission and distribution operations. Therefore, this disclosure is not applicable
System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI), and to NRG.
(3) Customer Average Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI),
inclusive of major event days
Activity Metrics
IF-EU-000.B Quantitative Megawatt hours (MWh) Total electricity delivered to: (1) residential, (2) commercial, 2023 Form 10-K page 7
(3) industrial, (4) all other retail customers, and (5) wholesale
customers
IF-EU-000.D Quantitative Megawatt hours (MWh), Total electricity generated, percentage by major energy 2023 Form 10-K page 10
Percentage (%) source, percentage in regulated markets
2023 ESG Data Download
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 59
energy and fuel prices, failure of customers or counterparties to
perform under contracts, changes in the wholesale power and gas
markets, changes in government or market regulations, the condition
of capital markets generally and NRG’s ability to access capital markets,
NRG’s ability to execute its supply strategy, risks related to data
privacy, cyberterrorism and inadequate cybersecurity, the loss of data,
unanticipated outages at NRG’s generation facilities, NRG’s ability
to achieve its net debt targets, adverse results in current and future
litigation, complaints, product liability claims and/or adverse publicity,
failure to identify, execute or successfully implement acquisitions or
asset sales, risks of the smart home and security industry, including
risks of and publicity surrounding the sales, subscriber origination
Feedback Safe harbor
and retention process, the impact of changes in consumer spending
patterns, consumer preferences, geopolitical tensions, demographic
If you have any comments or questions about this report or The information presented in this report includes forward-looking trends, supply chain disruptions, NRG’s ability to implement value
would like more information on NRG, please visit nrg.com or email statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of enhancing improvements to plant operations and companywide
communications@nrg.com. 1933 and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These statements involve processes, NRG’s ability to achieve or maintain investment grade credit
estimates, expectations, projections, goals, assumptions, known and metrics, NRG’s ability to proceed with projects under development
unknown risks and uncertainties and can typically be identified by or the inability to complete the construction of such projects on
terminology such as “may,” “should,” “could,” “objective,” “projection,” schedule or within budget, the inability to maintain or create successful
“forecast,” “goal,” “guidance,” “outlook,” “expect,” “intend,” “seek,” partnering relationships, NRG’s ability to operate its business efficiently,
“plan,” “think,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “predict,” “target,” “potential” NRG’s ability to retain customers, the ability to successfully integrate
or “continue” or the negative of these terms or other comparable businesses of acquired companies, including Vivint Smart Home, NRG’s
terminology. Such forward-looking statements include, but are ability to realize anticipated benefits of transactions (including expected
not limited to, statements about NRG’s future revenues, income, cost savings and other synergies) or the risk that anticipated benefits
indebtedness, capital structure, plans, expectations, objectives, may take longer to realize than expected, NRG’s ability to execute its
projected financial performance and/or business results and other capital allocation plan. NRG undertakes no obligation to update or
future events, and views of economic and market conditions. Although revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
NRG believes that its expectations are reasonable, it can give no information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
assurance that these expectations will prove to be correct, and actual The foregoing review of factors that could cause NRG’s actual results
results may vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking
to differ materially from those contemplated herein include, among statements included in this report should be considered in connection
others, general economic conditions, hazards customary in the power with information regarding risks and uncertainties that may affect
industry, weather conditions and extreme weather events, competition NRG’s future results included in NRG’s filings with the Securities and
in wholesale power, gas and smart home markets, the volatility of Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov.
INTRODUCTION FACILITATING AN INTENTIONAL ENERGY TRANSITION ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE APPENDIX 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 60
Key issues assessment
NRG strives to report decision-useful information to our stakeholders
in an efficient and concise manner. We recognize that we have many
different stakeholder groups which may each require information
presented in a variety of ways and on numerous topics. We engage
proactively with our key stakeholders to understand the type of
information that is of greatest interest and the processes that will most
effectively deliver data to them. However, given rapidly growing interest
in voluntary sustainability reporting, we must also focus on compiling
the most relevant information while achieving greater transparency.
As part of the above process, we periodically conduct a key issues
assessment to ensure that we identify potential strategic and
operational risks and opportunities as well as specific sustainability
issues that are relevant to our current and potential future business
and operating environment. The key issues assessment provides a
foundation of topics from which to prioritize our sustainability goals
and initiatives, prepare annual sustainability reporting, as well as provide
insight into emerging issues that our stakeholders care about.
To conduct the key issues assessment, we monitor the competitive,
regulatory, and media landscapes. For the purpose of this Sustainability
Report, these findings are also compared with external best practice
publications on sustainability metrics, such as from the Electric Power
Research Institute, TCFD, and SASB / IFRS. We use this independent
analysis to better inform business decisions and shape our voluntary
reporting process. For the purposes of sustainability reporting, NRG has
considered the GRI framework to report on issues of importance to the
company and its stakeholders. Relevant financial implications, as well as
a discussion of risks and opportunities associated with some of these
issues, can be found in Part 1, Item 1A in our 2023 form 10-K. Additional
financial statements or equivalent documents can be found here.
