CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
22
TABLE OF
CONTENTS
03 Letter from the CEO
04 Who We Are & How We Create Value
14 Governance
17 Safety, Teammates & Culture
31 Environmental Performance
44 Policy Engagement
48 GRI Index
3
Dear Stakeholders:
In just a few short years, sustainability has gone from a topic of discussion in the steel industry to
a driver of business strategy. A pathway for decarbonizing our industry is emerging, but it requires
investment and technological breakthroughs to be realized.
LETTER FROM THE CEO To bring this future into existence, we have to actively engage with partners and invest in new and
emerging technologies to make a decarbonized steel industry a reality. And we are doing just that.
LEON J. TOPALIAN During 2023 and the first few months of 2024, we continued to take action to accelerate the arrival
of a clean industrial future for Nucor, the broader steel industry, and all industrial manufacturers.
Some examples include:
• Investing in Helion Energy, a start-up company developing nuclear fusion technology.
• Forming a partnership with ExxonMobil to capture, transport and sequester CO emissions
2
from our Louisiana DRI facility.
• Announcing a science-based greenhouse gas emissions reduction target for 2030 and a
net-zero 2050 target (Scopes 1, 2 and 3) based on the emission standard developed by the
Global Steel Climate Council (GSCC), which we helped found.
• Supplying Mercedes-Benz with Econiq™-RE, a Nucor certified steel product that it is produced
with 100% renewable electricity.
• Announcing a joint initiative with Google and Microsoft to accelerate the deployment of
reliable clean electricity technologies.
Decarbonization in the steel industry is being driven by end-use customers looking to reduce
carbon emissions in their supply chains. We introduced a marketing campaign – Made for Good –
that highlights the work we are doing with our customers in markets such as automotive and non-
residential construction, to help them achieve both their growth and sustainability goals.
In this report, we also provide data on our safety performance. Our team continues to drive down
the number of safety incidents we experience. Since 2020, the Nucor team has lowered our Injury
and Illness (I/I) rate by nearly 30%. In 2023, we achieved our lowest I/I rate in company history. We
also had 31 Nucor divisions go an entire year without a recordable injury. We are extremely proud of
our progress, but we still have work to do to reach our ultimate goal of becoming the World’s Safest
Steel Company.
As we execute our mission to grow the core, expand beyond and live our culture, our team is
growing. Our teammates and our culture are our greatest competitive advantage. Beginning
on page 17, you can read more about our efforts to develop the talents and career paths of our
teammates, as well as the steps we are taking to build a more diverse and inclusive Nucor.
Steel is an essential material to our economy and our transition to a cleaner energy system. We are
very excited about the proactive steps we are taking to advance the development and adoption
of emerging technologies. I am proud of the way our 32,000 teammates are building on Nucor’s
history of innovation to lead the way in decarbonizing our industry.
Leon J. Topalian
Chair, President & Chief Executive Officer
LETTER
FROM
THE
CEO
4
WHO WE ARE
& HOW WE
CREATE VALUE
5
WHO
WE
ARE
&
HOW
WE
CREATE
VALUE Nucor entered the steelmaking business in
1969, providing steel to our then-fledgling
steel joist business in South Carolina. Utilizing
revolutionary steelmaking technology, the
electric arc furnace, or EAF, to melt scrap into
new steel with electricity, Nucor grew to supply
its own steel products divisions. Recycling
scrap steel in EAFs, also known as circular
steelmaking, gave Nucor an advantage over
traditional steel mills, which used giant blast
furnaces to make steel from raw ore, referred
to as extractive steelmaking. That advantage
continues today. Our business is organized into
three segments: raw materials, steel mills
and steel products.
Nucor’s raw materials segment provides scrap and direct
reduced iron (DRI), both of which feed our steel mills, and
acquires additional metallic input from the marketplace,
as needed. Utilizing circular steelmaking via EAFs, our steel
mills segment produces a wide range of primary steel
shapes for sale to outside customers and to our downstream
steel product businesses.
Approximately 20% of our steel mill production is converted
into a wide range of fabricated products by Nucor’s
downstream product groups, including structural steel
tubing, electrical conduit, joists and joist girders, steel
deck, steel fasteners, fabricated rebar, steel grating, metal
buildings, insulated metal panels, racking systems, overhead
doors, utility towers and structures, wire and wire mesh,
piling and foundation products. This vertical integration,
from primarily recycled raw materials to final product, allows
Nucor to operate more sustainably and provide the supply
chain transparency that our customers are increasingly
interested in – enhancing our position as a supplier of choice
in our industry.
6
WHO
WE
ARE
&
HOW
WE
CREATE
VALUE
END-USE MARKETS SERVED
NON-RESIDENTIAL
53% CONSTRUCTION
& INFRASTRUCTURE
2023 REVIEW & OUTLOOK
13% ENERGY
Strong demand and pricing for most of the products we offer, combined with 7% AUTOMOTIVE
the Nucor team’s continued focus on performance, enabled us to deliver the
third-most profitable year in Nucor history. We earned $18.00 per share and
CONSUMER
generated a return-on-equity (ROE) of 23%. 2% DURABLES
The safety and well-being of our teammates – Nucor’s true value creators –
remains our highest priority. We finished the year with an Injury and Illness 13% M INA DC UH SI TN RE IR AY L E& QUIPMENT
(I/I) rate of 0.79, down 17% from 2022, but we are not satisfied with our
progress and have numerous initiatives underway so that we can further
improve and attain world class safety performance.
7% TRANSPORT
& LOGISTICS
With the strongest balance sheet and credit ratings in the North American
metals sector, and the most diverse product offering among all U.S. listed 5% OTHER
steel products manufacturers, the Nucor team remains well positioned to
create more value for all our stakeholders.
Steel is increasingly recognized as an essential material to our nation’s Figures are approximate percentages of total external shipments of steel and steel products for 2023.
general economic growth and development, as well as for climate change
resilience and the energy transition. We are building out Nucor’s portfolio of
solutions so that we can readily respond to accelerating efforts aimed at:
• Rebuilding American infrastructure to make it more resilient.
• Repowering and decarbonizing the domestic energy sector.
• Reshoring manufacturing to lessen American dependence on far off
global supply chains.
And we are increasingly confident that our reputation as both the leading
domestic producer of steel products and an employer of choice, along
with our low GHG emissions intensity and recycling based business model,
makes Nucor the preferred partner for both government and private sector
customers pursuing these objectives.
7
WHO
WE
ARE
&
HOW
WE
CREATE
VALUE
From electric vehicles (EVs) to offshore wind the fastest growing markets for our products in recent years and
continue to represent an important construction market sub-
towers to modern high-rise construction, steel
segment for Nucor.
is a ubiquitous component of the U.S. green
economy. Its flexibility, strength, aesthetics and Other important end-use markets for Nucor include automotive,
energy, machinery, heavy and agricultural equipment,
relatively low cost have made steel the choice
transportation, and appliances. Although each of these
of architects, engineers, manufacturers and industries utilize a different mix of steel products, grades, and
consumers for more than a century. sizes, they all require a steel producer that understands and
anticipates the changing demands of the market.
The markets and customers that Nucor serves are becoming
We continue to invest in new products and new capabilities,
increasingly aware and concerned about the environmental
to build on our industry leadership position by sustainably
and social impact of their supply chains. And Nucor’s EAF-based
meeting both current and emerging market needs. Over the
steelmaking facilities generate some of the lowest greenhouse
past five years, Nucor has invested approximately $14 billion
gas (GHG) equivalent emissions per ton in the steel industry.
expanding our product portfolio to include more value-added
steel products and steelmaking capabilities. Throughout
A large percentage of the steel Nucor produces eventually Nucor’s history, we have served as a strategic partner for our
makes it into a wide range of construction applications. customers; applying the latest innovations, staying abreast
From nuts and bolts to the beams underpinning the nation’s of design trends, and using market analytics to develop
tallest skyscrapers, Nucor steel can be found on almost every products that help solve their most pressing challenges.
construction site in America. Construction of warehouses for We regularly bring customers new opportunities to drive
goods distribution, as well as data centers, have been among progress and growth together.
8
WHO
WE
ARE
&
HOW
WE
CREATE
VALUE
BAR
BEAM
CASTINGS
CASTINGS
COLD FINISH
FASTENERS
HIGHWAY INFRASTRUCTURE
INSULATED METAL PANELS
METAL BUILDINGS
& SOLAR STRUCTURES
PIPE & TUBE
PLATE
RACKING
REBAR FABRICATION & INSTALLATION
STEEL FOUNDATIONS
METAL BUILDINGS
& SOLAR STRUCTURES
WIRE PRODUCTS
9
ANNUAL OUTPUT CAPACITY & FINANCIAL SUMMARY
RAW MATERIALS SEGMENT (METRIC TONS) RESULTS
Direct Reduced Iron Operations (DRI) 3,350,000 2021 2022 2023
Scrap Recycling Operations 5,972,000 Net Sales $36.5B $41.5B $34.7B
Steel Shipped 25.7M Tons 23.2M Tons 23.3M Tons
STEEL MILLS SEGMENT (SHORT TONS)
EPS $23.16 $28.79 $18.00
Bar Mills 9,560,000
Free Cash Flow $4.6B $8.1B $4.9B
Plate Mills 2,800,000
Sheet Mills 14,600,000
Structural Mills 3,250,000
STEEL PRODUCTS SEGMENT (SHORT TONS)
Sheet
Buildings Group 355,000 Bar
Cold Finish 1,069,000 Structural
Plate
Fasteners 75,000
Joist
Grating 49,000
Deck
Rebar Fabrication 1,736,000 Tubular Products
Steel Mesh 128,000 Rebar Fabrication
Tubular Products 1,365,000 Other Downstream
Raw Materials
Vulcraft/Verco Joist 745,000
Vulcraft/Verco Deck 560,000
Insulated Metal Panels 97,000
Warehouse Systems 168,000
Overhead Doors 125,000
Towers & Structures 10,000
WHO
WE
ARE
&
HOW
WE
CREATE
VALUE
DIVERSIFIED PRODUCT MIX
TOTAL TONS SOLD TO OUTSIDE CUSTOMERS IN 2023
8%
6%
37%
5%
4%
1%
2%
7%
7%
23%
10
WORKING WITH OUR CUSTOMERS TO
CREATE THE CIRCULAR STEEL ECONOMY
From the time we entered the steel business more than 50 years ago, Nucor
has been focused on producing steel sustainably. When our first EAF roared to
life in Darlington, South Carolina, Nucor ushered in a new era of steelmaking
in the U.S. and radically transformed the industry. The impact is still felt today
with more than 70% of U.S. steel production coming from EAFs, making the U.S.
one of the cleanest places in the world to make steel. And we are continuing
to push our sustainability efforts further by looking to close the recycling loop
through efforts such as Nucor Industrial Recycling. The goal of Nucor Industrial
Recycling is to work with current and potential steel customers to find new
and better ways to return steel scrap directly from manufacturing facilities to
steel mills for circularity via remelting. In 2023, we recycled approximately 20.6
million net tons of scrap steel.
WHO
WE
ARE
&
HOW
WE
CREATE
VALUE
10
Vertical Integration & Product Lifecycle
SCRAP METAL
RECYCLING
Nearly 70 recycling locations
process scrap OR directly supply industrial
scrap, end-of-life railcars and vehicles for
26 Nucor steel mills make sheet,
plate, beams and bar steel for
Approximately 200 Nucor steel products facilities
used by DOZENS of end-use markets
INDUSTRIAL
RECYCLING
MANUFACTURING/
END USE PRODUCTS EAF STEELMAKING
11
WHO
WE
ARE
&
HOW
WE
CREATE
VALUE
11
MADE FOR GOOD
In 2023, Nucor launched “Made for Good,” a campaign
highlighting our sustainability leadership and partnerships
across a broad range of industries to help achieve
sustainability goals and develop innovative solutions for
industrial decarbonization.
As a steel industry leader, we understand the importance
of environmental stewardship and continuously challenge
ourselves to further reduce our emissions. Sustainability is
also being driven by our customers' focus on reducing
their carbon footprint. Through partnership and purposeful
innovation, we are providing both steel and solutions
that empower our customers to meet their business and
environmental goals successfully.
"Made for Good" invites customers, investors, industry
stakeholders and policymakers to partner with Nucor in
tackling the challenge of decarbonization. The campaign's
featured case studies include Nucor's investments in
next generation technologies such as advanced nuclear See how a new process is
technologies, Nucor’s industry leading Econiq™ low-embodied
turning zero-carbon iron into
carbon certification, and innovative products like Elcyon™,
low-emission steel.
the first domestically produced low-embodied carbon steel
product for wind energy applications. nucor.com/madeforgood
For more than five decades, Nucor has produced steel using
the most sustainable technologies commercially available.
Today, we are focused on the future of sustainability. The green
and digital economies are being built with steel and the steel
they’re built with matters. Together, we’re working to ensure
that everything we make is “Made for Good”.
Learn more at nucor.com/madeforgood
12
WHO
WE
ARE
&
HOW
WE
CREATE
VALUE
POWERING THE GREEN ECONOMY
Nucor stands out as one of the most environmentally friendly steel producers globally, boasting
combined greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions that are less than half of those emitted by the
average blast furnace extractive steel producer. Nucor is committed to further reducing our GHG
emissions by making strategic investments in creating carbon-free iron and industrial-scale
carbon-free energy.
ECONIQ™ CERTIFIED LOW-EMBODIED CARBON STEEL
Since its inception in 2021, Nucor’s Econiq™ has led the global steel industry in certifying
low-embodied carbon materials. Utilizing Nucor’s industry leading GHG intensity position via
circular EAF steel production – along with 100% renewable electricity supply and eliminating
remaining Scope 1 emissions using carbon offsets – Econiq™ NZ continues to attract interest
from automakers, manufacturers, construction firms, renewable energy producers and others
searching for way to reduce their carbon footprint.
As industry’s journey in decarbonization has continued to evolve, Nucor has adapted the
Econiq™ certification to meet our customers’ needs. The Nucor Econiq™ certification will
include an Econiq™ NZ category that will supply the certification for those customers wanting
net-zero steel. Econiq™ RE is a category of Econiq™ that certifies that Nucor steel or steel
products are made with 100% renewable electricity. And for those focusing on reducing their
construction project’s carbon footprint, we have a portfolio of Econiq™ products that can meet
your requirements.
13
WHO
WE
ARE
&
HOW
WE
CREATE
VALUE
O
U
R
M
I
S
S
I
O
N
OUR MISSION
GROW THE CORE
EXPAND BEYOND
LIVE OUR CULTURE
OUR CHALLENGE IS TO BECOME
THE WORLD’S SAFEST STEEL COMPANY.
WE LIVE EACH DAY WITH GRATITUDE
FOR THE FAMILIES, CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS
THAT MAKE OUR WORK POSSIBLE.
14
GOVERNANCE
15
2023 BOARD MEMBERS
At Nucor, we believe that our reputation for fair business
dealings with our contractors, suppliers, customers and
each other provides us with a strong foundation, and
helps to ensure our success.
LEGACY OF CARING
Since our founding, Nucor has taken the long-term view. We believe that ongoing investment NORMA B. CLAYTON PATRICK J. DEMPSEY NICHOLAS C. GANGESTAD
in our people, our communities, and in our partnerships will generate attractive returns for our
stockholders far into the future. Our dedication to the health and safety of our teammates, our
focus on being reliable partners for our customers, and our commitment to being good stewards
of the communities where we live and work are all key elements of living the Nucor culture.
BOARD, STRUCTURES, COMMITTEES
Nucor’s Board of Directors is currently made up of nine members, three of whom are
women and one of whom is our current President and CEO. Eight of the Board members are
independent as defined by SEC guidelines. The Chair role is held by our CEO. Our Lead Director
CHRISTOPHER J. KEARNEY LAURETTE T. KOELLNER MICHAEL W. LAMACH
is Christopher Kearney, retired Chairman, CEO and President of SPX FLOW, Inc. The Board has
three committees: Audit, Compensation and Executive Development, and Governance and
Nominating. The Audit Committee is responsible for financial oversight and compliance, the
Compensation and Executive Development Committee determines compensation for senior
officers and Directors, while the Governance and Nominating Committee evaluates and
recommends nominees for Board membership and oversees and makes recommendations
to the Board regarding corporate sustainability and other environmental, social and related
governance (“ESG”) matters. Detailed explanations of the Board, Committees and their
respective responsibilities can be found on our website.
Nucor provides training for new members of our Board of Directors including detailed
materials explaining the company’s practices. Additionally, we ensure that senior managers
and other staff members are available to familiarize board members with our company
and the steel industry. We also organize regular visits by board members to our facilities. JOSEPH D. RUPP LEON J. TOPALIAN NADJA Y. WEST
To increase their effectiveness in leading our company, Nucor encourages Directors to
pursue educational opportunities related to their position and provides reimbursement for
reasonable expenses related to those educational opportunities.
GOVERNANCE
16
GOVERNANCE
APPROACH TO RISK ASSESSMENT HUMAN RIGHTS
The Board of Directors establishes guidelines to assess and manage risks faced by Nucor. Nucor is firmly committed to respecting the human rights of all individuals. Our policies
In addition to Board oversight, our CEO and our entire executive team are fully engaged in are based on the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the United
risk management and mitigation. A comprehensive annual report on the risks facing Nucor Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, as they pertain to the steel
is prepared by our Corporate Controller, Director of Internal Audit and General Counsel and industry. Nucor proactively works to ensure that our labor and supply chain policies
submitted to the Audit Committee for review. In its oversight role, the Audit Committee reflect our commitment to human rights. Given our team-oriented culture with its
then meets with our managers to discuss and provide feedback on how Nucor prioritizes focus on accountability, and that most of our operations are in North America, we
its risks. consider our potential risk for violating human rights to be low. Nucor does not tolerate
any form of forced labor, involuntary labor, child labor, human trafficking, or modern
The risks identified include those related to climate change such as extreme weather slavery, either in our operations or our supply chain. We also respect the rights of local
events, disruptions to our supply chain and impacts to our markets. Some of Nucor’s people in the communities where we work and live, including the rights of indigenous
other ongoing risks include those related to economic conditions, legal or environmental peoples. Nucor also does not tolerate coercion of any kind, withholding of passports, or
liabilities, and cybersecurity. sexual exploitation. In geographic locations where human rights violations may occur,
we monitor and certify our supply chains, including contractors, subcontractors and
Specifically:
suppliers. Our expectations in this regard are captured in our Supplier Code of Conduct.
• Demand for steel products can be cyclical, causing significant fluctuations in prices If Nucor’s human rights standards are more stringent than the laws of a particular area,
and shipment volumes of our products. we operate according to our own higher standards. For the complete text of the Nucor
Human Rights Policy, please click here.
• Nucor is also affected by fluctuations in the availability and costs of energy and raw
materials on an ongoing basis.
FAIR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES
• Complying with environmental, safety and other regulations typically requires us to
incur expenses that reduce our profits and cash flows, but also helps us manage risks
in these areas. Our employment practices mandate fair and equitable treatment for all teammates,
including competitive compensation and benefits and the right to work in an
• Cybersecurity is an area of increasing concern for all companies. We have increased
environment free of discrimination and harassment. Nucor will not tolerate any form
our investments in technology and personnel to address this growing risk area in
of discrimination or harassment in any aspect of our business. Accordingly, Nucor
recent years.
considers discrimination and harassment to be major offenses that can result in
suspension or termination. For the complete text of the Nucor Discrimination &
SUSTAINABILITY Harassment Policy, please click here.
To ensure that our operations consistently function according to our high ethical
Our CEO and our entire executive team are fully engaged in Nucor’s progress toward
standards, Nucor provides a framework for reporting violations. Teammates, as well
achieving our sustainability goals and initiatives. The team members managing day-to-
as suppliers and contractors, may report violations to a manager, general manager, or
day activities in pursuit of our sustainability objectives report to Nucor’s Executive Vice
to Human Resources. Individuals wishing to report anonymously may call a toll-free
President of Business Services and General Counsel.
Hotline, which is monitored by a third party. Violators of our ethical standards may be
suspended, terminated, or referred to government authorities where appropriate. Nucor
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE prohibits any retaliation whatsoever against teammates who report violations.
Nucor establishes Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics that all officers and
teammates are expected to follow. These Standards cover issues including ethical
business conduct, conflicts of interest, gifts and confidentiality. We also have a separate
Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Professionals. Each senior financial officer, including
our CEO, must sign this document by hand, and submit it to our corporate headquarters.
These documents are available to view on our website here.
17
SAFETY,
TEAMMATES &
CULTURE
18
SAFETY,
TEAMMATES
&
CULTURE
18
At Nucor, we’ve long said Safety is Our #1 Value, but
it’s not just a motto. Our teammates understand they
can rely on each other to ensure every person in the
company goes home safely to their families at the end
of their workday. We believe safe business is also smart
business. Taking care of our customers begins with
taking care of the teammates who get the job done.
At Nucor, we use every resource available to ensure the safety
of our teammates, including partnering with outside groups and
agencies. And we have tapped into the naturally friendly competitive
spirit of our Nucor teammates, challenging our geographic regions
to compete to determine the safest Nucor region in the country.
Our President’s Safety Cup encourages all our teammates to work
together to ensure everyone goes home safely to their families and
communities after every shift.
In 2023, we lowered our Injury and Illness (I/I) rate for the fifth year in
a row as an enterprise. That rate decreased 17% from the prior year.
• Enterprise-wide I/I rate for 2023 was 0.79, for steel mills the
I/I rate for 2023 was 0.62.
• I/I rate for US Steel Industry in 2023 was 2.69.
• In addition to the lowest I/I rate, we scored the lowest rates in all
four OSHA metrics. Days Away Restricted or Transferred (DART)
(0.32), Lost Work Day Case Rate (0.21), and Severity Rate (9.45).
19
NUCOR INJURY & ILLNESS RATES (2014-2023)
ANNUAL OSHA RECORDABLES PER 200,000 HOURS/YEAR
1.80
1.63 1.66
1.55
1.48
1.30
1.10
1.04
0.95
0.79
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
COMPARISON OF INJURY & ILLNESS RATES BETWEEN NUCOR STEEL MILLS AND THE U.S. STEEL INDUSTRY
AS PUBLISHED BY THE BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) (2014-2023)
3.33
3.17 3.00 3.10 2.93 2.87 2.90
2.40
1.63
1.26
1.19 1.19 1.19
1.02 0.95
0.73 0.70
0.59
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
BLS 3 YEAR AVERAGE FOR STEEL MILLS NUCOR STEEL MILL AVERAGE
SAFETY,
TEAMMATES
&
CULTURE
2.69
0.62
2023
20
2023 NUCOR DIVISIONS WITH
ZERO RECORDABLES
• DJJ Cincinnati • Nucor IPG Melt-Span Texas
• General Recycling of Mississippi • Nucor Logistics Group
• General Recycling of Washington • Nucor Rebar Fabrication Birmingham
• Kirby Building Systems • Nucor Rebar Fabrication Jackson
• Laurel Steel • Nucor St. Louis Cold Drawn
• Nucor Bright Bar Ohio • Nucor Tubular Products Gallatin
• Nucor Business Technology • Nucor Tubular Products Louisville
• Nucor Cold Finish South Carolina • Nucor Warehouse Systems California
• Nucor Cold Finish Utah • Texas Port Recycling
• Nucor Cold Finish Wisconsin • TrueCore Indiana
• Nucor Grating • Universal Industrial Gases
• Nucor IPG Centria Arkansas • Vulcraft Nebraska
• Nucor IPG Melt-Span Canada • Vulcraft New York
• Nucor IPG Melt-Span Nevada • Vulcraft Texas
SAFETY,
TEAMMATES
&
CULTURE 101 CRITICAL DAYS OF SUMMER
In 2023 we made the time between Memorial Day to Labor
Day a time of even more intense focus on safety. These 101
Days of Summer have been higher risk months for injuries
across the Nucor family. From heat stroke to boat safety, from
firework safety to mosquito and tick awareness, this year
Nucor teammates led initiatives to better focus each other
on how to have a safe summer. We are proud to celebrate
that we achieved 35% fewer injuries during the summer of
2023 than the average for the previous ten summers.
SAFETY CERTIFICATIONS
To manage occupational health and safety risks Nucor utilizes ISO 45001
and partners with the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration
(OSHA) through both its Voluntary Protection Program (VPP), and its Safety
& Health Achievement Recognition Program (SHARP).
VPP recognizes companies that voluntarily exceed the safety standards
required by law. Achieving VPP Status requires a rigorous safety and health
management system. Among our divisions, 24 participate in the VPP, and
all of these have achieved VPP Star status, the highest award possible in
the program. To qualify, divisions must have Injury and Illness (I/I) rates
below the national average for their industries.
Nucor also participates in the Special Government Employee (SGE)
Program, which allows our Nucor teammates to work alongside OSHA
to perform on-site safety evaluations. Qualified volunteers from Nucor
are eligible to participate in the SGE Program. These volunteers must be
approved by OSHA, and their participation is funded by Nucor. Nucor has
one of the largest numbers of SGE volunteers in the country.
Approximately 44% of Nucor steel mill teammates are certified under VPP
and 24% are ISO 45001. Some Nucor steel mill teammates are certified
under both of these programs, as well as SHARP.
21
SAFETY,
TEAMMATES
&
CULTURE
THE PRESIDENT’S SAFETY AWARDS &
THE PRESIDENT’S SAFETY CUP
Nucor established the President’s Safety Award in 1998, an annual award won by
a mill or division where the Injury and Illness (I/I) rate and Days Away, Restricted
or Transferred (DART) Rate is less than one-third the national average for
comparable facilities.
In 2019 Nucor built on the President’s Safety Awards recognition to create the
President’s Safety Cup, an annual award presented to the region that has the best
safety record across all of its Nucor facilities.
Working as a region, and not just as an individual mill, encourages our teams to work
alongside their regional teammates to share ideas and improve safety as a group.
The 2023 President’s Safety Cup was awarded to the teammates
of the Mid Central Region:
• IPG-Centria Arkansas
• Kirby Building Systems
• Nucor Logistics Group
• Nucor Rebar Fabrication Birmingham
• Nucor Steel Birmingham
• Nucor Steel Memphis
• Nucor Tubular Products Birmingham
• Nucor Tubular Prodcuts Decatur
• Nucor Tubular Products Trinity
• Nucor-Yamato Steel Company
22
SAFETY,
TEAMMATES
&
CULTURE
22
MONITORING AND MEASURING
We take teammate feedback seriously, both on an ongoing basis, and through an employee-wide survey
administered every three years. Negative responses have dropped by 25% since our first survey in 1986. The
teammate survey was sent out in August of 2022 and again had over a 90% participation rate. In addition, 88%
of teammates stated they were satisfied with Nucor as a place to work compared to the national average of 72%.
Recently, we have added two more surveys to monitor the teammate experience at Nucor. Nucor participates
in the Great Place to Work (GPTW) certification process, which surveys an anonymous random sample of 5,000
teammates and compares our results to those of the average company surveyed by GPTW, as well as other
manufacturing companies.
Notably, our employee survey results show that approximately 93% of our teammates feel a sense of pride when
they look at what they accomplish, and 93% of teammates are made to feel welcome when joining the company.
Additionally, since 1999 we have facilitated multiple, cross-divisional annual teammate gatherings to understand
our progress on goals and the effectiveness of our inclusive and open-minded culture.
OF OUR TEAMMATES ARE PROUD TO TELL
OTHERS THAT THEY WORK FOR NUCOR.
NUCOR IS ONE OF FORTUNE’S MOST ADMIRED COMPANIES IN 2023
Nucor teammates know how fulfilling it is to be a part of our culture, but it is always gratifying when people
outside of Nucor recognize that as well. That is why we were extremely pleased to be ranked number one in
Fortune Magazine’s list of the World’s Most Admired Companies in our industry, for the third year in a row. Fortune
is a well-respected source on corporate reputation, surveying 4,000 executives, directors, and securities analysts
to compile its list of Most Admired Companies. Nucor received this valuable recognition in 2023 because of the
hard work and dedication of our teammates.
Competition between companies to attract and retain top talent has intensified. Outside recognition like this from
Fortune Magazine helps add to our ongoing efforts to recruit the best and the brightest to join our team. Fortune
recognizes what we already know to be true – the Nucor culture is admired because of our teammates.
23
SAFETY,
TEAMMATES
&
CULTURE
ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TEAMMATES STABILITY
Our retention rate typically exceeds 92%. Possibly now more than ever, Nucor’s unwavering commitment to its teammates resonates with today’s
workforce. Perhaps our founder, Ken Iverson, said it best:
In 2022 Nucor’s Talent Team launched our talent brand and value
proposition. The brand allows us to capture and share our unified
story of who we are as an employer for the talent of tomorrow, and to
differentiate ourselves from talent competitors. Our talent brand is “A teammate who does their job well today should feel confident
simple- it’s our teammates, our stories, and our culture that matter.
they will have it tomorrow.”
This new employer brand is built around recognizing everything Nucor
Ken Iverson, Founder
teammates achieve as a team. Each and every teammate is Part of
Something Bigger – and that’s truly something to be proud of.
What sets Nucor apart from our competition is how our team lives our Nucor’s reputation as a reliable employer has become a more important consideration among job seekers,
culture each day. The three pillars of the brand and value proposition especially over the past few years, when companies have really been tested. Although, for Nucor, the values it
are: Family, Freedom and Stability. represents is nothing new. Nucor will continue to grow without losing sight of the remarkable culture that has
made it a great place to work – and to build a career.
FAMILY-LIKE CULTURE
It’s no surprise that “like a family” was consistently referenced when
teammates were asked to describe the working culture at Nucor.
And though other companies may say the same, at Nucor, there is no
mistaking that our culture is indeed the “real deal.” Our teammates
often form deep bonds from time spent together, both inside and
outside of work. Just one of the many reasons why Nucor is one of
the companies included on Fortune Magazine’s Best Workplaces in
Manufacturing and Production list.
FREEDOM
The level of freedom Nucor affords its teammates is at the heart of
our innovative culture. If a teammate has an idea that would make
things more efficient, safer, or better, they are encouraged to develop
it. Nucor doesn’t hire the best and brightest to bury them under forms
and bureaucracy. Nucor wants to leverage what the best and brightest
are typically known for: thinking outside the box and making things
better. So, our teammates are given the go-ahead to execute on good
ideas and are encouraged to get back on the horse if things don’t go
as planned. Quite simply, Nucor believes that good teammates are
going to want to do the right thing for themselves, their teams and their
company, and leaves it to them to make it happen.
24
SAFETY,
TEAMMATES
&
CULTURE
ENGAGING AND DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE CORE PARTNER SCHOOLS
Investing in our core partner schools allows Nucor to develop the degrees that are
According to our “Teammate Value Proposition” survey, 90% of teammates
needed to advance steelmaking technology, and to help young engineers find their
feel fulfilled in their current job.
passion in the metals industry.
Nucor maintains numerous internal programs and initiatives to help ensure the quality At Tuskegee University, Nucor has invested in the Nucor Education & Research Center of
and equity of our teammate recruitment, retention and talent development systems. We Excellence, also known as the Nucor Lab. There, engineering students receive hands-on
also provide extensive “on-the-job” as well as external education training opportunities experience studying real-world examples from our mills and solving real problems for
for teammates. Our $4,000 per school year reimbursement of educational expenses for Nucor customers.
teammates has helped many to pursue college degrees, helping them further advance their
careers while they are employed at Nucor. At the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology, Nucor has donated toward the
construction of its new state-of-the-art Mineral Industries Building which, following
We consistently seek feedback from our teammates about these programs to ensure that we its expected completion in early 2024, will house all disciplines related
continue to meet the growth and development needs of our Nucor family. We also provide to steelmaking.
extensive support to help our teammates further their children’s growth and development –
providing $16,000 to each teammate’s child to use for educational expenses after high school Nucor was the first industry partner to contribute to the Missouri University of Science
graduation. Through the Nucor Foundation, we regularly fund over $6 million a year in these and Technology’s $300 million Arrival District Project, contributing $2.5 million in cash
scholarship payments and have contributed over $127 million since the inception of the program. and in-kind donations.
In addition to these major investments, Nucor maintains an active presence on the
campuses of our core schools through faculty interactions, student organizations,
recruitment fairs, and student-led teams. Our current core schools for commercial,
finance, and technical partnerships are:
• Baylor University • Montana Technical University
• Carnegie Mellon University • Purdue University
• Colorado School of Mines • South Dakota School of Mines and Technology
• Indiana University • Tuskegee University
• Michigan Technical University • University of Alabama
• Missouri University of Science and Technology • University of South Carolina
25
SAFETY,
TEAMMATES
&
CULTURE
25
SUCCESSION PLANNING
Our robust succession planning process has meant that we typically fill senior leadership
roles with internal candidates who fully embrace our culture. We regularly review the
demographics of leadership candidates and create appropriate talent acquisition and
development plans to ensure we are building a world-class, diverse workforce.
NUCOR’S TEAMMATE POPULATION
Our teammate population is relatively balanced with respect to age group
representation (see accompanying chart) but females are underrepresented at 13%.
We believe that this represents an opportunity for Nucor to diversity its talent base,
and are actively working to increase this percentage.
US TEAMMATE POPULATION BY AGE
28% 24%
22% 20%
6%
26
PAY EQUITY
Nucor is committed to fair and equitable pay for our teammates. We regularly analyze internal
and external pay data, as well as our compensation structure, policies, and practices, to drive
equitable pay decisions. At Nucor, we strive to provide consistent and fair compensation based 93% OF
on legitimate drivers of pay, such as experience, job duties, qualifications, performance, work
location, and other job-related factors. Taking these factors into account, we believe that the
average compensation for female and minority teammates is consistently at or above the TEAMMATES
average compensation for male and non-minority teammates within each Equal Employment
Opportunity (EEO) Commission job category.
agree that people at Nucor are
INCLUSIVE CULTURE FOSTERS DIVERSITY treated fairly regardless of their
race or sexual orientation.
Nucor’s commitments to inclusion and diversity have been integral parts of Nucor’s culture
of teamwork and trust since our start when Ken Iverson desegregated all aspects of our
first steel products facility in Florence, South Carolina. And we have always understood
that benefiting from diversity, equity and inclusion requires more than just reflecting
demographics. We rely on our culture to guide us as we continuously look for ways to
improve on our efforts to make every teammate feel they are part of the Nucor team.
COLLABORATING WITH PARTNERS TO ADVANCE INCLUSION
Our focus on safety and looking out for one another’s
IN HIRING AND DEVELOPMENT
well-being has always defined the way we work with
each other, our customers and our partners.
Nucor maintains many partnerships that promote the hiring and development of teammates
from more diverse backgrounds. Some of our partners include:
We know we have a responsibility to create a culture where all our teammates feel they are
an important part of our organization. To do this, we need to know when and why people • Tuskegee University, one of the leading historically black universities in the United
do not feel that they belong. Over the past few years, we have been listening, learning States, where we funded the Nucor Education and Research Center.
and conducting focus groups around race, gender and workplace equity issues with our
• The Society of Women Engineers, the world’s largest advocate and catalyst for change
teammates. We seek to better understand people’s perceptions about our workplace and the
for women in engineering and technology.
level of belonging our teammates feel.
• The National Society of Black Engineers, one of the largest student-governed
organizations, supports and promotes the aspirations of collegiate and precollegiate
We have been holding focus groups for teammates that we believe have helped to
students and technical professionals in engineering and technology.
promote open dialogue on making the workplace feel inclusive for all. And we have been
incorporating the resulting feedback into our training on diversity issues. • INROADS, an organization that identifies, develops and prepares youth from
underserved communities for leadership positions in business and industry.
In addition, diverse senior leaders have been sharing their experiences with Nucor • The Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers, the nation’s largest association
teammates via video interviews to reinforce our values and expectations with the purpose of dedicated to fostering Hispanic leadership in the STEM field.
creating a stronger sense of belonging for all our 32,000 teammates.
To ensure that our workforce reflects the local demographics of each of our facilities’
We are optimistic that more open communication about differences and difficulties locations, Nucor consults the U.S. Census Bureau for data on the percentage of racial and
encountered will make us all more aware, supportive and empathetic, so that our culture ethnic minorities in a given area and factors that data into our hiring practices for that region.
continues to develop along a path of improving equity and inclusivity. We believe this kind of Approximately, 94% of our job categories reflect the demographics of their local communities.
progress can help make Nucor even more diverse and high performing over time. Approximately 22% of our workforce identifies as a racial and/or ethnic minority.
SAFETY,
TEAMMATES
&
CULTURE
27
SAFETY,
TEAMMATES
&
CULTURE
33%
of Nucor’s board of directors are
women and/or minority.
DIVERSITY IN LEADERSHIP
We also recognize the benefits of having diverse leadership at the helm
of Nucor. That’s why 33% of Nucor’s Board of Directors are women and/
or minority. We currently have three women (two of whom are minority
women) seated on our Board of Directors. In addition, over the past two
years, 35% of our placements into management and executive levels
have been diverse candidates.
LOOKING FORWARD
Nucor believes that inclusion is a cultural issue and that becoming a
more inclusive company means developing a deeper level of trust among
all of us, allowing us to know each other better, and to understand and
value each other’s differences.
While Nucor is proud of its approach and track record of fostering
diversity, equity and inclusion, we recognize that there is still more
work to be done. Looking ahead, we will continue to increase the
representation of minorities and women among our leadership, partner
with external organizations, and listen more carefully to each other. By
continuously evaluating our approach and executing where we detect
opportunities to improve, Nucor and all its stakeholders will benefit.
For further insight into how Nucor thinks about Inclusion and Diversity,
including our most recently available EEO-1 data, please see our essay on
this topic by clicking here.
28
SAFETY,
TEAMMATES
&
CULTURE
Nucor’s cultural focus on safety and teamwork means that how
we care for everyone in the Nucor family is central to our mission.
When Nucor joins a community, we consider our neighbors to
be part of the Nucor family, too. That’s why Nucor is dedicated
to supporting the communities where we live and work and
the organizations that are making a difference in them. Our
teammates are empowered to engage their local communities
in the same way they are empowered to make independent
decisions on the job. As a result, Nucor divisions and teammates
contribute their time, money and materials to a diverse range of
local charities and causes.
In 2023, Nucor donated over $17 million to charitable organizations through our
operating divisions across North America and the Nucor Charitable Foundation. Here
are just a few examples of the ways the Nucor team is making a difference.
NUCOR TAKES ON HEART HEALTH WITH THE
AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION
Nucor has played a vital role in advancing heart health awareness and supporting
the life-saving research of the American Heart Association. From Heart Walks to the
Heart Ball, Nucor teammates have championed the Heart Association’s mission to be
a force for longer, healthier lives.
Nucor’s President and CEO, Leon Topalian, and his wife, Kim served as co-chairs
for the Greater Charlotte Heart Ball in 2023, helping raise $2.9 million in support of
cardiovascular research and education. Since the fall of 2022, Nucor teammates
Eileen Bradner and Carolyn Koonts have served as Leaders of Impact, raising
additional awareness and nearly $50,000 through personal campaigns highlighting
the many ways individuals can be affected by heart disease and personally
advocating for heart health awareness. In addition to these efforts, Nucor teammates
from Alabama, California, South Carolina, and Texas participated in their local Heart
Walk events. The South Carolina teams alone raised almost $25,000.
The Nucor commitment to heart health extends well beyond raising funds. In
partnership with the American Heart Association, Nucor developed and distributed
over 32,000 Healthy Community toolkits in 2023. These comprehensive toolkits
equipped our teammates and community members with life-saving tools and
resources like CPR training kits, blood pressure monitors, recipe booklets, and pulse
oximeters to promote heart health at work, at home, and at play.
29
SAFETY,
TEAMMATES
&
CULTURE
PARTNERS FOR EDUCATION
In September 2023, Nucor embarked on an exciting partnership with
Discovery Education. As a founding member of the Sustainability
Education Coalition (SEC), a first-of-its-kind initiative to empower
students to make informed decisions and take responsible actions
promoting sustainability, Nucor is helping provide equitable access to
high-quality resources and tools in classrooms across the United States.
The Nucor team is proud to bring together its expertise and commitment
to decarbonization with education experts to develop resources for K-12
teachers to bring relevant, relatable, real-world sustainability concepts
into the classroom. Other founding partners for the Coalition include
Honeywell, LyondellBasell, NEEF and Subaru of America.
Click here to learn more about the exciting work of the Sustainability
Education Coalition.
A RELAY FOR LIFE POWERHOUSE
Nucor teams from all over continued to show their generosity of time
and resources for the American Cancer Society’s Relay for Life in 2023.
Recognized for a second year in a row as the Nationwide Top Company,
Nucor teammates raised more than $1.2 million for Relay for Life across
multiple events and fundraisers across the country.
Four of the Top 10 Team Fundraisers nationwide were Nucor-led from
Nucor Steel Decatur, Nucor Steel Louisiana, Nucor Steel Hertford County,
and Nucor Logistics. In addition, two Nucor teammates were among the
top three individual fundraisers for 2023.
NUCOR HONORS HISTORY SPONSORING
INTERNATIONAL AFRICAN AMERICAN MUSEUM
When the International African American Museum (IAAM) opened in
Charleston, South Carolina, in the summer of 2023, it was the culmination
of decades of planning and four years of construction on the first
museum dedicated to telling the history of the Trans-Atlantic Slave Trade.
The IAAM is bringing people together and forging compassion, empathy
and understanding across people of all races and ethnicities.
Nucor donated $1.25 million in cash and another $1.25 million in steel for
the museum’s construction. Nucor is proud to play a role in bringing this
important history to life by supporting this inspiring project, located just a
few short miles from our steel mill in Berkeley County, South Carolina.
30
SAFETY,
TEAMMATES
&
CULTURE
STANDING BY OUR MILITARY
AMERICAN CORPORATE PARTNERS
More than 50 Nucor teammates have poured their support into veterans and military
spouses as mentors with the national nonprofit, American Corporate Partners (ACP). As
a company, Nucor values the sacrifices of our service members and their families and
recognizes the special needs service members have when transitioning back to civilian
life. Many of our teammates provide professional support to help our heroes fulfill their
potential after their service ends by serving as one-on-one mentors with ACP.
Nucor teammate and ACP mentor Aaron Wagener said of his work with ACP, “I’m
extremely proud that Nucor 100% supports our Veterans and their families. The
professionalism and passion for what ACP does shines through in every conversation.
Moreover, the ability to match profiles, I assume, isn’t an easy task – [my mentee’s]
needs and what I was able to bring to the table were perfectly aligned.”
Nucor proudly recruits and encourages members of our armed forces to consider a
second career within our organization.
GLOBAL WAR ON TERRORISM MEMORIAL
Nucor and the Nucor Charitable Foundation announced a donation of $2.5 million to the
Global War on Terrorism Memorial Foundation in 2023. The gift, which includes financial
assistance along with the steel required for the construction of the Memorial, was the
largest single gift in the organization’s history.
For more than two decades, over two million Americans have served in the Global War
on Terrorism, spanning the globe in defense of freedom. Tragically, over 7,000 American
service members have made the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty. The Global War on
Terrorism Memorial will not only honor their service but also pay tribute to their families
and all those who have safeguarded our liberties throughout this complex, multi-
generational conflict.
When complete, the Global War on Terrorism Memorial will stand as a testament to
those who have sacrificed for our nation in a prominent location between the Lincoln
Memorial and the Vietnam Veterans Memorial on the iconic National Mall.
On behalf of the entire Nucor family, Nucor’s President and CEO, Leon Topalian stated,
To learn more about the Nucor team’s impact on
“We are honored to show our gratitude and respect to the brave men and women of our
our communities, follow us on social media.
country who have served in the Global War on Terrorism.”
31
ENVIRONMENTAL
PERFORMANCE
32
ENVIRONMENTAL
PERFORMANCE
NUCOR & THE ENVIRONMENT
Nucor is the largest steel and steel products Nucor evaluates its greenhouse gas intensity and
manufacturer in the United States and the largest other sustainability metrics regularly. We believe this
recycler in North America. For over half a century, the information is important to gauge the efficacy of our
environment and sustainability have been ingrained decarbonization and sustainability efforts.
in every facet of our operations. Our pioneering
utilization of Electric Arc Furnace (EAF) technology This section of our corporate sustainability report
has revolutionized the industry, transforming outlines our corporate footprint and introduces
scrap metal into high-quality steel products. recently established targets. We not only explore
Consequently, Nucor stands as one of the world’s the implications of these targets but also outline our
most environmentally conscious steel producers, with strategies for achieving them. Additionally, this section
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions measuring less than covers our other environmental policies, initiatives,
one-half of the global average and a mere one-third of and metrics. For more information on Nucor and
the average extrative steel producer. sustainability, please refer to our Sustainability Page.
33
ENVIRONMENTAL
PERFORMANCE
Scope 1
Scope 3
Scope 2
OVERVIEW OF NUCOR GHG EMISSIONS 2023 NUCOR SCOPE 1, 2 & 3 INTENSITY (2019-2023)2
(METRIC TONS OF CO EQ. PER METRIC TON OF STEEL PRODUCED)
SCOPE 1: DIRECT EMISSIONS FROM OPERATIONS. 2
SCOPE 2: INDIRECT EMISSIONS FROM PURCHASED ELECTRICITY. 0.93 0.93
SCOPE 3: EMISSIONS ASSOCIATED WITH RAW MATERIALS AND TRANSPORTATION.
0.79 0.76 0.77
Scope 1
NUCOR COMPANY WIDE (GHG) Scope 3
METRIC TONS OF CO EQ. IN MILLIONS (M) 6.8M
2 Scope 2
SCOPE 1
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Steel Mills, DRI plants, Product Groups,
Scrap Processing & Transportation
SCOPE 1, 2 & 3 INTENSITY 2
5.7M
(METRIC TONS OF CO EQ. PER METRIC TON OF STEEL PRODUCED)
SCOPE 2 2
0.77 1.91 2.33
20.8M 8.3M
TOTAL SCOPE 3
NUCOR STEEL1 MILLS (GHG)
NUCOR OVERALL BF-BOF GLOBAL
(CIRCULAR) GLOBAL (EXTRACTIVE)
METRIC TONS OF CO EQ. IN MILLIONS (M) 4.3M
2
SCOPE 1
EXTERNAL ASSURANCES
2023 Nucor Steel Mill Scope 1, 2 and 3 (Category 1) emissions data was
5.1M
verified by SCS Global Services in alignment with ISO 14064-3 2019. Nucor’s
SCOPE 2 Scope 1, 2 and 3 intensity (above) was included as part of this verification as
well. SCS Global’s Verification Statements can be found here and here.
16.2M 6.7M
1. All steel mills with melting capacity owned and operated by Nucor were included in the steel
TOTAL SCOPE 3 mill inventory, except for Nucor Steel Longview and Nucor Steel Brandenburg. This is due to
the fact these facilities have operated for less than a full year. Emissions from these mills,
however, are included in the Nucor company-wide graph above.
2. Overall Global and BF-BOF Global Scope 1, 2 and 3 Intensities are based on Worldsteel
Association’s latest sustainability indicator report.
34
IN NOVEMBER 2023, NUCOR ANNOUNCED NET-ZERO
SCIENCE-BASED GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) TARGETS FOR
2050 AND ESTABLISHED A NEW INTERIM TARGET FOR 2030.
ENVIRONMENTAL
PERFORMANCE
BOUNDARY CHANGES
The “Steel Climate Standard” developed by the Global Steel Climate Council (GSCC) provides
a comprehensive calculation methodology for steel companies to assess their Scope
1, 2 and 3 emissions intensity. This standard aligns with the Paris Climate Agreement’s
emission reduction goals for the steel sector by 2030 and with the International Energy
Agency Net-Zero by 2050: A Roadmap for the Global Energy System glidepath (IEA NZE).
The methodology defines a specific boundary that encompasses direct emissions, indirect
emissions from electricity, and raw material procurement including transportation.
Scope 1 Scope 1
On the previous page, we reported our Scope 1, 2 and 3 intensities based on the
Worldsteel CO data collection methodology. However, when applying the GSCC
2 Scope 3 Scope 3
methodology to our operational data, we observed higher intensity values, particularly
for Scope 3 emissions (see below). This difference is attributed to the broader scope of
the “Steel Climate Standard,” which includes a more cS oco mp pe r 2 ehensive assessment of raw Scope 2
materials, externally purchased steel, and transportation impacts.
Based on our 2022 intensity of 1,075 kg COe per metric ton of hot-rolled steel,
2
we have set ambitious sustainability targets. Our short-term goal is to reduce this
intensity to 975 kg COe per metric ton of hot-rolled steel by 2030. Looking further
2
ahead, we aim to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050, with a target intensity of 116 kg
COe per metric ton of hot-rolled steel. These targets represent our commitment to
2
significantly reducing our carbon footprint and advancing toward a sustainable future.
The comparison graphs below show our 2023 World Steel GHG intensity of 0.77 vs our
2023 GSCC GHG Intensity of 1.086. As mentioned above, the major difference in these
intensities is the Scope 3 boundary.
NUCOR’S GREENHOUSE GAS INTENSITY COMPARISON
0.220
GREENHOUSE GAS REDUCTION TARGETS NOW INCLUDE SCOPE 3 SCOPE 2
2023 WORLDSTEEL METHODOLOGY 2023 GSCC METHODOLOGY
0.21
MT CO eq/MT Cast Steel MT CO eq/MT Hot Rolled Steel
2 2
In alignment with the Global Steel Climate Council's (GSCC) "Steel Climate Standard" and the SCO(kPgE C1O eq/MT Hot Rolled Steel)
2
International Energy Agency's Net Zero by 2050: A Roadmap for the Global Energy Sector,
we are steadfast in our commitment to achieving a net-zero greenhouse gas (GHG) target by
2050. This ambitious target, defined by science-based criteria, signifies a pivotal milestone 0.241
in our journey toward environmental sustainability and aligns with the Paris Agreement’s (241)
efforts to limit global temperature rise to less than 1.5C above pre-industrial levels. 0.199
(199)
Our net-zero 2050 target entails achieving a GHG intensity of 116 kg GHGs per metric ton of 1.086
0.77
steel, encompassing Scopes 1, 2, and 3 emissions as outlined by the GSCC. Additionally, we (1,086)
have set an interim science-based GHG reduction target for 2030, aiming for 975 kg GHGs per
metric ton of steel, inclusive of Scopes 1, 2, and 3 emissions.
0.646
(646)
Nucor has not only established these targets but has also implemented comprehensive plans
to achieve them.
35
ENVIRONMENTAL
PERFORMANCE
35
NET-ZERO REDUCTION STRATEGY
Nucor remains committed to transparency in GHG emissions reporting. Our reporting practices
undergo third-party verification to ensure accuracy and accountability. (SCS Global Services
Verification Statements can be found here and here.) Furthermore, we are dedicated to sharing
our strategic plans and the necessary actions to attain our sustainability goals, demonstrating
our unwavering dedication to environmental stewardship and corporate responsibility.
Pioneering
Circular Steel
Low Carbon
Low
Copper Iron Innovations Green
Shred Raw
Materials
NSLA
Carbon
Capture
Renewable
Power
Purchase
Agreements
Reheat
Furnace
Upgrades
Energy Supporting
Efficiency Electricity Grid Investment
Projects Decarbonization in Clean
Energy
Supersonic
Injection
36
NET-ZERO STRATEGIES SUMMARY OVERVIEW
SCOPE 1 STRATEGIES
Nucor has been a pioneer in the steel industry for over 50 years, employing electric arc furnaces to manufacture a wide variety of essential steel products by
Pioneering
recycling scrap metal. This approach has enabled Nucor to achieve a greenhouse gas emissions intensity less than half of the global average. We are committed to
Circular Steel
sustaining this momentum by leveraging innovative practices to advance the circular economy further and continuing to lower our greenhouse gas footprint.
Nucor utilizes injection carbon in steelmaking operations to provide additional energy for melting materials in electric arc furnaces. We are currently investigating
Supersonic Injection
supersonic injection methods to enhance the efficiency of this process, aiming to reduce the quantity of carbon material required per ton of steel.
Nucor recognizes the substantial natural gas consumption and direct greenhouse gas emissions associated with reheat furnaces at our mills. We are actively
Reheat Furnace Upgrades investigating options to enhance furnace efficiency and continue to invest in micro-mill technologies, which eliminate the need for steel reheating by
immediately rolling cast steel.
SCOPE 2 STRATEGIES
Supporting Electricity serves as the primary energy source for melting scrap metal in Nucor's electric arc furnaces, making us a significant consumer of electrical power,
Electricity Grid and contributing to our Scope 2 emissions. Consequently, Nucor is actively collaborating with utilities to advocate for the adoption of zero-carbon electricity
Decarbonization generation methods.
Nucor leverages power purchase agreements (PPAs) to procure renewable electricity for our operations, aligning with our commitment to sustainability. The
Renewable Power
renewable energy credits obtained from these PPAs are utilized to decrease the environmental footprint of our Econiq line of products, contributing to reduced
Purchase Agreements
GHG intensity.
Investing in Nucor's electric arc furnaces require a reliable supply of electricity. To help meet this demand sustainably, Nucor is partnering with companies advancing next
Clean Energy generation zero GHG nuclear technologies such as NuScale and Helion.
On-Site Renewable Power At select facilities, we are actively pursuing increased use of on-site solar power generation and energy storage to lower our power costs and reduce the
Generation & Storage carbon footprint of our power consumption.
Nucor remains committed to enhancing energy efficiency across all its facilities as a key strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Through ongoing
Energy Efficiency Projects
efforts, we aim to achieve greater operational efficiency and contribute to a more sustainable future.
SCOPE 3 STRATEGIES
Nucor has initiated a low copper shred project at its Berkeley, South Carolina facility. This initiative focuses on removing non-magnetic materials, like copper,
Lower Copper Shred to enhance the quality and utility of scrap metal. By increasing recycled content and reducing our reliance on high-embodied carbon iron inputs, Nucor can
produce even higher quality steel materials with low environmental impacts.
Low Carbon Iron inputs, such as pig iron and Direct Reduced Iron (DRI), are energy-intensive to produce and contribute significantly to Scope 3 emissions in steelmaking. To
Iron Innovations mitigate the environmental impact of its iron inputs, Nucor is actively investing in and exploring methods to produce them with much lower carbon footprints.
Nucor is dedicated to revolutionizing the steelmaking process by sourcing greener raw materials, including lower carbon ingredients, bio-based materials, and
Green Raw Materials reclaimed waste, to align with its environmental goals. By integrating these sustainable alternatives, Nucor is reducing its product footprint and advancing a
more sustainable steel industry.
NSLA Carbon In June 2023, Nucor finalized an agreement with ExxonMobil to implement a Carbon Capture & Sequestration process at our Louisiana DRI plant. This initiative will
Capture enable us to capture, transport, and store up to 800,000 metric tons of CO annually, lowering the GHG emissions profile of Louisiana's DRI.
2
ENVIRONMENTAL
PERFORMANCE
37
CREATING CARBON-FREE ENERGY
Renewable, affordable and clean, industrial-scale energy is a significant growth opportunity In August 2023, Nucor announced a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) for 250 megawatts
that has drawn our focus. To achieve the United States’ energy goals, a massive amount of of renewable energy from Sebree Solar, LLC, a subsidiary of NextEra Energy Resources, LLC.
steel will be needed to build wind, solar, and nuclear power generation assets, as well as Sebree Solar is an innovative two-phase solar project in Henderson County, Kentucky, which
enhanced energy transmission infrastructure. Nucor is investing today in capabilities that will have a capacity of up to 400 megawatts of American-produced energy. The project’s first
will enhance its position tomorrow as a leader in sustainably producing the steel required for phase – Sebree Solar I – began construction in April 2024 and is anticipated to be operational
this clean, industrial-scale energy future. Nucor is not only providing the steel to build out our by the end of 2025.
nation’s renewable energy infrastructure but is also supporting the development of new solar
and wind energy projects by agreeing to electricity offtake agreements in the form of Power
The steel for Sebree Solar I will be sourced from multiple Nucor mills in the region, including
Purchase Agreements (PPAs).
Nucor Steel Gallatin in Ghent, Kentucky. Nucor steel will also be used for another solar
project to be built and operated by a subsidiary of NextEra Energy Resources, Green River
In November 2022, Nucor was the first industrial company to join the UN 24/7 Carbon-Free
Solar, in Meade and Breckinridge counties. The Green River Solar project will generate up
Energy Compact, which is aimed at accelerating the decarbonization of the world’s electricity
to 200 megawatts of electricity. The Kentucky-produced steel will be used for the racking
systems to mitigate climate change and ensure access to clean and affordable electricity.
system which supports the projects’ solar panels.
The Compact was formed in response to the urgent need to drive rapid decarbonization
across the global economy. A group of energy buyers, energy suppliers, governments,
Nucor has announced agreements for collaboration on pilot projects to explore the creation
system operators, solutions providers, investors and other organizations joined together to
of advanced nuclear facilities using both fission and fusion technology. Nucor announced a
adopt, enable and advance the transition to a zero-carbon electrical grid. The Compact is a
collaboration with fusion power company Helion in September 2023 to develop a 500 MW
set of principles and actions that stakeholders across the energy ecosystem can commit to
fusion power plant. This transformational project will offer baseload zero-carbon electricity
as a way to drive systemic change.
from fusion directly to a Nucor steelmaking facility. Nucor and Helion are actively working
together to set a firm timeline and are committed to beginning operations as soon as
To further its commitment, Nucor is working with our electricity suppliers to access 24/7 clean
possible. This partnership is the first fusion energy agreement of this scale in the world and
energy at the company’s steel mills, actively investing in a number of innovative projects that
will pave the way for decarbonizing the entire industrial sector.
will accelerate the transition to 24/7 clean energy.
ENVIRONMENTAL
PERFORMANCE
ENERGY CONSUMPTION
MEASURE VALUE
Total Energy Consumed (Gigajoules) 116,778,000
Total Fuel Energy Consumed (Gigajoules) 60,474,000 52.0%
Percentage of Fuel that is Natural Gas 68.0%
Percentage of Fuel that is Renewable 0%
Total Electricity Energy Consumed (Gigajoules) 56,304,000 48.0%
Percentage of Electricity that is Renewable 15.0%
Percentage of Carbon-Free Electricity (CFE) 41.0%
Energy Intensity (Gigajoules/MT) 5.53
38
ENVIRONMENTAL
PERFORMANCE
CREATING CARBON-FREE IRON LOW COPPER SHRED
Another important way that Nucor is seeking to lower our carbon footprint is by In 2023, Nucor’s Berkeley, South Carolina steel mill started up a patented process intended to
addressing the raw material mix that goes into steelmaking. Some grades of sheet remove copper and other residual tramp elements from its obsolete scrap metal raw materials.
steel, because of their strict tolerances and specifications, require some input of This technology facilitates the separation of non-magnetic materials from recycled steel.
virgin iron units, whether Pig Iron, Direct-Reduced Iron (DRI), or Hot-Briquetted Iron By adopting this innovative approach, Nucor gains access to superior quality scrap material,
(HBI). Nucor is a significant purchaser of low-carbon “green” pig iron and we have thereby enhancing the recycled content of our products. Moreover, this advancement plays a
invested in other technologies to reduce carbon emissions. pivotal role in reducing the total embodied carbon of our offerings, underscoring our unwavering
commitment to sustainable manufacturing practices and environmental stewardship.
In June 2023, Nucor entered into an agreement with ExxonMobil for a Carbon Capture
& Sequestration process to capture, transport, and store up to 800,000 mt per year of
GREENER ALTERNATIVE MATERIALS
CO from Nucor’s Louisiana Direct-Reduced Iron (DRI) plant. The CO will be transported
2 2
via pipeline from the DRI plant and stored at an ExxonMobil-owned storage site.
As a company deeply committed to innovation and sustainability, Nucor continuously strives to
ExxonMobil owns the largest owned and operated CO pipeline network in the U.S. revolutionize the steelmaking process and achieve lower embodied carbon. We are dedicated
2
including nearly 925 miles of CO pipelines in Louisiana, Texas and Mississippi. to sourcing greener raw materials throughout our supply chain, ensuring that our practices align
2
The company also has access to more than 15 strategically located onshore CO with our environmental goals. Nucor is constantly evaluating the use of lower carbon ingredients,
2
storage sites. bio-based materials, and reclaimed waste, recognizing that these sustainable alternatives are
essential for a greener future. By integrating these materials into our operations, we are not only
“This transformative CCS project with ExxonMobil is a key part of our decarbonization reducing our product footprint but also paving the way for a more sustainable steel industry.
strategy and will result in some of the lowest embodied carbon DRI or HBI in North
America,” said Leon Topalian, Chair, President and Chief Executive Officer of Nucor ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT DECLARTIONS
Corporation. “We are taking a multi-faceted approach to decarbonization, and this
partnership builds on previous investments we have made in a carbon-free iron start-
As the demand for supply chain transparency grows, Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs)
up, renewable energy generation, and the development of small modular nuclear
are increasingly required by states and the federal government, via Buy Clean legislation, and
reactor technology.”
many of our customers. An EPD serves as an independently verified document that succinctly
outlines the life cycle impacts of a product, offering quantitative data on where these impacts
The project is expected to start up in 2026 and supports Louisiana’s objective of
are most pronounced. Particularly in industries such as construction, automotive, appliance,
reaching net-zero CO emissions by 2050.
2 and renewable energy, EPDs are becoming pivotal factors in material procurement decisions.
Moreover, EPDs can facilitate obtaining green building certifications, such as LEED (Leadership
in Energy and Environmental Design). As EPDs highlight sustainable manufacturing practices
through lower environmental impacts, companies within the recycling sector, including Nucor,
are well-positioned to capitalize on the demand for sustainable products and to meet Buy Clean
requirements. Proactively, we are generating EPDs for our products to ensure compliance with
regulations and to reinforce our status as a competitive partner in the market. As an industry
leader, Nucor has published 19 Environmental Product Declarations for our wide offering of
products, including EPD coverage of nearly 100% of our steel mill divisions. We anticipate
our library of EPDs to double by the end of 2024 as we remain committed to the ongoing
development of EPDs, which drive transparency in our manufacturing processes and ensure
sustainable material procurement for our customers.
For more information, please click here.
39
ENVIRONMENTAL
PERFORMANCE
ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Nucor is proud to announce that three of our collaborative research and
development (R&D) projects with leading universities and laboratories
have been awarded funding from the Department of Energy (DOE).
These partnerships underscore our commitment to innovation and
sustainability within the steel industry. By leveraging the expertise
and resources of our academic and research partners, we aim to
advance groundbreaking technologies that will drive efficiencies,
reduce environmental impact, and enhance the competitiveness of our
operations. We are excited about the potential impact of these projects
and look forward to the insights and advancements they will bring to
our industry.
Nucor and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), alongside its collaborators,
are dedicated to pioneering technological solutions aimed at mitigating direct emission
sources in electric arc furnace (EAF) steelmaking. Our innovative strategies will encompass
the utilization of carbon-neutral combustion fuels produced via carbon looping technology,
injection materials sourced from biomass, and the substitution of needle coke with
biomass-derived pitch in electrode production. Through pilot-scale demonstrations and the
implementation of alternative injection carbon in a commercial EAF, NREL and its partners
aspire to showcase the viability of these technologies. If successful, these endeavors will
provide a feasible pathway for decarbonizing all major carbon emission sources in EAF
steelmaking, facilitating a profound reduction of up to 80% compared to conventional
processing methods.
Seerstone Development LLC, in collaboration with Nucor and its partners, is embarking on a
pioneering initiative to conduct an unprecedented demonstration of electrodes produced
using precursors sourced from CO, all at an industrial scale. These electrodes will undergo
2
on-site trials in a ladle furnace at a production facility. This groundbreaking technology
holds immense promise for significantly reducing graphite electrode-based emissions
in EAF steelmaking, as well as in secondary steelmaking, by displacing carbon-intensive
needle coke with a cost-competitive and renewable source.
Purdue University Northwest, in collaboration with Nucor and its partners, is embarking on a
groundbreaking endeavor to showcase a variety of alternative stirring, oxidation, and foaming
technologies through industrial trials conducted in a commercial-scale electric arc furnace
(EAF). The innovative approach involves the development of novel gas injection technologies
aimed at delivering low carbon reducing gases deep into the steel bath, alongside the
utilization of 'soft' oxidation techniques, such as CO, to facilitate efficient mixing. Given the
2
dominance of EAF steelmaking in the U.S., the elimination of fossil carbon injection in its
processing has the potential to reduce direct emissions by an impressive 40%.
40
ENVIRONMENTAL
PERFORMANCE
NUCOR’S COMMITMENT BEYOND CARBON
As the largest steel products manufacturer in North America, Nucor
recognizes our role in protecting the environment. We value the environment
of the communities in which we operate, and recognize its importance to
our teammates, their families, and our continued welfare. Protecting the
environment is critical to our operations and the company’s long-term success.
To this end, we endorse the following principles:
PERFORMANCE
To continuously improve the effectiveness of our ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management System
(EMS). Nucor will:
• Pursue pollution prevention and waste minimization opportunities;
• Investigate and develop technologies and operations that improve environmental performance;
• Regularly evaluate the EMS and make appropriate improvements.
100% of our operating Nucor steel mills are ISO 14001 certified. In addition, over 25 of our downstream
production facilities are ISO 14001 certified. We are committed to ensuring a high level of environmental
performance and maintain compliance with state and federal laws in which we operate. For a full list of
certified facilities please refer to our Nucor Sustainability page.
STEWARDSHIP
Nucor recognizes our potential for environmental impact on the communities in which we operate. We
will continuously strive to minimize these effects by evaluating our operations and researching new
technologies and opportunities.
RESPONSIBILITY
Environmental protection is the individual obligation of each Nucor teammate and a primary
responsibility of management. Nucor requires our contractors, vendors, and suppliers to comply with
applicable environmental laws.
STANDARD
Nucor and its divisions will comply with the laws and regulations governing our operations.
Environmental compliance is a priority for Nucor management equal with all other business functions.
OUTREACH
Nucor will strive to foster open dialogue so that we may effectively communicate with our teammates,
our neighbors, and other concerned parties.
BIODIVERSITY
Nucor is dedicated to sustainability with policies that prioritize biodiversity. Nucor’s biodiversity policy
can be found here.
41
ENVIRONMENTAL
PERFORMANCE
41
COMMITMENT TO REDUCING WASTE
Nucor demonstrates a commitment to waste reduction across all production
processes. This approach extends to recycling various waste materials, thereby
curbing potential air and water pollution while simultaneously offering valuable
resources to other industries.
The recycling process in Electric Arc Furnaces yields particulate matter
emissions, containing various contaminants like paint, zinc, chrome, and
other metals. This byproduct, known as EAF dust, is collected in specialized
pollution control equipment, namely baghouses. Recognizing the value within,
Nucor recycles the majority of this dust to recover metallic content. By doing
so, we not only mitigate environmental impact but also avoid costly disposal
procedures for hazardous waste.
Furthermore, Nucor strategically repurposes steel slag from its mills, turning
what would otherwise be considered waste into useful materials. This steel
slag finds application in road construction, serving as a granular base,
embankments, engineered fill, highway shoulders, and hot mix asphalt
pavement. Leveraging the diverse physical, chemical, mechanical, and thermal
properties of steel slag, we contribute to the sustainability of construction
activities while meeting industry demands.
NUCOR STEEL MILL WASTE (2023)
MEASURE VALUE
Total Steel Mill Waste (tons) 1,286,000
Total Non-Hazardous Waste (tons) 913,000 71.0%
Total Hazardous Waste (tons) 373,000 29.0%
Total waste recycled % 53.0%
42
ENVIRONMENTAL
PERFORMANCE
COMMITMENT TO WATER
In our commitment to minimizing environmental impact, Nucor prioritizes the efficient use of water resources across
our operations. Through the implementation of advanced treatment systems, we have achieved the remarkable feat of
recycling 90% of our water multiple times — up to 8-10 cycles — before it necessitates disposal. Nucor identifies new
water pollutants under the standards of the Clean Water Act (CWA) to ensure compliance with environmental regulations,
avoid potential legal and financial penalties and demonstrate corporate responsibility at our U.S. operations. The CWA
sets water quality standards and regulates the discharge of pollutants into U.S. waters, requiring companies to monitor
and control pollutants that may harm water quality. By proactively identifying and managing new or emerging pollutants,
Nucor can protect local ecosystems to promote the safety of drinking water sources.
Additionally, we have strategically constructed stormwater retention ponds throughout our facilities to capture and
reuse stormwater runoff. Recognizing the vital role water plays in our cooling processes, Nucor remains cognizant of the
potential adverse impacts excessive water withdrawal can have on local ecosystems and communities.
NUCOR STEEL MILL WATER CONSUMPTION & DISCHARGE (2023)
MEASURE VALUE
Total Steel Mill Fresh Water Withdrawn
29,960
(Thousand cubic meters)
Fresh Surface Water
12.0%
(Including rainwater, water from wetlands, rivers, and lakes)
Groundwater
42.0%
(Water which is being held in, and can be recovered from, an underground formation) – renewable
Groundwater
17.0%
(Water which is being held in, and can be recovered from, an underground formation) – non-renewable
Third Party Sources
29.0%
(Municipal water suppliers, public or private, utilities)
Total Steel Mill Water Discharge
8,570
(Thousand cubic meters)
Water Discharge to Fresh Surface Water
83.0%
(Including wetlands, rivers, and lakes)
Water Discharge to Third-Party Sources 17.0%
Percentage of Water Recycled 86.0%
Percentage of water withdrawn in regions with high water stress1 6.0%
Percentage of water withdrawn in regions with extremely high water stress1 16.0%
1. This analysis of water stress was conducted using the World Resources Institute Aqueduct 4.0 tool in accordance with SASB reporting. While certain locations
are in areas determined to have high water stress, Nucor collaborates closely with local communities to maintain a stable water supply. For all facilities, Nucor
has coordinated with local water suppliers to ensure that its operational water usage does not strain the utilities and local systems.
43
ENVIRONMENTAL
PERFORMANCE
TRAINING TEAMMATES ON THE ENVIRONMENT
2023 PRESIDENT’S ENVIRONMENTAL AWARD RECIPIENTS
The Nucor Environmental University (NEU) is a virtual platform
initiated in 2015 to train teammates on environmental
BAR MILL GROUP Nucor Cold Finish South Carolina
compliance, and to connect teammates whose responsibilities Nucor Steel Auburn Nucor Cold Finish Utah
include environmental performance. Nucor Steel Birmingham Nucor Cold Finish Wisconsin
Nucor Steel Florida Nucor Fastener - St. Joe
Nucor Steel Jackson Nucor LMP Steel
NEU begins with a “Welcome to Nucor” series, which seeks to provide a
Nucor Steel Kankakee St. Louis Cold Drawn - St. Louis
thorough understanding of Nucor’s approach to environmental management
Nucor Steel Kingman
and compliance, along with the tools and resources we offer to help oversee it. Nucor Steel Marion NUCOR BUILDING GROUP
This introductory series is followed by courses on laws such as the Clean Air Act, Nucor Steel Seattle ABC - Alabama
Clean Water Act, and Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. For teammates Nucor Steel Sedalia ABC - Illinois
whose roles require more in-depth training, more advanced courses are available Nucor Steel Texas CBC Metal Buildings
on subjects relevant to their areas of responsibility. Nucor Steel Utah Kirby Building Systems
Nucor Building Systems - Indiana
BEAM MILL GROUP Nucor Building Systems - South Carolina
Thus far, more than 2,800 teammates have completed over 25,000 NEU courses
Nucor-Yamato Steel Nucor Building Systems - Texas
and passed more than 14,000 related exams.
Nucor Building Systems - Utah
PLATE MILL GROUP Nucor Building Systems - VA Plant
Nucor Steel Brandenburg
Nucor Steel Hertford NUCOR TUBE GROUP
Nucor Steel Longview Nucor Tubular Birmingham
Nucor Steel Tuscaloosa Nucor Tubular Cedar Springs
Nucor Tubular Chicago
SBQ BAR MILL GROUP Nucor Tubular Decatur
Nucor Steel Connecticut Nucor Tubular Louisville
Nucor Steel Memphis Nucor Tubular Madison
Nucor Steel Nebraska Nucor Tubular Marseilles
Nucor Steel South Carolina Nucor Tubular Trinity
SHEET MILL GROUP VULCRAFT/VERCO GROUP
Nucor Steel Arkansas Verco Decking Phoenix
Nucor Steel Berkeley - Sheet Vulcraft Alabama
Nucor Steel Decatur Vulcraft Indiana
Nucor Steel Gallatin Vulcraft Nebraska
Nucor Steel Indiana Vulcraft New York
Vulcraft South Carolina
DRI GROUP Vulcraft Texas
Nu-Iron Unlimited Vulcraft Utah
Nucor Steel Louisiana
PRESIDENT’S ENVIRONMENTAL AWARD RAW MATERIALS GROUP
COLD FINISH/FASTENER GROUP Recycling Group - East
Laurel Steel Recycling Group - South
Sixty-four of our locations are recipients of Nucor’s President’s
Nucor Bright Bar Orville Recycling Group - West
Environmental Award, designed to highlight Nucor facilities that achieve Nucor Cold Finish Nebraska
the highest levels of environmental excellence, while never losing sight
of the fact that programs and systems need to evolve and improve.
44
POLICY
ENGAGEMENT
45
ADDRESSING CARBON EMISSIONS
As a global leader in producing steel with low carbon emissions, Nucor has become
involved in international efforts to further reduce emissions. Nucor is a member
of the United Nations 24/7 Carbon-Free Energy Global Compact, which is aimed
at accelerating the decarbonization of the world’s electricity systems to mitigate
climate change and ensure access to clean, reliable and affordable electricity.
Recycling scrap steel into new steel products is currently the lowest emitting
steel production process available at scale, but it requires significant amounts
of electricity. We believe that growing demand for energy will require utilizing all
forms of clean, zero-carbon energy sources, from wind, solar and hydroelectric, to
nuclear power.
As a founding member of the Global Steel Climate Council (GSCC), a coalition
advocating for a single, transparent global emission standard that is focused
on steelmaking emissions, we are committed to a net-zero 2050 science-based
greenhouse gas (GHG) target. In 2023, Nucor became the first diversified steel
maker in North America with net-zero, science-based greenhouse gas targets for
2050, including Scopes 1, 2 & 3. Nucor will continue to be an industry leader in GHG
transparency. Reporting will continue to be third-party verified. We will share our
plans and the actions needed to achieve our goals.
FEDERAL INFRASTRUCTURE & CLEAN ENERGY SPENDING
Three key pieces of legislation passed by Congress – the Infrastructure Investment
As North America’s largest producer of steel and steel products, Nucor
& Jobs Act (IIJA), Inflation Reduction Act, and CHIPs Act – are providing hundreds
regularly engages with government officials on regulatory and policy issues of billions of dollars to rebuild traditional infrastructure, build-out clean energy
that concern our company and the U.S. steel industry, as well as the broader infrastructure, and re-shore semiconductor chip manufacturing back to the United
States. Each of these initiatives will be steel-intensive.
manufacturing sector in which we, and many of our customers, operate. For
more than five decades, Nucor has established a circular model of steel
The bipartisan IIJA legislation also includes strong Buy America provisions, which
production with a low-carbon footprint, accomplished through the recycling means our infrastructure will be modernized using the cleanest, most sustainable
of scrap metal into new steel and steel products utilizing electric arc furnace steel in the world. Nucor produces more than a quarter of our nation’s raw steel, and
we do so with one-third the GHG intensity of a traditional extractive producer.
(EAF) technology. Our key policy priorities include a level playing field for
trade, infrastructure investment, strong Buy America provisions, advancing With more than 50% of Nucor’s steel going into the construction market, we are
clean energy, ensuring America’s competitive advantage in producing low- well positioned to supply steel for these projects – and we will do so using clean and
sustainable American made steel. Every time an infrastructure project uses steel from
carbon steel, and creating greater awareness of the essential role a circular
Nucor, the project team is choosing to reduce the world’s greenhouse gas emissions,
model of steel production with a low-carbon footprint must play in a modern
support sustainable steelmaking and promote job growth in the United States.
and sustainable economy.
POLICY
ENGAGEMENT
46
POLICY
ENGAGEMENT
TRADE — LEVELING THE PLAYING FIELD
Nucor advocates for a level playing field for American steel manufacturers. The
governments of many countries subsidize — or even own — steel producing
companies, and this often leads to these companies selling steel at artificially low
prices that are harmful to the American steel industry. Foreign steel is also oftentimes
produced in a manner that disproportionately impacts the environment and doesn’t
protect worker safety to the levels we have come to expect in the United States.
The steel Nucor manufactures at our facilities throughout the U.S. is simply more
sustainable on many levels. It is made with a higher percentage of recycled content,
less and cleaner energy, and consequently has lower GHG emissions per ton
produced. In addition, steel manufacturing in the United States must comply with
strict standards for worker safety and environmental protection, as required by the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency and other regulatory agencies. In practice, we strive to far outperform
minimum regulatory requirements such as these and keep our focus on what is best
for long-term value creation that benefits all our stakeholders.
With a score of 94.3%, Nucor is in the top tier
of all companies, and considered a Trendsetter
on the CPA-Zicklin Index, which seeks to bring
transparency and accountability to corporate
political spending. We continue to evaluate our
lobbying activities and political disclosures,
aiming for best-in-class standing for both
accountability and effectiveness at advancing
the interests of Nucor and its stakeholders.
47
POLICY
ENGAGEMENT
POLITICAL ACTIVITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY
Nucor has a dedicated Public Affairs team which manages our efforts to provide clear committees at the federal level. Contributions to federal candidates and committees are
and relevant information to governmental agencies and legislative bodies charged with allowed only through the Nucor Corporation Political Action Committee, which is funded
regulating the U.S. steel industry. While doing so, this team conducts itself in a manner through voluntary contributions from eligible U.S. teammates. Nucor PAC fully discloses all
consistent with our Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics and adheres to all applicable contributions made and received through reports filed with the Federal Election Commission.
laws and regulations regarding lobbying activities. On a regular basis, the Public Affairs
team presents policy priorities, initiatives and expenditures to our Board of Directors and our Our lobbying efforts and contributions are used to promote policies favorable to the steel
Governance and Nominating Committee, which has oversight of all lobbying activities. We file industry and they are not based on the political preferences of any individual employed
quarterly lobbying disclosure forms with the Clerk of the House of Representatives and the by Nucor. For further information on our political spending, lobbying and trade association
Secretary of the Senate as required by the federal Lobbying Disclosure Act. Disclosure forms support, please click here.
are also filed as necessary in the 21 states where we engage in lobbying.
Nucor complies with federal, state, and local campaign finance laws and regulations
governing political contributions and the disclosure of these contributions. In accordance
with federal law, Nucor does not contribute to any political candidates, parties or
48
GRI
INDEX
49
GENERAL DISCLOSURES INFORMATION OR PAGE REFERENCE
G2: General Disclosures 2021
Who We Are & How We Create Value, please see page 5.
2-1 Organizational details 2023 Nucor Corporation 10-K Filing, please see page 1.
Nucor Overview
Who We Are & How We Create Value, please see pages 5-10.
Entities included in the organization’s
2-2 Environmental Performance, please see page 33.
sustainability reporting
2023 Nucor Corporation 10-K Filing, please see pages 1-7.
Nucor’s 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report encompasses data for the calendar
year 2023, except where explicitly indicated otherwise.
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point
For questions regarding this report or any sustainability initiatives, please contact
investor@nucor.com.
2-4 Restatements of information No restatements are included in this report.
Governance, please see page 16.
2-5 External assurance
Environmental Performance, please see page 33.
Who We Are & How We Create Value, please see pages 6-9.
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships
2023 Nucor Corporation 10-K Filing, please see pages 1-9.
Letter From The CEO, please see page 3.
2-7 Employees EEO 2022
Safety, teammates & culture, please see pages 17-22.
Governance, please see pages 15-16.
2-9 Governance structure and composition 2023 Nucor Corporation 10-K Filing, please see pages 29-31.
Nucor Board of Directors
Governance, please see pages 15-16.
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Principles
Governance and Nominating Committee Charter
Governance, please see page 16.
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body 2023 Nucor Corporation 10-K Filing, please see page 31.
Nucor Board of Directors
Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the Governance, please see pages 15-16.
2-12
management of impacts Nucor Board of Directors
GRI
INDEX
50
GRI
INDEX
GENERAL DISCLOSURES INFORMATION OR PAGE REFERENCE
G2: General Disclosures 2021
Governance, please see pages 15-16.
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts
Nucor Board of Directors
Role of the highest governance body in
2-14 Governance, please see page 16.
sustainability reporting
2-15 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Principles
2-16 Communication of critical concerns Nucor Whistleblower Program
Nucor 2023 Proxy Statement
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body
Nucor Board of Directors
Evaluation of the performance of the highest Corporate Governance Principles
2-18
governance body Compensation and Executive Development Committee Charter
Corporate Governance Principles
2-19 Remuneration policies
Compensation and Executive Development Committee Charter
Corporate Governance Principles
2-20 Process to determine remuneration
Compensation and Executive Development Committee Charter
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio Nucor 2023 Proxy Statement, please see page 51.
Letter From The CEO, please see page 3.
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy
Nucor 2023 Proxy Statement, please see page 2.
Governance, please see page 16.
2-23 Policy commitments
Nucor Policies
Governance,please see page 16.
2-24 Embedding policy commitments
Nucor Policies
Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts
Nucor Whistleblower Program
Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns
Nucor Whistleblower Program
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations 2023 Nucor Corporation 10-K Filing, please see page 29.
51
GRI
INDEX
GENERAL DISCLOSURES INFORMATION OR PAGE REFERENCE
G2: General Disclosures 2021
Who We Are & How We Create Value, please see page 11.
2-28 Membership associations
Safety, Teammates & Culture, please see pages 28-30.
We conduct focused stakeholder engagement through surveys, social media,
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement formal communication, stakeholder outreach programs, team meetings, and
one-on-one discussions.
Nucor Human Rights Policy
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements
Supplier Code of Conduct
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
Nucor determined its material topics for the Global Reporting Initiative by employing a
3-1 Process to determine material topics comprehensive approach that integrated stakeholder engagement, internal company
operations, historical reporting, and a review of peer practices.
• Economic Impacts
• Policy
• Materials and Suppliers
• Energy
3-2 List of material topics • Water
• Emissions
• Waste
• Safety and Teammates
• Diversity, equity, and inclusion
A comprehensive review of the organization’s impact across various dimensions,
3-3 Management of material topics including economic, environmental, and societal, is continuously evaluated.
Policy Engagement, please see pages 45-47.
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2023 Nucor Corporation 10-K Filing, please see pages 36-47.
Financial implications and other risks and opportunities
201-2 2022 Nucor TCFD, please see pages 7-8.
due to climate change
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 2023 Nucor Corporation 10-K Filing, please see pages 74-75.
52
GRI
INDEX
GENERAL DISCLOSURES INFORMATION OR PAGE REFERENCE
GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016
Nucor is building its new state-of-the-art sheet mill in Mason County, West Virginia.
The West Virginia location on the Ohio River provides Nucor with important
transportation and logistics advantages, and a strengthened ability to serve
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported customers in the Midwest and Northeast, the two largest sheet consuming regions
in the U.S. When fully operational, the new mill will employ approximately 800 full-
time teammates. $3.1 Billion has been invested in this facility which aims to have the
lowest carbon footprint of any sheet mill in the world.
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Safety, Teammates & Culture, please see pages 28-30.
GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 2016
100% of our business operation and every functional area is included in our annual risk
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption
assessment, which includes bribery and corruption risk as a standard item.
Communication and training about anti-corruption 100% of governance body members and teammates have had our anti-corruption
205-2
policies and procedures policies and procedures communicated to them.
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No incidents
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016
In 2021, Nucor and other US steel producers were named in a federal antitrust case
entitled JSW Steel (USA) Inc. and JSW Steel USA Ohio, Inc. v. Nucor Corp., United
States Steel Corp., AK Steel Holding Corp., and Cleveland-Cliffs Inc. This Texas
Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and action alleged that Nucor, U.S. Steel, AK Steel, and Cleveland-Cliffs participated in a
206-1
monopoly practices group boycott to prevent JSW from purchasing steel slabs. Nucor moved to dismiss
this action and the District Court granted Nucor’s motion to dismiss with prejudice.
JSW appealed the decision to the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals and the parties are
awaiting the decision of the court.
GRI 301: Materials 2016
2023 Recycled Content Letter - Mill Products
301-2 Recycled input materials used
2023 Recycled Content Letter - Downstream Products
GRI 302: Energy 2016
302-1 Energy consumption inside of the organization Environmental Performance, please see page 37.
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Environmental Performance, please see page 37.
302-3 Energy intensity Environmental Performance, please see page 37.
53
GRI
INDEX
GENERAL DISCLOSURES INFORMATION OR PAGE REFERENCE
GRI 302: Energy 2016
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Environmental Performance, please see page 37.
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Environmental Performance, please see page 37.
GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Environmental Performance, please see page 42.
303-2 Management of water discharge- related impacts Environmental Performance, please see page 42.
303-3 Water withdrawal Environmental Performance, please see page 42.
303-4 Water discharge Environmental Performance, please see page 42.
303-5 Water consumption Environmental Performance, please see page 42.
GRI 305: Emissions 2016
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environmental Performance, please see page 33.
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environmental Performance, please see page 33.
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environmental Performance, please see page 33.
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environmental Performance, please see page 33.
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environmental Performance, please see pages 34-37.
Ozone-depleting potential per product is reported in each of Nucor’s
305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS)
Environmental Product Declarations
Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other
305-7 2022 SASB Report, please see page 5.
significant air emissions
54
GENERAL DISCLOSURES INFORMATION OR PAGE REFERENCE
GRI 306: Waste 2020
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts Environmental Performance, please see page 41.
306-2 Management of significant waste- related impacts Environmental Performance, please see page 41.
306-3 Waste generated Environmental Performance, please see page 41.
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Environmental Performance, please see page 41.
306-5 Waste directed to disposal Environmental Performance, please see page 41.
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016
Each of our divisions uses Virtual Compliance to screen all potential
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria
international suppliers.
GRI 401: Employment 2016
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 2023 Nucor Corporation 10-K Filing, please see page 19.
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not
401-2 2023 Nucor Corporation 10-K Filing, please see page 19.
provided to temporary or part-time employees
GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016
Nucor complies with all applicable regulations and agreements regarding notices of
402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes
operational changes to our workforce.
55
GRI
INDEX
GENERAL DISCLOSURES INFORMATION OR PAGE REFERENCE
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018
Work-Related Injuries Number of Fatalities Rate of Fatalities
Teammates 1 0.003
High-Consequence
Lost Work Day Cases Rate
Work-Related Injuries
306-1 Work-related injuries
Teammates 79 0.24
Recordable Work-Related
Number Rate
Injuries
Teammates 263 0.79
Work-Related Injuries Number of Fatalities Resulting from Work-Related Ill Health
403-10 Work-related ill health
Teammates 0
GRI 404: Training and Education 2016
Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition
404-2 Environmental Performance, please see page 43.
assistance programs
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 2023 Nucor Corporation 10-K Filing, please see page 18.
GRI 408: Child Labor 2016
Operations and suppliers at significant risk for
408-1 Each of our divisions uses Virtual Compliance to screen all potential international suppliers.
incidents of child labor
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016
Operations and suppliers at significant risk for
409-1 Each of our divisions uses Virtual Compliance to screen all potential international suppliers.
incidents of forced or compulsory labor
56
GRI
INDEX
GENERAL DISCLOSURES INFORMATION OR PAGE REFERENCE
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016
Each of our divisions uses Virtual Compliance to screen all
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria
potential international suppliers.
GRI 415: Public Policy 2016
415-1 Political contributions Nucor Public Affairs
