NVIDIA
Sustainability Report
Fiscal Year 2024
Table of Contents
Message From Our CEO People, Diversity and Inclusion Responsible Business
Recruitment 14 Our Code 22
Introduction Benefits and Compensation 15 Trustworthy AI 23
FY24 Highlights 06 Pay and Promotion 15 Human Rights 25
About NVIDIA 07 Engagement and Retention 16 Public Policy 26
Sustainability Governance 07 Learning and Development 16
Societal Impact 08 Community Resource Groups 17 Sustainability Indicators
TCFD Index 39
Climate and Efficiency Product Value Chain U.N. Sustainable Development Goals 40
Product Energy Efficiency 10 Responsible Sourcing 18
About This Report
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 11 Product Environmental Impact 20
Energy and Environment 12 Product Quality and Safety 21
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
Message From Our CEO
Dear NVIDIA Family, Partners, and Supporters, poised to impact every industry and enable By accelerating workloads with NVIDIA
a new era of productivity and sustainability GPUs operating in parallel, we exponentially
We are at a pivotal moment in history. NVIDIA’s
by unlocking efficiencies and resource increase throughput while driving down
technological leaps in accelerated computing
optimization across sectors. The fourth the total energy used to complete a task
and generative AI are at the heart of a new
industrial revolution has begun, and the world and, thus, the total cost of ownership.
industrial revolution, fundamentally reshaping
is embracing NVIDIA’s computing platform. The energy savings are incredible.
industries by enhancing computing power
and significantly advancing sustainability. Our commitment to driving these Accelerated computing took workloads that
changes is unwavering. Our innovations previously required tens of thousands of
The era of generative AI is here, a
in AI and accelerated computing are general-purpose servers, consuming 10X to
testament to the accelerated computing
setting new standards for environmental 20X more cost and energy and compressed
architecture we envisioned years ago. Our
responsibility while powering a it into something incredibly dense. Each GPU
breakthroughs have significantly reduced
greener, more sustainable future. server is more costly and consumes more
computing costs, giving rise to a new
power, but an order of magnitude fewer
approach to software development—
NVIDIA Accelerated Computing servers are needed. So, there are enormous
deep learning. This revolutionary method
Saves Energy money and energy savings when we look at
allows algorithms to write software that
The era of CPU scaling that propelled the the actual work done or throughput. That is
no human can by uncovering patterns and
computer industry for decades is fading as precisely why, as CPU scaling has slowed, we
relationships in vast data sets to learn
computing demand skyrockets. Software must transition to accelerated computing—we
the structure and meaning of the data.
pioneers have turned to NVIDIA-pioneered cannot continue scaling out the traditional
From steam-powered machines to electricity, accelerated computing as the path way. Accelerated computing is essential.
then the production of software, each
forward. Accelerated computing is how to
of the first three industrial revolutions NVIDIA Accelerated Computing Is
meet the massive demand for computing
produced something fundamentally new Sustainable Computing
power sustainably and cost-effectively.
that transformed every industry and
NVIDIA already powers the most energy-
NVIDIA accelerated computing has reached
society. We are now on the cusp of making
efficient supercomputers in the world, which
an inflection point. NVIDIA is modernizing the
something previously unimaginable—digital
scientists across various fields of science
world’s trillion-dollar data center industry.
intelligence. The generative AI revolution is
use to unravel the mysteries of the universe,
NVIDIA Sustainability | Message from our CEO 03
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
harnessing the immense computational Training AI Consumes Energy – The right lens for evaluating AI costs and enabling real-time intelligence at the grid
power to simulate cosmic phenomena, Applying AI Saves Energy energy is longitudinal, not just training, but edge. Portland General Electric is using
decode genetic sequences, and predict the long view across the entire lifecycle and NVIDIA AI inside electric meters to direct
Training AI foundation models requires a lot
climate patterns. The Green500 evaluates downstream impact of the AI model created. more renewable energy sources into the
of computing power. These requirements
the world’s leading supercomputers based The compounded benefits can be immense. power grid, reduce power outages, accelerate
will rise as increasingly complex models
on their computational might and energy When analyzed longitudinally, AI will be utterly recovery from storms, and ultimately decrease
are trained on more data to make them
efficiency. NVIDIA technologies power 7 of the transformative in driving industrial productivity operational costs for the electrical grid.
smarter, more useful, and safer. The models
top 10 systems on the latest Green500 list. and use less energy, time, and cost.
are learning to be more factual and reason Cadence creates AI chip design tools
Data processing and management is a deeply to give safer, more thoughtful, and that speed development and help chips
AI Drives Productivity, Eliminates
$100 billion market and a top enterprise better-aligned responses. NVIDIA accelerated run faster, use less energy, and cost less.
Waste, Saves Energy
workload. NVIDIA CUDA GPUs accelerate computing is reducing the cost and energy MediaTek, whose chips power over 2 billion
the pervasive Apache Spark data processing usage needed to train these foundational We are working with companies connected devices, has already created a
engine. Benchmark studies show that NVIDIA AI models with each new generation. worldwide to apply AI’s revolutionary 5% smaller die and reduced power by 6%
capabilities to save energy.
accelerated Spark can reduce the carbon using this approach. That 6% energy savings
NVIDIA’s new Blackwell platform is a perfect
footprint of data processing by as much as example. Blackwell empowers organizations Researchers use AI to discover safer, will be enjoyed by millions of people. So, the
80% while delivering 5X average speedups worldwide to build and deploy real-time better-performing batteries that use fewer amount of energy we will save for the world
and 4X reductions in computing costs. generative AI powered by large, trillion- natural resources. Microsoft and Pacific by designing better software, chips, and
Pandas is the world’s leading data analytics parameter language models. But that is only Northwest National Laboratory used NVIDIA systems has a perpetual benefit to society.
library, used by nearly 10 million data scientists. half of the story. This groundbreaking platform accelerated computing to screen over 32
AI Helps Us Adapt to Climate Change
Though easy to use, it runs only on CPUs, and also delivers up to an order of magnitude million potential materials in approximately
performance suffers from slow processing lower cost and energy consumption than one week. They identified 18 promising One of AI’s most exciting applications is
speeds when working with large datasets. its predecessor for model processing. candidates, including a new electrolyte our Earth-2 platform. By teaching an AI to
material containing lithium and sodium ions. recognize and predict weather patterns,
To address that, we recently announced
Training models are the start of AI. The
This new material reduces lithium usage by up NVIDIA’s digital twin of our planet can
that NVIDIA has accelerated Pandas up to
investment in the cost and energy of training
to 70% compared to conventional batteries. predict atmospheric pressure, temperature,
150X for the world’s nearly 10 million Pandas
aims to create models that, when applied
precipitation, wind speed and direction,
users without requiring them to change or inferencing, will help us discover better Energy companies are embracing AI to
and humidity at an unprecedented scale
their code. Considering the amount of data scientific, engineering, or operational solutions reduce operations’ environmental footprint,
of two kilometers. Once the Earth-2 model
millions of data scientists process, the time that conserve energy, time, and cost. automating labor-intensive tasks, and
and energy saved will be extraordinary.
NVIDIA Sustainability | Message from our CEO 04
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
is trained, it can predict weather 1,000X An Operating System for Industrial A Computing Platform Shift – A New I am incredibly proud of the strides we
faster and 3,000X more energy-efficiently Digitalization Industrial Revolution are making together—our team, partners,
than traditional physics models. and global community. Thank you for
Earth-2 is an example of a digital twin that NVIDIA accelerated computing has reached
joining us on this transformative journey.
We want Earth-2 to be available to researchers models and predicts complex physical a tipping point. Industry is urgently adopting
Together, we are setting new standards
everywhere, so we made APIs available and dynamical systems. Earth-2 runs NVIDIA as the same architecture is needed
for what technology can achieve for
via our DGX Cloud. This advances climate in NVIDIA Omniverse, a powerful virtual to save energy, time, and cost, as well
the planet and future generations.
research and contributes to environmental world simulation engine where computer as for generative AI. The combination of
sustainability by reducing the need for graphics, physics, and AI intersect. accelerated computing and generative AI
physics simulations on supercomputers drives a complete full-stack computing
We created Omniverse to represent and
and their associated carbon footprint. platform shift transforming every industry.
model the physical world so that engineers
Earth-2 also democratizes high-resolution can develop AIs and robotic systems that The new computing stack, generative AI, has
weather prediction and improves predicting can understand and operate in industrial fundamentally changed how computers work—
and tracking severe storms to mitigate applications. Inside Omniverse, companies from instruction-driven to intention-driven
Jensen Huang,
economic impacts. The Weather Company can operate and optimize digital twins computers. Generative AI changes how we use
CEO and Co-Founder, NVIDIA
and the Central Weather Administration of their physical infrastructures, such computers—from searching and retrieving
of Taiwan plans to use Earth-2 to catalyze as factories, warehouses, farms, and pre-packaged content to interacting with
proactive decision-making, guiding processing plants. These virtual replicas real-time generated information unique for
companies, organizations, and nations in enable businesses to identify areas for every context. Generative AI is transforming
answering what-if scenarios and anticipating improvement and reduce costs, material the computer industry that produces
unprecedented weather to enable actionable consumption, and energy usage—all critical software into one that manufactures digital
outcomes, spanning policy formulation, urban factors in achieving sustainability goals. intelligence. Most importantly, generative AI
development, and infrastructure planning. is a new tool for scientists and engineers to
The world’s heavy industries represent a
discover solutions for previously intractable
staggering $100 trillion in value and are
challenges—to create a sustainable future.
responsible for a significant portion of global
energy consumption. NVIDIA can profoundly
impact sustainability efforts by digitalizing
these industries through Omniverse and
leveraging the power of generative AI.
NVIDIA Sustainability | Message from our CEO 05
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
Introduction
FY24 Highlights
Climate and People, Diversity
About NVIDIA Product Value Chain
Efficiency and Inclusion
29,600 76% 50% 60%
Employees globally Renewable electricity in FY24 Board of Directors is racially Scope 3 category 1 GHG emissions
or gender diverse covered in supplier engagement efforts
36 20X 1,000 93%
Countries NVIDIA Energy efficiency of NVIDIA Blackwell GPUs Employees participated in Suppliers audited in
operates in globally over CPUs for certain AI and HPC workloads our mentorship program the past two years
#2 #1 2.7% 90%+
On Glassdoor’s list of Supercomputer on the June 2024 Overall turnover rate, compared to the NVIDIA GPU systems packaging was
best employers Green500 is powered by NVIDIA semiconductor industry average of 17.7% recyclable materials by weight
NVIDIA Sustainability | Introduction 06
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
About NVIDIA The GPU was initially used to simulate human a unified underlying architecture leveraging in 2018. Our acquisition of Mellanox in 2020
imagination, enabling the virtual worlds of our GPUs and networking and software expanded our innovation canvas to include
NVIDIA pioneered accelerated computing to
video games and films. Today, it also simulates stacks. The programmable nature of our networking and led to the introduction of a
help solve the most challenging computational
human intelligence, enabling a deeper architecture allows us to support several new processor class—the data processing
problems. NVIDIA is a full-stack computing
understanding of the physical world. Its multi-billion-dollar end markets with the same unit, or DPU. Over the past five years, we’ve
infrastructure company with data center-
parallel processing capabilities, supported by underlying technology by using a variety of built full software stacks that run on top
scale offerings that are reshaping industry.
thousands of computing cores, are essential software stacks developed either internally of our GPUs and CUDA to bring AI to the
Our full stack includes the foundational CUDA for deep learning algorithms. This form of or by third-party developers and partners. world’s largest industries, including the
programming model that runs on all NVIDIA AI, in which software writes itself by learning The large and growing number of developers NVIDIA DRIVE stack for autonomous driving,
GPUs, as well as hundreds of domain-specific from large amounts of data, can serve as the and installed base across our platforms Clara for healthcare, and Omniverse for
software libraries, software development kits, brain of computers, robots, and self-driving strengthens our ecosystem and increases industrial digitalization; and introduced the
and application programming interfaces. This cars that can perceive and understand the the value of our platform to our customers. NVIDIA AI Enterprise software—essentially
deep and broad software stack accelerates world. GPU-powered AI solutions are being an operating system for enterprise AI
Innovation is at our core. We’ve invested over
the performance and eases the deployment developed by thousands of enterprises to applications. In 2023, we introduced our
$45.3 billion in research and development
of NVIDIA-accelerated computing for deliver services and products that would have first data center CPU, Grace, built for giant-
since our inception, yielding inventions
computationally intensive workloads such as been immensely difficult or even impossible scale AI and high-performance computing.
that are essential to modern computing.
AI model training and inference, data analytics, with traditional coding. Examples include
Our invention of the GPU in 1999 sparked NVIDIA’s sustainability reporting follows our
scientific computing, and 3D graphics. It generative AI—which can create new content
the growth of the PC gaming market and fiscal calendar; FY24 data corresponds to the
enables vertical-specific optimizations to such as text, code, images, audio, video, and
redefined computer graphics. With our period January 30, 2023, to January 28, 2024.
address industries ranging from healthcare molecule structures—and recommender
introduction of the CUDA programming model
and telecom to automotive and manufacturing. systems, which can suggest highly relevant
in 2006, we opened the parallel processing Sustainability Governance
content such as products, services, or ads
Our data center-scale offerings are comprised capabilities of our GPU to a broad range
using deep neural networks trained on vast We assess corporate sustainability impacts
of compute and networking solutions of compute-intensive applications, paving
datasets that capture user preferences. to identify our key social and environmental
that can scale to tens of thousands of the way for the emergence of modern AI. In
impacts, leveraging stakeholder expectations,
GPU-accelerated servers interconnected NVIDIA has a platform strategy, bringing 2012, the AlexNet neural network, trained on
market trends, and risks as well as
to function as a single giant computer. together hardware, systems, software, NVIDIA GPUs, won the ImageNet computer
opportunities in the process. We plan to
This type of data center architecture and algorithms, libraries, and services to create image recognition competition, marking the
conduct a double-materiality assessment,
scale is needed for the development and unique value for the markets we serve. While “Big Bang” moment of AI. We introduced our
assessing sustainability issues based on both
deployment of modern AI applications. the computing requirements of these end first Tensor Core GPU in 2017, built from the
financial and impact materiality, by the end
markets are diverse, we address them with ground up for the new era of AI, and our first
our fiscal year ending January 26, 2025.
autonomous driving system-on-chips, or SoC,
NVIDIA Sustainability | Introduction 07
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
The determination of sustainability topics In FY24, we formally launched a Corporate Societal Impact Researchers can use accelerated computing
to be covered in our report reflects the Sustainability Steering (CSS) Committee to virtually model millions of molecules
AI represents the most profound technological
assessment of our impacts, stakeholder comprised of members of our executive and screen hundreds of potential drugs
shift in our era, touching virtually every
expectations, and frameworks and initiatives leadership team. The CSS Committee is simultaneously and AI to help discover and
industry, including robotics, cybersecurity,
such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), responsible for overseeing and providing input develop drugs faster and at a lower cost.
finance, healthcare, transportation, retail,
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board on our sustainability strategy and program. Generative AI models can propose designs for
and customer service. NVIDIA accelerates
(SASB), the Task Force for Climate-Related candidate molecules and predictive models to
Feedback from the Board, the NCG and CSS this revolution by creating advanced
Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and the United evaluate designs, bridge the gap between lab
Committees, along with specific input from computing tools that serve as open
Nations Sustainable Development Goals experiments and computational algorithms,
our executive team, helps to determine the platforms for developers, researchers, and
(UN SDG). These topics reflect our values, and accelerate drug discovery pipelines to
focus and scope of our sustainability strategy data scientists to innovate in these areas.
social and environmental contributions, improve patient outcomes and save lives.
and program.
as well as matters we believe are essential We aim to improve outcomes for everyday
AI and accelerated computing are unlocking
to our continued business success. people while tackling future challenges
new possibilities in genome sequencing
by delivering new technologies and
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Board of Directors workflows, which help clinicians diagnose
workforce training programs to enhance
(NCG) Committee of our Board of Directors critically ill patients or researchers to discover
industrial development and advance
(Board) is responsible for reviewing and new drug targets. HPC can accelerate genome
generative AI research. We believe our
discussing with management our policies, analysis to help identify rare diseases and
technology can spur economic growth,
issues, and reporting related to sustainability, bring tailored therapeutics to market faster,
Nominating and Corporate create good-paying jobs and improve the
including overall sustainability strategy, risks advancing the journey to precision medicine.
Governance Committee health and well-being of people globally.
and opportunities, and related programs
and initiatives. Our Corporate Sustainability Climate Action
Healthcare
team updates the NCG Committee at
NVIDIA’s AI technologies can transform
least semiannually on these topics, as well NVIDIA invented accelerated computing
climate research and help the world mitigate
as pertinent regulations and stakeholder Corporate Sustainability two decades ago to solve problems that
and adapt to the impacts of climate change.
inputs, and gathers feedback from the NCG Steering Committee were beyond the reach of existing systems.
Our Earth-2 initiative aims to harness
Committee on issues such as climate change, NVIDIA technology enables healthcare
AI and high-performance computing to
human rights, and diversity and inclusion. The institutions to harness the power of AI and
unlock the potential of vast quantities of
Corporate Sustainability team also reports on HPC to reinvent drug discovery, surgery,
climate data to inform decision-making.
sustainability issues to the full Board annually. medical imaging, and wearable devices.
Sustainability Team
NVIDIA Sustainability | Introduction 08
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
The increased frequency and severity
of extreme weather and climate events
underscores a critical need for accurate Investors
weather forecasting, especially with the rise in We host quarterly calls with
severe weather occurrences such as blizzards, investors to discuss corporate
hurricanes, and heatwaves. As extreme- sustainability topics.
weather events occur with greater frequency Startups
and, often, with little warning, meteorology
Our Inception Governments
centers can use accelerated computing to
program includes We brief regulators
generate more accurate, timely forecasts
startups focused and thinktanks on
that improve readiness and response.
on climate and topics related
In addition to powering climate and energy. to AI.
weather simulations, AI is accelerating the
energy transition by making industrial-
NVIDIA
scale renewable energy more efficient and
economically viable. AI can also optimize
solar and wind farms, enhance power grid
reliability and resilience, advance carbon
Customers
Supply Chain
capture, and power fusion breakthroughs.
We respond to
We conduct quarterly
customer CDP
business reviews with
NVIDIA led a climate tech engagement and EcoVadis
strategic suppliers.
during the APEC CEO Summit, which requests.
included hosting women-led climate CCoommmmuunniittyy
startups at HQ, judging the APEC Catalyst
NNVVIIDDIIAANNss aanndd tthhee
Pitch Competition, and demoing AI
ccoommppaannyy ccoonnttrriibbuuttee
technologies like Earth-2 to the U.S.
tthhrroouugghh tthhee NNVVIIDDIIAA
State Department and thinktank SCSP.
FFoouunnddaattiioonn..
Our approach to stakeholder engagement.
NVIDIA Sustainability | Introduction 09
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
Climate and Efficiency
Product Energy Efficiency
Improving performance and energy efficiency
is a principal goal in each step of our research,
development, and design processes. We
develop hardware, software, and networking
technology to improve performance and
energy efficiency, helping our customers solve
problems and decrease emissions intensity.
AI models are exploding in complexity and
size as they enhance generative AI and
enable scientific discoveries, and modern
data centers require accelerated computing Pascal
19 TFLOPS
platforms to effectively execute these
FP16
workloads. Accelerated computing is the use
0
of specialized hardware to dramatically speed
2016
up computation, by parallel processing that
bundles frequently occurring tasks. It offloads
demanding work that can bog down traditional
processors that typically execute tasks in serial
fashion, and offers lower overall costs, higher
performance, and greater energy efficiency.
Acceleration completes larger workloads
more quickly, returning the computer to
a low-power idle state when done and
consuming significantly less energy overall
when compared to traditional computing.
NVIDIA Sustainability | Climate and Efficiency 10
SPOLFT
1000X AI Compute in 8 Years
7
Blackwell
20,000 20,000 TFLOPS
FP8
Of the top 10 systems on the
June 2024 Green500 list are powered
15,000
by NVIDIA, including the
No. 1 spot with the GH200 Grace
Hopper Superchip based JEDI system
10,000
5,000 Hopper 20x
Ampere
Volta 4,000 TFLOPS
620 TFLOPS
130 TFLOPS FP8
BF16/FP16
FP16
Energy efficiency of NVIDIA
Blackwell GPUs over CPUs for
2017 2020 2022 2024
certain AI and HPC workloads
Over the course of the last 8 years, we’ve increased computation by 1000X.
NVIDIA Blackwell GPUs are generally 20X more world could save almost 30 trillion watt-hours
energy efficient than traditional CPUs for of energy a year, equivalent to the electricity
30T
certain AI and high-performance computing requirements of nearly 4 million U.S. homes.
(HPC) workloads, and NVIDIA DPUs can reduce
Energy efficiency is critical as AI models and
power consumption by 25% by offloading Watt-hours of energy a year saved if
HPC applications increase exponentially in
essential data center networking and HPC and AI workloads were switched
size. AI workloads such as large language
infrastructure functions from less efficient from CPU-only servers to GPU-
models (LLMs) range in size from small-scale
CPUs. If these HPC and AI workloads were accelerated systems
like GPT-J (6 billion parameters) to larger-
switched from CPU infrastructure to GPU and
scale like GPT-3 (175 billion parameters), and
DPU-accelerated operations, we estimate the
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
massive LLMs now extend further into multi- Greenhouse Gas Emissions
trillion parameter scale. The NVIDIA GB200
In FY24, NVIDIA achieved:
We assess our carbon footprint across
Grace Blackwell Superchip is estimated to
our product lifecycle and assess climate
offer 25X better energy efficiency over the
76% 60%+
risks, including current and emerging
prior Hopper generation for massive LLMs,
regulations and market impacts.
while CPUs have not demonstrated an ability
to effectively run larger or massive LLMs. Renewable electricity Scope 3 category 1 emissions
covered in supplier engagement
In FY24, the U.S. Department of Energy clocked Climate Targets
how fast four of its key high-performance
We commit to the following
computing and AI applications ran and how
greenhouse gas emissions, or GHG
much energy they consumed on CPU-only
emissions, reduction goals:
and GPU-accelerated nodes on Perlmutter,
Progress on our Renewable Electricity Target
one of the world’s largest supercomputers. At
Scope 1 and 2:
performance parity, a GPU-accelerated cluster 100% 100%
By the end of FY25, and annually
demonstrated an average 5x improvement
thereafter, we expect to achieve and
in energy efficiency. By running the same
maintain 100% renewable electricity 80%
workload on GPUs rather than CPU-only
for offices and data centers under our
instances, researchers could save millions
operational control. By delivering on
of dollars and avoid consumption of 588 60%
this commitment, we aim to reduce
megawatt hours of electricity per month.
our Scope 1 and 2 emissions in line with
prevalent climate science standards. 40%
Scope 3:
20%
By the end of FY26, we expect to
engage manufacturing suppliers
0%
comprising at least 67% of NVIDIA’s
FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25
scope 3 category 1 GHG emissions,
with the goal of effecting supplier
adoption of science-based targets.
NVIDIA Sustainability | Climate and Efficiency 11
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
To manage the GHG emissions footprint perform a limited assurance engagement over to the ISO 50001 standard recognizes our Waste Management
of our data centers, labs, and offices, we select metrics presented for FY23 and FY24. efforts to properly measure and reduce
We aim to reduce the amount of waste we
strategically focus on locating new sites, Find NVIDIA’s management assertion and the energy consumption in our data centers.
send to landfill through waste reduction,
selecting facilities to expand, managing our Report of Independent Accountants here.
reuse, and recycling initiatives. We’ve engaged
operations efficiently, and sourcing renewable Energy-Efficient Operations
a vendor to complete a gap analysis of our
energy. Our current goal to source all global Energy and Environment Two of our headquarters buildings in Santa Santa Clara campus to better understand
electricity use for offices and data centers
Clara, CA are LEED Gold certified. Our opportunities to increase our landfill diversion
We’re committed to reducing our
under operational control from renewable
Hyderabad, India campus is also LEED Gold rate and minimize the amount of waste
environmental impact by driving operational
energy is expected to result in zero scope
certified. Our LEED Gold certified buildings generated. We plan to incorporate zero-waste
excellence. We identify and control
2 market-based emissions by the end of
were designed to be energy and water principles in our operations, such as reduction
environmental impacts and continuously
our fiscal year ending January 26, 2025.
efficient, built with sustainable raw materials, of overall waste and waste sent to landfills.
improve our performance using a
and improved indoor environmental quality.
comprehensive environmental management For products we use for testing, R&D, and
For our Santa Clara campus, the two buildings
system (EMS) certified to ISO 14001, which production purposes, we have programs in
are connected by a three-acre park which is
covers our headquarter buildings located in place to support internal re-use of equipment
provided with shade by trellis that houses 390
Santa Clara, CA and in Yokneam, Israel. Our that has not reached the end of its useful
kW of solar panels. These solar panels bring
FY24 GHG
Environmental, Health, Safety, and Energy life or financial depreciation life. We properly
the total onsite solar generation capacity
Emissions
Policy provides the framework for our EMS, dispose of IT assets and used laptops are
at our headquarters to 846 kW. In FY24, in
3,692,423 and our dedicated Environmental, Health, sold to a vendor for refurbishment and reuse,
support of our renewable electricity goal, we
MTCO e
2 and Safety and corporate responsibility with a portion of the financial proceeds
added solar panels at our Hyderabad campus.
teams work closely with employees globally donated to the NVIDIA Foundation. For used
to execute our environmental policies and In FY24, we increased the amount of our equipment, we use a global specialist e-waste
practices, with actionable goals and metrics renewable electricity use to 76%, through recycling vendor. All our vendors follow strict
that are annually reviewed with executives. on-site renewables and purchasing utility certification guidelines and procedures to
Scope 1 Scope 2 (market-based) Scope 3
renewable electricity tariffs, energy attribute ensure proper tracking of the chain of custody,
To bring a more structured approach to
For a complete breakdown of our inventory, please see our Sustainability certificates and purchase power agreements. decommissioning, data erasure, and recycling
Indicators. managing energy efficiency at several of our
We are exploring additional options to of any hardware which is broken and unusable.
key data center locations, we have an energy
increase our sourcing of renewable energy
Management considers the GHG Protocol to
management system certified to the ISO
for our growing footprint, in support of
assess, calculate, and report GHG emissions.
50001 standard, which covered 55% of our data
our 100% renewable electricity goal.
We engaged an external third-party to
center energy use in FY24. Our certification
NVIDIA Sustainability | Climate and Efficiency 12
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
Water Conservation capture rainwater in bioswales. The three-
acre park that connects the two buildings is
We use water in our direct operations
planted with drought-tolerant trees and the
in cooling towers and for food service,
greenery is irrigated by reclaimed water.
landscaping, and sanitation. We take steps
to use water efficiently, particularly in Outside of Santa Clara, our Hyderabad,
locations that are vulnerable to drought India, site has a water treatment plant that
conditions. We conduct an annual water risk reuses the site’s treated wastewater for
assessment for all NVIDIA facilities, data landscape irrigation.
centers, and strategic supply chain partners
Within our data centers, we are introducing
which helps us understand where water
closed loop liquid cooling systems. An
conservation initiatives are most needed.
engineered fluid, comprised of a blend
Our two LEED Gold certified buildings in propylene glycol, water and inhibitors, is reused
Santa Clara, CA, incorporate a range of in these systems, eliminating the loss of water
water efficient measures. Through the through evaporation, and improving the water
installation of low-flow bathroom fixtures efficiency of data centers. This innovation is a
and the use of recycled water for toilet cooling alternative that allows high computing
flushing, the buildings are designed to achieve performance with reduced environmental
reductions in domestic water demand and impact. In FY24, NVIDIA’s data center team
potable water use for sewage conveyance was awarded a U.S. Department of Energy
when compared with buildings of standard grant to build an advanced liquid-cooling
design. We use reclaimed water in cooling system, that will save money and run more
towers and landscape irrigation systems and efficiently than today’s air-cooled approaches.
At our Santa Clara campus, our Voyager and Endeavor buildings are LEED Gold certified and connected by a three-acre park which is provided with shade by a trellis
that houses solar panels.
NVIDIA Sustainability | Climate and Efficiency 13
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
People, Diversity and Inclusion
Our employees are our greatest asset To identify and attract global talent, we 29,600 World Map 24 ,c1o0l0u mns 36
and play a key role in creating long-term promote NVIDIA’s strong employer brand, NVIDIANs New in FY24 Countries
value for our stakeholders. We believe that create opportunities in new geographies, and
diverse teams fuel innovation, and we’re provide increased flexibility for employees
committed to creating an inclusive culture to work from the location of their choice.
that supports all employees, regardless
When recruiting for new talent we strive to
of gender, gender identity or expression,
build a diverse talent pipeline that includes
veteran status, race, ethnicity, or disability.
those underrepresented in the technology
field, including women, Black/African American,
and Hispanic/Latino candidates. We improved
our employee referral program, built a new
talent-based hiring process, and partnered
NVIDIA continues to be among America’s
with our community resource groups to
best places to work as judged by
improve how we reach diverse candidates.
employees, rising to second place on
Our recruiters have experience working with
Glassdoor’s list of best employers for 2024.
underrepresented candidates, and candidates
are provided the option to speak with
employees from their communities about the
Recruitment
employee experience and company culture.
To diversify our university pipeline, we population, and our recruitment efforts in the
The demand for global technical talent In FY24, the majority of eligible people
continue to invest in entry level feeder U.S. attracted underrepresented applicants
continues to be strong. To develop our managers voluntarily attended learning
programs around the world, including the through virtual and on campus events.
candidate pipeline, we partner with higher sessions on Diversity, Inclusion, and
NVIDIA Ignite program that prepares first-
education institutions and professional Belonging focus areas and initiatives at We partner with institutions and
and second- year college students for an
organizations, direct source, recruit at industry NVIDIA. Calls to action include inclusive professional organizations around the
NVIDIA internship the following summer.
conferences, and encourage our employees recruiting and hiring practices. world, such as FemInno (Armenia),
We implement tools to help us identify a
to submit referrals—with over 40% of new ProWoman (Israel), and upReach (UK). We
wider pool of diverse talent in the student
hires coming from internal referrals. also attend conferences that serve diverse
NVIDIA Sustainability | People, Diversity and Inclusion 14
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
FY24 Hiring Data* communities and host on-site events for support programs based on targeted
historically underrepresented groups. needs, including military leave, student loan
By Age (Global)
repayment, gender affirmation support,
Benefits and Compensation enhanced health insurance coverage for
43.6% 50.1%
members with developmental delays, and
20-30 Years 31-50 Years 51+ Years We offer comprehensive benefits programs
mental health counselor search tools.
6.1%
worldwide. Our employees, their families,
No Data
We evaluate our benefit offerings annually
0.2% and their welfare are a top priority. Our
to ensure employee needs are met and
comprehensive benefits program includes an
By Gender (Global)
continuously seek feedback from employees
employee stock purchase program, access
to advance our support. In FY25, we increased
75.6% 23% to quality healthcare, remote work options,
our 401(k) match to $11,500, up from $9,000.
flexible hours and paid time off for personal,
Men Women No Data
0.7% medical, and family care needs. We provide a
Not Disclosed 401(k) program in the U.S. and supplemental Our employees’ well-being, physical,
0.7%
pension programs outside the U.S. where emotional, and financial health is a top
statutory schemes are insufficient. priority, and we aim to support them by
By Region (Global)
offering a suite of services where people
We provide employees with benefits such
50.4% 21.3% 17.1% 11.2% can choose what works best for them.
as reimbursement for eligible adoption,
Americas EMEA APAC India surrogacy, and fertility treatment expenses.
Our parental leave program, available to all
Pay and Promotion
employees, enables birth parents to take up to
Two or More Races
2.0% 22 weeks of paid leave, starting as early as four We are committed to providing market
By Race/Ethnicity (United States of America) Hispanic or Latino weeks before their due date. Nonbirth parents aligned pay and equitable opportunities for
5.3%
get up to 12 weeks of paid leave. To ease the advancement to all employees. We perform
55.9% 30%
transition back to work after their leave, all an annual review of peer compensation
Asian White Decline to State new parents also receive up to eight weeks in the markets we operate in. Each year,
5.0%
of flex time and access to parenting support every employee’s performance is assessed,
Black or African American
1.6% modules that provide tips and guidance. and managers provide feedback on goals
and priorities. Promotion readiness is
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander
We partner with NVIDIA’s nine different
0.3% reviewed, and compensation is adjusted
* Numbers do not equal 100% due to rounding.
We have increased focus on diversity recruiting, resulting in an increase in American Indian or Alaska Native community resource groups to tailor
global female hiring in each channel. 0.1%
For additional diversity metrics, please see our Sustainability Indicators.
NVIDIA Sustainability | People, Diversity and Inclusion 15
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
appropriately. Employees are provided Engagement and Retention Our employees tend to come and stay. Learning and Development
both cash and equity compensation. NVIDIA’s overall turnover of 2.7% remains
We want NVIDIA to be a place where Being a lifetime learner is core to our culture.
low, compared with the semiconductor
Cash compensation adjustments are people can build their careers over their We have a library of live and on-demand
industry average of 17.7%. The turnover rate
determined based on role, market lifetime. To ensure our continued success, learning experiences that include workshops,
for women and men has been similar in the
compensation growth and individual we maintain a working environment where panel discussions, and speaker forums.
past several years. In the U.S., retention
performance. Equity compensation is provided our employees are engaged and inspired. We create learning paths focused on our
rates for members of underrepresented
through restricted stock units (RSUs) that most common development needs and
To evaluate employee sentiment and communities have held equal to their peers.
vest over time and provide value aligned to constantly upgrade our offerings to ensure
engagement, we use pulse surveys and a
our stock price. We believe RSUs promote that our employees are exposed to the most
suggestion box. Pulse surveys help us gain
retention and align with stockholder interests.
insight into employee experience and provide
Since 2020, we’ve used a third-party firm employee-generated ideas so that we can take
to analyze our pay practices and promotion targeted action. This agile approach allows us
Pay Ratio FY24 FY23 FY22
activity across rating, education, years of to hear from employees more frequently and
experience, job function, family, and level. The stay focused on specific areas, while reacting Women | Men (Global) 99.5 | 100 99.5 | 100 99.0 | 100
review has determined that we’ve achieved pay quickly to current events. The suggestion
Asian | White (U.S.) 100.1 | 100 100.1 | 100 100.2 | 100
parity, defined as no statistically significant box is an always-on, interactive tool where
differences in compensation based on employees share their thoughts about Black/African American | White (U.S.) 101.5 | 100 101.5 | 100 102.4 | 100
gender, race, or ethnicity, for the past several making our company a better place to work.
Hispanic/Latino | White (U.S.) 99.2 | 100 99.2 | 100 98.5 | 100
years, and we plan to continue doing so.
In addition, we receive feedback through
In FY24, as we promoted many in our an internal portal where all employees can
workforce, women continue to be promoted submit, view, and vote on suggestions. Our Turnover Rate FY24 FY23 FY22
at an approximately equal rate to men. There CEO responds to questions from employees
Overall turnover (Global) 2.7% 5.3% 4.9%
were no statistically significant differences during our quarterly Company meetings.
between actual and expected promotion rates. Men (Global) 2.8% 5.3% 4.7%
If the review were to identify statistically We provide eight free days per year when Women (Global) 2.7% 5.1% 5.7%
significant issues in pay or promotions, all NVIDIANs disconnect and recharge,
Asian (U.S.) 2.1% 4.2% 4.2%
we would take corrective action. which were a direct result of employee
feedback for structured time off. Black/African American (U.S.) 3.1% 5.8% 5.7%
Hispanic/Latino (U.S.) 1.6% 3.3% 4.7%
NVIDIA Sustainability | People, Diversity and Inclusion 16
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
current content and technologies available. Community Resource Groups
We offer tuition reimbursement programs
We support nine community resource
to subsidize educational programs and
Allyship
groups (CRGs), which have executive-level
advanced certifications. We learn from our
sponsorship and dedicated budgets: Asian
peers at our annual NTECH conference where
Pacific Islander, Black NVIDIAN Network Our allyship program is established and facilitated by employees to build a network of
employees share their work with each other.
(BNN), Early Career Network (ECN), Hispanic- allies who speak up when they see non-inclusive behavior and advocate for changes
To support employee development, we provide Latino Network, NV Pride (LGBTQ+ employees that lead to increased equity. In FY24 the program expanded globally to train NVIDIANs
opportunities to learn on-the-job through and allies), NVIDIA Disabilities Network to show up as allies for underrepresented colleagues in the company. We also develop
training courses, targeted development (NDN), NVIDIA Veterans, South Asian & diversity and inclusion educational resources, made available to employees online.
program, mentoring and peer coaching, Allies, and Women in Technology (WIT).
and ongoing feedback. We implemented a
We host topic-specific education events
career coaching service to provide one-on-
for CRGs relevant to their needs and Mentorship
one guidance to employees and encourage
feedback, such as a session on our updated
internal job mobility. Each year, we host
Reasonable Accommodation Policy for We believe our mentorship programs cultivate a collaborative spirit throughout
Careers Week, a series of development
individuals interested in relocation and the company and nurture a culture of continuous learning and development.
sessions for employees to build new skills,
personal views accommodations. Our CRGs Participants experience mentoring in a one-on-one relationship or a group setting,
understand their strengths, and learn how
also presented at our annual developer reaching approximately 1,000 employees across the company. Specialized focuses
to advance their careers at the Company.
conference on the impact women, Black, include women, early career, and employees from traditionally underrepresented
and Latino communities have on AI. groups, to ensure widespread readiness for future advancement.
360,000+
Leadership
Hours of learning logged by NVIDIA
employees globally, approximately Our leadership development program delivers tools, insights, and capabilities that
12.5 hours per employee new managers need to excel in their roles. The program began as a women-focused
leadership development program and expanded last year to include all genders. In
FY24, we launched a Diversity and Inclusion playbook to empower managers with
practical actions they can take to create an inclusive employee experience.
NVIDIA Sustainability | People, Diversity and Inclusion 17
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
Product Value Chain
Responsible Sourcing Responsible Minerals Our Responsible Minerals Policy, sourcing
goals, and steps for monitoring our supply
NVIDIA is committed to the responsible
We define human rights as the fundamental
chain for conflict minerals is framed around
sourcing of minerals. We support, contribute
rights, freedoms, and standards of treatment
the Organization for Economic Cooperation
to, and rely on industry-wide efforts to
belonging to all humans. We seek to promote
and Development (OECD) Due Diligence
validate the source of minerals used in our
human rights throughout our supply chain
Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of
products, aiming to ensure that they come
and expect our suppliers to respect human
Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-
from socially responsible sources and do
rights whenever they provide products or
Risk Areas (CAHRA). This provides detailed
not contribute to human conflict. Our goal
services for us. For our efforts related to
recommendations to help companies respect
is to use only conflict-free gold, tantalum,
human rights in our supply chain, see our
human rights and avoid contributing to
tungsten, and tin (3TG) in our products
Human Rights section. NVIDIA’s supplier
conflict through their mineral purchasing
and to achieve 100% Responsible Minerals
selection process incorporates social and
decisions and practices. Our conflict minerals
Assurance Process-compliant tantalum, tin,
environmental factors, including risk analysis
due diligence program conforms in all material
tungsten, and gold processing facilities.
on topics such as RBA code alignment, product
respects with the OECD framework.
compliance, and environmental initiatives.
We evaluate smelter metrics and share an
We’re a member of the Public Private Alliance
annual update in our Conflict Minerals Report.
(PPA) for Responsible Minerals Trade and
We hold ourselves and our suppliers to the We’ve successfully removed non-compliant
the RMI. The PPA provides funding and
highest standards of behavior, and only 3TG smelters and refiners in our supply
coordination support to organizations
engage suppliers that share our values. chain to help us meet this goal. During the
working within the Democratic Republic of
We closely manage our supply chain to reporting period, 100% of our suppliers and
Congo and adjacent countries to develop
deliver innovative products that satisfy component manufacturers responded with
verifiable conflict-free supply chains, align
our customers’ expectations in a socially the requested information. We also collect
due diligence programs and practices,
and environmentally conscious manner. non-3TG smelter data for cobalt and mica
encourage responsible sourcing from the
from our strategic suppliers and report the
region, promote transparency, and bolster programs aimed at improving transparency
initial results to customers. As the cobalt and
in-region civil society and governmental for responsible sourcing and reducing
mica programs through the RBA’s Responsible
capacity. We support these on-the-ground human rights risks, including forced labor.
Minerals Initiative (RMI) matures, our goal is
to only source from conflict-free refiners.
NVIDIA Sustainability | Product Value Chain 18
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
Additionally, we participate in various RMI Strategic Suppliers standards and evaluated them for additional Program (VAP) on-site, third-party audits
work groups and align our program with the information-, product-, and physical-security to validate the SAQ. We use the results of
Strategic suppliers include those who produce
organization’s tracking of additional minerals expectations. If gaps are discovered, we the assessment, which includes a spending
or handle NVIDIA production materials,
and materials, as well as CAHRAs. We monitor expect an improvement plan to align with analysis, to determine their overall risk.
those for whom we closely manage quality
additional legal requirements, including the EU NVIDIA requirements. The cybersecurity
requirements, those who design our branded
To ensure consistency, suppliers can share VAP
Conflict Minerals Regulations, to determine survey determines supplier risk to be
products, and those who we’re required to
audits with customers. Any uncovered findings
any future obligations regarding conflict low, moderate, or high, and audits are
work with based on customer agreements.
are also made available to those customers.
materials and high-risk regions of the world. conducted on a one- to three-year cycle.
Findings are aggregated anonymously by the
For strategic suppliers, agreements are
RBA and disclosed in their public annual report.
Responsible Supply Chain deployed and tracked through a Quarterly Risk Assessment and Auditing
Business Review (QBR) process to ensure they
All our manufacturing suppliers are Common audit findings include issues related
We have expanded our supplier relationships
meet our expectations, which may influence
expected to comply with the RBA Code of to freely chosen employment, working hours,
to build redundancy and resilience in
our business allocation decisions. Five percent
Conduct and associated NVIDIA policies, wages and benefits, emergency preparedness,
our operations to provide long-term
of the QBR score is based on environmental
including our Agreement for Manufacturer and occupational safety. NVIDIA ensures
manufacturing capacity aligned with growing
and social performance, and expectations
Environmental Compliance. Since 2016, suppliers close all corrective actions in
customer demand. Our supply chain is
vary by quarter. Each quarter, we assess
all NVIDIA Master Service Agreements compliance with its Full RBA membership tier.
concentrated in the Asia-Pacific region. We
these suppliers by product category and rank
executed with suppliers require compliance
use foundries, such as Taiwan Semiconductor
performance, and we perform an annual risk
Manufacturing Company Limited, or TSMC, with the RBA Code of Conduct. Our goal is to audit 100% of our
assessment based on RBA results, geography,
and Samsung Electronics, or Samsung, to Our assessment process involves using the strategic suppliers every two years.
and type of industry. We’ve assessed and
produce our semiconductor wafers. We RBA-Online system to evaluate existing and In FY24, we reviewed VAP audits
adjusted business with suppliers who don’t
purchase memory from Micron Technology, potential new suppliers against product on 67% of our strategic suppliers,
comply with minimum requirements.
Inc., SK Hynix Inc., and Samsung. We engage compliance industry standards, social bringing total audits in the past two
with independent subcontractors and contract We review all strategic suppliers against and environmental criteria, use of conflict years to 93%. We engaged 100% of
manufacturers such as Hon Hai Precision NVIDIA cybersecurity requirements minerals, the RBA Code of Conduct, and strategic suppliers on their corrective
Industry Co., Ltd., Wistron Corporation, and have performed a more in-depth NVIDIA’s code of conduct. All suppliers action plans and continue monitoring
and Fabrinet to perform assembly, testing, assessment of higher-risk suppliers. We are expected to conduct an annual self- suppliers to ensure compliance.
and packaging of our final products. looked at our suppliers’ conformance to assessment questionnaire (SAQ), and we
ISO 27001, ISO 28001, C-TPAT, and NIST
expect biennial Validated Assessment
NVIDIA Sustainability | Product Value Chain 19
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
Product Environmental We have a goal to engage manufacturing by weight. NVIDIA continues to progress We expect carriers to report shipment data
suppliers to effect supplier adoption other sustainability initiatives such as to support carbon emissions calculations
Impact
of science-based targets. In FY24, we identifying opportunities to use paper-based and have sustainability initiatives, which are
To understand the greenhouse gas emissions engaged suppliers totaling over 60% cushioning in data center products, increase both covered in quarterly business reviews.
generated across our product lifecycle of our scope 3 category 1 emissions. packaging recyclability, implement FSC
and in manufacturing, we’ve conducted a paper in corrugate materials, and replace
product carbon footprint analysis for select printed documentation with online versions
We maintain Full Material Disclosures
products. We will use the information to where possible. We continue to add material
for our chip designs and select system
identify opportunities to reduce emissions. identification codes to our packaging parts.
products, which demonstrates our
compliance with restricted substances
Manufacturing
including halogenated flame retardants,
Emissions are generated at every stage of our arsenic, and beryllium. Information on 90%+
product lifecycle, including manufacturing materials we use is reported through
within our supply chain. Since 2014, we’ve various platforms, including Substances
Of our NVIDIA GPU systems
expected our key silicon manufacturing and of Concern in Products and International
packaging was recyclable
systems contract manufacturing suppliers to Material Data System for automotive.
materials by weight in FY24
report their annual energy and water usage,
waste, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, Packaging
and reduction goals and objectives through
We continue to optimize the balance between
the RBA Environmental Survey or CDP. We Transport and Logistics
protecting the environment and ensuring
also expect suppliers to have their GHG
that customers receive products in like- We plan, pack, and execute our raw
emissions verified by a third party. We use
new condition. We embrace opportunities material, work-in-progress, and finished
this supplier data to better understand our
to reduce packaging materials and increase goods shipments to optimize transport
product manufacturing impact and allocate
the proportion of recycled and recyclable and logistics, which results in reduced fuel
carbon emissions to our customers.
materials. Whether products are packaged use and less impact on the environment.
for end users or prepared for bulk shipping,
This includes consolidating shipping
we strive to find the balance between
volumes and weights and implementing a
package density and unboxing experience.
multimodal distribution system. An area
In FY24, over 90% of our NVIDIA GPU of continued focus is to consolidate the
systems packaging was recyclable materials number of pickups and shipments.
NVIDIA Sustainability | Product Value Chain 20
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
End-of-Life Management Product Quality and Safety
NVIDIA-branded products are subject to
Safety is a principle that permeates our
electronic waste disposal requirements in
engineering culture. We incorporate it into
our various global markets, and we take
every step of our product development
seriously our extended responsibility for
process, from design and production
these products. In key regions such as the
to the end-user experience.
U.S. and Europe, we’ve established recycling
Our products undergo rigorous qualification
programs in partnership with reputable
and testing to ensure compliance
third parties and provide information to
with customer safety and reliability
consumers about how to recycle our branded
standards. With these standards in
products through labeling and our website.
mind, we’ve established product safety
We help our customers monetize the
technical committees to oversee safety
residual value in their older DGX servers
throughout the product lifecycle.
when refreshing to the latest technology
Cross-functional teams manage all aspects
with the help of a remarketing partner.
of product quality. Customer quality
Older generation DGX systems may be
engineering provides direct customer
resold in the secondary market, and
support for all quality-related issues,
systems that are not resold are typically
gathers information on customer failures
broken into components and recycled.
and customer-observed failure rates, and
processes returned material authorization.
As part of the continuous improvement
process, recommended design enhancements
are brought to the engineering teams for
incorporation into next-generation products.
We monitor our quality management
system through internal audits and an
annual third-party ISO 9001 assessment.
NVIDIA Sustainability | Product Value Chain 21
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
Responsible Business
Our Code
of conduct training covers topics like ethics,
NVIDIA’s Core Values Our code of conduct outlines our core values preventing workplace harassment, and FY24 Employee Training
sustainability. Employees who have frequent
and establishes the expectations we have Completion Rates
contact with customers, partners, and
about how we conduct business. It guides our
Dream big, start small.
suppliers (such as those in sales, finance,
actions in our professional relationships with 96%+
Take risks, learn fast.
and procurement) complete additional global
fellow employees, and towards our customers,
Innovation
anti-bribery and anti-corruption training.
partners, competitors, vendors, government
Cybersecurity training
regulators, shareholders, and the community In addition to employee cybersecurity
Seek truth, learn
at large. Our code applies to all employees trainings, our Santa Clara headquarters is
from mistakes,
and directors, and we expect all third parties certified to ISO 27001. For more information
Intellectual
share learnings.
Honesty we do business with, including consultants, on our approach to cybersecurity, see pp. 31 98%+
contractors, and other service providers, of our our 2024 Form 10-K filed with the SEC.
to act in a manner consistent with it.
Code of conduct training
Learn, adapt, Investigations Process
Speed & shape the world. Our code is translated into different Our commitment to promoting a culture
Agility languages and available on our of integrity means everyone is expected to
99%+
website. We plan to translate into act ethically and feel empowered to voice
additional languages in FY25. concerns without fear of retaliation.
Maintain the highest
Anti-bribery and
Anyone can confidentially and anonymously
standards.
Excellence & Ethics and Cybersecurity submit a complaint about any matter anti-corruption training
Determination
of concern. These include accounting,
We strive to achieve the highest standards
internal controls, auditing, code of conduct,
of ethical conduct in all our business Employees are encouraged to report
harassment, conflict of interest, or other
Do what’s best for dealings and are committed to promoting suspected code and other policy violations
potential code of conduct, policy, or legal
One the company. a culture of integrity. NVIDIA employees to their manager, a human resources
violations using our Speak Up corporate hotline
Team receive code of conduct training upon hire representative, the legal department, and/
which is hosted by an independent third party.
and then every two years thereafter. Code or the anonymous hotline. We use an
NVIDIA Sustainability | Responsible Business 22
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
external organization for our Speak Up Trustworthy AI Scope and Governance Standards and Frameworks
hotline to ensure those using the hotline feel
To build Trustworthy AI (TAI), we are We look to global frameworks such as the
We endeavor to deliver AI models that:
confident their reports will be anonymous
developing practices, methodologies, EU’s High-Level Expert group on Artificial
if they prefer to report anonymously. We
and tools for datasets, machine learning Intelligence, the U.S. White House AI Bill
have a strict no-retaliation policy regarding
frameworks, AI model development, and of Rights, and Singapore’s Model Artificial
Comply with privacy and
good faith reports of activities that violate
software development and testing. We Intelligence Governance Framework to
data protection laws,
our code, laws, regulations, and policies.
aim to build tools and processes that guide our software development processes,
Our Compliance Committee, comprised enable us, our customers and partners, from concept to performance validation to
of our CFO, EVP Operations, and SVP of and the ecosystem to build TAI models. decommission. We participate in industry-
Perform safely and
Human Resources, ensures communication driven initiatives like ML Commons, as
Our TAI efforts are led by a head of AI & Legal
as intended,
of and adherence to NVIDIA’s ethics policies; well as standards bodies like the IEEE
Ethics and is supported by a dedicated product
establishes procedures for the receipt, Organizational governance of Artificial
team. By design, this team is structured to
retention, and treatment of complaints; and Intelligence Working Group. In FY24, NVIDIA
work cross-functionally with product, product
Provide transparency
promptly and thoroughly conducts ethics- joined the NIST AI Safety Consortium
security, safety, and infrastructure teams to
about a model’s design
related investigations in partnership with and Content Authenticity Initiative, which
ensure our AI aligns to our principles. The Audit
and limitations, and
relevant organizations within NVIDIA. The are focused on the development and use
Committee of our Board receives periodic
Nominating and Corporate Governance of safe and trustworthy AI systems.
updates on our TAI program and initiatives.
Committee oversees the Compliance Minimize unwanted bias
Committee and receives ethics complaints. and give equal opportunity Our global public policy team monitors
global regulations and relevant standards
to benefit from AI.
The Compliance Committee periodically
to ensure we maintain compliance. In FY24,
reviews and assesses the effectiveness of
we piloted an AI Ethics Committee to
its procedures and adjusts as necessary.
advise on generative AI development with
Our Trustworthy AI principles, which we
Our third-party auditor reviews cases
members of our engineering, business, and
share with customers and partners, reflect
quarterly and process updates annually.
legal organizations. We also launched an
our core values and code of conduct.
Employees who wish to understand internal training module to introduce ways
NVIDIA’s investigations process have to incorporate TAI principles into our work.
access to an online training course.
NVIDIA Sustainability | Responsible Business 23
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
Model Risk Management We’ve designed and continue to improve several
tools for internal developers to aid in the
NVIDIA aims to reduce the risk of harm
creation of TAI models:
from deployment of AI models or systems.
Model risk can come from many sources,
including datasets used to train the model, An inspection dashboard that
Translates our principles
malicious attacks against the model, or measures a model’s completion of
into actionable product
failure to comply with laws and regulations. essential steps prior to publication,
life cycle requirements.
and which includes a current
Our model risk management guidance is
performance score and a target goal.
integrated into our AI product lifecycle
process, and outlines to all employees working
on models the elements of development,
validation, audit, and documentation.
Model requirement and dataset
This approach provides internal development approval processes that must be
Outlines steps to identify,
teams with guidance to achieve an innovative met prior to commercial release.
measure, manage, and
Is aligned with and
yet ethically responsible solution.
mitigate risks from
incorporates our
Externally, NVIDIA offers toolkits like our AI and machine
privacy policy.
NeMo Guardrails for easily developing safe learning solutions. AI and machine learning dataset
and trustworthy large language model classification guidance document
conversational systems like ChatGPT. to support classifying and
labeling of vetted datasets.
Model Card Improvements on improved readability with clear language,
increased detail around ethical considerations,
100+ Model cards ensure NVIDIA is communicating
and greater accessibility on our website. In
in the clearest language how its technology Model cards that accompany our
FY24, we enhanced more than 100 model cards
was made and should be used when published models and provide
Model cards enhanced across all developers work with our AI models. We’ve across all domains to meet the Model Card++ information and guidance on
domains to meet the enhanced our model cards to make them more standard. We also briefed and demoed Model a model’s uses and limitations,
Model Card++ standard understandable to consumers, investors, and Card++ to federal government employees including ethical considerations
and the Society of Automotive Engineers.
policy makers. Those enhancements focused such as explainability and privacy.
NVIDIA Sustainability | Responsible Business 24
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
Human Rights Our investigations team will promptly Upstream Human Rights We expect our suppliers to maintain
investigate human rights allegations it progressive employment, health, safety,
We take the issue of forced labor very
The NCG Committee has oversight of
becomes aware of through our Speak and ethical practices that meet or exceed
seriously and conduct regular audits to ensure
policies and practices in connection with
Up line and present any findings to the applicable laws, the RBA Code of Conduct,
all workers in our supply chain are treated with
human rights and provides periodic updates
Compliance Committee that require the our code of conduct, and our Human Rights
respect and dignity. We are full members of
to the Board. At the management level,
input of that committee. We do not tolerate Policy. We also encourage suppliers to use
the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) and
our Corporate Sustainability Steering
retaliation against anyone for making a the RBA Code of Conduct as a platform
work with them and similar industry groups
Committee is responsible for reviewing and
complaint in good faith, bringing a potential to go above and beyond compliance. We
to prevent and eliminate forced labor from
ensuring the effectiveness of our human
violation to the attention of management, or participate in RBA’s RLI and monitor our
global supply chains. Through the RBA, we
rights program. Through this governance
participating or assisting in an investigation. supply chain through VAP audits, which
also work with expert organizations, NGOs,
body and related executive engagement,
cover freely chosen employment, child
management undertakes all actions it NVIDIA has been a signatory of the UN and academia to advance our program and
labor, and freedom of association.
deems reasonable and necessary to ensure Global Compact since June 2022. We are standards, and we support efforts at an
compliance with our Human Rights Policy. also a member of the Responsible Labor industry level to identify and remediate actual In FY24, we reviewed VAP audits on 67%
Initiative (RLI), the Public-Private Alliance and potential cases of labor and human of our strategic suppliers, bringing total
We regularly assess human rights-related
for Responsible Minerals Trade (PPA), and rights abuse. Our supplier audits have not audits in the past two years to 93%. If we
risks and potential impacts, review our policies
the Responsible Minerals Initiative. identified incidents of forced Uyghur labor. uncover findings during these audits, we
and management processes, and seek input
work directly with suppliers to implement
from stakeholders on our approach. We have
any corrective actions. In FY24, we oversaw
begun preparation for a human rights impact
the remediation and repayment by suppliers
Human Rights Principles
assessment across our value chain. We plan
of fees to workers who were discovered
to use the results of that assessment to
We follow the laws of the countries in which we operate and endorse internationally through audits to have paid recruitment fees.
enhance our human rights policy and program.
recognized principles, including:
All our employees are required to complete Product Due Diligence
> United Nations Global Compact > International Covenant on Economic,
training on our code, which includes our We believe AI will enhance human welfare
Social and Cultural Rights
commitment and guidelines to respect > United Nations Guiding Principles and human rights in a myriad of ways.
human rights. Employees, suppliers, and > Universal Declaration of Human Rights > Core Conventions of the International
NVIDIA is accelerating the AI revolution by
other external stakeholders can confidentially Labour Organization
> International Covenant on Civil and
creating platforms and computing tools
and anonymously report a concern about > ILO Declaration on Fundamental
Political Rights
that help developers, researchers, and
human rights using our Speak-Up line, Principles and Rights at Work
data scientists innovate in these areas.
which is available in seven languages.
NVIDIA Sustainability | Responsible Business 25
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
Our products are programmable and general Caucus Congressional staffers, and the
purpose in nature. When we provide tools to White House National Security Council.
help developers create applications for specific We talk to think tanks on energy-efficient
industries, we focus on creating products and supercomputing. We also hosted a
services that enable developers to create and government briefing on NeMo Guardrails,
accelerate socially beneficial applications. ensuring comprehensive engagement on our
commitment to responsible AI development.
When we create new products, platforms,
or services, we have an interdisciplinary Our CEO Jensen Huang joined leaders
team to evaluate whether our offerings from the White House, Congress, and tech
could be used in conflict with our Human industry to discuss AI standards and best
Rights Policy and provide recommendations practices. We also announced support for
to minimize any such risk. voluntary commitments that the Biden
Administration developed to ensure advanced
Public Policy AI systems are safe, secure, and trustworthy.
In Europe, we engaged with stakeholders
NVIDIA engages in the public policy process
in the European Commission, European
to produce better outcomes for people
Parliament and Council of the European Union In a major stride toward building a shared national research infrastructure, the U.S. National Science Foundation has launched the National Artificial Intelligence
throughout the world while advancing the Research Resource pilot program with significant support from NVIDIA. The initiative aims to broaden access to the tools needed to power responsible AI discovery
on the development of policy issues and and innovation. It was announced in January 2024 in partnership with 10 other federal agencies as well as private-sector, nonprofit and philanthropic organizations.
long-term interests of the company and
key regulatory filings. Accordingly, NVIDIA
shareholders. We work with public leaders by
is listed in the EU Transparency Register.
bringing the company’s technical expertise
In the UK, we participated in the AI Safety
to bear on issues of importance, such as
Summit at which the Bletchley Declaration
competitiveness, climate change, and AI.
was signed by 28 countries committed to
We continued engagements in the U.S. on
safe and responsible AI development.
issues that impact NVIDIA’s public policy
priorities, such as AI development and
semiconductor design. In FY24, we joined “AI is increasingly defining our era, and its
several dialogues in the public sector. We potential can best be fulfilled with broad
discussed Model Card++ with the U.S. access to its transformative capabilities.”
House Science, Space, and Technology - NVIDIA founder and CEO Jensen Huang
and Senate Commerce Committees, AI
NVIDIA Sustainability | Responsible Business 26
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
Sustainability Indicators
NVIDIA is committed to transparency, and the following tables provide our disclosure on key sustainability metrics. We report metrics material to our company and sector using the following frameworks and
standards: Task Force for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) for the Technology and Communications sector, Semiconductor industry, and Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI). We reference indicators that align with the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (CoP). NVIDIA reports with reference to the 2021 GRI standards.
About NVIDIA
Metric FY24 Reference Indicator
Organizational details 2024 10-K, pp. 4-5, 11 GRI 2-1
Activities, value chain, and other business relationships 2024 10-K, pp. 5-7 GRI 2-6
Product Value Chain
Governance structure and composition Sustainability Governance GRI 2-9
Committee Composition UNGC G5, G11
2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 15-30
Nomination and selection of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Policies of the Board of Directors GRI 2-10
Chair of the highest governance body Board of Directors GRI 2-11
Committee Composition
2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 25-26
Collective knowledge of the highest governance body 2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 19-24 GRI 2-17
Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body 2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 30-33 GRI 2-18
Remuneration policies and process to determine remuneration 2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 37-38, 43-59 GRI 2-19, 2-20
2023 CDP Climate Change Response, pp. 6-8 UNGC G10
Annual total compensation ratio 2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 60-61 GRI 2-21
Statement on sustainable development strategy Message From Our CEO GRI 2-22
2024 GTC Keynote UNGC G1
NVIDIA Sustainability | Sustainability Indicators 27
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
About NVIDIA
(continued)
Metric FY24 Reference Indicator
Membership associations Political Contributions and Expenditures Policy GRI 2-28
Public Policy
Approach to stakeholder engagement Public Policy GRI 2-29
People, Diversity and Inclusion
Product Value Chain
Compliance with laws and regulations We consider significant fines that are required to be disclosed in the Company’s SEC filings. See our GRI 2-27
2024 Form 10-K filed with the SEC, pp. 10.
Sustainability Governance
Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting Our sustainability reporting covers the same entities as our financial reporting. See our 2024 Form GRI 2-2
10-K filed with the SEC, pp. 86.
Reporting period, frequency, and contact point This report covers our fiscal year ended January 28, 2024 (FY24). We publish our Sustainability report GRI 2-3
annually, and previous reports can be found in the NVIDIA Report Archive. We can be reached at
NVIDIACorporateSustainability@nvidia.com.
Approach to sustainability governance Sustainability Governance GRI 2-12, 2-13, 2-14
2023 CDP Climate Change Response, pp. 4-6 UNGC G1, G4, G5, G7
Societal Impact
Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, FY24 Foundation Annual Report GRI 413-1
and development programs
Political contributions Political Contributions and Expenditures GRI 415-1
NVIDIA Sustainability | Sustainability Indicators 28
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
Climate and Efficiency
Metric FY24 FY23 FY22 Reference Indicator
GHG Emissions1 (MT CO e)
2
Scope 1 14,390 12,346 4,612 GRI 305-1
UNGC E6
SASB TC-SC-110a.1
Scope 2, market-based 40,555 60,671 78,210 GRI 305-2
UNGC E6
Scope 1 and 2, market-based 54,945 73,017 82,822
Scope 2, location-based 178,087 142,909 133,569 GRI 305-2
UNGC E6
Scope 3 3,637,478 3,514,000 2,701,477 GRI 305-3
UNGC E6, E6.1
Category 1: Purchased goods and services2 3,216,144 2,975,189 2,506,722
Category 2: Capital goods2 200,483 353,280 62,586
Category 3: Fuel-and energy-related activities 61,590 67,805 50,631
Category 4: Upstream transportation and distribution 72,562 60,572 37,910
Category 5: Waste generated in operations3 617 579 291
Category 6: Business travel2 17,132 8,633 576
Category 7: Employee commuting 23,019 14,990 21,189
Category 8: Upstream leased assets 45,931 32,952 21,572
External assurance Report of Independent Accountants for select metrics for FY23 and FY24. GRI 2-5
UNGC G13
GHG emissions intensity (Scope 1 and 2 MT CO e/$M revenue) 0.9 2.7 3.1 GRI 305-4
2
1 NVIDIA annually considers reporting boundaries, data sources, and calculation methodology used to calculate scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. Please see our management assertion for details on our methodology.
2 We are continually striving to improve the accuracy of our GHG emissions reporting. In FY24, we changed our measurement methods and criteria for select metrics and have retrospectively updated our previously reported values for FY23 scope 3 emissions for categories 1, 2 and 6.
3 Emissions from waste generated in operations are calculated only for our Santa Clara, CA headquarters location.
NVIDIA Sustainability | Sustainability Indicators 29
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
Climate and Efficiency
Metric FY24 FY23 FY22 Reference Indicator
Reduction of GHG emissions Climate and Efficiency GRI 305-5
2023 CDP Climate Change Response, pp. 29-46, 71 SASB TC-SC-110a.2
Energy (MWh)
Energy used 612,008 496,901 424,997 GRI 302-1
UNGC E9
Non-renewable electricity purchased 134,287 249,429 251,760
Renewable electricity purchased 419,980 193,465 154,160
Renewable electricity generated, onsite solar 599 1,079 762
Fuels purchased 57,142 52,927 18,315
Renewable electricity percentage (%) 76% 44% 38%
Energy intensity (Energy used MWh/$M revenue) 10.1 18.4 15.8 GRI 302-3
UNGC E9
External assurance Report of Independent Accountants for select metrics for FY24. GRI 2-5
UNGC G13
Reduction of energy consumption Energy-Efficient Operations GRI 302-4
2023 CDP Climate Change Response, pp. 38-40 UNGC E9
Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Product Energy Efficiency GRI 302-5
UNGC E9
SASB TC-SC-410a.2
Energy management in manufacturing We are a fabless semiconductor company and do not have our own manufacturing facilities. See SASB TC-SC-130a.1
Product Environmental Impact for how we work with suppliers to track energy usage.
NVIDIA Sustainability | Sustainability Indicators 30
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
Climate and Efficiency
Metric FY24 FY23 FY22 Reference Indicator
Waste4 (metric tons)
Waste generated 2,345 1,856 937 GRI 306-3
UNGC E17
Waste recycled/composted 1,658 1,068 526
Landfill diversion rate (%) 71% 58% 56% GRI 306-4
UNGC E18
General waste recycled 374 295 127
General waste composted 928 460 102
Clean paper recycled 26 48 17
Batteries, hazardous waste, and lamps recycled 3 3 1
Electronic waste recycled 58 152 51
Construction/demolition waste recycled 270 83 228
Waste landfilled 687 789 411 GRI 306-5
UNGC E18
General waste landfilled 639 696 224
Hazardous waste landfilled 0 7 0
Construction/demolition waste landfilled 48 86 186
Management of waste-related impacts Waste Management GRI 306-1, 306-2
Amount of hazardous waste from manufacturing We are a fabless semiconductor Company and do not have our own manufacturing facilities. See SASB TC-SC-150a.1
Product Environmental Impact for how we work with suppliers to track waste reduction efforts.
4 Waste is reported for our Santa Clara, CA headquarters location.
NVIDIA Sustainability | Sustainability Indicators 31
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
Climate and Efficiency
Metric FY24 FY23 FY22 Reference Indicator
Water5 (m³)
Water withdrawal 382,636 376,656 431,991 GRI 303-3
UNGC E11
SASB TC-SC-140a.1
Water consumption 134,219 197,849 239,780 GRI 303-5
SASB TC-SC-140a.1
Water discharge 248,417 178,807 192,210 GRI 303-4
Percentage of water withdrawn in regions with High or Extremely High 2023 CDP Water Security Response, pp. 14-17 SASB TC-SC-140a.1
Baseline Water Stress
Interactions with water as a shared resource Water Conservation GRI 303-1
UNGC E11
5 FY22 and FY23 figures are revised to align to the operational control boundaries of our Scope 1 and 2 GHG inventory. Our water data is not comparable year-over-year due to calculation methodology changes.
NVIDIA Sustainability | Sustainability Indicators 32
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
People, Diversity and Inclusion
Metric FY24 Reference Indicator
Employees 2024 10-K, pp. 11-12 GRI 2-7
Collective bargaining agreements Employees in Brazil are unionized, and employees in Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, GRI 2-30
Italy, Netherlands, Poland, and Sweden could participate in unions but NVIDIA is legally not allowed to UNGC L1.2
inquire about their involvement. 4.5% represents the highest possible unionized presence that could
exist in NVIDIA’s workforce.
There are collective bargaining agreements in Belgium, Finland, France, Israel, and Italy, covering 13.4%
of our employee population.
Benefits and promotion of worker health Benefits and Compensation GRI 401-2, 401-3, 403-6
Benefits at NVIDIA UNGC L1, L2, L3, L4, L5,
L11, L12
Programs for upgrading employee skills and average hours of training Learning and Development GRI 404-1, 404-2
Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Pay and Promotion GRI 404-3
development reviews
Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Pay and Promotion GRI 405-2
UNGC L8
Metric FY24 FY23 FY22 Reference Indicator
Employee Health and Safety
Lost-time case rate (U.S.)6 0.01 0.01 - GRI 403-2, 403-9
UNGC L9
OSHA recordable incident rate (U.S.)6 0.11 0.10 0.06
Fatalities (global) None None None GRI 403-9
6 The Lost Time Case Rate is calculated by multiplying the number of incidents that were lost time cases by 200,000 and dividing by the number of labor hours at the company. The OSHA recordable incident rate calculated by multiplying the number of recordable cases by 200,000 and dividing by the number of labor hours at
the company.
NVIDIA Sustainability | Sustainability Indicators 33
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
People, Diversity and Inclusion
Metric FY24 Reference Indicator
Employee Health and Safety
Occupational health and safety Our Health and Safety (H&S) team oversees workplace conditions for NVIDIANs globally. H&S team GRI 403-1, 403-4, 403-5,
members provide guidance to ensure that facilities meet or exceed local safety requirements, promote 403-7, 403-8
safe work practices, and support compliance with applicable health and safety legislation and policies. UNGC L1, L2, L3, L4, L5
Our H&S framework includes: SASB TC-SC-320a.1
> A network of office-level committees and site safety officers.
> Globally applicable programs on topics including ladder safety, ergonomics, vehicle safety, and
chemical management.
> Role-specific online training courses such as hazardous waste, data center safety, lab safety, and
site safety officer training.
We identify and assess hazards and risks through routine inspections, external audits, incident
reporting, and investigations. Incidents and the results of incident investigations are recorded in
our global security database. Our processes for hazard assessment and incident investigation are
documented in our Illness and Injury Prevention Program.
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings We disclose information on legal proceedings in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our Annual SASB TC-SC-320a.2
associated with employee health and safety violations Reports on Form 10-K. In FY24, there were no instances associated with employee health and safety
violations.
NVIDIA Sustainability | Sustainability Indicators 34
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
Workforce and Diversity Data
Metric FY24 FY23 FY22 Reference Indicator
Region7
Americas 49.8% 49.6% 48.5% GRI 2-7
APAC 16.8% 16.7% 16.2%
EMEA 19.8% 19.7% 20.3%
India 13.6% 14.1% 15.0%
Employee Type7
Executive 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% GRI 405-1
Management 16.7% 17.2% 17.6%
Regular Employees 83.2% 82.7% 82.3%
Age7
20-30 Years 22.0% 22.8% 22.7% GRI 405-1
31-50 Years 63.4% 62.8% 62.8%
51+ Years 14.6% 14.4% 14.5%
Gender7
Women 19.7% 19.2% 19.0% GRI 405-1
Men 79.4% 80.0% 80.4%
No data or not disclosed 0.9% 0.8% 0.6%
NVIDIA Sustainability | Sustainability Indicators 35
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
Workforce and Diversity Data
Metric FY24 FY23 FY22 Reference Indicator
Positions Held By Women
In technical roles 15.2% 14.7% 14.4% GRI 405-1
Managers 17.7% 17.1% 16.5%
Leaders 13.1% 11.4% 12.0%
Executive Officers 40.0% 40.0% 40.0%
Board of Directors 33.3% 23.1% 23.1%
Race/Ethnicity (U.S.)7
American Indian Or Alaska Native 0.1% 0.1% 0.2% GRI 405-1
Asian 51.0% 50.0% 49.2%
Black Or African American 2.1% 2.2% 2.4%
Hispanic Or Latino 3.9% 3.6% 3.3%
Native Hawaiian Or Other Pacific Islander 0.3% 0.3% 0.3%
Two Or More Races 1.5% 1.4% 1.4%
White 35.3% 36.3% 36.8%
No data or not disclosed 5.9% 6.0% 6.5%
Employee Self-Identification (U.S.)
Disability 3.2% 2.7% 2.1% GRI 405-1
Veteran 1.5% 1.5% 1.4%
New employee hires and employee turnover Recruitment GRI 401-1
Engagement and Retention
Diversity of governance bodies and employees 2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 7, 18 GRI 405-1, UNGC G11
7 Numbers may not sum to 100% due to rounding effects.
NVIDIA Sustainability | Sustainability Indicators 36
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
Product Value Chain
Metric FY24 Reference Indicator
New suppliers that were screened using environmental or social Responsible Sourcing GRI 308-1, 414-1
criteria Human Rights
Negative impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Responsible Sourcing GRI 308-2, 414-2
Human Rights SASB TC-SC-440a.1
NVIDIA Responsible Minerals Policy
Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association Risk Assessment and Auditing GRI 407-1
and collective bargaining may be at risk Human Rights Policy UNGC L1, L2, L3, L4, L5,
L11, L12
Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor Human Rights GRI 408-1
Risk Assessment and Auditing UNGC L1, L2, L3, L4, L5,
Human Rights Policy L11, L12
Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or Human Rights GRI 409-1
compulsory labor Risk Assessment and Auditing UNGC L1, L2, L3, L4, L5,
Human Rights Policy L11, L12
Percentage of production from owned facilities We are a fabless semiconductor Company and do not have our own manufacturing facilities. SASB TC-SC-000.B
NVIDIA Sustainability | Sustainability Indicators 37
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
Responsible Business
Metric FY24 Reference Indicator
Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Policies of the Board of Directors GRI 2-15
2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 45
Communication of critical concerns Investigations Process GRI 2-16
Policy commitments Company Policies GRI 2-23
UNGC G2, G3, G7, G7.1
HR2, HR2.1, L1.1, E1.1
Embedding policy commitments Our Code GRI 2-24
Code of Conduct
Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns Investigations Process GRI 2-25, 2-26
UNGC G8
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings We disclose information on legal proceedings in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our Annual SASB TC-SC-520a.1
associated with anti-competitive behavior regulations Reports on Form 10-K.
Anti-corruption policies and procedures Anti-Corruption Policy GRI 205-1, 205-2
UNGC AC3, G6
NVIDIA Sustainability | Sustainability Indicators 38
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
TCFD Index
We disclose information relevant to the recommendations prescribed by the Task Force for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in our 2023 CDP Climate Change response.
Disclosure Item Recommended Disclosure Cross-Reference
Governance a. Board Oversight—Describe the Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. C1. Governance – C1.1; pp. 4-5
b. Management’s Role—Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities. C1. Governance – C1.2; pp. 6
Strategy a. Risks and Opportunities—Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the C2. Risks & Opportunities – C2.1, C2.3 and C2.4; pp. 9-10,
short, medium, and long term. 14-20
b. Impact on Organization—Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s C2. Risks & Opportunities – C2.3 and C2.4; pp. 14-20,C3.
businesses, strategy, and financial planning. Business Strategy – C3.1, C3.2, C3.3, C3.4; pp., 20-28
c. Resilience of Strategy—Describe the potential impact of different scenarios, including a 2°C scenario, on the C3. Business Strategy – C3.2; pp. 21-24
organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning.
Risk Management a. Risk Assessment Processes—Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks. C2. Risks & Opportunities – C2.1 and 2.2; pp. 9-14
b. Risk Management Processes—Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks. C2. Risks & Opportunities – C2.1, and C2.2; pp. 9-14
c. Integration into Overall Risk Management—Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate- C2. Risks & Opportunities - C2.1, C2.2; pp. 9-14, C3.
related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management. Business Strategy – C3.3 and C3.4; pp. 24-28
Metrics and a. Climate-Related Metrics—Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and C4. Targets and Performance - C4.2; pp. 38-42, C5.
Targets opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process. Emissions Methodology – C5.1, C5.2, C5.3; pp. 47-56, C8.
Energy - C8.2; pp. 73-111
b. Scope 1,2,3 GHG Emissions—Disclose scope 1, scope 2, and, if appropriate, scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, C6. Emissions Data - C6.1, C6.2, C6.3, C6.4, C6.5, and
and the related risks. C6.7; pp. 56-67, C7. Emissions Breakdowns - C7.1, C7.2,
C7.3, C7.4, C7.5, C7.6; pp. 68-70
c. Climate Related Targets—Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and C4. Targets and Performance - C4.1, C4.2; pp. 29-42
opportunities and performance against targets.
NVIDIA Sustainability | Sustainability Indicators 39
Message From Introduction Climate and People, Diversity Product Value Responsible Sustainability
Our CEO Efficiency and Inclusion Chain Business Indicators
U.N. Sustainable Development Goals
We continue to align our business activities to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Here are a few ways we contributed to the SDGs in FY24.
SDG Our Support Our Impact
Our employees’ well-being, physical, emotional, and financial health is a top priority, and we aim NVIDIA launched more than two dozen new microservices that allow healthcare enterprises worldwide
to support them by offering a suite of services where people can choose what works best for to take advantage of the latest advances in generative AI from anywhere and on any cloud. They offer
them. We partner with NVIDIA’s community resource groups to tailor support programs based advanced imaging, natural language and speech recognition, and digital biology generation, prediction,
on targeted needs, including gender affirmation support, enhanced health insurance coverage and simulation, accelerating transformation for healthcare companies as generative AI introduces
for members with developmental delays, and mental health counselor search tools. numerous opportunities for pharmaceutical companies, doctors, and hospitals.
We continue to invest in entry-level feeder programs around the world, including the NVIDIA Embodying the convergence of AI and academia, the University of Florida inaugurated the Malachowsky
Ignite program that prepares first- and second- year college students for an NVIDIA internship Hall for Data Science & Information Technology, marking a milestone in the partnership between UF alum
the following summer. We implement tools to help us identify a wider pool of diverse talent in and NVIDIA co-founder Chris Malachowsky, NVIDIA and the state of Florida—a collaboration that has
the student population, and our recruitment efforts in the U.S. attracted underrepresented propelled UF to the forefront of AI innovation.
applicants through virtual and on-campus events.
NVIDIA continues to achieve pay parity, defined as no statistically significant differences in In FY24, five NVIDIANs were among 43 women honored by the Silicon Valley YWCA for excelling in their
compensation based on gender, race, or ethnicity, for the past several years, and we plan to fields, making significant contributions in their executive and professional roles, and giving back to the
continue doing so. We offer comprehensive benefits programs worldwide, including full-cost community.
reimbursement for eligible adoption, surrogacy, and fertility treatment expenses.
We believe AI should respect privacy and data protection regulations, operate in a secure and The U.S. National Science Foundation has launched the National Artificial Intelligence Research Resource
safe way, function in a transparent and accountable manner, and avoid unwanted biases and pilot program with significant support from NVIDIA. The initiative aims to broaden access to the tools
discrimination. Trustworthy AI principles are foundational to our end-to-end development and needed to power responsible AI discovery and innovation, in partnership with 10 other federal agencies as
essential for the technical excellence that enables partners, customers, and developers to do well as private-sector, nonprofit, and philanthropic organizations.
their best work.
To manage the GHG emissions footprint of our data centers, labs, and offices, we strategically The National Grid Electricity System Operator (ESO) is testing AI models that provide granular, near-term
focus on locating new sites, selecting facilities to expand, managing our operations efficiently, forecasts of sunny and cloudy conditions over the UK’s solar panels. With better forecasts, ESO could
and sourcing renewable energy. Our current goal to source all global electricity use for offices cut down on the extra fossil fuel energy held as reserve—improving efficiency while decreasing carbon
and data centers under operational control from renewable energy is expected to result in zero footprint.
scope 2 market-based emissions by the end of our fiscal year ending January 26, 2025.
NVIDIA Sustainability | Sustainability Indicators 40
About This Report
We welcome feedback on this report and our performance. Send comments and suggestions to our management’s beliefs and assumptions. We caution readers that these statements
NVIDIACorporateSustainability@nvidia.com. are merely predictions and are not guarantees of future results. Actual events may differ
materially, perhaps adversely. In particular, goals and targets described in this report are
The discussion of topics included in this report and our other corporate responsibility disclosures
aspirational and not guarantees or promises that the goals or targets will be met.
should not be read as implying that such topics are “material” in the context of the U.S. federal
securities laws, Delaware General Corporation Law, or any other regulatory framework, even Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports
where we use words such as “material” or “materiality”. Our approach to sustainability disclosures on Form 8-K, and other filings made with the SEC discuss some of the important risk factors
is informed by reporting frameworks, such as the GRI, that involve broader definitions of that could contribute to differences between projections and outcomes, which could affect
materiality than used for purposes of our compliance with SEC disclosure obligations. As a result, our business, operational results, and financial condition. Except as required by law, NVIDIA
“materiality” for purposes of our sustainability reporting includes impacts on communities, the does not recognize any obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements.
environment, and stakeholders such as employees, customers, and suppliers, and the inclusion
Historical and forward-looking statements contained in this report may be based on
of topics in our sustainability reporting, even when described as “material,” does not indicate
standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes
that such topics are material to the Company’s business, operations, or financial condition.
that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. Such
NVIDIA’s reporting follows our fiscal calendar, FY24 data corresponds to the period historical and forward- looking statements may be subject to measurement uncertainties
January 30, 2023, to January 28, 2024. The information contained in this report is accurate as resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such
of approximately May 24, 2024, unless stated otherwise. The information is subject to change, information and may include estimates or approximations. We believe that such estimates
and NVIDIA will not necessarily disclose such changes. The information may be updated, are appropriate and reasonable; however, due to inherent uncertainties in making estimates
amended, supplemented, or otherwise altered by subsequent reports or filings by NVIDIA. and assumptions, actual results could differ from the original estimates. The precision of
different measurement techniques may also vary. As we improve our methodologies and as new
Certain statements included or incorporated by reference in this report, other than statements
information becomes available, we may continue to revise our estimates and assumptions.
or characterizations of historical fact, including, but not limited to, statements as to: our
growth; our market opportunities; the performance, impact, and benefits of our products This report also includes certain information, including with respect to emissions factors,
and technologies; our strategies; our priorities, goals, and objectives; market trends; future that is obtained from published sources or third parties. The accuracy and completeness of
forecasts; and other predictions and estimates are forward-looking statements and are such information are not guaranteed. Such information is subject to assumptions, estimates
based on our current expectations, estimates, and projections about our industry and and other uncertainties, and we have not independently verified this information.
© 2024 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.
