2022
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL,
AND GOVERNANCE REPORT
DRIVING TOWARD A MORE SUSTAINABLE FUTURE
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 1
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ABOUT OLD DOMINION FREIGHT LINE, INC. .......................................................................................................3
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE (ESG) HIGHLIGHTS .............................................................5
CEO STATEMENT .....................................................................................................................................................6
BUILDING A MORE SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN ............................................................................................7
OPTIMIZING OUR NATIONWIDE NETWORK .....................................................................................................10
ADVANCING OUR SERVICE CENTERS AND FLEET MAINTENANCE CENTERS ...........................................11
OUR PEOPLE AND FAMILY SPIRIT .....................................................................................................................14
DIVERSITY ACTION PLAN .....................................................................................................................................17
DRIVER DEVELOPMENT AND SAFETY ..............................................................................................................19
SERVICE CENTER SAFETY ...................................................................................................................................21
ENGAGING OUR COMMUNITY ..............................................................................................................................22
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND TRANSPARENCY ........................................................................................24
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION .............................................................................................................................28
ABOUT THIS REPORT ...........................................................................................................................................29
CONTENT INDICES ................................................................................................................................................30
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 2
ABOUT OLD DOMINION FREIGHT LINE, INC.
Helping the World Keep Promises®
Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc. (“Old Dominion” or “OD”) is a
publicly traded corporation that was founded in 1934 and is one
of the largest North American less-than-truckload (LTL) motor
carriers. Headquartered in Thomasville, North Carolina, OD provides
regional, inter-regional, and national LTL services through a single
integrated, union-free organization. Our service offerings, which
include expedited transportation, are provided through an expansive
network of service centers located throughout the continental United
States. OD also maintains strategic alliances with other carriers to
provide LTL services throughout North America. In addition to its core
LTL services, OD offers a range of value-added services including
container drayage, truckload brokerage and supply chain consulting.
OD adheres to a strategic foundation focused on adapting to the
growing market; providing the highest level of customer service;
maintaining pricing discipline and a sound financial position;
strengthening our service center network; and investing in safety,
equipment, information technology (IT), and infrastructure. At OD’s
core is our OD Family Spirit, and we are dedicated to taking care of
our employees and maintaining our company culture. Our employee
The OD Nationwide Service Center Network
culture separates OD from our competition, and we believe our
OD Family of employees’ commitment to service excellence will keep
driving our strong performance over the long term.
Keeping our promises is how we do the job. We employ a team of
For more than 85 years, OD has been Helping the World Keep dispatchers to control the movements of freight between our service
Promises®. We strive for on-time and damage-free delivery, and centers through an integrated freight movement system. We use load-
our industry-leading record of on-time service and low claims ratio planning software to optimize efficiencies throughout our LTL operations,
differentiates us from our competitors. Based on the nature of our and our management team regularly monitors freight movement, transit
business, LTL motor carriers require an expansive network of service times, load factors, and other productivity measurements to facilitate
centers in addition to larger breakbulk or hub facilities. As of the date efficient arrivals and departures and to keep our promise of timely and
of this report, we have 256 service centers in 48 states across the damage-free delivery.
country with more than 22,000 full-time employees, and we operate
one of the newest, technologically advanced, and energy-efficient
fleets in the LTL industry. The average age of our in-service tractors
typically ranges from four to five years, and we remain focused on
additional opportunities to increase efficiency and safety.
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 3
The Power of Promises
Vision Mission
To be the premier To provide innovative
transportation solutions solutions designed to exceed
company in domestic and customer expectations,
global markets served. increase shareholder value,
and ensure the continued
success of the OD Company
and our family of employees.
Elements of Success Values
• OD’s Promise of Premium Service is composed of 4 main points:
1. The Meaning of Quality
Customer focus, total “PROMISES” – Professional, 2. The Cost of Quality
3. You and Your Customer
involvement, measurement, Reliable, Open, Mindful, 4. Continuous Improvement
systematic support, and Innovative, Serving, Ethical, • Service 2.0D: Exceeding Customer’s Expectations
continuous improvement. Supportive. • 1-10-100: Fix, Prevent & Improve
• P.R.I.D.E. Product • Relationship • Integrity • Delivery • Expense
• F.A.D.E. Focus • Analyze • Develop • Execute
• The Power of Promises is Quality and Quality is hHooww wWee a Achciheiveev eo uOru Vri sViiosnio.n.
• OD’s Vision: To be the premier transportation solutions company
in domestic and global markets served.
we are Professional. we are Reliable. we are Open. we are Mindful.
we are Innovative. we are Serving. we are Ethical. we are Supportive.
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 4
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE (ESG) HIGHLIGHTS
2022 Highlights
Biodiesel and Renewable Fuels
OD has increased its use of biodiesel and other renewable fuels by 45.7%1 from 2020 to 2022.
First all-electric equipment delivered to OD
Our first battery-electric class 8 tractor, switcher, and forklifts were delivered to our Rialto, California service center in 2022 for driver
orientation and testing.
Seventeen OD drivers competed in the 2022 National Truck Driving Championships in Indianapolis, Indiana
OD had over 230 drivers compete at the state trucking associations’ Truck Driving Championships, with 17 winning their class and earning
the opportunity to compete at the American Trucking Associations National Truck Driving Championship.
Investment in our service center network
These strategically located service centers drive improvements in operating efficiencies and provide capacity to address our customers’
freight needs.
Named to Forbes 2022 America’s Best Large Employers List
The list evaluates employers based on recommendations from respondents who were asked to rate their willingness to recommend their
own employer to family and friends. OD was named to the list for the second consecutive year for commitment to professional development,
company culture, and employer excellence.
New ESG Disclosures
This report includes OD’s first comprehensive details of employee demographic data. We have also added certain disclosures referenced to
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards.
1Alternative fuels B100/R100 are represented in diesel equivalency gallons.
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 5
CEO STATEMENT
Significant Opportunities Ahead
To Our OD Family of Employees, Customers and Shareholders, workforce with the best equipment,
technology, and training available.
In my more than four decades in the transportation industry, I have
I am proud of our success in delivering
learned that change is inevitable but consistent focus on a common,
on our long-term strategic plan and
proven, long-term strategic plan is critical for success. Supply chains
commitment to continuously invest
are undergoing a reorganization. This is the time to remake the world’s
in our OD Family of employees, asset
supply chains, embedding intelligence, efficiency, and resilience so
capacity, and technologies that can
that the next set of challenges we face can be met with limited freight
drive operational efficiencies and
disruption. We believe there are significant opportunities for LTL freight
position us for future growth.
to expand with these supply chain improvements and OD stands ready
At the beginning of 2023, I announced
for the challenge.
my upcoming retirement as President
In 2022, we extended our strong record of customer service with 99% and CEO. It has been an absolute
on-time delivery and a claims ratio of 0.1%. These results provided our privilege to serve Old Dominion
customers with access to inventory while also reducing emissions from over the past 30 years and to keep
moving additional inventory to replace damaged items or rush deliveries. promises to our customers,
These results and our other customer service-focused efforts led to employees, and communities. Change
Old Dominion being named as the No. 1 national LTL carrier in 2022 by can fuel growth and excitement, which is why it is my pleasure to bring
Mastio and Company for the thirteenth consecutive year. We recognize forward Marty Freeman as the company’s next President and Chief
our people are our most valuable asset, and we are committed to creating Executive Officer as of July 1, 2023. Marty is a champion of our OD Family
a sustainable workforce through industry-competitive wages; a robust Spirit and has exceptional relationships with our employees and our
benefits package; employee safety enhancements; continuous education customers. Marty will continue to promote the same culture and execution
through OD truck driver training, supervisor training, and management of our long-term strategic plan, and I look forward to working with him
training programs; and prioritization of work-life balance. while I continue to serve on our Board of Directors. We are pleased with
the direction of OD in the transportation industry and remain committed
We continued to be recognized as one of the most sought-after places to
to driving continued profitable market share gains and increases in
work, being named by Forbes as one of America’s Best Large Employers
shareholder value.
for 2022. OD stands strongly behind a culture of family spirit, which is
what helps differentiate us as a customer-centric and trusted partner. In
Thank you,
addition to our company culture, we prioritize the safety of our OD Family
of employees. We continue to focus on driver safety and equipping our
Greg C. Gantt
President and Chief Executive Officer
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 6
Embedding Efficiency Within Our Operations
To improve efficiency throughout OD’s operations, we
continue to invest in our fleet and service centers by
purchasing new equipment, adopting new technologies,
and making fleet modifications, which helps reduce our
impact on the environment. We strive for continuous
improvement through our capital investments and by
assessing and managing our energy usage, waste levels,
and carbon emissions.
Greenhouse Gas Measurement and
Emissions Per Ton Mile Reduction
OD has inventoried its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
from 2018-2022 to measure and identify where emissions
are being produced throughout our operations, enabling
OD to analyze and manage these activities. Due to the large
volume of diesel fuel that is consumed by tractors, most
of our emissions are associated with Scope 1 emissions,
which are direct emissions from sources owned or
controlled by OD. 12,000,000,000 0.000141
OD normalizes its Scope 1 emissions data by measuring
10,000,000,000 0.000136
them in ton-miles, which OD defines as one ton of freight
carried one mile. From 2020 to 2022, OD increased its
8,000,000,000 0.000131
ton miles by approximately 28%, as our business levels
increased significantly over this period of time. Over the 6,000,000,000 0.000126
same period, our Scope 1 emissions per ton mile
decreased by approximately 7%, demonstrating our 4,000,000,000 0.000121
operational efficiencies.
2,000,000,000 0.000116
0 0.000111
2020 2021 2022
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 7
seliM
noT
latoT
Scope
1
Emissions
per
Ton
Mile
BUILDING A MORE SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN
Scope 1 Emissions per Ton Miles
Year
Total Ton Miles Emissions per ton mile
Fleet Efficiency
During 2022, we invested approximately costs, keep transit times competitive, improve
$365 million upgrading our fleet of tractors and service metrics, and maximize fuel efficiency. The
trailers and expect to invest another $365 million addition of more fuel-efficient vehicles, along with
in 2023. OD continues to operate one of the our continued use of trailer skirts, air dams, and
newest fleets in the LTL industry, with an average deflectors, is expected to further improve fuel
tractor age of 5.4 years as of December 31, 2022. efficiency and subsequently the associated GHG
Our average tractor age has increased from 4.2 emissions from our operations.
years as of June 30, 2020, due to challenges in
Additionally, our fuel efficiency training focuses
the supply chain and the availability of Class 8
on progressive shifting, maintaining consistent
tractors. We will continue to work toward
speeds, and reducing idling time to promote
re-establishing our normal replacement cycle
efficient tractor operation on the road. Driver
and reduce the average age of our tractors in
training and investments in tractor fuel utilization
the coming years as supply chains improve. Our
help maximize our fleet efficiency. As part of our
tractor replacement cycle is based on several
new driver training, an additional 2,114 drivers
criteria, which include type, application, years in
were trained on these concepts in 2022. Efficient
service, usage, and cost of operation.
and consistent driving practices will help positively
Regardless of their mileage, tractors are serviced impact our Scope 1 emissions and help reduce fuel
at least quarterly. OD’s internal technician training costs across our operations.
program is Automotive Service Excellence
Biodiesel and Other Renewable Fuels
(ASE) accredited, which helps ensure that our
technicians are well-trained- which in turn In 2022, Old Dominion increased its usage of
reduces the risk of equipment failure and helps biodiesel and other renewable fuels to
ensure that the equipment operates at peak 7.1 million gallons. This represents a 45.7%1
efficiency. By using efficient tractors and trailers, increase from 4.8 million gallons in 2020. Biodiesel
OD benefits from the reduction in associated fuel and other renewable fuels are a critical part of
costs and carbon emissions. Old Dominion’s transition to low-carbon fuels. We
ensure manufacturer guidelines are followed to
Maintaining our fleet of more than 56,000 tractors
enhance the service life and performance of our
and trailers involves working with our suppliers
tractors while striving to incorporate biodiesel
to add new equipment on a regular basis.
blends where practical and economical.
Operating a well-maintained fleet allows us to
keep maintenance down-time low, reduce repair
1Alternative fuels B100/R100 are represented in diesel equivalency gallons.
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 8
Electric Vehicle Deployment
In September 2022, we received our first fully battery-electric Class 8 tractor,
In addition, OD’s tractors and trailers are equipped with auto-
switcher, and forklifts at OD’s service center in Rialto, California. These
inflating, low-rolling resistance SmartWay® Program-endorsed
investments have enabled OD to test firsthand the opportunities and limitations
tires, which are fuel and cost efficient. Our tractor performance
of this equipment. Because switchers only operate on our service center
is measured by a telematics system that provides data to assess
property, they have a significantly lower mileage range requirement compared
certain operating statistics, such as miles per gallon by tractor
to the average daily mileage requirement for our on-road tractors. Switchers
and driver.
and forklifts also have available recharging time during the day. Testing of this
equipment serves as an important step in assessing the viability of electric
As a result of these actions, OD has been recognized by the
vehicles (EVs) in support of our LTL business operations. Electric switchers and
United States Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA)
electric forklifts may work within our performance criteria, but we continue to
SmartWay® Program for seven consecutive years as a leader
face a significant challenge on the cost of these units as well as infrastructure
in supply chain freight environmental performance and energy
requirements to support recharging a significant number of electric units at any
efficiency. OD continues to voluntarily participate in the U.S.
particular service center location.
EPA SmartWay® Program, which is a public-private partnership
that helps companies advance supply chain sustainability by
Additionally, we have experienced performance challenges with our battery-
measuring, benchmarking, and improving freight transportation
electric Class 8 tractor. The current driving range, weight capacity, and costs
efficiency. OD has proudly participated in the SmartWay®
associated with emerging EV tractor technologies limit their potential use in OD’s
Program for 13 years.
fleet at this time. As the operating performance criteria for EV Class 8 tractors
improves and these tractors become more cost-effective, we plan to explore
expanded opportunities for electrification. We remain optimistic regarding the
prospect of advancing new natural gas engine options and the potential use of
hydrogen, but these technologies must first become economically viable and
meet our performance criteria.
Sustainable Operations and Environmental Excellence
OD utilizes trailer customizations such as deck bars and racking systems
to maximize trailer load size and reduce product damage and miles driven
to handle replacement or return products. Where it is legally permitted,
trailer combinations such as twin 28-foot trailers, triple 28-foot trailers, and
combinations of 48-foot and 28-foot trailers are used to minimize the number of
tractors on the road while maximizing the cargo load per mile. These smart and
sustainable actions lead to less emissions and fewer miles traveled.
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 9
OPTIMIZING OUR NATIONWIDE NETWORK
Providing industry leading services
Old Dominion is committed to operational excellence and
to providing industry-leading service to our customers. We
strategically plan our service centers, driver delivery routes,
and schedules to optimize distance and load.
We are regularly enhancing our LTL freight network
capacity. Our $299.5 million investment in our service
center network in 2022 demonstrates OD’s commitment to
operational excellence and to build network capacity. OD
is focused on identifying new cities for expansion, as well
as enhancing current service centers by adding more door
capacity, upgrading technology, and providing additional
training to our employees, allowing us to better serve
customers as demand increases.
To consistently offer premium service, OD seeks to locate
service centers where future growth and heightened
customer demand are anticipated. The addition of service
centers in strategic locations reduces shipping times,
enhances delivery flexibility, and provides increased
capacity in key metropolitan areas.
involves changing the way our current processes are conducted. Improving data exchanges
We maintain a digitally available Operational Level Map, between shippers through electronic means allows us to plan for freight movement
which details the real-time status of OD’s service centers. more efficiently. For example, paper bills of lading are prone to error, require manual
Each service center reports when service levels are intervention, and are less efficient for transmission of data than electronic means. As we
reduced due to inclement weather, allowing us to prepare digitize our processes, we make our service offerings more seamless and move into a more
for disruptions and to keep safety and communication to paperless environment.
our customers at the forefront.
An important part of this process is our award-winning online tools, which include tracing,
rate estimators, and pickup scheduling. This technology helps ensure shipments move as
Technology That Serves Our Customers
safely and efficiently as possible, and that our customers have access to the most up-to-
Recent investments in technological innovations, including
date information about their shipment progress and delivery times. Other technologies
real-time tracking and traceability, allow us to accommodate
like our use of the Electronic Data Interchange standard, mobile scanning computers, our
evolving customer needs.
cutting-edge dock yard management system, and OD’s Inbound Route Planner all help
optimize our operations, increase customer satisfaction, and ensure Old Dominion remains
We are focused on finding ways to integrate technology for
a leader in the LTL shipping industry.
network improvements and efficiency gains. Sometimes that
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 10
ADVANCING OUR SERVICE CENTERS AND FLEET MAINTENANCE CENTERS
Investing in Energy Efficiency
OD has invested heavily in energy efficiency for new and renovated
service centers. We have installed energy-efficient lighting, motion
detectors, and high-efficiency fans, and are actively investing in
IT infrastructure and third-party data management to reduce our
energy consumption.
We recently finalized a number of LED lighting upgrade projects, which
addresses 98% of the 231 OD-owned (not leased) service centers. Since
2016, the total cost savings from these upgrades are estimated to be
approximately $9 million using a national average for price/kilowatt-hour
and estimations provided from our vendor. The total energy savings are
estimated to be 90,500 MWh over the same period, based on comparisons
to estimated energy use by legacy equipment.
These LED lighting projects have supported OD’s ambition to reduce
our GHG Scope 2 emissions inventory while realizing cost efficiencies.
Throughout the life of the projects, OD has avoided more than 64,000
metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO e) emissions.
2
Generating Onsite Solar Power
In 2011, OD installed its first roof-top photovoltaic (PV) solar power
generation system at our facility in Thomasville, North Carolina. The
1.8-megawatt system was established with a power purchase agreement
with a local utility to sell the electricity generated by the onsite PV.
By utilizing the existing roof infrastructure, the system safeguards against
any biodiversity loss or deforestation. In 2022, the system generated more
than 1,600 MWh of energy, which is equivalent to an annual CO e reduction
2
of 1,134 metric tons. This is equivalent to:
Pre-Construction Impact Mitigation
• 252 gasoline-passenger vehicles driven for one year;
• 127,590 gallons of gasoline consumed;
While maintaining and expanding our operations, OD closely monitors
• 143 homes’ energy use for one year; or
new developments to limit our impact on the local environment. All
• Carbon sequestered by 1,352 acres of U.S. forests in one year. new projects involve pre-construction site assessments that include
biodiversity, protected species, and other environmental factors.
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 11
Selection of new construction sites is regulated by local environmental Motor Waste
agencies, and OD makes impact mitigation and regulatory compliance a
priority for new projects. We actively work with local authorities in the One of our waste management and recycling partners manages the responsible
construction of properties that are minimally impactful to local ecosystems facilitation of six different waste management categories within our operations.
while being beneficial to our operations. This partner manages relevant waste management work at our fleet maintenance
centers across the country for used oil filters, motor oil, antifreeze, parts
Waste and Water Management
washers, and paint gun cleaners, and also handles containerized waste and
vacuum services.
Old Dominion is committed to the proper management and reduction of
hazardous and non-hazardous waste from our operations. We actively pursue In 2022, we recovered and recycled over 725,000 pounds of used oil filters from
partnerships and new technologies to directly reduce or manage our waste our 44 fleet maintenance centers across the country, a 5% increase from 2021.
products. We are transitioning to paperless communications, electronic Similarly, we recycled 100% of the 378,046 gallons of reclaimed motor oil. Finally,
waste (“e-waste”) management systems, and recycling programs across the we were able to reclaim and recycle more than 25,000 gallons of used antifreeze
organization to reduce waste and environmental impact. from our vehicle operations.
In 2022, we successfully diverted over 7,000,000 pounds of general service Upcycling Freight
center waste from the landfill. OD also diverted over 559,000 pounds of
aluminum bar scrap and maintained active partnerships to divert additional In 2022, we extended our strong record of customer service with a claims ratio
corporate and fleet maintenance related waste from landfills. of 0.1%. We are proud of our industry-low claims ratio and our commitment to
excellence. To help ensure minimal incidents and maintain our low claims ratio,
E-Waste
OD employs a number of tools and technologies to secure and protect freight.
Movable load bars are used to create multiple levels within a trailer, allowing us to
At OD, we partner with a vendor to recycle our company’s e-waste. Since 2013,
better protect freight and increase the load efficiency of each trailer by reducing
we have recycled over 88,000 pounds of e-waste. We estimated that our recycling
the amount of empty space. We mitigate the risk of any unavoidable empty space
efforts have avoided over 123,000 pounds of CO e emissions, diverted over 2,500
with the use of dunnage air bags to cushion and secure freight while in transit.
2
pounds of toxic metals from landfills, and successfully recovered approximately
Even with our industry-leading claims ratio, sometimes incidents occur that may
2,900 pounds of copper, 1,800 pounds of aluminum, and 24,000 pounds of steel
lead to the refusal of freight. To prevent disposal of this freight into landfills, OD
for re-use.
works to recover this cargo so it can be salvaged, recycled, or donated, lowering
its environmental impact. In 2022, OD recovered over 6,000,000 pounds of refused
As we continue to integrate waste management solutions into our operations,
freight, excluding what was returned to the shipper or origin.
we remain committed to reducing our impact on landfills and improving
materials management.
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 12
Reclaimed Wastewater
To maintain a clean fleet and reduce our water consumption, we have integrated truck
wash water recovery systems into our operations in Memphis, Tennessee; Denver,
Colorado; Fort Wayne, Indiana; Carlisle, Pennsylvania; and Bonner Springs, Kansas. The
water reclamation systems clean the wash water, and a portion of the treated water gets
recycled without being discharged to the sewer system. These innovative systems result
in reduced water uptake, savings on water and sewage costs, and a decrease in overall
wastewater.
Hydration Stations
OD has invested in filtered water hydration stations at our corporate office and many
of our more recently built or renovated service centers. The hydration stations provide
the dual benefits of reducing OD’s plastic bottle waste and providing safe, clean,
and convenient drinking water to thousands of our employees. We have also been
implementing water-efficient appliances and fixtures to reduce daily water use.
Air Quality
Indoor and outdoor air quality is vital to human and environmental health. We want to
provide indoor air quality for our employees that contributes to long-term wellness and
health, and in support of that ideal, we have prohibited smoking on OD property and in
OD-owned vehicles. We regularly use low volatile organic compound- (VOC-) containing
paint and green construction materials for new construction. Approximately 90% of new
facilities are concrete, have reflective roofs, and generally contain low VOC-containing
materials to limit impact on air quality.
Paper Invoice Waste Reduction
Paper shipment invoices have long been the LTL standard for customer transactions.
However, in 2022 OD instituted operational initiatives that improved business
efficiency and reduced paper waste. These initiatives reduced both the number of
mailed invoices and the amount of paper used. Throughout the calendar year, OD sent
out over 1.5 million invoices. Of those, approximately 84% were mailed-only invoices,
approximately 13% were email-only invoices, and approximately 3% were both mailed
and emailed invoices.
We started working with a vendor to increase our emailed invoice rate and have been
actively targeting our top 100 customers to make the shift to digital invoices. OD is
also transitioning to duplex printing for all paper invoices to dramatically reduce
paper use through double-sided invoices.
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 13
OUR PEOPLE AND FAMILY SPIRIT
Valuing Our People
At OD, our employees are the heart of our organization. We recognize Our medical benefits cover the cost for our eligible employees’ premium
that without their hard work and dedication, we would not be the leader for health insurance in one of our medical plans, with over 92% of our
in LTL services. We provide many opportunities for our employees full-time employees enrolled in one of our plans. Benefits include health,
to connect with one another, and our unique culture encourages vision, and dental along with additional employee benefits for lifestyle
development and employee engagement while also motivating our wellness, chronic disease/illness management, and employee assistance
employees to provide the superior customer service for which we are programs.
known. Creating a safe and collaborative working environment with
Our employee assistance programs also include several behavioral health
training and advancement opportunities helps us maintain our “OD
programs through our health care provider, which are provided to assist
Family Spirit.”
our employees with stress, anxiety, and overall emotional support. To
Caring for Our Employees keep our employees updated on new programs and health awareness,
OD disseminates monthly newsletters covering various physical and
OD provides our employees with a premier benefits package so that our mental wellness topics. These newsletters provide professional tips on
team members can stay healthy, meet their financial goals, develop their everything from meal preparation ideas to steps for financial well-being,
careers, and balance the demands of their work and personal lives. We heart health awareness, and how to recognize burnout. Furthermore, OD
are committed to our employees’ health and wellness, recognizing the has 90 Wellness Champions located in various service centers throughout
enduring benefits that health and wellness provide to our invaluable team our network who assist in cultivating and encouraging participation in our
members. We recognize our employees’ needs are as unique as those wellness initiatives. We are proud to offer trusted resources intended to
of our customers, which is why we offer flexible benefits for every stage support the health and well-being of our OD Family of employees.
of life.
For more information on the full set of employee benefits, please visit our
OD is invested in the financial security of our employees. We wish to Benefits page on our website.
help our employees be financially comfortable during and following
employment at OD. Our financial benefits include automatic enrollment
into a 401(k) plan with a guaranteed employer match as well as
a discretionary employer match opportunity. The guaranteed and
discretionary OD matching contributions to our 401(k) plan have
increased 105% over the past 3 years as a direct result of OD’s financial
performance. These OD-provided contributions to our 401(k) plan are
shared with each participant in the plan, which includes 96% of
OD’s employees.
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 14
Training and Educating Our
Employees
Employee development is important to our employees. In this classroom session we
maintaining a skilled and motivated workforce. reiterated and displayed our commitment to We understand that communicating to connect
Over the course of 2022, we experienced providing Service 2.OD by demonstrating our is essential for our employee engagement and
tremendous engagement with thousands of core values of being Professional, Reliable, maintaining our OD Family Spirit. Because of that,
our employees participating in various training Open, Mindful, Innovative, Serving, Ethical and we conduct quarterly one-on-one conversations
courses which include orientation training, Supportive. with employees that focus on individual
driver training, leadership development, and performance, challenges, and career goals,
Our leaders take a variety of classroom
preventing harassment. Collectively, our as well as opportunities for general feedback
training, but we believe the “OD Leadership
employees’ combined efforts resulted in over and personal connection. In 2022, over 73,000
Essentials” establishes the foundation for our
350,000 hours of vocational training in a scheduled one-on-one conversations were held
leadership expectations. This two-day training
single year.
with our employees. We also hold annual career
class begins with an introduction into winning
development sessions with our employees and
Our employee engagement starts from the the hearts and minds of our team members,
provide reimbursement for certain successfully
beginning with our “Welcome to the Family” learning to collaborate with one another for
classroom orientation where new hires learn mutual commitment and success, and focusing completed professional certificates, including our
what it means to "Be OD." During orientation, on our pledge to deliver on our promises. technicians and drivers.
each employee is welcomed as a valued Leaders learn about various communication
member of the OD Family of employees, and styles and how to communicate effectively
Our first-line supervisors are essential to our
taught everything from the history of OD, to with a variety of team members.
success, and to help ensure a smooth transition into
selecting the best benefit program for them
management positions OD holds formal 6-month
“Preventing Workplace Harassment” is a
and their families.
supervisor development programs and a management
mandatory class that every new OD employee
trainee program for recent college graduates that
Newly promoted drivers from within OD is required to attend. After the initial training,
typically lasts from 10 -12 months. OD also invests in
spend time in a classroom combined with OD reaffirms its commitment against unlawful
the next generation of skilled employees with summer
comprehensive on the job training to obtain harassment or discrimination in the workplace
internship programs in IT, Finance, and Operations.
their commercial driver’s license (CDL). We on a regular basis. This class is taught in
We invested more than 32,000 hours into this type of
are proud to say this training program has various settings as we hold both classroom
developed some of the most skilled drivers and online learning sessions for preventing development in 2022.
within OD and accounted for over 211,000 harassment.
hours of our training. Additional information
In addition to our classroom training, Old
regarding this program can be found in
Dominion provides monthly online training
the “Driver Safety and Training” section of
topics to our supervisors up to the director
this report.
level and, at minimum, offers quarterly
OD trains employees on a particular topic, webinars to all supervisors and managers. In
typically bi-annually, and in 2022 we chose 2022, these sessions included topics such as
“Be the Difference!” Additionally, each year Internal Customer Service, Conflict Resolution,
OD celebrates Service 2.OD and we chose to Demonstrating Appreciation, and Respect and
follow that week up with a training session for Embrace Differences.
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 15
Our People Are The Difference
OD has a family culture that is hard to come by. Whether it’s on the road, Our solid foundation of family values, hard work, and mutual respect
on the docks, at employee appreciation events, or in the office, there is a truly sets OD apart as an LTL carrier and an employer. Together we have
spirit of caring, sharing, and being kind to one another. We believe that created an environment of competitive wages, good working conditions
developing a passionate workforce that encourages diverse perspectives, and opportunities for professional growth. Across the organization,
promotes an inclusive culture, and celebrates all our employees is at the our full-time employees work as drivers, platform technicians, fleet
heart of our values of being professional, open, and supportive. We are a technicians, and in sales/administrative positions.
stronger organization when we recognize each person’s unique talents,
Our commitment to transparency and our inclusive culture promote
regardless of race, ethnicity, national origin, age, religion, gender, sexual
progress and drive both customer and employee satisfaction, which is
orientation, disability, veteran status, or any other characteristic protected
why we are tracking and disclosing the representation of our employees’
by applicable law in support of our mission of being the premier solutions
gender and race/ethnicity in the charts below.
provider in the transportation industry.
OD’s Employee Profile
2022 Total Employees
As of December 31, 2022, we employed over 23,000 active full-time
employees, none of whom were represented under a collective bargaining
Demographic Category Percent
agreement, trade union, or other representative organization. The OD
Leadership Team is firmly committed to open communication that builds Caucasian 59.4%
teamwork and cooperation and believes that communication is best done Hispanic or Latino 19.9%
directly with our OD Family of employees. Our Open Door Policy allows for
Black or African American 16.3%
healthy and effective communication at all levels of the organization and
invites every employee to take any issue to senior management, without Asian 1.9%
fear of harassment or reprisal. Two or More Races 1.2%
Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander 0.8%
OD promotes a strong internal culture and encourages employees to
recommend qualified candidates through our Employee Referral Program. American Indian or Alaska Native 0.5%
The success of this program was highlighted in 2022, as more than 44%
of new hires were recruited and hired through the employee referral
program. We are proud of this accomplishment and its lasting benefits of 2022 Total Employees
fostering a deeper sense of community and teamwork.
Gender Category Percent
Male 89.9%
Female 10.1%
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 16
DIVERSITY ACTION PLAN
People are the most valuable asset of our organization
OD's established Diversity Action Plan formalizes our diversity As of December 31, 2022, approximately 37% of our leaders consisted of
recruitment and development efforts. We are committed to people in underrepresented groups and women. Our actions, guided by the
taking action to implement and execute strategies to recruit, Diversity Action Plan, have contributed to the development of members of
retain, develop, and promote a diverse candidate these groups into management-level employees. Additionally, we are proud of
pool both internally and externally, while focusing on three the progress our organization has made over the past three years to advance
main areas: diversity, as detailed below.
1. Enhancing diversity recruitment efforts.
2. Fostering diversity within all management levels.
3. Strengthening relationships with organizations for
underrepresented groups and women.
To implement the activities detailed in our Diversity Action Plan,
we have employed tools and engaged industry partners for the
advancement of recruitment and development throughout our
organization while also being mindful of placing the most qualified
candidates in open positions. 50% 57% 28%
Enhancing Diversity Recruitment Efforts
new management increase in both
In 2022, we began working with an organization to support our early management
hires were from women and
career recruitment efforts with opportunities throughout the United promotions earned
underrepresented underrepresented
States. In 2022, OD attended nineteen high school career fairs to by underrepresented
groups and women males in leadership
increase our engagement with students. Our work has provided groups and women
positions
us with additional opportunities to hire and retain diverse
talent. In 2022, 60% of our new hires were people from
underrepresented groups and women.
Increasing Diversity Within Management
OD works to strengthen our relationships with organizations that advance
underrepresented groups and women involvement and diversity
One of our goals is to foster a culture that is passionate about
in the workforce. To achieve our goals, we have developed partnerships
being supportive to exceed customer expectations and to promote
with several organizations to eliminate barriers for employment and
the continued success of the OD Family Spirit. This goal spans our
career development.
organization – from drivers and dock workers to management.
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 17
Strengthening Relationships with
Melissa Davis, who serves as a Regional Director - Sales
Organizations for Underrepresented Groups
at OD, has been recognized as one of the “Top Women
to Watch in Transportation” in 2022 by WIT. At OD, she is
United Negro College Fund
part of a team that supports and empowers women in the
trucking industry, fostering their growth and recognition.
We are proud to continue our partnership with the United Negro
Her success mirrors our efforts in creating a conducive
College Fund (UNCF). UNCF’s mission is to build a robust and nationally
recognized pipeline of underrepresented students who become highly Melissa Davis, environment where knowledge and hard work can provide
Regional Director-Sales, women in the field of trucking a rewarding career.
qualified college graduates. This unique partnership offers trainee and
named as one of the We are proud to be associated with Melissa’s journey and
internship programs, opportunities for professional development, and
Top Women to Watch in
her recognition as a leading figure in the industry.
an introduction to careers in the LTL industry. We also continue to host Transportation for 2022.
on-site and virtual job fairs at locations across the country, looking to
recruit a diverse workforce from local high schools and colleges. 2021 & 2022
WOMEN IN TRUCKING
Women in Trucking
EXCELLENCE
OD was recognized by the Women in Trucking Association (WIT) as a
Top Company for Women to Work For in Transportation for the second
consecutive year. This achievement acknowledges organizations that • Silver Partner in 2021 • Sent four participants to
excel in professional development, corporate culture inclusion, gender and 2022. 2022 WIT Accelerate Conference.
diversity, competitive compensation and benefits, flexible hours and
• DeeDee Cox, Vice President- • OD named as a Top Company
work requirements, and career advancement opportunities. WIT is
Human Resources, named as one for Women to Work For in
an industry non-profit organization established to encourage the
of the Top Women to Watch in Transportation in 2021 and 2022.
employment of women in the trucking industry.
Transportation for 2021.
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 18
DRIVER DEVELOPMENT AND SAFETY
Prioritizing employee safety
OD’s family spirit has always led to prioritizing employee New Driver Training
safety. Working with OD, each employee is trained and
Drivers starting at OD are required to participate in our driver training program, which helps
equipped with the skills needed to safely complete
us retain safe, qualified drivers. These new drivers are evaluated by a certified driver trainer
their daily activities. OD invests in multiple programs
who assesses their knowledge and skill on regulations, safe distances between vehicles, safe
for employee safety including trainings, technology
stopping, and more. Our customized training program offers driver-specific training to empower
updates, and incentives. We regularly invest in our people,
the advancement and development of our drivers. More than 19% of our drivers have achieved
processes, and equipment.
one million safe driving miles or more. We believe our driver training and qualification programs
have been important factors to both our safety record and our ability to retain qualified drivers.
As a result of our dedication and initiatives, OD was
presented with the prestigious President’s Trophy by
Million-Mile Drivers
American Trucking Associations. This marks the second
time OD has been awarded the President’s Trophy, the first
1 MILLION
1,759
being in 2016. This award recognizes the extraordinary OD DRIVERS To acknowledge the
safety accomplishments of motor carriers across the MILES OF SAFE DRIVING dedication to safety, we
United States by operation type and size. OD was ranked proudly awarded $5.2 million
2 MILLION
at the top for the “Over 100 million miles” category. A 492 in aggregate safety bonuses
OD DRIVERS
team of OD personnel accepted the industry’s top honor to eligible drivers in 2022.
MILES OF SAFE DRIVING
at the American Trucking Associations’ conference in Our safety bonuses are
Minneapolis, Minnesota on behalf of our 3 MILLION 117 annually awarded to drivers
OD Family of employees. OD DRIVERS who maintain the highest
MILES OF SAFE DRIVING standards on the road and
Driver Development and Safety
4 MILLION remain accident- and incident-
13
OD DRIVERS free for one year. Additionally,
Driver Trainers
MILES OF SAFE DRIVING drivers are eligible for an
OD is committed to safety, which is why we employ increase in bonus each year
approximately 1,500 certified Driver Trainers. To qualify 5 MILLION thereafter if they remain
2
as a Driver Trainer, candidates must have two years of OD DRIVERS accident- and incident-free.
verifiable driving experience, and one year of driving MILES OF SAFE DRIVING
experience with OD without a preventable accident/
Hazmat and Security Response
incident. Each Driver Trainer must complete a two-day
program that includes training on fatigue management, In 2022, approximately 6,000 employees completed training in Hazmat & Security Response.
distracted driving, hazardous materials, truck This training provides employees with knowledge of the Hazardous Materials Regulations
maintenance, proper inspections, and defensive driving. and enables employees to recognize and properly identify hazardous materials, address
These trainers are vital to the success of OD’s new-driver emergencies and proper response, learn accident-avoidance techniques, and increase
training program and our commitment to safety. awareness of security risks and threats.
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 19
Developing Drivers from Within Old Dominion
Since 1988, we have provided qualified employees the opportunity to
become drivers through the paid Old Dominion Truck Driver Training
(ODTDT) program, at no cost to them. Each driver-trainee participating
in the program completes an average of 40 hours of in-class learning,
and an additional 240 hours of behind-the-wheel training. We are proud
to support our employees in their pursuit of becoming drivers and wish
to continue promoting our high-quality workforce from within. As a
result, we had 757 students graduate from the ODTDT program in 2022.
As of December 31, 2022, 3,789 of our active drivers had successfully
completed this training, accounting for approximately 31% of our
driver workforce.
Improving Safety Technologies
In addition to maintaining trained and prepared drivers, OD equally values
investments in vehicle technology. Our fleet technology includes:
• Telematics platform – technology that, among other things,
provides data on idle time, speed, hours of service (HOS)
compliance, and overall driver and truck performance.
• GPS – powers different devices within the truck enabling
navigation, positioning for HOS, and dispatch support.
• Radio-frequency identification (RFID) devices – assists with
tracking of equipment and freight.
• Vehicle Speed Governance – set speed limits (based on equipment
and location) for added highway safety.
Providing Support
• In-cab messaging capability and navigation – available to our
drivers through our electronic logging devices (ELDs).
2022
• Accident mitigation and lane departure warning technology –
helps to provide warning and intervention to reduce accident risk.
We hired six full-time coaches dedicated to supporting our drivers
• On Board Event Recorders – forward-facing camera and sensor
and their safe driving habits. These coaches utilize forward
technology to proactively assess and address key driving
behaviors and events. facing in-cab video captures for certain behaviors and events to
proactively coach drivers one-on-one. All six of our coaches hold
a commercial driver’s license. This coaching program is a further
enhancement to OD’s commitment to safety.
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 20
SERVICE CENTER SAFETY
Injury prevention initiatives
Our behavior-based safety program, S.H.I.E.L.D. (Safety/
Hazards/Injuries – Employees Leading the Defense),
is focused on preventing injuries. OD has trained
S.H.I.E.L.D. team members in each of our service
centers who are empowered to take corrective action
to improve the safety of co-workers and to sustain a
safe working environment. These team members work
together to develop and implement solutions to reduce
safety hazards, while continuously improving the
communication, awareness, engagement, and training to
help ensure that everyone receives the knowledge, skills, Preventative Actions and Analysis
guidance, and resources to perform their jobs safely
In addition to our S.H.I.E.L.D. team members, we also have a team of regional safety
and efficiently.
managers throughout the country that helps each service center follow proper safety
practices and protocols. OD conducts Self-Critical Safety Analyses (SCA) at our service
Monthly safety meetings, facilitated by regional safety
centers and fleet maintenance centers on a biennial basis. During a SCA, the safety
managers, are conducted at each service center to raise
managers inspect each location in a variety of areas, including Housekeeping, OSHA
safety awareness for all employees. Topics include the
Compliance, DOT Compliance, Hours of Service Compliance, Employee Training,
importance of adequate sleep, seasonal safety subjects,
Hazardous Materials, and Equipment. After completion of these analyses, our teams are
and various dock and road safety topics.
presented with opportunities to improve our processes and eliminate non-conformities.
Over the last two years, SCAs were performed at 211 service centers and 26 fleet
With technological advancements such as the newer
maintenance centers to address non-conformities and identify areas of improvement.
equipment for measuring cargo loads and improvements
The Safety Team identified enhancements to improve our established policies with a
in forklifts, our safety programs have helped foster a safe
response completion rate of 100%.
working environment.
Installing Automated External Defibrillators at Our Service Centers
In 2022, more than 230 drivers represented OD at the
state trucking associations’ Truck Driving Championships. To improve safety throughout our field operations, OD has set a target to have, at a
The annual competition is an extraordinary display of minimum, one automated external defibrillator (AED) installed at every service center
truck driving professionalism and safety where drivers nationwide by the end of 2023. Although rare, people conducting arduous tasks can
compete through written exams, pre-trip inspections, and sometimes experience cardiac arrest. Once installed, various employees at each
above all, skills testing. Drivers must be accident-free for location are provided training on the proper use of the device as well as training on
a minimum of one year to be considered for competition. vital medical activities such as cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), first aid, and
Of the OD drivers who completed, 17 won first place in bloodborne pathogens.
their class and advanced to compete at the National Truck
Driving Championship in Indianapolis, Indiana.
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 21
ENGAGING OUR COMMUNITY
Catalyst for Change
Engaging in our communities is at the cornerstone of our As proud members of our community, OD runs an annual
organization’s success. As a transportation leader, we know United Way (UW) campaign for our corporate office employees
OD has an opportunity to be a catalyst for positive change in to make a payroll deduction pledge. Our total company
the communities we serve. Our commitment to excellence donations in 2022 supported the UW’s 27 partner agencies. By
in service expands beyond our customers to the local being the largest campaign donor in the Greater High Point,
surrounding communities. North Carolina region, we can help the community where we are
headquartered thrive.
Part of community engagement is the continued development
of our employees through training programs. By educating our With the Salvation Army, we sponsor annual holiday concerts
workforce, we are improving the well-being of our employees in both Greensboro and Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
who are representatives in the communities where they reside. These events include major food drives that support several
As OD grows into new territories and expands our service underserved communities. OD provides complimentary
centers, we create local employment opportunities, serving as an admission to the concert in exchange for non-perishable food
economic driver for the communities where we operate. donations. Most donations are from within our OD Family of
employees, but we encourage community involvement.
Charitable Giving
In 2022, donations equated to 785,390 non-perishable
food items.
We are focused on supporting the well-being of the members
of our communities, especially those in need. That’s why in OD strongly believes in mentoring our youth and helping
2022, we were proud to support family, health, education, and underserved communities. Through our annual donation to
safety causes. On a company-wide basis, we currently support Big Brothers Big Sisters, we can support their mentoring
initiatives carried out by these outstanding organizations: the program, “big-little” matches, career development, and
American Red Cross, United Way, Salvation Army, Big Brothers resource officers on staff.
Big Sisters, and Toys for Tots.
OD has partnered with Toys for Tots for six years and we are
We are honored to support the American Red Cross humanitarian proud of our continued collaboration. We have designated
mission through our contributions to the Disaster Responder a champion in each market to reach out to the Toys for Tots
Program. In 2022, we continued to support the great work of the representatives, and we coordinate the donations and utilize our
American Red Cross. Whenever and wherever disaster strikes, own fleet to transport toys to their donation destination. Last year
the Red Cross responds to assist people through the emergency alone, we conducted 64 toy drives across the nation with 6,750
and to help prepare them for future situations. Our OD Family of toys and 28 bicycles collected along with a direct donation.
employees is honored to help fund the training, technology, and
other critical resources necessary to empower the Red Cross
and provide relief and support to those needing it most.
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 22
Giving Back to Our Veterans
OD takes great pride in our veterans and
their families. In 2022, we partnered with
the United Service Organizations (USO)
to support active-duty service men and
women and their families as well as those
transitioning from the military to the private
sector. In addition to monetary donations, we
regularly participate in career fairs through
the USO Transition Program to provide
service members and military spouses with
industry information, resources, and career
opportunities. OD actively recruits veterans
to join our OD Family of employees. Twice
a year, OD completes military appreciation
work, which in 2022 included sending
Memorial Day care packages to active-duty
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)
forces in Ukraine with signed cards from
our employees.
OD also participates in Daimler’s “Ride
of Pride” program, which includes our
ownership of a specially wrapped tractor.
The tractor’s patriotic design honors
America’s veterans, some of whom will have
the chance to drive the tractor as it crosses
the country over the next several years.
Daimler has now produced more than 30 Passion. Respect. Integrity. Discipline. Excellence.
Ride of Pride tractors for carriers across the
United States. OD took delivery of its first Driven to Honoring Holding Focusing on Building a
Ride of Pride Truck in a presentation at our
remember those who high ethical the details. superior
corporate headquarters.
our freedom have served standards product
is not free. past, present, built upon to make a
and future. teamwork. difference in
Americans’
lives.
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 23
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND TRANSPARENCY
The Power of Promise
Delivering on Our P.R.O.M.I.S.E.S.
The OD Family of employees’ work is based on • Confidential Information, Data Privacy OD is committed to supporting industry-wide
keeping our P.R.O.M.I.S.E.S. – being Professional, Protection human rights initiatives, including efforts to
Reliable, Open, Mindful, Innovative, Serving, identify and prevent human trafficking. OD is a
• Conflicts of Interest and Gifts
Ethical, and Supportive. We focus on these signatory of the United States Department of
commitments and are cognizant of these values • Corruption and Bribery, Fair Dealing Transportation’s Transportation Leaders Against
when serving our customers each day. Human Trafficking (TLAHT) Pledge. In addition
• Company Assets, Transactions and Financial
to industry initiatives, OD’s policies address
Code of Business Conduct Reporting, Money Laundering Prevention
human rights issues and help us maintain our
• Corporate Opportunities and Political commitment to a safe work environment.
Our Code of Business Conduct covers important
Contributions Together, the TLAHT network provides a
rules, regulations, and expectations. Every
committed and informed workforce that spans
employee of OD is expected to conduct themselves • Information Systems
the entire nation.
in a manner that is consistent with our code. Upon
• Communications with Press, Investors, and
receiving their employee handbook, each employee
Market Analysts OD’s own driver, Rhonda Hartman, has more than
is required to submit a signed copy of the Code of
38 years of experience and 2.8 million accident-
Business Conduct acknowledging its receipt. • Reporting, Investigation, and Enforcement
free miles to her name, which stand alone as
• No Retaliation major accomplishments. In addition to these
Our Code of Business Conduct reflects our
achievements,
values and is a matter of pride for OD. The Fighting Human Trafficking
Rhonda is also an
topics listed below are covered within our code
(additional details can be found by accessing As a leading LTL carrier, we understand the ambassador to
our Code of Business Conduct on our Investor seriousness of human trafficking, forced labor, and Truckers Against
Relations website): exploitation experienced by thousands of people Trafficking (TAT)
in the United States every year. That is why OD and one of the
• Antitrust and Other Applicable Laws strictly prohibits its employees from using OD American Trucking
• Environmental and Safety Laws equipment to transport, or OD facilities to shelter, Associations’ Road
unauthorized persons, or to take any other act Team Captains.
• Equal Employment Opportunity in support of human trafficking or human rights Her personal
• Sexual and Other Harassment abuses. Each year our drivers are trained to experience on the
recognize and report suspicious activity such as road has fueled her
• Human Rights
child labor, forced labor, exploitation, or human passion for fighting
• Insider Trading trafficking. In addition, over 2,700 new employees human trafficking.
completed training on Human Trafficking. Rhonda and her
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 24
fellow OD drivers, trained through the TAT program, serve as vigilant Our Board of Directors upholds the OD Family Spirit and is responsible
observers on the highways, ready to identify and report suspicious activities. for the oversight of decisions made by our management team in support
To support this effort, we provide resource cards with the National Human of long-term growth and success. To do so, the Board operates four fully
Trafficking hotline for drivers to carry. independent committees:
We encourage anyone who encounters or suspects human trafficking to call • Audit Committee: Regularly reviews and considers financial and
the 24-hour national hotline at 1-888-373-7888. To learn more about TAT accounting matters, including internal audit considerations.
and how to become certified through its training program, please visit
• Governance and Nomination Committee: Regularly reviews and
their website.
considers corporate citizenship practices and policies, as well as
director nomination criteria, director education, the self-evaluation
Board Governance and Leadership
process, and Board of Directors protocols and procedures.
The OD Board of Directors is comprised of 10 members, including three • Compensation Committee: Regularly reviews our compensation and
members of gender, racial, or ethnic diversity. Good governance starts retirement programs, as well as our efforts, plans, and programs that
with engaged and skilled directors who lead with ethics and respect. have been designed to promote and strengthen our human capital
investments and the commitment to our employees, including our
Our Board of Directors
commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion.
• Risk Committee (established in May 2023): Regularly reviews
enterprise risk management programs, (including OD’s business
continuity and insurance programs), as well as our cybersecurity, data
privacy and compliance initiatives.
Our Board of Directors is aided by our Corporate Governance Guidelines,
which depict the roles and responsibilities of each member. The Board
has adopted these guidelines to help provide effective governance of
the organization’s business affairs and represent the ongoing interests
of OD and its stakeholders by effectively monitoring the performance
of management and providing advisory assistance as needed. These
guidelines provide the Board with direction in selecting its directors,
conducting meetings, and fulfilling its fiduciary responsibilities to the
organization and its stakeholders.
For more information about the Corporate Governance Guidelines, please
visit the Governance section on our website.
• 7 of our 10 directors are independent
• Our directors have an average tenure of 10 years as of June 2023
• 30% of our directors have self-identified gender, racial or ethnic diversity
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 25
OD ESG Management training to prepare employees. The plans and training include details
for critical functions, communications, and recovery efforts in the event
The day-to-day management of OD’s ESG program is overseen by an
of an emergency. Also, each service center has its own location-specific
internal ESG working group including leaders from Compliance, Finance,
emergency response plan. All plans are tested on at least an annual
Legal, Human Resources, and Safety. The working group is responsible for
basis. We continue to closely monitor the evolving regulatory landscape of
tracking, planning, reporting, and executing initiatives and programs that
climate and transition risk reporting.
align with our business strategy.
Securing What Matters
Furthermore, the working group reports to our ESG steering committee.
This committee is composed of Executive Management including our CEO,
OD was presented with the 2022 Excellence in Security Award by the
COO, and CFO, as well as officers from Operations, Human Resources,
American Trucking Associations for the second year in a row. The
Legal, Fleet Maintenance, Real Estate, Marketing, and Information
Excellence in Security Award is judged by commercial vehicle enforcement
Technology. This committee is responsible for measuring, monitoring,
personnel and given to one U.S. motor carrier that has surpassed all
and reporting progress, reviewing stakeholder feedback and insights, and
others in its ability to protect its employees, property, trucks, and cargo. A
applying them appropriately.
team of OD personnel accepted the industry’s top honor at the American
To help ensure transparency and accountability in our ESG program, the Trucking Associations’ conference in Minneapolis, Minnesota, on behalf of
leader of the ESG working group has historically reported quarterly to the OD and our OD Family of employees.
Audit Committee and, beginning in July 2023, will transition to reporting
quarterly to the Risk Committee. The leader of the working group also Cybersecurity and Data Privacy
reports to the full Board of Directors on an as needed basis to keep them The OD Privacy Policy highlights our dedication to maintaining the
informed about OD’s ESG initiatives and disclosure considerations. privacy and security of personal data collected during our operational
transactions. The policy outlines the types of information collected and the
Managing Business Risk
measures we take to safeguard personal information.
Our Board of Directors oversees the policies, procedures, and systems To help ensure that our customer data is protected and to enhance our
that manage our risk exposure. Our Risk Management Department cybersecurity and privacy awareness, we provide annual and ongoing
identifies, assesses, and monitors risks that are inherent to our business training to our office employees. In 2022, we conducted training for all
and provides guidance to senior management and the Risk Committee employees with an OD email address to raise awareness and deploy
regarding our enterprise risk management, insurance portfolio, business measures if a cyberattack happens. Additionally, we provide periodic
continuity programs, crisis management, claims management and newsletters to educate our workforce on various cyber-attacks and
governance, and record retention initiatives. security threats.
OD follows a robust risk management program. Every year we engage in Our attention to security extends beyond our internal operations to our
a comprehensive process that includes an in-depth review of core risks, vendors. When we consider working with new vendors, we identify their
goal-setting, and evaluation of plans with risk owners. Our top risks are susceptibility to breaches and data privacy gaps and inform them of our
closely monitored on a regular basis. findings. Keeping ourselves secure means those around us must
be protected.
We have a detailed set of enterprise-wide emergency plans to assist in the
event of various crisis situations and conduct periodic crisis management
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 26
Physical Security
OD is a member of Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism
(C-TPAT), a voluntary initiative that secures the supply chain and trade.
We are also participants in the Canada Border Services Agency’s
Customs Self-Assessment Program that focuses on a streamlined border
clearance process. These memberships demonstrate our commitment to
maintaining a secure and efficient trade network.
We understand that some shipments require an increased level of
security. Our Security Divider Service provides guaranteed, locked-in
security for non-containerized or uncrated freight. This system keeps
special-care freight tightly packed behind a secured wall and locked
securely into place on a trailer at its origin. This freight is not unlocked
until it reaches its destination.
We have multiple layers of security to protect our customers’ freight. We
have strategically placed additional security cameras throughout our
service centers to provide greater levels of protection for everything that
passes through one of our service centers.
Business Continuity
We are continually striving to improve the way we react to disruptions
and natural disasters. Throughout 2022, we made enhancements to
our Business Continuity Plan following the completion of our regular
testing. This comprehensive plan addresses OD’s ability to recover from
disasters, including cybersecurity incidents, weather-related disasters,
and other types of disruptions at our corporate and field locations. Being
able to reroute shipments swiftly allows us to keep our promises to our
customers.
Industry Associations
Old Dominion is actively involved with many industry and trucking
associations representing the interests of our customers and their
employees. As of December 31, 2022, OD was a member of more than 52
member associations including federal, state, and local institutions. It is
important that we stay involved in the trucking industry and the larger
business community through community relations and share our unique
industry knowledge.
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 27
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
Celebrating 2022
Customer Service and Operations
Mastio Quality Award: OD was named the No. 1 National LTL Carrier for the 13th consecutive year. This significant accomplishment recognizes quality
operations within most facets of our business and shows that our customers value that we work hard to keep our promises.
Logistics Management Quest for Quality Awards. The Quest for Quality awards are selected by more than 4,500 logistics and supply chain decision-
makers based on a variety of criteria including value, information technology, on-time performance, equipment, and operations.
Top 100 Trucker by Inbound Logistics (8th consecutive year). The top 100 truckers are selected by experts in the industry in recognition of innovations
introduced in the trucking industry.
C.H. Robinson Carrier of the Year: C.H. Robinson, one of the world’s largest global logistics companies, selected Old Dominion Freight Line as one of its
17 outstanding companies for our exceptional quality of service and operational excellence.
DHL Carrier of the Year: Old Dominion was named DHL’s carrier of the year for 2022 for the second consecutive year. The award was presented to the
carrier that delivered excellence and exemplified high- quality service to key customers.
Schneider National Carrier of the year: This award recognizes excellent on-time pickup and delivery, ease of doing business and carrier communication.
Top Food Chain Providers: Food Shippers of America, a trade organization for supply chain, transportation, logistics, and warehousing professionals in
the food and beverage industry, has named Old Dominion to their list of “Top Food Chain Providers” for 2022.
Sustainability
Inbound Logistics 75 Green Supply Chain Partners “G75” List (13th consecutive year). OD was profiled
in a G75 special edition featuring 75 leading companies that are committed to sustainability in the Other Notable Carrier Awards
supply chain.
• Newell Rubbermaid Carrier of the Year
Heavy Duty Trucking Top Green Fleet Award. Heavy Duty Trucking, an industry trade publication,
• Coyote Logistics Carrier of the Year
recognized OD for the continuous commitment to sustainability in lowering GHG emissions through fuel
efficiency and alternative fuels. • Geodis Carrier of the Year
• AFS Logistics National Carrier of the Year
Employment
• Wabash Outstanding Suppliers- Platinum
OD was recognized on Forbes 2022 America’s Best Large Employers’ list, which identified OD as a Award Winner
company that stands out in attracting and retaining top talent.
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 28
ABOUT THIS REPORT
Grounded in initiatives, impacts, and activities
This document is Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc.’s 2022 ESG Report. The report’s content is grounded in our ESG initiatives, impacts, and activities and has been
informed by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Road Transportation Sustainability Accounting Standard and is reported with reference to
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards. We have prepared a content index for each of these frameworks, which can be found in the appendix.
Information includes ESG initiatives for 2022, unless otherwise stated.
We welcome your questions and feedback. Please contact us at investor.relations@odfl.com. For additional information about Old Dominion Freight Line, Inc.,
visit www.odfl.com and to view all our corporate reports, please visit https://ir.odfl.com/.
Forward-Looking Statements
This report may include “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the U.S. Federal
securities laws. Forward-looking statements are any statements other than statements of historical
fact. Forward-looking statements represent our current judgment about possible future events and
are often identified by words such as “anticipate,” “appears,” “approximately,” “believe,” “continue,”
“could,” “designed,” “effect,” “estimate,” “evaluate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “goal,” “initiative,” “intend,”
“may,” “objective,” “outlook,” “plan,” “potential,” “priorities,” “project,” “pursue,” “seek,” “should,”
“target,” “when,” “will,” “would,” or the negative of any of those words or similar expressions. In
making these statements, we rely upon assumptions and analysis based on our experience and
perception of historical trends, current conditions, and expected future developments, as well as
other factors we consider appropriate under the circumstances. We believe these judgments are
reasonable, but these statements are not guarantees of any future events or financial results, and
our actual results may differ materially due to a variety of factors, many of which are described
in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. We caution the reader not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking
statements as (i) these statements are neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future events or circumstances and (ii) the assumptions, beliefs, expectations,
and projections about future events may differ materially from actual results. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement to
reflect developments occurring after the statement is made, except as otherwise required by law.
This report represents our current policies and intent and is not intended to create legal rights or obligations. The standards of measurement and performance
contained in this report are developing and based on assumptions, and no assurance can be given that any plan, initiative, projection, goal, commitment,
expectation, or prospect set forth in this report can or will be achieved. This report may contain or incorporate by reference public information not separately
reviewed, approved, or endorsed by us, and we make no representation, warranty, or undertaking as to the accuracy, reasonableness, or completeness of such
information. This report contains examples of savings and results achieved by us that may or may not be representative of what other companies could achieve
in similar circumstances. Inclusion of information in this report is not an indication that the subject or information is material to our business or operating
results. No part of this report or our website constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, an invitation or inducement to invest in us or any other entity and shall
not be relied upon in any way in connection with any investment decisions.
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 29
CONTENT INDICES
SASB Accounting Metrics
Unit of 2022 2021 2020
Topic SASB Code Activity Metric Category
Measure Response Response Response
Gross global Scope 1 emissions1 1,318,785 1,268,254 1,114,046
Emissions from the use of biofuels 71,353 68,555 48,829
Metric tons (t)
TR-RO-110a.1 Quantitative
CO₂-e
Scope 2 (indirect) emissions 28,949 27,965 26,595
Scope 3 (other indirect) emissions2 332,239 334,585 445,156
See the “Building a See the “Taking See the “Taking
Greenhouse Gas Discussion of long-term and short-term
More Sustainable Action for the Action for the
Emissions strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, Discussion and
TR-RO-110a.2 Not applicable Supply Chain” Environment” Environment”
emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of Analysis
section of the section of the section of the
performance against those targets
2022 ESG report. 2020 ESG report. 2020 ESG report.
Total fuel consumed 19,392,466 18,654,068 16,192,686
Gigajoules (GJ),
TR-RO-110a.3 Percentage natural gas Quantitative 0.6% 0.6% 0.6%
Percentage (%)
Percentage renewable fuel 4.6% 4.6% 3.7%
Air emissions of the following pollutants: NO
x 476 458 403
(excluding NO)
2
Air Quality TR-RA-120a.13 Air emissions of the following pollutants: SO Quantitative Metric tons (t) 12 11 10
X
Air emissions of the following pollutants:
24 23 20
particulate matter (PM )
10
3.5 per 200,000 3.9 per 200,000 3.3 per 200,000
Total recordable incident rate (TRIR)
workhours workhours workhours
TR-RO-320a.1 Quantitative Rate
0.015 per 200,000 0.004 per 200,000 0.012 per 200,000
Fatality rate for direct and contract employees4
workhours workhours workhours
Voluntary turnover rate for all employees 12.31% 16.38% 8.25%
Driver Working TR-RO-320a.2 Quantitative Rate
Conditions Involuntary turnover rate for all employees 9.71% 4.13% 9.96%
See the “Driver
See the “Investing See the “Investing
Safety and
Description of approach to managing Discussion and in Safety” in Safety”
TR-RO-320a.3 Description Training”
short-term & long-term driver health risks Analysis section of the section of the
section of the
2020 ESG report. 2020 ESG report.
2022 ESG report.
1 Scope 1 emissions exclude emissions from the use of biofuels (reported on the line below).
2 Scope 3 emissions consist of employee business travel, employee commuting, well to tank from fuel, and downstream transportation and distribution.
3 We calculate our air emissions from the operation of our heavy-duty highway vehicles and do not include jet fuel.
4 OD does not use contracted drivers.
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 30
CONTENT INDICES (CONTINUED)
SASB Accounting Metrics
Unit of 2022 2021 2020
Topic SASB Code Activity Metric Category
Measure Response Response Response
TR-RO-540a.1 Number of road accidents and incidents Quantitative Number 385 357 308
Safety Measurement System BASIC percentiles
for unsafe driving, hours of service compliance,
TR-RO-540a.2 driver fitness, controlled substance/alcohol, Quantitative Percentile Not Reported Not Reported Not Reported
Accident vehicle maintenance, and hazardous materials
& Safety compliance5
Management
Number of spills and releases to the
2 0 1
environment6 Number
TR-RO-540a.3 Quantitative
Cubic meters (m³)
Aggregate volume of spills and releases to
6.75 0.00 0.04
the environment
SASB Activity Metrics
Unit of 2022 2021 2020
SASB Code Activity Metric Category
Measure Response Response Response
TR-RO-000.A Revenue ton miles (RTM) Quantitative RTM 10,546,184,228 10,462,454,323 8,258,951,214
TR-RO-000.B Load factor (linehaul only) Quantitative Percentile 84.5% 86.2% 84.6%
Number of full time employees 23,471 23,663 19,779
TR-RO-000.C Quantitative Number
Number of truck drivers 12,080 11,802 10,114
Additional Metrics
Unit of 2022 2021 2020
Activity Metric Category
Measure Response Response Response
Scope 1 metric tons (mt) COe per ton-mile Quantitative Rate 0.000125 0.000121 0.000135
2
5OD is not disclosing Behavior Analysis and Safety Improvement Categories (BASICs) data due to proposed changes in February 2023 to the Safety Management System (SMS) by the Federal Motor
Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA). The agency is proposing several changes to the existing SMS methodology and public availability of certain performance data remain under FMCSA review
as required by Congress in the 2015 Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act). Several metrics are expected to be reorganized and updated into safety categories, including new
segmentation, to replace current BASICs. The review is intended to address deficiencies identified by the National Academy of Sciences including the possibility of weak or negative correlation
between the BASICs and vehicle crash risk.
6 Spill data is in accordance with PHMSA (Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration) regulations.
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 31
CONTENT INDICES (CONTINUED)
GRI General Disclosures 2021 Standards
Disclosure Disclosure Title Response
GRI 2: General Disclosures
2-1 Organizational details Annual Report, Page 1 | Proxy Statement, Page 9
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting 2022 ESG Report | About This Report
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point 2022 ESG Report | CEO Statement and About This Report
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships Annual Report, Pages 1-6
2-7 Employees 2022 ESG Report | OD's Employee Profile
2-9 Governance structure and composition Proxy Statement, Pages 14-26
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body Proxy Statement, Pages 14-26
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body Proxy Statement, Pages 14-26
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of impacts Proxy Statement, Pages 14-26
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Proxy Statement, Pages 14-21
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting Proxy Statement, Pages 21-23
Corporate Governance Guidelines
2-15 Conflicts of interest
Code of Business Conduct
2-16 Communication of critical concerns Proxy Statement, Pages 20-21
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body Proxy Statement, Pages 20-21
Corporate Governance Guidelines
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body
Proxy Statement, Page 16
2-19 Remuneration policies Proxy Statement, Pages 26-56
Compensation Committee Charter
2-20 Process to determine remuneration
Proxy Statement, Pages 26-56
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio Proxy Statement, Pages 50-51
2-23 Policy commitments Code of Business Conduct
Code of Business Conduct
2-24 Embedding policy commitments
Proxy Statement, Pages 23-24
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts Proxy Statement, Pages 23-24 | Code of Business Conduct
Code of Business Conduct
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns
Proxy Statement, Pages 23-24
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 32
CONTENT INDICES (CONTINUED)
GRI General Disclosures 2021 Standards
Disclosure Disclosure Title Response
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations Annual Report, Page19
2-28 Membership associations 2022 ESG Report | Industry Associations
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement 2022 ESG Report | Board Governance and Leadership
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements Annual Report, Page 5
GRI 3 Materiality Topics
3-1 Process to determine material topics Proxy Statement, Pages 20-21
3-2 List of material topics Annual Report, Pages 6-18
3-3 Management of material topics Annual Report, Pages 6-18
GRI 201: Economic Performance
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Annual Report, Pages 30-33
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Annual Report, Page 16
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Annual Report, Page 41
GRI 302: Energy
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 2022 ESG Report | Investing in Energy Efficiency | Greenhouse Gas Emissions
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 2022 ESG Report | Investing in Energy Efficiency | Greenhouse Gas Emissions
2022 ESG Report | Investing in Energy Efficiency | Embedding Efficiency Within Our
302-3 Energy intensity
Operations
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 2022 ESG Report | Investing in Energy Efficiency
GRI 305: Emissions
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 2022 ESG Report | Greenhouse Gas Emissions
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 2022 ESG Report | Greenhouse Gas Emissions
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 2022 ESG Report | Greenhouse Gas Emissions
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2022 ESG Report | Embedding Efficiency Within Our Operations
2022 ESG Report | Embedding Efficiency Within Our Operations | Investing in Energy
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions
Efficiency
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions 2022 ESG Report | Air Quality
GRI 306: Waste
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 33
CONTENT INDICES (CONTINUED)
GRI General Disclosures 2021 Standards
Disclosure Disclosure Title Response
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts 2022 ESG Report | Waste and Water Management
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts 2022 ESG Report | Waste and Water Management
GRI 401: Employment
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 2022 ESG Report | OD’s Employee Profile | Driver Working Conditions
Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time
401-2 2022 ESG Report | Caring for Our Employees
employees
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 2022 ESG Report | Prioritizing Employee Safety
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 2022 ESG Report | Prioritizing Employee Safety
403-3 Occupational health services 2022 ESG Report | Caring for Our Employees
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety 2022 ESG Report | Prioritizing Employee Safety
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 2022 ESG Report | Prioritizing Employee Safety
403-6 Promotion of worker health 2022 ESG Report | Caring for Our Employees
Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by
403-7 2022 ESG Report | Injury Prevention Initiatives
business relationships
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 2022 ESG Report | Prioritizing Employee Safety
403-9 Work-related injuries 2022 ESG Report | Prioritizing Employee Safety | Driver Working Conditions
403-10 Work-related ill health 2022 ESG Report | Prioritizing Employee Safety | Driver Working Conditions
GRI 404: Training and Education
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 2022 ESG Report | Training and Educating Our Employees
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 2022 ESG Report | Training and Educating Our Employees
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 2022 ESG Report | Training and Educating Our Employees
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 2022 ESG Report | OD’s Employee Profile | Board Governance and Leadership
GRI 408: Child Labor
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 2022 ESG Report | The Power of Promise | Code of Business Conduct
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 34
CONTENT INDICES (CONTINUED)
GRI General Disclosures 2021 Standards
Disclosure Disclosure Title Response
GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 2022 ESG Report | The Power of Promise | Code of Business Conduct
GRI 413: Local Communities
Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development
413-1 2022 ESG Report | Catalyst for Change
programs
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety
Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and
416-2 Annual Report, Page 19
services
GRI 418: Customer Privacy
Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of
418-1 2022 ESG Report | Cybersecurity and Data Privacy
customer data
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 35
2022 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, AND GOVERNANCE REPORT ABOUT OD / HIGHLIGHTS / ENVIRONMENT / SOCIAL / GOVERNANCE / AWARDS / SASB / GRI 36
