Parker Hannifin logo.
2023 Sustainability Report
Enabling
Engineering
Breakthroughs
that Lead to a
Better Tomorrow
Contents
About This Report 1
Leadership Message 2
2023 At-a-Glance 3
Sustainability at Parker 4
Environment 7
Clean Technologies 16
Social 21
Governance 30
SASB Index 34
Parker’s sustainability journey is intrinsically linked to our purpose: Enabling Engineering
Breakthroughs that Lead to a Better Tomorrow. It guides our ongoing pursuit of a cleaner,
more sustainable future and ensures that we keep – and continuously strengthen – our
sustainability promise in the communities we serve. Parker people and technologies play
a vital role in making the world a better place.
This sustainability report details our progress in the areas of environmental stewardship,
social impact and responsible governance. It is aligned with the disclosure framework
established by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) for the Industrial
Machinery & Goods industry. All data corresponds to Parker’s fiscal year 2023 (FY23),
July 1, 2022 through June 30, 2023, unless otherwise noted. Environmental data in this
report covers FY22 and includes data from Parker’s acquisition of Meggitt PLC.
About Parker Hannifin
Parker Hannifin is a Fortune 250 global leader in motion and control technologies. For more than a century, the company
has engineered the success of its customers in a wide range of diversified industrial and aerospace markets.
PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose 1
LEADERSHIP MESSAGE
Leadership Message
Parker has built a legacy of enabling engineering breakthroughs that make our world safer,
smarter and cleaner. Our unwavering commitment to help create a more promising future is
reflected in our purpose and the actions we are taking on behalf of all our stakeholders.
This year we continued to support our customers and We believe that a strong, engaged and supported
make great progress toward our goals backed by the workforce is the primary catalyst for realizing our
strength and resiliency of our team members. We believe sustainability objectives. In FY23, we focused on
our culture, values and purpose are the foundation increasing diversity across our business and particularly
for our success in achieving consistent, sustainable in positions of leadership, placed among the top
long-term growth. quartile of industrial peer companies for overall safety
performance, and donated more than $9 million to causes
As our business has grown following the acquisition of
and charitable organizations most important to our
aerospace technology company Meggitt PLC, so too has
people and most essential to our communities.
our capacity for affecting positive change in the places we
live and work. We are proud of the significant steps that The progress outlined in this report is made possible by
we have taken to protect the environment, advance clean the dedication of Parker’s 60,000+ team members and the
technologies and strengthen our communities. support of our stakeholders. As we take the next steps
on our journey, we remain Guided by Purpose to fulfill
Our commitment to environmental stewardship carries
our obligation as responsible corporate citizens driven to
a responsibility to minimize our impact and conserve
support a more sustainable tomorrow.
natural resources. Our goal is to reduce emissions
from our operations by at least 50% by 2030 and Sincerely,
achieve carbon neutral operations by 2040. In support
of these targets we have installed rooftop solar
power systems, initiated supply chain reporting and
implemented hundreds of carbon reduction projects at
Jennifer A. Parmentier
various locations globally. We also continue to prioritize
Chief Executive Officer
minimizing waste sent to landfill and conserving water
across our manufacturing sites.
More importantly, Parker’s technology plays a very
large role in protecting the environment far beyond
improving our own operations. Our technology supports Lee C. Banks
the goals of our customers all over the world to Vice Chairman and President
develop clean technologies that contribute to a more
sustainable future. Approximately two-thirds of our
global technology portfolio are solutions that enable
electrification, lightweighting, the adoption of cleaner
Andrew D. Ross
and more efficient energy sources such as batteries, fuel
Chief Operating Officer
cells and hydrogen, and other innovations with a positive
environmental impact.
September 2023
2 PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose
2023 AT-A-GLANCE
2023 At-a-Glance
PARKER OVERVIEW SAFETY
$19.1 Recordable Incident Rate: 0.31
Billion 45% Reduction Since FY19
Total Net Sales
Lost Time Incident Rate: 0.12
33% Reduction Since FY19
62,730
Recordable Incidents Goal
Team Members
Zero 2030
335 by
~
Manufacturing Plants
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION
ENVIRONMENT
Our Workforce Diversity
Goals Segment Demographic FY23 Workforce
31% of Total Workforce
Global Women
20% of Managers
Reduce Scope 1 and 2 Carbon Emissions 50% By 2030
Achieve Carbon Neutrality By 2040 31% of Total Workforce
U.S. People of Color
16% of Managers
160
62
of Parker’s Board of Directors is Diverse
%
Based on Gender, Race or Ethnicity
Sites Certified to ISO 14001 Environmental
Management System Standard
ENGAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT
Environmental Footprint1
7,100
Carbon Emissions (MT CO ): 660,000 High Performance Teams (HPTs)
2
Established Globally
Reduction to Baseline (FY19): 20%
CDP Climate Assessment: Management Level
93
Water Consumption (Million m3): 5.2 of Team Members Participate
%
in One or More HPTs
CDP Water Assessment: Awareness Level
Team Members Have Joined Parker in
79 400
~ a Functional Leadership Development
Associate Program in the Past Two Years
Carbon Reduction Projects Completed
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Two-thirds
$9
of Our Product Portfolio Enables Clean Technologies
More than Million
Donated to Charities That Help Strengthen
Communities Around The World
1 Environmental data in this report covers FY22 and includes data
from Parker’s acquisition of Meggitt PLC.
PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose 3
SUSTAINABILITY AT PARKER
Sustainability at Parker:
A Better Tomorrow
Parker is solving the world’s greatest challenges, enabling a cleaner and more sustainable future.
From wind turbines and solar panels to the world’s smartest all-electric tractor, we partner with
customers to protect the environment and help improve the lives of people everywhere.
Our view of sustainability is focused on the needs and The Win Strategy™
interests of people, and we measure success by our
The Win Strategy™ is our business system that defines
capacity to foster a safe and engaging workplace for our
the goals and initiatives that enable Parker’s long-term
team members, empower the communities we serve and
success. It includes four overarching goals – Engaged
deliver innovative solutions that make people’s lives better.
People, Customer Experience, Profitable Growth and
We take this responsibility seriously and rely on our highly
Financial Performance.
engaged team members, who are taking action every day
to deliver on our purpose. Our sustainability initiatives and targets are integrated into
The Win Strategy™ and across multiple functional areas
Our longstanding commitment to corporate responsibility
of the organization including operations, environmental,
is deeply ingrained within Parker’s history and is reflected
health and safety (EHS), supply chain, innovation, human
in our products and solutions that are designed to optimize
resources and compliance.
performance as well as reduce carbon emissions, conserve
natural resources and enable the adoption of renewable
energy. We are proud to be at the forefront of this effort
and will continue to lead by example. By aligning around
our purpose today, Parker is better positioned for the
challenges and opportunities of tomorrow.
4 PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose
SUSTAINABILITY AT PARKER
In FY23, we invited shareholders representing
ownership of more than 53% of our outstanding
common stock to meet with us on Parker’s
ESG topics.
Our annual stakeholder engagement process includes:
❚ Collecting input from team members, investors,
customers and partners.
Engaging Our Stakeholders
❚ Benchmarking against peer companies.
Sustainability is a complex and multifaceted topic that
requires collaboration and input from a wide range of ❚ Staying informed of upcoming global regulations that
stakeholders. We recognize the importance of engaging could affect our business, sustainability initiatives or
with our stakeholders on sustainability matters, reporting and disclosure practices.
particularly given the evolving environmental, social and
Ongoing engagement is important to our success. We
governance (ESG) landscape.
listen to the perspectives of our stakeholders and seek
Through our year-round process, we actively seek to better understand the sustainability challenges facing
opportunities to share our sustainability initiatives and gain our industry and our communities. Through these
valuable insights from our stakeholders. We use a variety engagements, we use stakeholder feedback to inform our
of channels to facilitate these conversations, including sustainability strategy, prioritize our actions and measure
online platforms, in-person meetings, phone calls and our progress. In collaboration with our stakeholders, we
community events. are doing our part to build a more sustainable future.
PARKER’S ESG STRATEGY
PURPOSE
Enabling Engineering Breakthroughs that Lead to a Better Tomorrow
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE
Carbon Neutral 2040 Safety #1 Culture, Values and Purpose
Water Conservation Engaged People Leadership & Strategy
Clean Technologies Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Enterprise Risk Management
Reduce Waste Social Responsibility Compliance Assurance
Sustainable Supply Chain, Aligned to Customer Expectations
Our Board of Directors maintains oversight of our ESG program, and senior management
monitors relevant programs on a day-to-day basis with the support of our internal ESG
Steering Committee. Read more about ESG oversight and management on page 31.
PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose 5
SUSTAINABILITY AT PARKER
Parker Aerospace Along with the complementary nature of product lines,
the addition of Meggitt brings the skills and talents of
and Meggitt:
our new team members. Joining our teams together
Stronger Together has proven a natural fit, as we share a focus on safety,
engagement, integrity, operational excellence, innovation
Combination Strengthens Legacy and sustainability.
of Engineering Breakthroughs Our people are creative and passionate experts in their
field who serve as long-term partners to our aerospace
Parker’s acquisition of Meggitt PLC in September 2022
customers, enabling them to achieve their goals.
forged a compelling strategic and cultural combination.
The Next Generation of Aircraft
From airframes to engines, Parker Aerospace’s proprietary
Parker Aerospace enables the world to fly smarter and
products and technologies are found, nose to tail, on
more sustainably. We design and develop new technologies
aircraft across the world. Our core offerings include
and adapt current ones to enable the next generation
braking systems, advanced engine sensors, safety
of aircraft by creating lighter-weight components and
systems, engine valve and actuation, electric power and
investing in the advancement of all-electric technologies
thermal management.
and systems.
Parker Aerospace supports customers through the full
As part of our ongoing business integration, we
life cycle of their aircraft. As a combined organization,
are strengthening Parker’s sustainability efforts by
our leadership in aerospace systems enables us to better
incorporating elements of Meggitt’s program, including
serve customers and solve their challenges through
the knowledge and best practices we have learned from
innovation, enhanced research and development, and a
one another. We share a commitment to contribute to
complementary portfolio of advanced technologies.
a more sustainable future through strategic initiatives
A Match Made in Aerospace designed to achieve meaningful progress toward our ESG
Parker and Meggitt are strong organizations with rich objectives. Operations that joined the Aerospace Group via
histories, passionate team members and winning cultures. the Meggitt acquisition adopted Parker’s enterprise climate
This combination has strengthened our position as a global commitments effective July 1, 2023. Together, we are
leader in aerospace and defense technologies. upholding our sustainability commitments, including the
50% absolute reduction of carbon emission by 2030.
6 PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose
Enabling a Cleaner,
More Sustainable Future
Operating our business with minimal environmental impact is inherent in Parker’s purpose.
We proactively take steps to protect and preserve the natural environment we all share. While
pursuing measured and meaningful progress on our own sustainability journey, Parker is driven
to help customers adopt and adapt clean technologies to enable a better tomorrow.
Environment Our manufacturing operations all follow an EHS
management system structure that is organized into five
management directives and 14 operational directives.
Clear Expectations,
These directives span the full extent of requirements
Effective Management
for maintaining a safe workplace as well as effective
All Parker facilities adhere to our Environmental, Health environmental management. Each directive has
& Safety (EHS) Policy, which codifies our commitment to supplemental guidelines, standards and best practices,
environmental stewardship, and related directives that which provide the necessary framework and criteria
specify requirements for materials management, pollution for our operating facilities. All facilities then adopt and
control and waste minimization. develop site specific procedures and programs to meet
these requirements. This allows our facilities the flexibility
Parker has 160 sites – 47% of our manufacturing footprint
to have effective programs as we have variability in our
–that are certified to the ISO 14001 environmental
products and processes around the world. A list of our
management system standard, resulting in more efficient
EHS directives is available on parker.com/sustainability.
use of resources and reduction of waste. Conformance
with this international standard reflects our commitment
to continuous improvement and meeting the expectations
of our valued customers.
PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose 7
ENVIRONMENT
Climate Action: Pursuing Carbon Leadership Oversight of Climate-Related Risks
and Opportunities
Neutral Operations By 2040
Our Board of Directors maintains oversight of our ESG
We are dedicated to decreasing our carbon emissions program, which includes climate-related matters. Our
and lowering our energy consumption. Our targets were carbon neutral goals are cascaded to our global operations
developed as science-based targets in 2021 and are through our strategy deployment process. Performance
aligned with the 1.5°C ambition for our Scope 1 and 2 to our goals is achieved through annual planning and
commitment. implementation by our operating facilities. Performance
is reported quarterly to the leadership team and
❚ Reduce absolute emissions directly from the
published externally each year.
company’s operations and indirect emissions from
purchased energy (Scopes 1 and 2) by 50% by 2030. Climate Program Integration
As part of integrating Meggitt into Parker’s Aerospace
❚ Reduce other indirect absolute emissions related to
Group, we are consolidating two separate but
materials sourcing, logistics and services (Scope 3)
complementary sustainability programs. The Parker
by 15% by 2030 and by 25% by 2040.
Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) commitment is
❚ Achieve carbon neutral operations (Scopes 1 and 2) being updated to include Meggitt operations, and the
by 2040. combined commitment will be submitted for validation
by December 2023. Starting with the 2023 reporting
Since beginning our carbon reduction program in 2019,
cycle, Parker’s CDP response will be inclusive of Meggitt
we have taken significant steps to cut emissions from our
operations. This sustainability report contains combined
operations to reach these goals. As of the end of FY22,
Parker and Meggitt environmental data from FY19 through
we have reduced our absolute carbon (Scope 1 and 2)
FY22 (our financial reporting period ending June 30, 2022).
emissions from our operations by 171,000 metric tons
CO, a 20% decrease. Although we have made significant We have made progress in estimating our Scope 3 supply
2
progress toward achieving our carbon reduction goals, we chain carbon footprint for Category 1 and Category 4.
recognize the pressing need to sustain and enhance our We have estimated our supply chain footprint for FY19 at
positive momentum and further enhance our efforts. 4.4 million metric tons CO. For FY22, our estimate includes
2
a larger portion of reporting from our supply chain and
is estimated to be 4.0 million metric tons CO, an 8%
2
Parker’s Carbon Reduction Goals reduction from our FY19 baseline year. These estimates
include Meggitt’s supply chain estimate.
2030 TARGETS
Reduce Scope 1 and 2 Carbon and Energy Use
emissions by 50
FY19
Unit FY20 FY21 FY22
% (baseline)
Absolute Carbon Emissions
and Scope 3 15 (Scope 1 + Scope 2 Market-Based) Metric Tons CO 2 831 688 669 660
emissions by
%
Scope 1 Emissions Metric Tons CO 173 138 136 137
2
Scope 2 Emissions (Market-Based) Metric Tons CO 658 550 533 523
2
Carbon Emissions Intensity Absolute Carbon/$M Sales 48 43 41 40
2040 TARGETS
Total Energy Consumption MWh 2,240 1,979 1,925 2,019
Reduce Scope 1 and 2
Energy Consumption: Electric MWh 1,408 1,280 1,165 1,152
emissions by 100
Energy Consumption: Natural Gas MWh 831 699 679 767
%
Energy Consumption: Renewable Energy MWh - - 80 101
(carbon neutral)
Energy Intensity MWh/$M Sales 127 120 114 104
and Scope 3 25
emissions by
% All emissions data is represented in thousand metric tons CO 2. All energy consumption is represented in thousand MWh. Scope 3 emissions
data is estimated based on known data gathered from the CDP Supply Chain program.
8 PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose
ENVIRONMENT
Identifying Climate-Related Risks These four objectives address the primary risks and
and Opportunities opportunities we have identified as part of our climate
Parker leverages our Integrated Risk Management strategy and our actions associated with each are
Program (IRMP) to model scenarios and understand detailed below.
climate-related risks and opportunities. Our ESG Steering
OBJECTIVE 1
Committee routinely reviews and adds new physical and
transitional risks to our enterprise scenario analysis Provide technology solutions to meet customer
process. This process includes collecting and reviewing expectations related to climate.
quantitative and qualitative inputs on physical and
The push for more sustainable fuels, equipment and
transition climate risks; analysis by multiple functions
systems is influencing today’s global clean energy
within the company; identifying opportunities; and risk
transformation. Parker is evolving in parallel by innovating
mitigation approaches. The Committee decides how and
technology solutions across all our platforms, which
when insights and ideas are integrated into our corporate
enable greater efficiency and productivity as well as longer
planning and strategy.
product life cycles for our customers.
Parker’s Climate Strategy
As our customers continue to elevate their own climate
Parker’s climate strategy is based on evaluating the
strategies, we recognize the increasing need to provide
risks and opportunities identified through our IRMP.
quantification of our carbon footprint – either in aggregate
We perform this assessment annually to calibrate and
or by individual product – to help customers accurately
adjust our strategic objectives as necessary. The first
determine the impact of their total footprint. We are
strategic objective is to ensure that our products are
committed to providing the information needed to address
aligned to the ever-changing needs of our customers
customer-level inquiries.
as they adapt their products to address climate-related
risks. As a motion control company, there are numerous OBJECTIVE 2
opportunities for us to capture new and emerging
Reduce carbon from our operational footprint.
markets that are created by climate change. The second
strategic objective is to ensure our manufacturing The strategy to achieve our carbon neutral target starts
operations are resilient to climate-related restrictions, with reducing the energy footprint in our facilities. We
taxes or surcharges associated with carbon-based initiated an energy reduction program in 2010, which
energy as well as to demonstrate our commitment to continues to be the primary mechanism for achieving
reducing our carbon footprint. This strategy is addressed our goal, especially for our Scope 2 footprint. The second
through our successful fulfillment of our carbon initiative involves securing a steady source of renewable
neutral commitment. The third strategic objective is to energy through clean energy producing alternatives that
strengthen the resilience of our supply chain through include rooftop solar, third-party wind farms and green
a Scope 3 carbon commitment requirement as well as energy contracts. We are confident that we will achieve our
building supplier alternatives for adverse climate-related interim target of 50% reduction by 2030 with this strategy
scenarios. Our final strategic objective is centered on as 80% of our carbon footprint is associated with electricity
our operational footprint and ensuring it is resilient use (Scope 2 emissions). The next phase of our strategy
to climate-related impacts through the use of good will involve focusing on our Scope 1 emissions and seeking
business continuity planning and incorporating those alternatives such as electrification and clean fuel options.
impacts into our new facility selection process. The final phase will be to identify carbon offsets for any
remaining footprint that we are unable to eliminate through
implementation of the previous phases of our strategy.
PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose 9
ENVIRONMENT
79
Each Parker division nominates an “energy leader”
who guides engagement on climate and energy topics. carbon reduction projects
completed in FY23
Engagement includes leveraging cross-functional High
Performance Teams (HPTs) focused on environmental
footprint reductions to perform a variety of activities,
including energy efficiency assessments, lean Kaizen
OBJECTIVE 3
events and climate life cycle analysis on new equipment
Improve supplier engagement.
purchases. To support these efforts, we offer training to
all Parker team members and require leaders to complete
Our Logistics Sustainability HPT implements practices
advanced training to properly lead and deploy our climate
that minimize carbon emissions while providing solutions
and energy initiatives.
for the economical transportation of raw materials and
finished goods.
Since 2019, our teams have initiated 318 projects to reduce
Parker’s environmental footprint. Examples include:
Recognizing that our carriers drive a large portion of
emissions reductions, we urge our logistics suppliers
Estimated Annual Carbon Savings
Type
(MT CO) to join us in pursuing CO improvements. Equipped with
2 2
credible emissions data for all shipments, we collaborate
50 lighting upgrades 2,000
with carriers, customers and suppliers to develop and
31 compressed air units 2,000 implement innovative solutions. For more information
about how we engage our suppliers to address
22 HVAC systems 1,000
climate-related risks and opportunities, please see
the Supply Chain section.
We have more than 20 on-site solar installation projects
OBJECTIVE 4
in the pipeline, and collectively these projects will reduce
our carbon emissions by more than 10,000 metrics tons
Reduce risk of climate-related operational disruption.
CO annually. In addition to solar installations, we recently
2
Every Parker operational facility has a business
signed a purchase agreement with three wind farms in
continuity plan that includes scenario planning for risks
the U.S. that will provide Parker with 250,000 renewable
such as extreme weather events, and supply disruption
energy credits (RECs) per year.
contingency planning for suppliers in areas at risk for
climate-related operational disruption. Our planning
process for new facilities also accounts for whether there
Reporting Our Carbon Impact
is significant climate-related risk associated with the
Parker has voluntarily participated in the CDP Climate proposed location.
survey since 2008. We are pleased with our progress
and have maintained a high CDP Climate rating in the
analysis of more than 5,000 companies that support
a sustainable economy, earning a B (Management
Level Classification) for our 2022 CDP Climate Learn more about Parker’s climate-related risks and
Report. As a CDP Supply Chain partner since 2021, opportunities in our CDP Climate Report available on
we have engaged our supply chain to reduce their
parker.com/sustainability.
environmental footprint.
10 PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose
ENVIRONMENT
Case Studies
On-site Solar Installations
Reduce Environmental Impact
Four Parker plants in India recently completed on-site
solar power installations, which will provide 31% of the
power, replacing grid consumption, for all four sites.
The installations will collectively save more than 2,200
tons of coal and 100 liters of water while reducing
CO emissions by 4,550 metric tons per year. As more
2
successful projects are implemented, we expect to see
additional Parker sites invest in renewable energy to drive
progress toward our carbon neutral target.
Roofing Innovation Significantly
Reduces Temperature
At the Parker Meggitt facility in Archamps, France, an
innovative roofing solution that uses oyster shell-based paint
has significantly lowered the surface temperature.
Cool roofs play a vital role in mitigating urban heat islands,
improving indoor comfort and reducing energy demands.
Given the facility’s production processes depend on air
conditioning, the environmentally friendly roof will yield
substantial energy savings and shrink its carbon footprint.
The new roof is approximately 30% more efficient than
the previous roof, with an estimated savings of
150 metric tons CO annually.
2
PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose 11
ENVIRONMENT
Water Conservation:
Managing Our Impact
Water, a critical natural resource, is used at Parker to cool
and clean manufacturing equipment and components.
To ensure responsible water use and recycling, our
conservation initiative targets water use at manufacturing
facilities with the highest consumption or those located in
geographic areas where water is scarce.
Parker currently operates 40 manufacturing facilities in
locations identified as having extremely high water stress
by the World Resources Institute’s (WRI) Aqueduct 3.0 tool.
Our goal is to implement water management best practices
at 100% of these sites, which includes a complete water
Water Consumption1,2
inventory and a focus on conservation projects with the
intent of reducing raw water consumption and increasing
Year Use (Million m3)
recycled water use.
FY21 5.2
The water withdrawal data presented in this report differs
from that of the previous report for the same years FY22 5.2
due to the inclusion of additional site data and updated
1 From municipal sources.
mathematical calculations aimed at providing more 2 Water reporting coverage includes Meggitt data for FY21 and FY22.
complete and detailed information about Parker’s water
usage. The methodologies used for calculating water
withdrawal were refined to better reflect the actual water
usage patterns of the company. Specifically, the updated
calculations account for the average water withdrawal per
square footage of the facility. These changes were made
to improve the company’s water management practices,
promote transparency and accountability and comply with
regulatory reporting requirements.
We evaluate water resource impacts at our existing
sites and implement improvements whenever possible.
Additionally, we require new facilities to be designed
with adequate water conservation measures. Our 2022
CDP Water Assessment resulted in a C (Awareness
Level Classification).
12 PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose
ENVIRONMENT
Case Studies
Water Conservation and
Awareness in Mexico
Ten of the 40 Parker facilities in locations identified as additional four actions that will create a water savings
having high water stress by the WRI’s Aqueduct 3.0 tool of 12,000 cubic meters per year, which represents
are in Mexico. This year, all Parker facilities in Mexico 9% of water usage of all Parker manufacturing plants
joined together to promote awareness and conserve in Mexico. Additional awareness activities included
water across the country. the creation of a series of educational videos and a
logo competition.
Over the course of three days, 14 sites implemented
17 water conservation activities and planned an
Flying Hope: Safeguarding the
Spoon-billed Sandpiper
Parker team members in Shanghai, China, implemented an
awareness campaign aimed at protecting the spoon-billed
sandpiper, a migratory shorebird on the brink of extinction
within 10 years. The bird depends on China’s coastal
mudflats, which are rapidly depleting, as a place to stop,
rest, replenish and change feathers during their migration.
The Flying Hope conservation project includes education
elements as well as the opportunity to participate in a
field study. This initiative, supported by Parker’s Grant
& Volunteer Programs, empowers team members to
raise awareness about the urgent need for biodiversity
conservation and to raise funds for the Spoon-billed
Sandpiper Institute.
PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose 13
ENVIRONMENT
Waste and Materials Management: Most of our waste is scrap metal from machine processes,
which we recycle locally, making for a small waste
Systematic Approach to
footprint relative to the scale of our operations. We are
Steady Reduction
working to further reduce the volume of waste sent to
Parker manages materials and waste responsibly and landfills and are currently improving the measurement of
in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. The our waste generation as an initial step.
three pillars of our waste reduction strategy include:
Operating responsibly includes eliminating the use of
❚ Using Kaizen exercises to reduce waste in materials that are hazardous to the environment. Over
our processes. time, we have steadily reduced our hazardous waste
production and invested in alternatives.
❚ Leveraging Simple by Design™ to reduce waste
in our product development.
❚ Managing end-of-pipe waste.
Case Study
Lead Forward Participants
Focus on Waste Reduction
As part of Parker’s seven-month Lead Forward
development program, the 23 team members collectively
completed two sustainability-related capstone projects,
both focused on waste.
One team examined end-of-pipe waste, exploring
external pressures as well as its operational and
financial impacts through a current state analysis,
activities at our Dayton, Ohio, facility focused on
benchmarking best practices and a pilot project. The pilot
returnable packaging. By reusing packaging several
led to recommendations to address waste management
times per part, the team demonstrated the potential
opportunities at each level of the organization.
to reduce CO emissions by 10.9 metric tons per year,
2
Another team examined trends related specifically to which is equal to the operation of six cars annually.
packaging waste and Parker’s prioritization of creating less Additionally, the use of the returnable packaging would
waste and off-site recycling. To highlight the importance result in an estimated annual cost savings of $8,630.
to our business strategy, the team shared the impressive
results of the Engineered Materials Group’s Kaizen
14 PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose
ENVIRONMENT
Parker earned an A- rating for our 2022 CDP
Supplier Engagement Rating, placing us in the
Supply Chain
“Leadership” band. Parker ranked among the
top 23% of companies of similar sectors.
Delivering for Our Customers
Starts with a Robust Supply Chain
collaborating with them to achieve our Scope 3 targets.
As a global leader in motion and control technologies, we
We are increasing our data transparency by implementing
are aware of the critical role our engineering solutions play
a CO emissions calculator to be used before shipment
in creating a more sustainable future. Our suppliers are 2
and robust transportation analytics tools that can be
vital partners in our global sustainability initiatives, and we
used post-shipment for reporting and continuous
collaborate closely with them to achieve our shared goals.
improvement efforts.
Parker’s Supplier Code of Conduct includes labor,
Responsible Sourcing
environment, workplace, product safety and other
Our commitment to responsible sourcing is demonstrated
requirements to ensure our suppliers meet sustainability
through our supplier qualification process and the terms
expectations. Suppliers play a key role in our global
and conditions in our supply agreements and purchase
initiatives, and we rely on each supplier to capture and
orders. Furthermore, Parker suppliers are required to
share credible data related to their carbon emissions as we
comply with all laws and regulations related to human
work toward achieving our environmental commitments.
rights, resource conservation and other environmental,
Both are highlighted in the Code and require that our
compliance and legal requirements. These are identified in
suppliers join us in proactively pursuing steps to reduce
our Supplier Code of Conduct and include anti-corruption,
carbon emissions as we work together to create a better
environmental, health and safety laws, non-discrimination,
tomorrow for all.
fair labor, product safety, conflict minerals and other
As part of our enterprise goal to achieve carbon neutral material compliance requirements such as the
operations by 2040, we are striving to reduce our absolute Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction
indirect emissions related to materials sourcing, logistics of Chemicals (REACH) and the Restriction of Hazardous
and services (Scope 3) by 15% by 2030 and 25% by 2040. Substances Directive (RoHS).
We leverage sustainable transport methods to reduce Our global supply chain team employs dual sourcing and
emissions associated with air freight and electronic other risk management strategies to ensure the resilience
documentation to reduce paper waste. Parker has been a of our operations and uphold our commitment to the
member of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) pursuit of responsible procurement practices.
SmartWay Transport Partnership since 2012. In 2022,
Promoting Diversity in Our Supply Chain
Parker achieved a Level 3 SmartWay Shipper certification.
Through our supplier diversity program, Parker is
We implemented industry-leading software throughout our committed to expanding opportunities for businesses
global operations to calculate carbon emissions related owned, managed and controlled by women, physically
to our subcontracted motor, rail, sea and air transport disabled, veteran and ethnic minority Americans, as
services. This software provides carbon emissions data for well as small businesses through inclusion in our
every shipment Parker is responsible for, enabling us to procurement process.
quickly identify carbon reduction opportunities and develop
The program also strives to increase awareness of
actions to improve our performance.
supplier diversity and its importance to the company’s
We partner with CDP, an industry leader for collecting success. Qualified suppliers are encouraged to register
data and rating company practices, to support quantifying via Parker’s Diverse Supplier Registration process.
our suppliers’ carbon footprint. We have completed the
baseline assessment with our key suppliers and are
PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose 15
Creating a Better
Tomorrow by Innovating Today
We believe that a better tomorrow means creating cleaner, more efficient technology today.
Approximately two-thirds of our product portfolio enables clean technologies. We enable more
efficient, lighter weight and reduced emissions systems for companies all over the world.
We are increasing investment in solutions for a focused set The interconnected nature of our technology portfolio
of clean technologies including electrification, hydrogen uniquely positions Parker as a strategic partner to our
and alternative fuels. From early design to component customers during this global transformation to a more
supply and service, we are helping our customers create sustainable future. Breakthroughs that make the world
value and achieve their sustainability goals. cleaner, smarter and safer would not be possible without
Parker technologies.
Embracing Sustainable
two-thirds
Product Development
of our product portfolio enables Simple by Design™, Parker’s technology simplification
clean technology solutions
initiative, prioritizes reducing complexity and increasing
efficiency across our product portfolio. By focusing early
in the design phase, where approximately 70% of key
cost decisions are made, we are able to achieve benefits
in product cost and manufacturing efficiency while
incorporating Design for Environment principles.
16 PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose
CLEAN TECHNOLOGIES
Fully embedded into Parker’s operating cadence since The methodology is consistent with the Parker Lean
FY21, Simple by Design™ enables us to deliver an even System (PLS), which incorporates the Kaizen concept –
more cost-effective product with additional value to a focus on rapid improvement processes – as we
customers. We leverage digital tools to compare continually strive to eliminate waste, improve productivity
designs and parts as well as to model the best-cost and achieve sustained progress. The implementation
manufacturing methods. of Simple by Design™ enables us to enhance the
performance of our products and do so in a more efficient
and sustainable way.
The Five Guiding Principles
of Simple by Design™ enable speed and growth:
Design with Design for Design to Design to Design for
Forward Environment Reduce Reuse Flow
Thinking
Developing Clean Technology
In FY23, more than 40% of our research and
development was related to advancing Parker’s clean
technology portfolio, focused on electrification and the
emergence of alternative fuels such as hydrogen and
sustainable aviation fuels.
Examples of clean technologies currently in production
or development include:
❚ Thermal insulation materials critical to the safe
operation and driving range of battery electric
vehicles (BEVs).
❚ Motor controllers, electric motors and ePumps,
which are key components enabling the
transformation of electro-hydraulics in both
on- and off-road equipment.
❚ Electro-hydraulic and electro-mechanical
technologies enabling more efficient and smarter
approaches to critical aircraft operating systems.
PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose 17
CLEAN TECHNOLOGIES
Design for Environment The methodology aligns with the world’s secular trend
Aligned with our commitment to helping our customers toward clean technologies and is one way that Parker lives its
advance their sustainability efforts, Parker’s Design purpose of enabling engineering breakthroughs that lead to a
for Environment philosophy strives to reduce our better tomorrow.
own products’ impact on the environment. The stages
In FY22, we chartered a team of our Engineering,
considered span each product’s entire life cycle and
Manufacturing Engineering and EHS Leadership Development
include the following:
Associates (LDAs) to research and benchmark best practices
❚ Raw materials extraction related to Design for Environment. Their efforts led to the
development of an assessment tool that characterizes the
❚ Material processing
relative environmental impact of various design choices.
❚ Product manufacturing and assembly In FY23, another team of LDAs advanced the concept by
developing a method and tool to quantify CO equivalent
❚ Distribution 2
emissions for specific product designs. The results of the most
❚ Product use and application recent pilot project will be used to further enhance the quality
of results we obtain through our Simple by Design™ and
❚ Impact of end-of-life product being remanufactured,
Design for Environment processes.
recycled or disposed
Design for
Environment
18 PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose
CLEAN TECHNOLOGIES
Case Studies
Hybrid-Powered Concrete Trucks
Driving Down CO Emissions
2
Parker partnered with longtime customer Saraka Oy,
the Nordics’ leading manufacturer of concrete mixers
and pumps and telescopic drop chutes, to design and
implement full system solutions for its hybrid drive
concrete trucks.
Our team members provided consultation from the design
stage, taking responsibility for calculating the size of
the electric motor based on customer specification and
determined the needed components.
Saraka’s electric hybrid drive superstructure for concrete
is powered by a lithium battery system that enables the
vehicle’s on-board combustion engine to be shut down
when it reaches the construction site. The work is carried
out on a quiet electric drive that uses Parker’s electric
motor and IQAN control systems, achieving reduced
emissions and compliance with site emission and noise
requirements. Additionally, the battery lasts the entire
workday without charging.
The first 20 trucks are in use and feedback from the
worksites has been extremely positive.
Parker and Valio Work Toward
Carbon Neutral Milk
Valio, a Finnish manufacturer owned by a collective of dairy When it was time to renew its truck fleet operation in
farmers, is one of the most innovative and sustainable 2022, Valio requested a solution that would provide
companies in the world, with over 300 registered patents. more precise measurement since the farmers are paid
The company produces 85% of Finland’s milk and per liter. We upgraded the system with Parker’s IQAN
distributes to 60 countries. software to improve communication between the dairy
and the farm and make invoicing more efficient.
Valio originally engaged Parker seven years ago to design
and implement a better way to pump milk from the farm The company’s new Parker ePump System uses an
tanks to the company’s own truck fleet and from its trucks electric motor to rotate the pump, which functions as
to the dairy, which resulted in Parker team members a generator, using waste energy for pumping and to
designing a hydraulic pump system that was implemented power the batteries. Aligned with Valio’s ambitious
on the company’s 80-truck fleet. goal to provide carbon neutral milk by 2035, it is zero
consumption and power source independent.
PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose 19
CLEAN TECHNOLOGIES
Case Study
Heating Homes with
Zero Carbon Emissions
Parker’s Heatric Heat Exchanger (PCHE) is a key
component in Electro-Thermal Energy Storage (ETES)
systems. This technology is being used to decarbonize
the heat supply of Esbjerg, Denmark, where the port
city’s thriving offshore wind infrastructure enables the
use of renewable power as a source for the generation
of heating energy.
Due to the location of Port of Esbjerg, renewable power
from nearby wind farms and seawater will be used
as a heat source for the generation of heating energy,
guaranteeing an emission-free alternative to the city’s
current coal-fired power plant. Featuring two ETES
heat-pump systems, it will supply around 100,000
residences with approximately 235,000 MWh of
heat annually.
Parker’s Heatric PCHE enables commercial-scale,
sustainable clean energy systems by maximizing
the output generated by renewables. Compared to
energy-related coal burning each year, it eliminates
NO/SO pollutants and 100,000 metric tons of CO
x x 2
from the atmosphere.
20 PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose
SOCIAL
Engaging Team Members and
Strengthening Communities
Operating safely, attracting and engaging people with diverse ideas and experiences, and
supporting our communities enables Parker to better serve our customers and accelerate
progress toward a better tomorrow.
Safety Our Shared Commitment to Safety Excellence
Our exceptional safety performance reflects the
Valuing Health and Safety commitment to safety as a
foundational element of our winning
The health and safety of all team members is Parker’s culture. Through our global Safety
highest priority. Parker’s goal is to achieve zero recordable 360 initiative, everyone is empowered
incidents by 2030. Our commitment is codified within and accountable for contributing to a
Parker’s Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy, safe workplace. We have made great
which establishes key obligations related to health and progress toward our goal of achieving zero recordable
safety and environmental stewardship and compliance. incidents by 2030 through a continued focus on team
member engagement and accountability, coupled with a
We are guided by our Global EHS Directives, which
strong framework of systems and procedures. Since FY19,
set expectations for management and operational
we have reduced our Recordable Incident Rate by 45%
performance designed to protect the environment and the
and our Lost Time Incident Rate by 33%. Parker’s safety
health and safety of our team members. We also employ
performance ranks in the top quartile among our peer
process standards that provide specific requirements and
industrial companies.
technical tools to support compliance with the directives.
Our EHS strategy and measures provide a clear vision and Parker team members engage in improving safety
set high standards for the company. performance through High Performance Teams (HPTs).
All Parker manufacturing locations have an active and
Since FY19, we have reduced our
chartered safety HPT, and every value stream has a
Recordable Incident Rate by
representative who is responsible for safety within their
45
area of the business.
% and our Lost Time
Incident Rate by
33
%
PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose 21
SOCIAL
Creating the Safest Industrial Workplace Another aspect of our continuous improvement focus is
Our aspiration is to create the safest industrial workplace high-risk-specific programs, which include maintenance
in the world. Our safety culture is focused on prevention safety, an ergonomics program, machine guarding and
and continuous improvement. We train team members how material handling requirements. We use a global
to perform their jobs safely, efficiently and in accordance third-party system for managing workplace evaluations
with applicable regulations. This is accomplished for motion and strain, which allows us to properly design
throughout the team member’s career at Parker, beginning work cell activities and minimize ergonomic impact.
with the new hire onboarding process and reinforced
We continually strive to improve the ergonomics of our
through annual training and certification.
operations to reduce the risk of work-related injuries and
improve the well-being of our team members. To achieve
this, we conduct regular ergonomic assessments, provide
Parker’s safety performance ranks in the top training programs and implement ergonomic solutions,
quartile among peer industrial companies. such as adjustable workstations, ergonomic tools and
lifting equipment, to create a more comfortable and safe
working environment.
We employ audits to keep our operations safe and
sustainable. Led by local leadership teams, the audits
include a combination of assessments conducted
by internal staff and third-party experts to identify IMPROVED SAFETY PERFORMANCE1 Recordable Incident Rate:
Number of safety incidents reported
opportunities to improve safety performance. On an annual 0.56 per 100 team members per year
basis, all Parker locations complete a comprehensive EHS Lost Time Incident Rate:
Number of safety incidents per
self-audit using digital enterprise-wide compliance tools.
100 team members per year that
The process is conducted with up-to-date regulatory 0.40 0.40 0.39 involved one or more days away
from work due to the incident
standards available in local languages and applicable to
0.31
local regulations. Findings are documented within the
digital platform, which is also used to manage and track
0.18
corrective actions.
0.14 0.14 0.15
0.12
Parker has a strong focus on continuous improvement
as a key element of our safety program. We use an EHS
operating platform to proactively record and manage
FY19 FY20 FY212 FY22 FY23
corrective action events. More than 110,000 events were
analyzed for corrective action across the enterprise during
the fiscal year, including more than 11,000 safety issues 1 Meggitt data is not included in our safety data. We will begin including Meggitt in our safety reporting
in our next sustainability report.
identified during Kaizen events and several thousand 2 Incorporated the Lord Corporation and Exotic Metals acquisitions into enterprise report.
from the value stream HPTs. These safety events and
issues identified in our continuous improvement program
are addressed quickly, with over 85% of them closed within
30 days of the initial report. Data analytics are also used
to identify patterns and trends that can then direct us
to making system and process improvements in a
proactive manner.
22 PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose
SOCIAL
More than
150 000
,
Engaged People
learning activities were completed
by team members in FY23
High Performance Teams
Engaged team members are foundational to The Win We seek top global talent, beginning with internship and
Strategy, Parker’s business system. Our shared values apprentice opportunities through experienced hires.
shape our culture as well as our engagement with We encourage innovation by empowering our teams to
stakeholders and commitment to the communities where pursue ideas and leverage their expertise to best meet
we live and work. our customers’ evolving needs. We recognize and reward
performance and provide opportunities for career growth
Parker’s extensive use of HPTs enables team members
and advancement.
who are closest to making our products and serving our
customers to apply their expertise and perspectives. We Parker has a rigorous talent management process
believe in empowering our team members to think as facilitated globally through Talent Central, our enterprise
owners and give them the ability to take action to improve human capital management system that connects all
their area of the business. business units on a common platform in real time. The
system provides team members with visibility into skill
HPTs are fundamental to how work is completed within
development, career planning and learning opportunities.
Parker. This framework ensures our team members
have the capability and resources to make decisions that The talent development process is also supported by
support the success of their work. The impact of HPTs Parker’s Integrated Career System, which illustrates
is widespread within Parker and seen through improved career paths for various roles and the road map to
performance in safety, quality, delivery, cost advance within the enterprise. Our strategic approach to
and engagement. succession planning focuses on building the skills and
acquiring the experience needed to enable seamless
transitions at all levels. We are fortunate to have such
93
of Parker team members globally a strong, talented pipeline of future leaders who will
% participate in one or more of our contribute to Parker’s ongoing transformation.
7,100 HPTs
Career Days are another strategy Parker uses to help our
team members advance their careers. Celebrated annually
Attracting and Developing a at each of our locations, Career Days are opportunities to
Strong Talent Pipeline recognize the contributions of our team members, provide
career coaching and support their development planning
The collective talent and expertise of our team members – especially for our manufacturing team members. The
is the driving force behind the growth and success of our goal is to give Parker people a vision for what their career
business. Living up to our purpose is intrinsically linked to path might look like as well as build awareness of the
the professional development of Parker people. programs and opportunities that are available.
Our talent management strategies are designed to Our team members expand their professional skills and
foster a culture that attracts, develops and retains take ownership of their career path by leveraging a host
high-performing and engaged team members. Through of developmental solutions that include formal instruction,
our inclusive recruitment practices, we seek talented on-demand learning and social and experiential learning.
individuals who embrace a growth mindset and thrive We offer various learning modalities so team members can
in a collaborative environment. Parker’s culture fosters choose the option that best fits their needs.
innovative ideas and solutions, inspiring a meaningful
Parker’s performance management systems evaluate
sense of accomplishment for our team members.
and reward team members based on their contribution
to our goals.
PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose 23
SOCIAL
Developing Leaders at Every Level ❚ Win Immersion: Supports new functional and
We are committed to identifying and fostering development business leaders in understanding Parker’s operating
of the next generation of talent through our Leadership model and provides networking with peers and senior
Development Associates programs. These programs offer leaders in the organization.
team members the opportunity to focus on specific skills in
❚ Art of Parker Management: High-potential team
preparation for leadership positions in specific functional
members learn from our executive leaders in an open,
areas such as EHS, Human Resources, Engineering, Supply
collaborative environment. After a strategic review of
Chain, Finance, IT, Quality, Lean, Operations, Technical
key company functions and operations, real Parker
Sales and Pricing.
case studies help reinforce decision-making and
management best practices.
Globally, more than ❚ Leading and Managing Change in Parker: Executive
400 team members have joined development program designed to help leaders
Parker in a functional Leadership strategically grow their business, drive performance
Development Associate program
and help talented people grow within the organization.
in the past two years
❚ Front Line Leader Development: Foundational
learning comprised of seven modules related to
Parker provides comprehensive development programs
successful leadership at Parker.
for all leadership roles that balance formal instruction,
feedback and coaching with meaningful on-the-job
experiences. Each program offers opportunities for
Through our global learning management system,
social and experiential learning, networking, exposure to
Parker offers more than 40,000 courses to our
executives, project work and hands-on practice applying
team members on topics such as leadership
key lessons. Our leadership training opportunities span all
development, professional development and
career stages to position Parker and our team members
functional and technical development.
for sustained growth. More than 350 leaders attended one
of our global leadership development programs in the
past year.
Our leadership development programs are designed to
Our talent review process enables us to assess our global support the growth and development of our global team,
talent pipeline on an ongoing basis to facilitate meaningful and managers are invited to nominate team members
development plans and align career growth opportunities. to participate.
We empower team members to grow and develop as
Listening to and Engaging Our Team
leaders throughout their career with Parker. Some of the
Engagement directly influences business performance
development programs Parker offers include the following:
and is deeply ingrained in our culture. We solicit feedback
❚ Lead Forward: Accelerates the development of from every team member and track our progress toward
high-potential, early-in-career talent to strengthen a high-performing work environment through our Global
Parker’s leadership pipeline. Engagement Survey.
❚ Taking Charge of Change: Geared toward functional The survey data we gather is communicated to our
and division leaders with a focus on translating team members, and we seek additional clarity and
strategy into action, leading change and understanding through focus group sessions. We then
motivating teams. identify strengths to build on and opportunities for
improvement and incorporate those into action plans at all
levels in the enterprise.
24 PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose
SOCIAL
Supporting and Rewarding
Team Members Protecting Human Rights
Parker’s commitment to human rights and fair labor
Parker is committed to a basic principle – that all
practices is implemented through our Global Code
team members are paid competitively based on their
of Business Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct and
responsibilities, experience and achievements and
Distributor Code of Conduct. Our commitment is
supported by regular pay equity reviews. As a global
framed by U.S. laws regarding human rights and fair
employer, Parker offers competitive compensation and
labor standards and guided by the United Nations
benefits, benchmarked to geography and industry. Our
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and
programs are designed to attract team members, motivate
the UK Modern Slavery Act of 2015.
performance, reward experience, drive growth and
support retention.
Our Human Rights and Labor Standards Statement
reinforces our dedication to upholding human rights
As an equal opportunity employer, we hire and promote
and covers commonly held principles that include:
the best talent, and our people-focused culture strives to
ensure each team member is empowered, has the ability to ❚ Prohibiting Forced and Compulsory Labor
grow and develop and is recognized for their contributions.
❚ Preventing Child Labor
Promoting the Well-Being of Our Team Members
Parker offers a wide variety of benefits to support team
❚ Addressing Harassment and Discrimination in
the Workplace
members and their families. Our programs are designed to
promote physical, mental and financial wellness. ❚ A Commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
We regularly review and update our benefits offerings in ❚ Compliance with Labor Conditions and
every country where we operate to best meet the evolving
Workplace Safety
needs of our team members.
❚ Respecting Freedom of Association
❚ Protecting Data Privacy
❚ Extending Our Expectations to Suppliers
PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose 25
SOCIAL
“
Diversity, Equity WE BELIEVE THAT BY WORKING
TOGETHER AS TEAM MEMBERS AND
& Inclusion
BUILDING UPON THE DIVERSITY,
Empowering Parker People EQUITY AND INCLUSION OF OUR
GLOBAL TEAM, PARKER CAN
Parker is committed to maintaining a welcoming and
SUSTAIN INDUSTRY-LEADING
inclusive workplace that respects the unique perspectives
PERFORMANCE AND HELP CREATE
of all team members. We believe our differences
strengthen us. Every day, team members from a diverse A BETTER TOMORROW. ”
range of personal and professional backgrounds leverage
–Jennifer A. Parmentier
their creativity and unique skills to solve problems and
Chief Executive Officer
improve processes.
Progressing Our DE&I Journey
Our leadership team is firmly committed to our diversity,
Our Workforce Diversity
equity and inclusion (DE&I) vision, which aims to ensure the
diversity of our workforce promotes fairness and cultivates Segment Demographic FY22 Workforce FY23 Workforce
an authentic sense of belonging. 31% of Total Workforce 31% of Total Workforce
Global Women
19% of Managers 20% of Managers
There are many ways to define DE&I. At Parker, we define
diversity as being reflective of society. We understand that 29% of Total Workforce 31% of Total Workforce
U.S. People of Color
this is different around the globe in all the communities in 15% of Managers 16% of Managers
which we live and work.
Workforce diversity data is from FY23. Our most recent U.S. Federal Employer Information Report
Form EEO-1, which uses data from USA Parker Team Members’ voluntary self-identification,
We strive for our team members to understand that Parker is available for download at: parker.com/sustainability/social. The EEO-1 Report uses specific
categories, definitions and methodologies, which differ from our internal data management processes
is committed to being fair (equity). Each team member has and may not reflect the full diversity of our workforce.
an opportunity to achieve their potential.
Our focus on inclusion encourages us to understand how
our team members feel and then respond to their feedback.
Understanding our current state will help us make
sustainable progress over time. The engagement of our
team members reinforces the fact that they belong, that
Equity they matter and that they make a difference.
Fairness
To operationalize DE&I, we defined focus areas as part
of our three-year road map to achieve meaningful
progress through action. Our global HPTs are tasked with
Parker’s
Diversity Inclusion challenging the status quo by rethinking how we:
Reflective DE&I Know How Our
❚ Attract and develop diverse team members.
of Society Vision People Feel
❚ Design education and awareness opportunities.
❚ Define sustainable progress measures in fostering
an inclusive culture.
I Belong, I Matter, I Make a Difference
26 PA RK ER HANN I F I N 20 2 3 SU S TAI N ABI L IT Y RE P OR T Guided by Purpose
SOCIAL
These HPTs are helping to lead several enterprise-wide Mentoring Circles Program Connects
initiatives designed to enrich the experiences of all Parker Future Leaders
team members through shared learning while developing
Peer W’s Mentoring Circles Program convenes
the next generation of leaders:
groups of Parker team members committed to
❚ Career Dialogue: This program focuses on team helping each other learn and grow. The program
member engagement, aspiration, ability and interest in features peer-based mentoring and shared learning
seeking new job opportunities. in a small-group setting. Each Circle’s six to eight
members meet monthly to discuss topics of interest
❚ DE&I Leadership Series: Launched in 2022, this
such as building trust within teams, career paths
program is designed to enhance inclusive leadership
and leading with purpose.
skills across the enterprise. Through a phased
approach, our goal is to empower all Parker leaders to The program’s framework includes education,
apply key learnings in their roles. exploration and canvassed mentor meetings as
well as quarterly events for current and legacy
Parker’s three Business Resource Groups (BRGs) are
Circle members.
open to all team members. They champion the power of
our collective diversity and serve as a hub for shared More than 700 team members in 100+ cities
experiences. The BRGs continue to enhance visibility, participated in Mentoring Circles last year.
awareness and education for team members and support
them in shaping their own career path.
Peer W Nia Network Parker Next
Global U.S. Global
Supporting the attrac­ Supporting the Empowering all team
tion, development and attraction, development, members to share, learn
engagement of women. and retention of Black and develop skills for
team members. what comes next in
their careers.
PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose 27
SOCIAL
More than
$7
m illion
Social Responsibility
donated to local charitable causes
Positively Impacting
through grant program in FY23
Our Communities
Parker’s social responsibility strategy empowers team Maximizing Impact Through Matching Gifts
members to make a difference in their communities. Through our Matching Gifts program, team members can
Parker and the Parker Foundation provided more than double the impact of their personal donations to eligible
$9 million to charities that help strengthen communities charitable organizations and educational institutions. In
around the world in FY23. We align our collective efforts FY23, Parker extended team member giving by awarding
with the Parker Foundation’s three areas of focus: approximately $1 million in matching gifts.
❚ STEM Education: Supporting schools, universities Supporting Disaster Recovery
and community agencies to help ensure students of Our Disaster Relief Program provides support to our team
all backgrounds have access to science, technology, members and communities following natural disasters and
engineering and mathematics (STEM) education, other catastrophic events. In response to the earthquake
and the resources and support needed to thrive in that devastated parts of Turkey and Syria, Parker
the classroom. contributed more than $120,000 through team member
contributions, matching gifts and foundation grants.
❚ Community Needs: Supporting our team members,
families and neighbors by contributing to the
advancement and well-being of our communities.
❚ Sustainability: Supporting long-term efforts to build
sustainable communities, address key societal issues
and create a better tomorrow.
We execute our strategy through four key programs:
Team Member Volunteerism
Parker team members across the globe continue the
company’s tradition of supporting our communities
by volunteering their time to support local charitable
causes. Throughout FY23, our team members collectively
performed approximately 10,000 hours of community
service. Through our new Volunteer Program, these
efforts are rewarded through volunteer time off (VTO)
for participating team members and volunteer grants
for the benefitting organizations. More than 2,500 team
members in 18 countries utilized this benefit to serve
their communities.
Global Grants
The reach of our grant program expanded in 2023,
strengthening communities in 39 countries. Team members
helped select which organizations to support, directing
more than $7 million to local charitable causes this year.
28 PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose
SOCIAL
Case Studies
Team Members in Baja, Mexico,
Support Local Orphanage
In a heartwarming display of empathy and solidarity, more
than 20 Parker team members in Baja, Mexico, volunteered
at the “Ciudad de los Niños” orphanage. The visit included
maintenance help and time spent with children living in the
orphanage. The Parker team in Baja, Mexico, is committed
to forging meaningful connections and deepening impact in
the local community.
Water Works: Turning Team
Building into Tangible Impact
According to the United Nations World Water Development
Report 2023, approximately 2 billion people around the
world do not have access to clean and safe drinking
water. To help combat this crisis, 125 team members
from Parker’s Bioscience and Water Filtration Division
in California assembled water filtration kits that were
subsequently donated to remote African villages. This
volunteer activity fostered teamwork, a sense of pride and
helped others in need.
Parker Lord China: Fueling
Dreams with “Potatoes for Lunch”
In collaboration with the Hainan World United Public With the funds raised from this campaign, the team was
Welfare Foundation, Parker Lord China introduced a able to provide more than 1,600 hot meals for school
“Potatoes for Lunch” initiative aimed at feeding young students, increasing the project’s total to approximately
minds in Yunnan’s underprivileged mountain regions. 12,780 meals. This endeavor demonstrates our belief
In support of the cause, a passionate group of 60 team that small gestures can pave the way for monumental
members embarked on a collective 8.08-kilometer change and brighter futures.
journey, handing out mountain-grown potatoes and
raising awareness of the program to rally broader
community support.
PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose 29
Strong Governance Guides
Our Success
Parker has thoughtfully and intentionally defined a structure and approach that promote robust
corporate governance, starting at the highest level of our organization with the Board of Directors.
Strong governance is integral to our business and enables us to live up to our purpose.
Board of Directors comprehensive policies and standards that govern the
Board, and the continuous assessment of its Directors,
Our Board of Directors is a highly skilled, experienced,
help strengthen our governance and ensure Parker
diverse and independent team that ensures effective
continues to operate in alignment with our values.
oversight over our business. Parker’s Board is composed
Board Diversity
of 13 Directors who work under a very effective
dual-leadership structure comprised of a Chairman We believe that the varied backgrounds, perspectives and
and Independent Lead Director. All Board committee skills of those serving on our Board make us a stronger
members and 10 of the 13 Directors are “independent” and more dynamic organization. The Board’s Corporate
based on the New York Stock Exchange listing standards Governance and Nominating Committee is responsible for
and Parker’s internal independence standards. overseeing and enacting the recruitment, succession and
refreshment of our Directors. Chief among criteria the
Board members are required to stand for election
committee considers in assessing Directors for nomination
annually by a majority vote standard, are subject to annual
to the Board are alignment with our company culture and
performance reviews and are restricted from serving
values, diversity of background and experience, and skills
on an excessive number of boards. The Board is guided
and qualifications. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines
by Parker’s Global Code of Business Conduct, Corporate
require that each Director search includes individuals
Governance Guidelines, Independence Standards for
of diverse backgrounds, including diversity of gender,
Directors and Charters for each Board committee, which
ethnicity and race.
are available on our investor website. We believe that the
30 PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose
GOVERNANCE
Parker’s Board of Directors At a Glance
In January 2023, we elected Parker CEO Jenny Parmentier
BOARD TENURE INDEPENDENCE
as a member of the Board. Today, 62% of our Board is
diverse based on gender (5), race (2) or ethnicity (3)1. The
7.8 77
mandatory retirement age for Directors is 72 years, and
%
the average tenure of our Directors is currently 7.8 years. years
Average Tenure Independent
Board Responsibilities
The Board is responsible for overseeing key risk areas 0-5 years Independent
6-10 years
such as management succession planning, cyber security,
Non­
>10 years
enterprise risk management and ESG matters. independent
As ESG is an issue of ongoing importance – and
opportunity – for both our internal and external
AGE DIVERSITY
stakeholders, the Board’s responsibilities continue to
include ensuring Parker operates in alignment with
60.4 62
the expectations of our shareholders, team members,
%
customers and communities. Our Board maintains years
Average Age Gender/Racially/Ethnically Diverse
oversight of our ESG program at the full Board level as
well as through relevant committees. Our Corporate >50 Gender
Governance Guidelines and the charters of each of our 50-60 Race
Board committees expressly identify the specific areas 61-71 Ethnicity1
of ESG oversight responsibility for the full Board and
its committees. These include areas such as workplace
health and safety; climate risk; water conservation; human
capital management; diversity, equity and inclusion; cyber balance sheet strength, debt portfolio, share repurchase
security; and business ethics and compliance. activity and dividend history and strategies to ensure
comprehensive risk oversight while allowing us to
Senior management monitors relevant programs on a
capitalize on opportunities to drive and continuously
day-to-day basis with the support of our internal ESG
improve our performance.
Steering Committee, which is composed of our Chief
Operating Officer and other members of our leadership Shareholder Engagement
team. The full Board reviews our ESG program at We actively engage with our shareholders to communicate
least annually to assess its ongoing alignment with our our business strategy, operational objectives and progress,
organizational objectives. and to enhance transparency and trust. In FY23, we
invited shareholders representing ownership of more than
Corporate Governance 53% of our outstanding common stock to meet with our
management team to discuss our approach to our business
Our commitment to strong corporate governance helps
and our ESG efforts. The feedback we received from these
enhance our business and create long-term shareholder
engagements was shared with the Board and company
value. Our comprehensive approach to governance
leadership to strengthen the disclosures in our proxy
is reflected in the shared responsibility of the Board
statement and sustainability report.
of Directors, executive leadership team and all team
members to demonstrate Parker’s values in all that we do.
Parker’s Board regularly evaluates our strategies
and operating plans, governance practices, legal and Read more about the Board, Board committees, responsibilities
regulatory developments, shareholder feedback, financial and membership in our 2023 Proxy Statement.
and operational results and outlooks, capital allocation,
1 One of our Directors is both racially and ethnically diverse. Ethnicity is defined as country of birth or
citizenship other than the United States. PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose 31
GOVERNANCE
Risk Management Additional compliance training is provided to leaders
Our Integrated Risk Management Program is designed to at the corporate, regional and local levels. Compliance
protect our business, team members and communities. Officer Forums are conducted twice a year to provide our
This program reinforces a disciplined approach to global network of Compliance Officers with training and
identifying and assessing significant business risks and updates related to their roles as Compliance Officers.
their potential impacts. Parker’s Board of Directors, its Topics include conflicts of interest, gift giving and receiving,
committees and our executive leadership team oversee anti-bribery, antitrust and anti-retaliation. Compliance
the program to help effectively track potential threats Officers help reinforce ethical conduct and compliance with
to our business and devise strategies to appropriately applicable laws and regulations, including those relating to
address them. environmental matters. Throughout the year, compliance
is also kept at the forefront through the dissemination of
Integrity, Ethics and Compliance monthly communications, printed brochures and videos
to help reinforce our culture of ethics and integrity
Our commitment to integrity, ethics and compliance is
throughout our footprint.
shared by all team members and reinforced through
the ways we demonstrate our values. Our policies and Our programs and policies urge any team member
standards help ensure that we abide by the laws and who observes conduct that is not aligned with Parker’s
regulations in the places in which we operate, and we guidelines, applicable laws or regulations to raise their
frequently go above these requirements to fulfill the concern with local leadership, the Corporate Compliance
expectations of internal and external stakeholders. Office or through Parker’s secure, 24-hour Integrity Line,
which is staffed by representatives fluent in more than
Our Global Code of Business Conduct defines how integrity,
150 languages. Team members have the option of
ethics, respect and fairness are practiced throughout
remaining anonymous where permitted by law, and
our business. The Code is designed to ensure that our
Parker has strict policies against retaliation for concerns
team members, consultants, independent contractors,
raised in good faith. All potential violations of the Code or
suppliers, agents, representatives and Board of Directors
other company policies are investigated, and appropriate
reflect expected standards of behavior. The Code also
action is taken on the findings. The Audit Committee of
supports our belief that integrity is not just a corporate
our Board of Directors receives quarterly updates on
responsibility, but also a personal one that our team
compliance training, submissions into our Integrity Line
members put into action every day.
and investigation statistics.
The Code, which incorporates many of Parker’s existing
Parker’s commitment to integrity, ethics and compliance
policies, including our anti-bribery, antitrust and human
extends externally to our business partners, who are
rights policies, is translated into 24 languages and made
expected to conduct their businesses in a way that upholds
available to team members worldwide. It covers a broad
Parker’s values. Our Distributor Code of Conduct sets
range of topics, including discrimination, harassment,
expectations and minimum requirements for conduct
conflicts of interest, insider trading, corruption,
and compliance for our third-party distribution partners.
confidentiality and fair competition. We conduct annual
Suppliers, who play an important role in our ability to meet
training on the Code for all team members and members
customer needs, are required to abide by all applicable
of our Board of Directors, requiring certification that each
specifications, expectations, regulations and requirements
individual has read and will abide by the Code.
as outlined by our Supplier Code of Conduct.
32 PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose
GOVERNANCE
Cyber Security
We believe robust cyber security is central to effective We also continue to provide ongoing cyber security
governance. Parker is committed to the protection of the awareness training globally to help team members
company’s data, data systems and digital assets while in recognize, avoid and report malicious activity. This
storage, use or transit. Our dedicated Cyber Security team includes monthly phishing simulations to engage team
helps to secure our data assets and those entrusted to us members in identifying phishing risks and their appropriate
by our stakeholders. This is achieved through the use of response. Furthermore, in accordance with our Risk
enhanced security storage repositories, data classification Management program, our Cyber Security team ensures
labeling, team member training and enforcement of our penetration testing is conducted on a regular basis and
Data Classification Policy. Parker also maintains cyber that our policies and standards governing cyber security
security insurance to protect against any attacks or are current.
threats to our business.
Continuous improvement is a critical aspect of Parker’s
Programs and Policies cyber security program, which is why we integrate
We proactively work to address potential risk through security intelligence from internal and external sources to
our formalized programs and policies. Our Digital & help identify areas for improvement and gap remediation.
IT Risk Management Program led by our internal Risk Over the past year, we have undergone a third-party risk
Council focuses on identifying, assessing, responding to, assessment and a third-party purple team adversarial
monitoring and remediating all cyber security-related engagement to strengthen our security profile. We have
risks. Parker’s Board of Directors receives regular updates also conducted internal tabletop exercises to fortify our
on potential and identified risks, including an annual report readiness for potential cyber security events.
on cyber security threats and the company’s prevention
initiatives from senior leadership.
In addition to other third-party resources, Parker’s
dedicated Cyber Security team references the Giving Back
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Through PCs for
Cyber Security Framework as the primary resource People
for identifying areas of risk and benchmarking and
Parker gives back to
implementing continuous improvements. Our Cyber
our communities by
Security team assists with regulatory and privacy
donating computers and
compliance, including facilitating alignment with the
other electronic devices
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), as part of
no longer in use at our
our Data Privacy and IT Assurance initiatives.
facilities to PCs for People, a national nonprofit that
Continuous Improvement provides the refurbished equipment to individuals,
In 2022, we created a dedicated Cyber Governance and families and other charitable organizations in need.
Risk Assurance function, within the Cyber Security team.
In 2023, Parker continued to donate computers across
The Cyber Operations team implemented additional
our global locations. Since 2020, we have donated
cyber security controls to augment our existing
thousands of computers to those in our communities
initiatives and offerings. This included enhanced security
to improve the lives of our neighbors.
measures for operational technologies and updates
to account management. We introduced a secondary Donations to PCs for People also help provide internet
anti-malware solution to our existing software to bolster access that unlocks educational and professional
our companywide defenses. Additionally, we implemented opportunities, while reducing the amount of electronic
a third-party security monitoring service to further waste sent to landfills.
improve our 24/7 monitoring capabilities.
PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose 33
SASB INDEX
Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Metrics
Topic Accounting Metric Category Unit of Measure Code Parker Data Response – FY23
(1) Total energy consumed: 8,392,622 GJ
Energy (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity and (3) Gigajoules (GJ),
Quantitative RT-IG-130a.1 (2) Percentage grid electricity: 58%
Management percentage renewable Percentage (%)
(3) Percentage renewable: 5%
(1) Total recordable incident rate: 0.31
(2) Fatality rate: 0.0018
Employee Health & (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR), (2) fatality rate, and (3) near
Quantitative Rate RT-IG-320a.1 (3) Near miss frequency rate: 28.9
Safety miss frequency rate (NMFR)
Near miss is defined in our operating system as an activity classified by the team member as a near miss per a concern report or an event or classified as a
significant near miss as an event. A significant miss is an event which requires a full corrective action review.
"Litres per 100
Sales-weighted fleet fuel efficiency for medium- and heavy-duty vehicles Quantitative RT-IG-410a.1 Parker Hannifin does not manufacture medium- or heavy-duty vehicles.
tonnekilometres"
Sales-weighted fuel efficiency for non-road equipment Quantitative Litres per hour RT-IG-410a.2 Parker Hannifin does not manufacture non-road equipment that is powered by a fuel-based engine.
Sales-weighted fuel efficiency for stationary generators Quantitative Kilojoules per litre RT-IG-410a.3 Parker Hannifin does not manufacture stationary generators.
Fuel Economy & Sales-weighted emissions of: (2) particulate matter (PM) for: (a) marine
Quantitative Grammes per kilojoule RT-IG-410a.4 Parker Hannifin does not manufacture marine diesel engines.
Emissions in diesel engines
Use-phase
Sales-weighted emissions of: (2) particulate matter (PM) for: (b)
Quantitative Grammes per kilojoule RT-IG-410a.4 Parker Hannifin does not manufacture locomotive diesel engines.
locomotive diesel engines
Sales-weighted emissions of: Sales-weighted emissions of: (2)
Quantitative Grammes per kilojoule RT-IG-410a.4 Parker Hannifin does not manufacture on-road medium- and heavy-duty engines.
particulate matter (PM) for: (c) on-road medium- and heavy-duty engines
Sales-weighted emissions of: (2) particulate matter (PM) for: (d) other
Quantitative Grammes per kilojoule RT-IG-410a.4 Parker Hannifin does not manufacture other non-road diesel engines.
non-road diesel engines
Parker manages the risk associated with the use of critical materials in a number of ways including during the supplier selection process, ongoing supplier
management and during the transportation of the goods to Parker. As we look to select key suppliers for our critical materials, our process guides us toward
existing Parker suppliers who have a history of meeting and exceeding our expectations regarding their performance. All Parker suppliers who provide critical
goods will undergo an exhaustive qualification process to ensure they have the manufacturing process capability and are compliant with all laws and regulations.
Parker expects all suppliers to adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct, which includes conformance to ethics, laws and regulations, environmental, health
and safety laws, non-discrimination and fair labor practices, confidentiality and data privacy. We manage our suppliers real time with metrics and processes to
Description of the management of risks associated with the use of
Materials Sourcing Discussion and Analysis n/a RT-IG-440a.1 ensure they are meeting our high expectations. Our preferred suppliers sign long term agreements that define strict criteria that needs to be adhered to in order
critical materials
to maintain their status. Processes are also in place to continually update and affirm that our suppliers continue to be up to date and compliant with all legal
requirements, including human rights and environmental requirements. Parker identifies critical suppliers and follows business continuation plans to support
continuous flow of product and material.
Parker also has processes in place to transport its products via its preferred carrier network. This ensures we work with carriers who have the highest standards
of quality and delivery service. Parker is also one of the largest participants in the U.S. Importer Self Assessment Program, as well as CTPAT certified to ensure
compliance with U.S. Customs.
Remanufacturing
Revenue from remanufactured products and remanufacturing services Quantitative Presentation currency RT-IG-440b.1 Greater than $1.0 Billion in revenue from manufacturing overhaul and repair.
Design & Services
Activity Metrics
Activity Metric Category Unit of Measure Code Parker Data Response – FY23
Parker does not manufacture or sell complete (1) vehicles and agricultural and construction equipment, or (2) engines and power generation equipment. (3) Parts
Number of units produced by product category Quantitative Number RT-IG-000.A and components: Parker’s technology portfolio includes more than 850,000 total components and assembled systems. In FY23, Parker sold in excess of 9 billion
units to our customers, the vast majority of which are products like elastomer O-rings, fittings, valves and connectors.
Number of employees Quantitative Number RT-IG-000.B 62,730 (FY2023 10K – includes Meggitt acquisition)
34 PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose
Topic Accounting Metric Category Unit of Measure Code Parker Data Response – FY23
(1) Total energy consumed: 8,392,622 GJ
Energy (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity and (3) Gigajoules (GJ),
Quantitative RT-IG-130a.1 (2) Percentage grid electricity: 58%
Management percentage renewable Percentage (%)
(3) Percentage renewable: 5%
(1) Total recordable incident rate: 0.31
(2) Fatality rate: 0.0018
Employee Health & (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR), (2) fatality rate, and (3) near
Quantitative Rate RT-IG-320a.1 (3) Near miss frequency rate: 28.9
Safety miss frequency rate (NMFR)
Near miss is defined in our operating system as an activity classified by the team member as a near miss per a concern report or an event or classified as a
significant near miss as an event. A significant miss is an event which requires a full corrective action review.
"Litres per 100
Sales-weighted fleet fuel efficiency for medium- and heavy-duty vehicles Quantitative RT-IG-410a.1 Parker Hannifin does not manufacture medium- or heavy-duty vehicles.
tonnekilometres"
Sales-weighted fuel efficiency for non-road equipment Quantitative Litres per hour RT-IG-410a.2 Parker Hannifin does not manufacture non-road equipment that is powered by a fuel-based engine.
Sales-weighted fuel efficiency for stationary generators Quantitative Kilojoules per litre RT-IG-410a.3 Parker Hannifin does not manufacture stationary generators.
Fuel Economy & Sales-weighted emissions of: (2) particulate matter (PM) for: (a) marine
Quantitative Grammes per kilojoule RT-IG-410a.4 Parker Hannifin does not manufacture marine diesel engines.
Emissions in diesel engines
Use-phase
Sales-weighted emissions of: (2) particulate matter (PM) for: (b)
Quantitative Grammes per kilojoule RT-IG-410a.4 Parker Hannifin does not manufacture locomotive diesel engines.
locomotive diesel engines
Sales-weighted emissions of: Sales-weighted emissions of: (2)
Quantitative Grammes per kilojoule RT-IG-410a.4 Parker Hannifin does not manufacture on-road medium- and heavy-duty engines.
particulate matter (PM) for: (c) on-road medium- and heavy-duty engines
Sales-weighted emissions of: (2) particulate matter (PM) for: (d) other
Quantitative Grammes per kilojoule RT-IG-410a.4 Parker Hannifin does not manufacture other non-road diesel engines.
non-road diesel engines
Parker manages the risk associated with the use of critical materials in a number of ways including during the supplier selection process, ongoing supplier
management and during the transportation of the goods to Parker. As we look to select key suppliers for our critical materials, our process guides us toward
existing Parker suppliers who have a history of meeting and exceeding our expectations regarding their performance. All Parker suppliers who provide critical
goods will undergo an exhaustive qualification process to ensure they have the manufacturing process capability and are compliant with all laws and regulations.
Parker expects all suppliers to adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct, which includes conformance to ethics, laws and regulations, environmental, health
and safety laws, non-discrimination and fair labor practices, confidentiality and data privacy. We manage our suppliers real time with metrics and processes to
Description of the management of risks associated with the use of
Materials Sourcing Discussion and Analysis n/a RT-IG-440a.1 ensure they are meeting our high expectations. Our preferred suppliers sign long term agreements that define strict criteria that needs to be adhered to in order
critical materials
to maintain their status. Processes are also in place to continually update and affirm that our suppliers continue to be up to date and compliant with all legal
requirements, including human rights and environmental requirements. Parker identifies critical suppliers and follows business continuation plans to support
continuous flow of product and material.
Parker also has processes in place to transport its products via its preferred carrier network. This ensures we work with carriers who have the highest standards
of quality and delivery service. Parker is also one of the largest participants in the U.S. Importer Self Assessment Program, as well as CTPAT certified to ensure
compliance with U.S. Customs.
Remanufacturing
Revenue from remanufactured products and remanufacturing services Quantitative Presentation currency RT-IG-440b.1 Greater than $1.0 Billion in revenue from manufacturing overhaul and repair.
Design & Services
Activity Metric Category Unit of Measure Code Parker Data Response – FY23
Parker does not manufacture or sell complete (1) vehicles and agricultural and construction equipment, or (2) engines and power generation equipment. (3) Parts
Number of units produced by product category Quantitative Number RT-IG-000.A and components: Parker’s technology portfolio includes more than 850,000 total components and assembled systems. In FY23, Parker sold in excess of 9 billion
units to our customers, the vast majority of which are products like elastomer O-rings, fittings, valves and connectors.
Number of employees Quantitative Number RT-IG-000.B 62,730 (FY2023 10K – includes Meggitt acquisition)
PARKER HANNIFIN 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Guided by Purpose 35
Contact Us
Parker welcomes comments and questions about its sustainability report by email:
sustainableparker@parker.com
Learn More
parker.com/sustainability
