Pfizer 2022
Environmental, Social
& Governance Report
In This Report
3 Introduction
4 A Letter from our Chairman & CEO
What this report covers
6 A Letter from Our Lead Independent Director
7 2022 Progress and Highlights
8 Our Approach to ESG This report shares an overview of our Environmental, Social, and Governance
10 Priority ESG Issues (ESG) vision, achievements, and progress in the year from January 1, 2022 to
December 31, 2022, including data on 32 key performance indicators (KPIs), as
well as our path toward a sustainable life sciences future.
15 Impact Stories
16 Tackling the Health Equity Gap Together
For more information, please see About this Report on page 81.
18 Keeping Patients at the Center of Everything We Do
21 Environment
22 Climate Change
24 Sustainable Medicines
26 Social
27 Innovation and Global Health
33 Human Capital
37 Governance
38 Ethics, Transparency, and Quality
46 Accountability
49 Performance
50 Environment
52 Social
58 Governance
Where to find more information
61 Appendix
62 GRI Index
71 SASB Index
74 TCFD
2022 Annual Documents — 2022 Annual Review — 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K — 2023 Proxy Statement
81 About This Report
82 Independent Accountants’ Report
2 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Introduction
This report provides a comprehensive overview of Pfizer’s
commitment to our priority ESG goals toward contributing
to long term value creation and a sustainable, responsible,
and patient centric business model. Our focus is rooted in our
purpose to deliver Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives
through ethical decision-making and our core values—Courage,
Excellence, Equity, and Joy.
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Letter from our Chairman & CEO
Stepping Up to Meet the Demands of a to refine the metrics we use to measure our performance as the voluntary and emerging
regulatory frameworks governing ESG reporting evolve at the local, national, regional, and
Changing World
global level.
At Pfizer, our purpose—Breakthroughs that change patients’
lives—drives us to be a force for good in the world. We
believe that scientific innovation can help people live Acting Ethically
longer, healthier lives, and we are proud to continue to
Our approach to helping address the issues facing our planet and its people is rooted in our
advance our scientific pipeline and strengthen our research
purpose. And while our breakthroughs can take the form of new medicines and vaccines,
and development in support of this goal. Specifically, to
they can also shape new ways of working, new ways of helping ensure equitable access to
help ensure science will win against ongoing and future
our innovations, and new ways of leveraging our voice.
health threats, we invested approximately $11.4 billion in
internal research and development programs in 2022. We’re a company that is guided by our values—courage, excellence, equity, and joy. To that
end, we deploy an ethical decision-making framework that seeks to guide how we discuss,
While many people know about what Pfizer does, fewer
consider and act to help address global challenges. Values-and ethics-based decision-making
know how we go about this work in a way that fulfills our
promotes accountability and helps ensure that integrity, quality, safety, and ethics are
purpose, builds trust, and takes accountability for the impact we make on society. We take
foundational to all we do.
our work seriously, as the impact is felt by not only the more than 1.3 billion patients treated
with our medicines and vaccines in 20221, but also the communities in which we, and our
stakeholders, live and work. Actions > Words
2022—like the two years preceding it—was punctuated by a growing number of daunting These decisions have led to action. For example, we remain committed to working towards
global challenges—from COVID-19, which remains a threat to global health, to political and equitable and affordable access to the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine and Pfizer’s oral
economic instability, to the armed conflict in Ukraine, to increased attacks on marginalized therapy for people around the world. Why? Because our vaccines and medicines cannot
groups that have made it harder for people to live safe, healthy, and productive lives. At the positively impact patients if those patients do not have access to them.
same time, continued climate change has led to observable effects—from floods and heat
This commitment to equitable access extends beyond COVID-19. We live in a time when
waves to droughts and dwindling ice caps—and may be linked to not-so-obvious effects, such
science can increasingly take on the world’s most devastating diseases. But there is a gap
as potential increased health risks from air pollution, extreme weather events, and pressures
determining who can access these innovations, and who cannot. To help bridge this gap,
on mental health.
we announced in May 2022 that we will provide on a not-for-profit basis all our innovative
Global action and collaboration are needed to address these issues, and as a private-sector medicines and vaccines available in the U.S. or the European Union to 1.2 billion people
leader, Pfizer is committed to responding. in 45 lower-income countries and will work closely with global health leaders to make
At Pfizer, our commitment is anchored to our six ESG priorities: product innovation; equitable improvements in diagnosis, education, infrastructure, storage, and more. The Accord for a
access and pricing; product quality and safety; diversity, equity, and inclusion; climate Healthier World—which we expanded in January 2023 to include the full portfolio of products
change; and business ethics. Our progress in these areas is detailed in this report, and we for which we have global rights, bringing the total offering from 23 patented medicines and
look forward to continuing to engage with colleagues and other stakeholders to hear how vaccines to around 500 patented and off-patent products–aims to greatly reduce the health
we can continue to enhance our impact, both within and outside of Pfizer. We also continue inequities that exist between many lower-income countries and the rest of the world.
1 Patient counts are estimates based on multiple data sources. See footnotes within the Performance section for more details.
4 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Introduction
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Letter from our Chairman & CEO
— Continued
Action also requires stepping up during times of international crisis. We remain deeply Force for Good
concerned by the human suffering we have witnessed during the ongoing armed conflict in
As we look ahead, as remarkable as 2022 has been for Pfizer, I believe we have only scratched
Ukraine, and we are committed to contributing to ongoing humanitarian efforts that support
the surface of the transformative impact we can have on human health.
the safety, health, and wellbeing of people affected by this tragic event. We are determined
to ensure the safety of our colleagues and their families, and we are equally determined to Our third ESG Report, which shares our vision and approach, showcases progress on key
facilitate continued access to our medicines and vaccines for patients. But we recognize that strategies and reaffirms our commitment to keeping patients at the center of all we do and
we are in a position to do even more. That is why, effective March 14, 2022, Pfizer began to furthering the positive impact that we have on the world.
donating profits of our Russian subsidiary to the Pfizer Foundation2 for direct humanitarian
Nobody can predict with certainty how the world will change in 2023, and what challenges
support to the people of Ukraine, in addition to our ongoing humanitarian response efforts
humankind will have to overcome. But I do know this: all of us at Pfizer consider it a
in the region. Pfizer, through The Pfizer Foundation, has committed over $30 million to
privilege to be allowed by society to help address these issues. Against this backdrop, we
support these efforts.
remain committed to keeping patients as our North Star, applying ethical decision-making
We believe that product donations play an important role in relief and humanitarian frameworks to our work, embedding ESG into our corporate strategies, and continuing to be
emergencies. We are proud to work through established non-governmental organizations a force for good in the world.
with expertise in managing product donations in connection with humanitarian emergencies.
In 2022, this included Hurricane Fiona, Hurricane Ian, the Afghanistan earthquake, and the
flooding in Pakistan.
We recognize that planetary health has a profound impact on human health, which is why
we are building on more than 20 years of climate action to reduce our company and value
chain Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. In June 2022, we announced our aim to achieve
the voluntary Net-Zero Standard by 2040, ten years earlier than the timeline described in
the standard. As part of this commitment, we aim to reduce our company GHG emissions Dr. Albert Bourla
by 95 percent and our value chain GHG emissions by 90 percent from 2019 levels through Pfizer Chairman & Chief Executive Officer
accelerating the transition away from fossil fuels and engaging suppliers to catalyze
equivalent action.
2 The Pfizer Foundation is a separate legal entity from Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions.
5 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Introduction
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Message from the Lead Independent Director
Dear Stakeholders, strive to maintain a Board with a diverse set of experiences, qualifications, and attributes,
as well as gender and ethnic diversity. Accordingly, when seeking new Directors, the Board
On behalf of the Board of Directors, I would like to thank
considers a diverse pool of qualified candidates across several dimensions, including skills,
you for your interest in Pfizer’s environmental, social, and
gender, age, race, ethnicity, background, professional experience, and perspectives. The
governance progress. We believe that Pfizer’s commitment
Board is committed to ongoing refreshment, as evidenced by the addition of five new
to our Purpose—Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives—
independent Directors since 2018.
is essential to the company’s long-term success. We are
proud to share Pfizer’s progress on our ESG efforts in our
We are proud to share Pfizer’s progress on these efforts in this report and appreciate your
third formal report.
interest.
Recognizing the importance of ESG to Pfizer and our
Sincerely,
stakeholders, the Board remains highly engaged in
overseeing Pfizer’s ESG strategy, with the Governance
& Sustainability Committee (the G&S Committee) of the
Board assuming oversight responsibility of Pfizer’s overall ESG strategy, reporting, policies
and practices. The Board’s other Committees are also actively engaged and oversee specific
elements of ESG associated with their respective areas of responsibility.
During 2022, the G&S Committee received updates from management concerning Pfizer’s
ESG priorities and the company’s progress measured against related metrics and goals at
nearly every meeting and shared this information with the full Board. The Committee also
was informed of potential changes to the external regulatory and reporting environment
that may impact our future ESG disclosures and internal changes to our ESG governance
Shantanu Narayen
structure to enhance our risk management and oversight. In addition, the Board was
Lead Independent Director
informed of Pfizer’s progress in achieving our diversity, equity, and inclusion goals and our
environmental priorities and milestones, including our aim to achieve the voluntary Net-Zero
Standard for greenhouse gas emissions by 2040.
In terms of diversity, the Board recognizes the critical importance and value of Pfizer’s
colleagues and the need to continuously work to maintain a culture where colleagues of
diverse backgrounds, abilities and experiences contribute their unique viewpoints and
perspectives to all aspects of our business. Pfizer’s leaders establish and reinforce the
company’s culture, which the Board and its Committees oversee. At the Board level, we
6 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Introduction
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
2022 Progress and Highlights1
Recognized at the
Net-Zero
11%
Leadership
Standard
Level
Reduction in Scope 1 &
Aiming to achieve by 2040,
2 greenhouse gas (GHG)
which is 10 years earlier than
for our CDP Climate Change emissions from 2019 baseline
expectations of the standard
Disclosure
43.1%
# 1 44%
Representation for
women at VP+ levels globally
Ranking among the largest Pfizer New Molecular Entity
Pharma companies in the most and novel biologic applications
recent Global PatientView 28.1% approved by the FDA between
Survey (#2 overall) 2018-2022 designated as
Breakthrough Therapies
Representation for U.S.
minorities at VP+ level
4 out of 12
Named one of the World’s
members of the Board of
Most Ethical Companies by
Directors are women 3 0 k Ethisphere for the second
year in a row
3 out of 12
“World’s Most Ethical
Pfizer leaders have ESG Companies” and “Ethisphere”
members of the Board of KPIs factored into their names and marks are
Directors are ethnically diverse. compensation r Ee thg ii ss pte hr ee rd e t Lra LCd .emarks of
1 See footnotes within the Performance section for more details.
7 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Introduction
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Our Approach To ESG
Underpinned by our core values, our ESG approach helps Pfizer deliver on our strategy and our purpose.
Guided by our values and our commitment to long term sustainability, our ESG approach informs how we can advance our purpose—
Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives—in a responsible and sustainable way that takes accountability for the impact we make on society.
By taking proactive, collaborative steps to advance ESG at Pfizer, we can help improve health outcomes, build trust, create shared value,
and make a positive impact on society for years to come.
Pfizer’s 6 ESG Priorities
• Product innovation: Reducing cycle times, increasing success rates, and getting more breakthroughs into the hands of patients sooner
• Equitable access and pricing: Expanding affordable access to our breakthrough medicines and vaccines, and protecting people from the burden of infectious and
other diseases
• Product quality and safety: Maintaining a quality culture to ensure the highest priority is placed on the safety, efficacy and reliability of our products, the safety
of our patients and consumers, the quality of data supporting regulatory submissions, and interactions with our stakeholders
• Business ethics: Exercising strong corporate governance and risk management practices to promote the long term interests of our stakeholders
• Diversity, equity, and inclusion: Creating opportunities to advance diversity, equity, and inclusion across our workforce, those with whom we do business, and
society at large
• Climate change: Taking action to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions and mitigate risks associated with a changing climate
8 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Introduction
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Connecting our Purpose, Strategy, and ESG
Advancing our ESG performance is an interconnected effort requiring cross-company alignment and collaboration. ESG best practice is often recognized as aligning
and embedding robust ESG management into our strategy—so that the company and its priority ESG workstreams move together, leading to opportunities of
mutual reinforcement and impact.
We have continuously refined our ESG strategy in alignment with our purpose and corporate strategy. Building on our efforts—which include our acquisition of Global
Blood Therapeutics, Inc. to help underserved patient communities, such as those with sickle cell disease, as well as expanded access programming through An Accord
for a Healthier World—we more purposefully integrated ESG into our ways of working in 2022, including strategic decisions, business operations, and governance, to
create greater ownership of impact at all levels. In 2023, we aim to further integrate ESG into our corporate strategy, reinforcing our commitment to being a purpose-
driven organization.
By embedding ESG into our strategy, we can make it the common denominator that underpins how we fulfill our commitments to our stakeholders. For example, in
our financing strategy, we were the first U.S. biopharmaceutical company to include ESG Key Performance Indicator (KPI)-linked metrics in our $7 billion, five-year
revolving credit facility.
9 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Introduction
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Priority ESG Issues
In 2020, we led an in-depth priority assessment that helped map ESG issues and their relative impact on our business and expectations of our stakeholders. We
identified 30 priority topics and mapped these to our six ESG priority areas, which in turn closely align to our corporate strategy, as well as the risks and opportunities
identified with our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) approach. These six priority issues are consistent with our values and our patient-centric approach.
In 2022, we continued to engage a variety of stakeholders—including patients, caregivers, investors, colleagues, and partners—to better understand their changing
needs, interests and expectations of Pfizer. These insights further sharpened the focus of our ESG strategy on the issues important to our stakeholders, while also
monitoring and managing the other issues in our ESG priority assessment.
We recognize that our priority issues may evolve over time, and remain committed to adjusting our
approach, as appropriate, to ensure our ESG efforts prioritize issues that could have a significant impact
Pfizer’s ESG Priority Areas:
on our business and matter most to our stakeholders.
The ESG function within Pfizer and its cross-functional governing committees (at the senior management
• Product innovation
and the executive level) have responsibility for considering and adopting potential goals and targets,
with escalation to the Governance & Sustainability Committee (G&SC) of the Board, based on input from
• Equitable access and pricing experienced subject matter experts and advisors. Our efforts are directed towards making an impact that
furthers our purpose to improve patients’ lives and support the global communities we aim to serve.
• Product quality and safety
• Business ethics
• Diversity, equity, and inclusion
• Climate change
10 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Introduction
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Priority ESG Issues
— Continued
11 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Introduction
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Priority ESG Issues
— Continued
Based on our six ESG priority areas, we have identified, set and communicated public ESG goals
so that our stakeholders understand how we are measuring success. We believe that setting
and publicizing our goals energizes our colleagues, showcases our priorities, and demonstrates
transparency to external stakeholders. By tracking our work, we can better understand what works,
what doesn’t, and whether we are living up to the goals we are setting for ourselves.
For example, with regards to our climate change goal, we aim to achieve the voluntary Net-Zero
Goal Setting Standard by 2040, ten years earlier than the expectations of the Standard. This goal informs our aim
to reduce our company emissions by 95 percent and our value chain emissions by 90 percent from
2019 levels by 2040.
With regards to our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion goal, by 2025 we aim to achieve global workforce
parity of 47 percent for women at the Vice President+ level, and 32 percent for U.S. minority
representation at the Vice President+ level.
We look forward to continuing to advance and report on our ESG priority areas and related goals.
12 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Introduction
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Our Stakeholders
Our stakeholders’ opinions matter to us. Each one brings a unique perspective to the table, and we collaborate with them at various levels to inform our ESG strategy
and make a positive impact internally and externally.
As part of this, we engage with patients and patient advocacy groups to listen,
learn, collaborate, and address areas of unmet patient need and to incorporate
their perspectives before we launch our medicines and vaccines.
In 2022, Pfizer’s Global Patient Advocacy Team engaged more than 1,800 global
patient advocacy organizations across North America, Europe, Latin America, and
Asia through trainings, workshops, and webinars focused on health policy issues,
capacity building, patient centricity, and patient education and information.
In 2022, we also hosted our second annual event, Patients in Focus, which
recognizes the influence that patients have on every facet of our work. Pfizer
CEO and Chairman, Albert Bourla, as well as other leadership met directly with
patients and advocates to learn about their experiences and discuss how Pfizer
can continue to embed the patient perspective into our work to discover, develop,
and bring to market medicines and vaccines.
Shareholders and Investors
Our shareholders, investors, and analysts have a vested interest in Pfizer’s
operations and the short, medium, and long term success of Pfizer. We work to
engage investors on ESG issues through ongoing one-on-one conversations,
surveys and questionnaires, and targeted communications, for example ESG-
Patients and Caregivers
related content on our Investor Insights website. We also host investor-aimed
fireside chats to review priority ESG initiatives and topics, including on priority
Patients are our North Star. We work with patients and their caregivers to
areas such as equitable access and climate action. These fireside chats were
understand their needs and help ensure that our medicines and vaccines work to
broadcast publicly and aimed to provide investors the opportunity to learn more
address them.
about Pfizer’s ESG priorities and activities.
13 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Introduction
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Our Stakeholders
— Continued
Colleagues Governments, policymakers, and regulators
We want all our colleagues to develop, grow, and succeed and believe everyone We engage policymakers and regulators to understand shifting external and
deserves to be seen, heard, and respected for who they are. We hold regular regulatory landscapes to help ensure that issues facing our company and our
meetings and Town Hall events focused on employees and their needs, conduct commitment to breakthroughs that change patients’ lives are communicated. We
regular surveys to understand colleague satisfaction and other aspects of have consistent, two-way dialogue with policymakers through targeted one-on-
corporate culture, and invest in programs to help colleagues manage their mental one engagement and through trade association and industry bodies alongside
and physical well-being. biopharmaceutical peers to help guide our medicines from the laboratory to
patients. We also provide policymakers with updates on our medicines and
Partners vaccines to facilitate decision-making and improved patient outcomes.
The scale of our ambition requires us to work in coordination and collaboration
with external partners, so that we advance new breakthroughs, improve access to
our medicines and vaccines, and nurture the growth of our business. We engage
with foundations, multilaterals, non-governmental organizations, and coalitions,
including groups like the World Health Organization, Save the Children, Access
to Medicine Foundation, and Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi)—among
others—on issues including access to medicines and vaccines, environmental
concerns, transparency, and business ethics. We also engage suppliers to
understand their needs and support their efforts to reduce their environmental
footprints. We work alongside global health and public health organizations to
expand access to our medicines and vaccines, including on-the-ground support
for health and education initiatives, and partner with academic and industry
research alliances to help increase the number of future breakthroughs for
patients. We also educate medical organizations about the latest research on our
medicines and vaccines, our pipelines, and ways to access our products.
14 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Introduction
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Impact Stories
The stories that follow highlight our extensive efforts in our
priority areas, leading with our global work to help tackle the
challenge of health inequity through the launch of An Accord
for a Healthier World. We also cover the work we do directly
with patients, advocates, and caregivers to carry out our core
purpose: Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives.
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Tackling the Health Equity Gap Together
Breaking down barriers with a new collective and holistic approach
medicines and vaccines as well as strengthening the resources, capabilities, and platforms
that will help enable sustainable access to those medicines. This includes technical expertise,
training, diagnostic capacity, innovative financing, and more within the public health system.
We aim for the Accord to be a catalyst bringing together governments and multi-sector
organizations to effectively identify and apply solutions across the entire healthcare ecosystem.
No one government, organization, or company can close the health equity gap alone.
Health inequity is one of the greatest and most urgent challenges we face today. Half of the
world’s population cannot access the healthcare they need. Significant improvements in local
health systems are still needed in many lower-income countries to ensure broader and better
access to care.1
Vaccine delivery in Rwanda
Consistent with Pfizer’s responsibility to respect the right to health, we are always looking for
new ways to tackle this challenge—not only by working to assure consistent supply and access
to medicines and vaccines, but also by addressing other system barriers that impede progress.
At the launch of the Accord in May 2022, Pfizer initially committed to provide on a not-for-profit
basis all our innovative medicines and vaccines available in the U.S. or the European Union
That’s why Pfizer launched An Accord for a Healthier World in 2022 to apply what we learned and
to 1.2 billion people in 45 lower-income countries. However, in the early months following
catalyze a collective effort to help address the health equity gap. The Accord is a first-of-its kind,
the launch as Accord outreach began, the resounding feedback from governments was that
comprehensive initiative focused on helping increase access to medicines and vaccines for 1.2
access to a broader and more immediate scope of consistent, high-quality products is needed
billion people living in 45 lower-income countries that have historically been most vulnerable to
for meaningful and sustainable transformation. Based on this feedback and to better align
healthcare inequalities. Alongside governments and global health organizations, Pfizer aims to
with unmet patient needs, Pfizer made the decision to significantly expand the offering from
co-create scalable and sustainable solutions to help address systemic barriers to better health.
the initial patented medicines and vaccines to the full portfolio of medicines for which Pfizer
The Accord is focused on working to find faster, more efficient pathways for supply of
1 https://www.who.int/news/item/13-12-2017-world-bank-and-who-half-the-world-lacks-access-to-essential-health-services-100-million-still-pushed-into-extreme-poverty-because-of-health-expenses#:~:text=At%20least%20half%20of%20
the,out%20of%20their%20own%20pockets
16 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Impact Stories
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Tackling the Health Equity Gap Together
— Continued
has global rights. The portfolio offered by Pfizer on a not-for-profit basis through the Accord training to support the use of these medicines and vaccines, and we have deployed the first
expanded from 23 to hundreds of patented and off-patent products that help treat or prevent Global Health Team to the country to help identify opportunities for long term supply chain
many of the greatest infectious and non-communicable disease threats faced today in lower- optimization.
income countries. Nearly 40 percent of the medicines and vaccines now offered are part of
the World Health Organization’s (WHO) list of essential medicines. As Pfizer introduces new Active collaboration is underway with the Ministries of Health in Malawi, Ghana, and Senegal
medicines and vaccines, those products will also be included in the Accord portfolio. as well as a number of other Accord-eligible lower-income countries to better understand the
critical healthcare needs and opportunities for health system strengthening.
The supply of these medicines and vaccines is only one step in getting them to people in need.
Each country and community faces unique circumstances, so Pfizer will be working with the Pfizer remains committed to helping support the needs of all patients, everywhere.
governments in each location to identify specific barriers and mobilize resources to address
them.
Since the launch of An Accord for a Healthier World, Pfizer has engaged with the majority of the
45 Accord-eligible lower-income countries and is in advanced conversations with a number
of them to explore opportunities to address health equity. Rwanda has already received its
first deliveries of Pfizer medicines and vaccines under the Accord. In collaboration with the
Rwandan Ministry of Health, Pfizer also provided professional healthcare education and
17 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Impact Stories
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Patient Advocacy and Engagement
Keeping Patients at the Center of Everything We Do
Working directly with patients, advocates, and caregivers to deliver breakthroughs that change patients’ lives.
Patient Centricity is our North Star at Pfizer. In keeping this steadfast focus, we know
we’re best positioned to deliver on our purpose: developing breakthroughs that change Pfizer was recognized as the most patient-centric organization among the world’s largest pharma-
patients’ lives. ceutical companies, according to the 2021 PatientView Corporate Reputation of Pharma Survey.
The survey, collecting insights from more than 2,150 patient groups across 90 countries, measures
their perceptions of pharma companies across nine indicators, including transparency, patient
safety, quality information, integrity, support for patients, and more.
WHAT IS PATIENT CENTRICITY?
Pfizer set out to define “patient centricity” in 2022, working collaboratively with patient
advocates to ensure our definition was inclusive of a diversity of experiences. We surveyed Working in Partnership with Patient Advocacy Groups
colleagues as well as a group of global pan-therapeutic patient centricity advisors. We ulti-
mately launched the definition as follows: “Patient Centricity exists at Pfizer when we listen Day in and day out, colleagues across Pfizer collaborate with hundreds of Patient Advocacy
and learn from the patient perspective, acting as partners with accountability and integrity Groups around the world to advance shared goals and better support the needs of patients
to deliver outcomes that matter most to patients and those involved in their care.”
everywhere. Advocacy leaders and patient groups understand the needs and perspectives
of patients and, for this reason, are essential partners to leaders across the industry. By
speaking directly with patients and advocates, Pfizer colleagues glean insights on patients’
That’s what inspired us to host our first-ever Global Patient Advocacy Forum in 2022, experiences with their conditions and treatments, inform patients about clinical trials,
bringing together senior advocacy leaders from around the world at our New York discuss possible side effects, and educate the wider healthcare community about tools that
headquarters to discuss how to continue to best partner with and serve patients. might be helpful to patients.
Our Global Patient Advocacy team contributes to Pfizer’s advocacy and engagement strategy
by supporting teams to drive deep therapeutic and regional relationship models with patient
Pfizer’s first-ever Global
advocacy groups. With a patient engagement lead based in every region, the team works
Patient Advocacy Forum was
held in 2022 bringing with patients and advocates regardless of geography, disease focus, or economic status.
together patient advocacy These partnerships can help improve patient outcomes by increasing patient engagement
leaders from around the in research and development, elevating priority policy and social impact issues, creating
world working across a meaningful resources and programs that provide value to patients, and more.
wide variety of patient
populations. For example, in 2022, Pfizer Spain’s Global Patient Advocacy colleagues joined forces with
Global Patient Advocacy colleagues across Latin American Pfizer sites to organize the first joint
webinar for Spanish-speaking advocates and patient groups titled Entre GENte y GENte, a play
on words connoting ‘between people and gene therapies.’ The webinar educated the audience
about gene therapy and other new, advanced therapies available for rare disease patients
and brought together experts, industry leaders, and over 100 patient advocacy groups for
the first time. Patient representatives from Latin America and Spain participated, intending to
work together between both continents through the exchange of information and concerns,
The forum also set the stage for Pfizer’s upcoming Global Pan-Therapeutic Patient and Pfizer leaders had the opportunity to reinforce the commitment to patient centricity and
Centricity Advisors council, which will include advocates from Latin America, Europe, highlight the value of science.
Asia, Canada, and the United States. The Global Pan-Therapeutic Patient Centricity
Events like these are multi-purpose: we are able to share knowledge and promote dialogue,
Advisors council has been assembled to educate Pfizer colleagues on trends and
increase literacy around advanced therapies for patient advocacy groups, and reinforce our
issues patient groups face, provide candid input on key patient-focused programs and
longstanding commitment to listening to patients’ needs and challenges.
resources, and collaborate with Pfizer colleagues and senior leadership to co-develop
meaningful approaches to measure progress on behalf of patients.
18 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Impact Stories
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Patient Advocacy and Engagement
Keeping Patients at the Center of Everything We Do
— Continued
Our Patient Centric Design For example, in early 2022, patient advocacy leaders working These in-person gatherings offer important opportunities
across Pfizer’s Rare Disease team designed a survey with for co-creation. For example, the 2017 dialog led to the
Patient perspectives are embedded into all of our work
Qualtrics to collect insights from respondents with sickle cell development of a Pfizer Germany website and information
end-to-end, from the earliest stages of research to the final
disease and their caregivers to better understand the effects platform, the “Support for Me” Patient Navigator. Developed
approval and use of our medicines and vaccines. We’re not
of sickle cell disease that matter most to the patient and by advocates, healthcare professionals and other experts
only considering their needs but also including them in the
preferences for treatment options. By bringing the patient across the industry to cater to patients’ most pressing
process. By working for and with patients, caregivers, and
voice in early, decision-makers at Pfizer develop a deep needs, the website now features insights from more than 70
advocates directly, we are able to better understand and
reservoir of insights about patients’ concerns and priorities, external experts with advice on topics such as disease basics,
serve the evolving needs of patients everywhere.
and in time, these can help inform therapeutic development, insights on living with a particular condition, recommended
clinical trial design, as well as our support programs and examinations, and treatment, as well as support and
services. guidance for caregivers and family members.
As another demonstration of this approach, the Pfizer
Germany Patient Dialog has gathered more than 100 patient
organizations and leaders across the industry to discuss
patients’ most pressing needs. Launched in 2002, the
Dialog has transformed from a small networking event and
workshop into a pivotal healthcare convention in Germany,
uniting experts from the pharmaceutical industry, healthcare,
politics, and patient advocacy organizations. The program
includes a discussion about the future of the healthcare
system, a debate about the opportunities presented by
PATIENT SPOTLIGHT: KEVIN’S STORY different therapies, and a best practices presentation on
patient information.
Diagnosed with sickle cell disease (SCD) at a young age, Kevin
was determined to not let his diagnosis define his life. He now
serves as a patient advocate, using his voice to help provide
hope and reinforce that the future is brighter for those
impacted by sickle cell disease.
Because of their unique experience and insights into the
realities patients face each day, patient advocates like Kevin
are crucial partners in understanding and serving patient
needs. After all, nobody understands a health condition
better than the person experiencing it. Collaborations like
these are a priority across every therapeutic area and Pfizer
could not deliver our purpose without advocates and patient
groups.
Learn more about Kevin’s determination to combat the The Pfizer Germany Patient Dialog gathers more than 100
stigma of this rare disease and his passion for patient patient organizations and leaders across the industry to discuss
advocacy here. patients’ most pressing needs.
19 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Impact Stories
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Patient Advocacy and Engagement
Keeping Patients at the Center of Everything We Do
— Continued
Improving Health Literacy for All Patients groups and community centers—to evaluate the language
around health topics, such as COVID-19, and to suggest
phrasing that is easy to understand. In addition, Pfizer has
sponsored organizations, such as the National Academies
of Science Engineering and Medicine (NASEM) Roundtable
on Health Literacy and Pharma Collaborative, to support the
development of workshops around topics like communicating
with vulnerable populations and developing health literacy
skills to improve equity.
We’ve also created two resources to support patients and
caregivers this year. A new e-book, Making the Most of
Patient Centricity: How to Be an Empowered, Engaged Patient
helps empower them to make smart healthcare choices,
improve their communication with healthcare providers, and
make sure they have the information needed to advocate for
themselves in a medical setting. Similarly, our new guide, A
Lifetime of Health Literacy, helps parents and providers learn
how to promote health literacy in children. The guide features
Even the best programs, resources or health information expert-backed tips on how to foster a greater sense of shared
can’t help patients if they don’t know how to act on it. Health health decision-making with kids.
literacy is the measure of how patients get health information From crystalizing health information for patients to ensuring
and services, understand them, and use them. Many people we are always learning, listening, and acting as partners
find health information difficult or confusing, which can with accountability and integrity with advocates and patient
contribute to poor health decisions. That’s why Pfizer is groups, we continue to ensure that patients remain at the
working with advocates to make health information easier center of all the work that we do.
to understand and to provide patients with resources to
promote conversations that result in better outcomes.
From ensuring that clinical trial data is accessible and useful
to developing easy-to-understand product information
and labels, Pfizer colleagues aim to ensure that all patient
information is shared in plain language, without any technical
jargon and in a timely manner. Pfizer’s Health Literacy
Position Paper outlines various initiatives to improve health
literacy, including our work with advocacy groups and non-
profit partners. For example, in recent years, we worked
with a number of organizations—including multicultural
20 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Impact Stories
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Environment
The health of our global environment impacts everyone. At Pfizer, we are committed to reducing our environmental footprint. Our company
purpose—Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives—guides our environmental priorities, with a focus on impact reduction, conservation of
resources, and the minimization of waste arising from our operations.
Climate Change 22 How our approach Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure
Reducing Emissions From Our Operations We promote resilient and sustainable
to environmental
infrastructure, scientific research and
Accelerating Action Across Our Supply Chain
sustainability innovation.
Proactive External Engagement supports the
Responsible Consumption and Production
Understanding How Climate Change Could Impact Our Business Sustainable
We aim to achieve environmentally
Development sound life cycle management and adopt
Sustainable Medicines 24 Goals (SDGs) sustainable practices
Pharmaceuticals In The Environment
Climate Action
Waste Through our goals we are taking urgent
Water Stress action to help combat climate change
and its impacts.
More information on the SDGs here.
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Environment
Climate Change
Pfizer aims to achieve a 95% reduction in company (Scope 1 & 2) greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and a 90% reduction in value chain
(Scope 3) emissions by 20401. Our near term targets, approved by the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi), are outlined below:
We recognize global climate change as one of the defining
Target Progress
issues of our time requiring collective action to mitigate
the risks it poses such as increased adverse impacts on
Reducing scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions in 2022 were 1.5% lower than 2021 in spite of production
human health and decreased access to critical medicines by 46% from a 2019 baseline by 2030 increases, including the production of PAXLOVID® (nirmatrelvir tablets and ritonavir
and vaccines due to disruptions in value chains caused by tablets)2. Emissions for 2022 were 11.2% lower than the 2019 baseline.
the greater frequency of severe weather.
Pfizer is continuing its near-term commitment to reduce
company Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions aligned with a
Sourcing 80% of electricity from renew- Pfizer sourced 7.8% renewable electricity in 2022.
1.5⁰C trajectory and to engage suppliers so that they also ables by 2025, and 100% by 2030
set science-based GHG emissions reduction goals.
In June 2022, Pfizer announced a broader commitment to
further reduce GHG emissions by working to achieve the
Reducing emissions from upstream Although emissions associated with the transportation and distribution of PAXLOVID and
voluntary Net-Zero Standard by 2040, ten years earlier
transportation and distribution by 10% the COVID-19 vaccine, transported predominantly by air using cold-chain technologies,
than the timeline described in the standard. By 2040 Pfizer and from business travel by 25% by continued to increase, we eliminated approximately 50,000 mt of GHG emissions by tran-
aims to decrease its company GHG emissions by 95% and 2025 from a 2019 baseline sitioning other product shipments from air to ocean in 2022.
its value chain emissions by 90% from 2019 levels through
accelerating the transition away from fossil fuels and Travel-related GHG emissions were 78% lower than the 2019 baseline. Going forward we
will continue to utilize digital tools as appropriate to limit travel.
engaging suppliers to catalyze equivalent action.
In June 2022, Pfizer became one of the initial signatories
to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
(HHS) climate pledge that calls on stakeholders in the U.S. Working to accelerate change across Currently 29% of our suppliers by spend have or have committed to develop GHG emis-
healthcare system —including hospitals, health systems, our supply chain, driving 64% of our sions reduction targets approved by the SBTi.
suppliers of goods and services by
payers, suppliers, and pharmaceutical companies—to
spend to also set science-based GHG
reduce GHG emissions and build a more climate resilient emission reduction goals by 2025
healthcare infrastructure. By doing so, we committed to
reducing GHG emissions and to publicly report on progress
as well as develop climate resiliency plans, among other
actions.
Our environmental data included in this ESG Report may include certain estimates and assumptions given data avail-
In recognition of these ambitions and other efforts, Pfizer ability at the time of publication. Our finalized 2022 data with additional details will be published on Pfizer’s Environ-
mental Sustainability Page.
was also included in Corporate Knights’ 2023 100 Most
Sustainable Corporations in the World list.
1 Pfizer is pursuing SBTi validation of our Net-Zero target in 2023.
2 Please refer to About this Report for the Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) statement for COMIRNATY® and PAXLOVID®.
22 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Environment
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Environment
— Continued
Reducing Emissions From Our Operations Accelerating Action Across Our Supply Chain Understanding How Climate Change Could
Impact Our Business
As part of our efforts to reduce our overall environmental Pfizer’s scope 3 (value chain) GHG footprint is four times
footprint globally, our manufacturing and R&D sites that associated with the company’s direct operations. We are committed to transparency in evaluating the risks
have environmental sustainability plans to reduce Based on this, we recognize action is needed throughout and opportunities that climate change may present to
impact. We seek opportunities to design new facilities our value chain to help address the complex threat of our business. To meet this commitment, we incorporate
or renovation projects with reduced environmental climate change. Procurement of goods and services, the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures
impact (such as energy consumption, water usage, which is essential to producing medicines and vaccines, (TCFD) framework into our enterprise risk management
and waste management) so we can reduce resource is the most significant contributor to our scope 3 governance process and voluntarily report aligned with
demand. For example, we aim to replace equipment emissions. Therefore, we urge all our suppliers to commit TCFD recommendations. See our TCFD Response on
at end-of-life with energy-efficient alternatives. We to ambitious, science-based GHG reduction targets and page 74.
invest in no- / low-carbon technologies at our sites and have integrated environmental criteria in our supplier
through power purchase agreements (PPAs) that enable sourcing, contracting, and performance management
sourcing of energy from renewable sources. We also processes. From 2018 to 2021 Pfizer was recognized as a
undertake process enhancements within our product CDP Supplier Engagement Leader for our work to reduce
manufacturing to increase efficiency and reduce the environmental risks in our supply chain.1
number of process steps and resources required.
In November 2022, Pfizer also announced our intention
In 2021, Pfizer entered into a virtual PPA with Vesper to join a collective action initiative, Activate, to support
Energy (Vesper). Certain market and supply chain issues the decarbonization of a major source of GHG emissions
have been resolved and we now expect the project in the pharmaceutical value chain. Through Activate,
to begin generating power on or before December Pfizer will work in partnership with peer pharma
31, 2024. Under this 15-year agreement, Vesper will companies to accelerate decarbonization in active
deliver at least 310 megawatts (MW) of renewable pharmaceutical ingredient (API) supply chains. Activate
energy to the grid from the Hornet Solar project in targets sustainability / GHG emission improvements
west Texas. Once operational, we expect Pfizer’s North at API suppliers including Contract Manufacturing
American purchased electricity needs, which comprise Organizations.
approximately 50% of our electricity use globally, will
be addressed by the renewable energy certificates Wind turbines at Puurs, Belgium Pfizer site.
generated by this solar energy project. Proactive External Engagement
In 2022, we also continued our efforts to establish a Tackling climate change requires action from all parties
virtual PPA in Europe and aim to secure renewable across all sectors, and Pfizer urges governments both
energy certificates and / or additional PPAs to meet our in the U.S. and abroad to establish ambitious climate
goal of 80% renewable energy by 2025. As outlined by our policies to stabilize global temperature rise at 1.5
goals and demonstrated by our commitment to RE100, degrees.
we are working to transition electricity generated by our
For additional information on Pfizer’s climate action
operations and any remaining purchased electricity to
program, please see our:
renewable sources by 2030.
• Climate Change Position Statement
• 2022 CDP Climate Change Response
1 CDP Supplier Engagement Leaderboard results for calendar year 2022 were not yet available at the time of publication.
23 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Environment
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Environment
— Continued
Pharmaceuticals in the Environment
Sustainable Medicines
Pharmaceuticals in the environment and antimicrobial resistance (AMR) continue to be
critically important environmental issues for our industry. Pfizer is committed to limiting
discharge of active pharmaceutical ingredients to wastewater from our manufacturing
processes, using environmental risk assessment methodologies and emission control
Pfizer has a long history of using the concepts of green chemistry and promoting them
practices and technologies. As an active member, Pfizer follows the best practices in
across the industry. Through scientific innovation we strive to design more efficient
the AMR Industry Alliance’s (AMRIA) Antibiotic Manufacturing Standard, published
processes that can reduce the environmental impact of our medicines throughout the
in June 2022. We are on track to meet our goal of achieving the industry published
product life cycle.
targets (Predicted No Effect Concentrations) for antibiotics by 2025 and are piloting
To expand on this, we are developing sustainable product design principles to transform innovative wastewater management and treatment practices at several sites, including
the way we work across all modalities in both research and development. Our intent is to manufacturing and supplier sites, to advance our management of wastewater discharges.
positively impact our environmental performance by systematically conserving energy,
In 2022 Pfizer participated in an effort led by AMRIA and BSI Standards Limited to develop
reducing water and raw materials usage, driving out waste, and embracing circular
an antibiotic certification scheme that is designed to demonstrate implementation
solutions where possible. The principles also serve to educate and inform our colleagues,
of AMRIA’s Antibiotic Manufacturing Standard through an independent third-party
define key metrics and performance targets, and encourage innovation through
certification body. Pfizer is one of the first companies to participate in the 2023
collaboration and partnerships.
certification assessment pilot.
Pfizer is conducting representative life cycle assessments (LCAs) for small molecules,
large molecules, vaccines, and devices. The output of these assessments is used to
identify areas of focus in development and manufacturing processes, which can help
Waste
enable preventative actions where we can have the most impact, with particular
emphasis on GHG emissions reductions. Central to our sustainable medicines program is the minimization of waste across
our sites globally. We pursue process improvements in our research, development
and manufacturing operations through next-generation design projects and the
implementation of green chemistry and other sustainability practices. Pfizer sites
consistently seek opportunities to reduce, reuse, repurpose, and recycle materials such
as packaging and plastics. For the past four years, we’ve tracked an internal performance
metric to evaluate our sites’ waste management practices as they relate to the hierarchy
of control of handling waste: avoid, reduce, reuse, recycle, dispose. The metric is used to
drive waste handling decisions to improve the circularity of our sites’ waste streams and
promote minimization. We are also able to use this metric to benchmark our performance
against others in our industry and identify opportunities for improvement. Since 2019, we
have reduced the quantity of waste sent to landfill by over 5.4 million kilograms.
Pfizer participates in the Pharmaceutical Product Stewardship Work Group (PPSWG) in
the United States and MEDSdisposal in Europe to help enable proper disposal of unused
medicines.
24 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Environment
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Environment
— Continued
Creating Sustainable Solutions in Memphis
At Pfizer’s logistics center in Memphis, Tennessee, we took steps to reduce the environmental
impact of cold chain shipping operations. Only about 3% of the single-use Styrofoam containers
being used for cold chain shipments were being returned by our customers for recycling, with
the majority being sent to landfill for disposal. We replaced the Styrofoam shippers with reus-
able shipping containers that are easily returned and can be re-used over 70 times, reducing
the amount of packaging waste sent to landfill by customers by 90%.
Water Stress
The availability of and access to clean water is a basic human need globally and must
be addressed locally. In 2022, Pfizer published a Water Stewardship position statement,
which describes our commitment to being good stewards of the water we use to make
medicines, particularly in water-stressed areas. To this end, we completed water risk
assessments at all Pfizer sites in 2022 to better evaluate and understand water quality
and scarcity issues across our network.
As a result of these risk assessments, in 2023 we plan to develop action plans at sites with
elevated risk scores, which include elements such as quantifying water use, implementing
mitigation plans and establishing water conservation targets, protecting water quality,
improving wastewater treatment where necessary, evaluating recycling practices, and
engaging with surrounding communities. We will measure progress at our internal sites,
while engaging with our key suppliers in water-stressed areas to encourage them to
develop and implement similar action plans.
Pfizer teammates completed a biodiversity related project involving the inventory and planting of
native trees at its Itapevi, Brazil site.
CASE STUDY: ITAPEVI NATURE BASED SOLUTIONS PROJECT
As Pfizer sets out on its Net-Zero journey, we recognize the interconnectedness of climate
change, natural systems and biodiversity. Several of our sites around the globe have undertaken
projects focused on protecting and promoting local, natural systems. In recent years, Pfizer
Global Supply colleagues in Itapevi have been working to increase biodiversity by doubling the
number of native trees onsite. In 2022, an inventory was completed of the more than 2,000 trees
on the property confirming their health. These trees not only provide additional habitat and
shade, but also help clean the air and act as a carbon sink.
25 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Environment
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Social
At Pfizer, our purpose—Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives—is rooted in achieving social good. We know that when we succeed, our
breakthroughs can potentially have life-changing effects. We aim to be the solution for illnesses from widespread infectious diseases to conditions
with historically unmet need.
Pfizer is mindful of the urgency of our mission, as the world fights against the spread of deadly new diseases and struggles with inequities in
health outcomes among populations. Our goal is to leverage partnerships and programs to allow quick and widespread access to our
breakthrough medicines and vaccines across all corners of the world.
Innovation and Global Health 27
How our approach Good Health and Well-Being
Product Innovation We aspire to ensure health and well-being
to social issues
for all at all ages through equitable access to
Equitable Access and Pricing
supports the SDGs medicines and vaccines.
Healthcare Infrastructure
Patient Centric Design Gender Equality
More information on We aim to end discrimination against women,
the SDGs here. ensure equal opportunities for leadership and
Human Capital 33 access to reproductive health.
Colleague Engagement
Decent Work and Economic Growth
Growth and Development
We promote inclusive and sustainable
Colleague Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion economic growth, employment, and decent
and safe working environments.
Health, Safety, and Well-being
Reduced Inequalities
We empower and promote the social and
economic inclusion of all, irrespective of age,
sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion
or economic or other status.
Partnerships for the Goals
We are working to create new partnerships
to help attain relevant sustainable
development goals.
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Social
Innovation and Global Health
As the global health landscape continues to evolve, so do we, making innovation our greatest tool as we uncover new combinations, designs, and
advances to address an array of challenges. But medicinal solutions are only part of the equation: getting vaccines and therapies to patients who need
them, regardless of location, requires innovation in delivery systems.
Pfizer focuses on both aspects of innovation by investing in the right people and partnerships. Pfizer colleagues continue to break barriers in the
discovery and delivery of treatments and solutions with a relentless focus on providing for underserved and vulnerable communities around the world.
Our strategic public and private partnerships allow for reach and scale when key players are brought together.
Product Innovation years-long narrowing of our therapeutic proportion of Breakthrough Therapy and
Digital Innovation
focus areas to where we believe we are Expedited Regulatory Designations relative
At Pfizer, we measure ourselves by our equipped to make the biggest impact on to the industry. Greater social impact is the result of our re-
relentless pursuit of breakthroughs lentless focus on productivity, as we get more
patients’ lives.
that change patients’ lives. This means life-changing medicines into the hands of pa-
• Between 2018 and 2022, 44 percent
tients and at a faster rate. Pfizer is leveraging
prioritizing innovation and accelerating
Reduced cycle times, while continuing of Pfizer NME and novel BLA digital, data, artificial intelligence (AI), and
our efforts to bring solutions to those
our focus on safety and quality, can help applications approved by the U.S. FDA machine learning to accelerate innovation in
who need them at “lightspeed.” We have get our breakthroughs to patients faster, were designated as Breakthrough the interests of patients at every step—from
been consistently investing in innovation discovery to clinical development, manufac-
potentially addressing more unmet needs. Therapies compared to 30 percent of
with a research and development budget turing, distribution, and commercialization.
Pfizer reduced our median FIH to approval industry Center for Drug Evaluation
Technology enhancements like computation-
that has grown by more than 70 percent
cycle time for new medicines and vaccines and Research (CDER) and Center for al modeling and simulation, and quantum
in less than five years. As of January 31,
from nine years in 2019 to approximately Biologics Evaluation and Research computing capabilities, are making our crit-
2023, our current pipeline of 110 programs five years in 2022. Based on an evolving (CBER) vaccine applications approved ical work faster and more relevant to actual
in development, from Phase 1 through mix of approvals, including accelerated over the same period patient experiences.
registration, reflects our empowerment of
development for COVID-19 products, Pfizer
scientists, culture of excellence, and deep- • Including other FDA designations In 2022, our digital innovation included
seated drive to deliver on our purpose for now develops medicines and vaccines involving expedited review between partnering with major retail pharmacy chains
45 percent faster from FIH to approval to introduce digital health products that
patients. compared to 2019. 2018 and 2022, 100 percent of Pfizer support patients on their treatment journey,
NME and novel BLA applications
and applying advanced analytics and AI ca-
A greater success rate means the potential approved by the FDA achieved one pabilities that accelerate access to PAXLOVID,
We work every day to upend the standard
to affect more patients’ lives. By the end (or more) expedited designations Pfizer’s COVID-19 oral treatment. Pfizer also
of 2022, Pfizer achieved an end-to-end approach to clinical development in areas compared to 67 percent of industry launched an AI-driven program to monitor
with a high unmet need in order to pursue and identify counterfeit versions of Pfizer
success rate of 18 percent—from first-in- breakthroughs in vaccines and treatments. CDER and CBER vaccine applications medicines in real-time to help ensure patient
human (FIH) to approval at a new molecular access to safe and effective medications. To
entity (NME) level — which is nearly 10 deliver these and other innovations at speed
Pfizer’s NME and Biologics License
times our 2010 performance. This improved and scale, we accelerated the migration of
Application (BLA) approvals reflect a greater
our global IT footprint to the cloud from 25
success rate can be largely attributed to a
percent in 2019 to 80 percent in 2022.
27 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Social
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Social
— Continued
Our Innovations Are Guided by Patient Needs
RSV vaccine candidate
In 2022, Pfizer received Breakthrough Therapy Designation for our respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) vaccine candidate, RSVpreF, for prevention of RSV-associated lower respiratory tract illness
in both infants, through maternal immunization, and older adults aged 60+. With RSV’s potentially serious and in some cases life-threatening impacts, RSVpreF has the potential to be the
first maternal vaccine candidate to help protect infants from birth through six months of age, if approved.
Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine
Pfizer received approval from the European Medicines Agency in 2022 for APEXXNAR® [pneumococcal polysaccharide conjugate vaccine (20-valent, adsorbed)], our
20-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for the prevention of invasive disease and pneumonia caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae in people ages 18 and up.
Following positive results in studies of the pediatric population, the FDA accepted the application for the vaccine for priority review to expand use to prevent infection in
infants in the U.S.
Next generation COVID-19 vaccine candidate
In the ongoing response to COVID-19, Pfizer and BioNTech have established a long term and multi-pronged scientific strategy with the aim of developing
next generation COVID-19 vaccines to generate more robust, longer-lasting, and broader immune responses against COVID-19.
Ulcerative colitis
Pfizer announced positive Phase 3 results for etrasimod, an investigational, oral, once-a-day (S1P) receptor modulator for the treatment of moderate-to-
severe ulcerative colitis—a chronic and debilitating disease with high rates of progression to colectomy. In the trial, etrasimod showed an encouraging
balance of efficacy and safety, and could have a meaningful impact for patients, if approved.
Type 2 diabetes
Rising rates of obesity and diabetes carry significant health consequences, as these diseases have increased comorbidity risk. Pfizer’s investigational oral GLP-1receptor
agonists are designed to address what we understand to be key drivers of these diseases and are showing best-in-class potential. While ensuring the compliance with
our high-quality standards and keeping patient safety at the forefront, we are working to accelerate clinical development timelines for these treatment candidates
and, subject to clinical success and approval of regulatory authorities, we hope to be able to provide a convenient oral option for patients alongside currently approved
injectable medicines.
Oncology
Oncology continues to be another therapeutic area where Pfizer has deep scientific and biologic understanding.
• In 2022, Pfizer’s investigational cancer immunotherapy, elranatamab, received FDA Breakthrough Therapy Designation for the treatment of people with relapsed or refractory multiple
myeloma, representing our twelfth breakthrough designation in oncology
• To help patients with advanced prostate cancer—the second most common type of cancer in men—Pfizer is conducting the Phase 3 TALAPRO-2 study, examining a combination
treatment with TALZENNA® (talazoparib), an oral poly ADP-ribose polymerase inhibitor, and XTANDI® (enzalutamide)—an existing standard of care. The study showed positive results
with the potential for this combination to become a new standard of care for metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer, subject to regulatory approval.
28 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Social
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Social
— Continued
Innovating for Impact As a result of these efforts, in 2022, more than 1.3 billion we’ve agreed to supply up to 930 million doses of
patients were treated and / or vaccinated by a Pfizer pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV) through 2027 at
2022 also brought significant launches and expansions that
product, including COMIRNATY® (the Pfizer-BioNTech its lowest access price. In 2022, Pfizer extended this work
provide opportunities for Pfizer to further address unmet
COVID-19 vaccine) and PAXLOVID® (nirmatrelvir tablets and through a bid with UNICEF to supply Prevenar 13 to Gavi at
patient needs in categories such as rare hematology, for
ritonavir tablets).1 its lowest access price.
example. Pfizer completed the acquisition of Global Blood
Therapeutics, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company dedicated
Affordability is a long term commitment and must be
to the discovery, development, and delivery of life-changing
embedded in our systems, incentives, and operating Patients Treated
treatments for underserved patient communities, starting
model. At Pfizer, this is guided by An Accord for a Healthier (including COMIRNATY and PAXLOVID)2
with sickle cell disease.
World, which is focused on closing the health equity gap
that persists between wealthy nations and many lower-
A core pillar of our product innovation work is our effort to Traditional Channels
income countries. Alongside governments and multi-sector
help slow the spread of antimicrobial resistance (AMR)—
one of the biggest threats to global health as it can make partners, Pfizer is working to co-create scalable, sustainable 1.3b
solutions to enable greater access to healthcare innovation
infections harder to treat, increasing the risk of disease
for 1.2 billion people living in 45 lower-income countries
spread, severe illness, and death. As many as 10 million
around the world.
people could die annually from AMR by 2050.
U.S. Patient Assistance Programs
Additionally, Pfizer’s broad-based core methods to reduce
Pfizer’s recognition in the 2022 Access to Medicine AMR
the number of people who cannot afford our medicines
Benchmark reflects our industry-leading and multi-faceted 75k+
include:
approach to combat AMR, which includes our own product
pipeline, active stewardship, infrastructure investments,
• Advocating with payers, governments, and others in the
and comprehensive tracking. Pfizer’s ATLAS surveillance
healthcare system on behalf of patients to identify and
program—one of the largest in the world—provides public Ex-U.S. Access and Affordability Programs
relieve financial burdens
access to both antifungal and antibiotic resistance data,
helping researchers and stakeholders better understand • Patient assistance and donation programs when 1.1m
resistance patterns. insurance or reimbursement systems fail to provide
affordable access to our medicines
Equitable Access and Pricing
• Innovative financing mechanisms, including differential
Global Commercial Access Partnerships
At Pfizer, we measure ourselves not just by the creation pricing, microfinancing, peer-to-peer lending,
of breakthrough medicines and vaccines, but by the subscription models, and flexible payment options, 38.5m
accessibility of those critical innovations within populations to help reduce out-of-pocket costs for patients on a
in need. Our vaccines and medicines are not able to benefit sustained basis
patients if they cannot reach or afford them. To change • New technologies that reduce barriers to care and digital
patients’ lives, Pfizer applies a modernized approach to wallets with the potential to pass rebates directly to Product Donation Programs
access, focused on affordability and delivery for patients patients at the point of sale
with the greatest coverage gaps and out-of-pocket 31.2m
exposure. We also engage in global commercial access partnerships
with organizations like Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, where
1 Please refer to About this Report for the Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) statement for COMIRNATY® and PAXLOVID®.
2 Refer to our Performance section for additional details on these figures.
29 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Social
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Social
— Continued
In the 2022 Access to Medicine Index, Pfizer ranked No. 6 As part of our commitment to advance health equity, The
overall, but led in the governance of access category for Pfizer Foundation’s ‘Accelerating Health Equity’ Grant
an integrated access-to-medicine strategy and board-level Program supports efforts to reduce health disparities and
responsibility and showed improvement in the Research & improve health outcomes in Black communities in the U.S.
Development category. using a social determinants of health framework. In its
second year, the program is supporting 15 community-
Pfizer looks to leverage digital platforms and technologies based organizations to develop and lead solutions that
prevalent in today’s world to introduce effective and scalable address leading causes of disparate health outcomes. In
solutions that address specific patient needs. This includes the program’s first year more than 900,000 people received
support programs that aim to improve quality of care and healthcare services, information or support, including
convenience, as well as reduce the burden of ongoing, high- efforts to empower people with health knowledge, increase
COVID-19 vaccines arrive in Botswana cost care. In 2022, Pfizer developed IUdo, a digital solution access to direct health services, and provide patients and
offering a standardized and secure platform to streamline communities with stronger social support. This program
CONTINUING OUR MISSION TO WORK TOWARDS processes for third parties managing Pfizer support also trained more than 390 community health workers and
EQUITABLE GLOBAL ACCESS TO THE COVID-19 VACCINE
programs, combined with a mobile app for patients. strengthened more than 3,600 health facilities in the U.S.
In 2022, Pfizer continued our commitment to reach vulnerable
populations where there is demand through a pledge to IUdo is designed to make it easier for patients enrolled Launched in 2020, in partnership with Direct Relief, The Pfizer
make available at least 2 billion doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech
in selected Patient Support Programs to access Pfizer Foundation provided grants to 11 U.S. safety-net community
COVID-19 vaccine to low- and middle-income countries
medications. It improves both the patient and healthcare healthcare providers, supporting innovative approaches to
through 2022. As of the end of 2022, Pfizer met the demand
for the vaccine from these markets, delivering nearly 1.7 professional experience by accelerating program enrollment; infectious disease education, screening, testing, treatment,
billion doses to 112 countries, including South Africa, Kenya, providing seamless access to financial support plans; and care among the country’s most vulnerable communities.
Rwanda, Jordan, Ukraine, Dominican Republic, Honduras, increasing the scale and reach of programs to patients; Assisted by the grants, these health centers are undertaking
Indonesia, Vietnam, and Malaysia—among many others. and allowing the support program journey to be managed approaches to create greater equity, including mobile vans
We also continue to work closely with COVAX and partners directly from their phones. To date, IUdo is available in Egypt, and pop-up clinics, telehealth technology, and electronic
like the U.S. Government and European Union to supply the Lebanon, Qatar, and Mexico with plans to expand to other health records to standardize care. To date, the program has
vaccine to meet current global demand in low- and middle-
countries across Emerging Markets in fiscal 2023. reached more than 455,000 people with improved quality
income countries. Pfizer remained the top supplier to COVAX
care, including pregnant women and children.
in 2022, contributing around 30% of their total supply—
nearly 600 million doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Healthcare Infrastructure
vaccine. Pfizer also supports bilateral donations between Global health system strengthening
governments to help ensure access. Pfizer embraces that healthcare is more than the
development of medicines and vaccines. Governments, civil Through global initiatives, The Pfizer Foundation focuses its
society, the private health sector, and communities play strategy on strengthening health systems to better address
a critical role in facilitating access to health innovations vaccine-preventable illnesses and infectious disease.
We set the price of our medicines and vaccines guided by the
by establishing and strengthening local healthcare
value our products bring to patients and society, achieving
infrastructure. Launched in 2016, the Global Health Innovation Grants (GHIG)
the broadest possible access. Our goal is to create long term
program works to support innovative health delivery models
solutions that take into consideration the environments and
Through The Pfizer Foundation*, we make investments in low- and middle-income countries. These projects help to
health systems in which we operate, using flexible payment
that seek to improve health systems and increase access to test and scale community-based initiatives addressing global
models designed for differing markets. To achieve faster and
quality healthcare for underserved populations, in the U.S. health challenges and allow the Foundation to make wide-
broader access to our medicines, we have over 150 financial-
and around the world. We have doubled down on solutions reaching impact in the prevention and treatment of infectious
based agreements currently implemented or in development
that are evidence based and aligned with government health disease. Since the program launch, The Pfizer Foundation
in ex-U.S. markets.
priorities. has supported 34 organizations in 21 countries across Asia,
*The Pfizer Foundation is a separate legal entity from Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions.
30 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Social
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Social
— Continued
Africa, and Latin America. These efforts have helped to treat These are often preventable deaths caused by gaps in access under age five, by strengthening community-level prevention,
more than six million patients, provide life-saving screening to healthcare and inappropriate care for pregnancy and diagnosis, and treatment, as well as deploying social
and education for 12.2 million patients, train more than 80,000 childbirth. In 2022, we increased our support in this area accountability models to demand and improve utilization of
healthcare staff and open over 1,000 new health centers. through a new partnership with PATH in Ghana to reduce quality care.
newborn mortality by improving diagnosis and management
In addition to our GHIG initiative, the Infectious Disease Grants of maternal infections through integration of point-of-care
program, launched in 2019, focuses on improving child health diagnostics and community-based screening of infectious
and prevention and treatment of infectious diseases. diseases.
We recognize the disproportionate risk for neonatal deaths This year, The Pfizer Foundation expanded our partnership
and maternal mortality in low- and middle-income countries. with World Vision in Uganda to reduce childhood mortality
Pfizer Inc. Programs Supporting Equitable Access
International Trachoma Initiative
In 1998, Pfizer and the Edna McConnell Clark Foundation co-founded the International Trachoma Initiative (ITI), a nonprofit dedicated to helping eliminate
trachoma, the leading infectious cause of blindness worldwide. The ITI, which since 2009 has been a program of the independent nonprofit The Task Force
for Global Health, manages Pfizer’s donated antibiotic and collaborates with governments and partners to implement the World Health Organization’s (WHO)
recommended strategy to prevent, treat, and ultimately eliminate trachoma as a public health problem.
Our Impact:
• As of January 2023, Pfizer marked the milestone of 1 billion donated doses of antibiotic, which through the ITI and many partners has reached more than
300 million patients in more than 40 countries
Photo Credit: Sala Lewis /
• As a result of the WHO’s recommended SAFE strategy to help prevent and treat trachoma, in 2022 four additional countries were validated by the WHO
International Trachoma
as having eliminated trachoma, even amid other public health crises. According to the WHO, 15 countries have eliminated trachoma as a public health
Initiative
problem and the number of people at risk of the disease has decreased by 92 percent since 2002
• In June 2022, Pfizer extended our commitment to provide antibiotic donations through 2030, aligning with the goal of global trachoma elimination
endorsed by the WHO
Local Supply Chain Partnerships
We know that it won’t just be vaccines that will bring an end to the COVID-19 pandemic, but vaccinations. Country readiness is critical in ensuring that
vaccinations are successful. Based on Pfizer’s experience working with Ministries of Health and multilateral organizations during this unprecedented scale up of
a vaccination campaign, we recognize countries are facing multiple issues when it comes to supply planning and delivery, including the ability to absorb vaccine
in the country, lower uptake rates due to hesitancy, limited ultra-cold-chain capacity or infrastructure to properly move or store vaccines, syringe supply, and
other downstream capacity issues like workforce constraints. Continued investment in readiness efforts in many low-income countries is still necessary to
ensure that vaccines shipped effectively reach populations. Pfizer continues to partner with the global health community, governments, and private industry to
help address these challenges.
31 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Social
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Social
— Continued
Zipline
As part of a four-year partnership with Zipline, Pfizer is continuing to support an innovative pilot initiative in Ghana, focused on delivering vaccines that require
cold-chain storage to hard-to-reach areas using drones. The initial success of the project suggests the program could be expanded to deliver doses of COVID-19
vaccines to remote regions across the world where Zipline operates. In 2022, over 1.7 million vaccine doses from various manufacturers were delivered by
Zipline, reaching 657 health facilities across Ghana, as well as expanding to Nigeria, reaching 90 rural health facilities in Kaduna State. In addition to providing
much-needed vaccines to these areas, the delivery of these 1.7 million doses by drones saved over 34,000 gallons of gasoline.
Project Last Mile
In 2021, Pfizer signed a memorandum of understanding with the Global Environment and Technology Foundation to collaborate with Project Last Mile. The
partnership is focused on aligning the supply chain expertise and technical capabilities of Coca-Cola, a company whose supply chain is characterized as one
of the widest reaching in the world, with technical expertise from Pfizer on vaccine handling, storage and administration in order to improve the availability of
vaccines in developing countries, and, in particular, to those residing in and around the last mile of the medical supply chain in Africa.
Patient Centric Design colleagues’ understanding of patient needs and highlighted In 2022, The Collective hosted its inaugural Health Equity
best-in-class patient advocacy initiatives. in Action Summit: Optimal Interventions to Systemic
Everything we do at Pfizer is done first and foremost with
Drivers of Racial Health Inequities. Co-convened by The
patients in mind. To be most effective in serving patients and
In addition to improving the broader patient experience Century Foundation, the National Minority Quality Forum,
understanding the patient experience, we are intentional
through community engagement, health inequities are Morehouse School of Medicine, and National Association
about engaging them, along with caregivers and advocacy
addressed more effectively when community experts of County & City Health Officials (NACCHO), the Summit
groups, in all of our processes. By speaking directly with
are intentionally engaged in developing solutions that gathered more than 100 leaders from across the healthcare
patients and advocates, we glean insights on conditions
tackle underlying issues. Pfizer continues to work with key ecosystem to challenge conventional thinking, highlight
and treatments, inform patients about clinical trials, discuss
groups across the U.S. to help address health disparities the need and opportunities to disrupt racism embedded
possible side effects, and educate the wider healthcare
among historically underserved populations through its in health systems, and make better health possible for all.
community about helpful tools.
Multicultural Health Equity Collective (The Collective). We explored solutions to advance health equity across
Building upon trust established with partner organizations, key areas, including digital health, healthcare facilities and
In that spirit, we hosted our second annual Patients in Focus
The Collective continues to move beyond education and delivery, workforce development, health research and policy,
week, engaging more than 40,000 colleagues and more than
health literacy efforts, while purposefully focusing on and more. We look forward to partnering with Summit
200 Global Patient Advocacy Partners. From blood drives
systemic issues that cause inequitable health outcomes. participants to elevate solutions that address critical gaps in
and volunteering campaigns to patient chats and colleague
equitable healthcare and reduce barriers to quality care.
lunch-and-learns, in-person and virtual events expanded
32 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Social
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Social
— Continued
Human Capital
Our ability to successfully deliver on our purpose to the benefit of patients is dependent on our people. We focus on integrating workforce, workplace,
and work output by paying special attention to the health and wellness of our colleagues, prioritizing meaningful work that contributes to our Purpose:
Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives, and fostering an amazing place to work where our people can thrive and grow.
We engage our colleagues through every phase of their experience, bringing a people-centric approach to everything from recruiting, benefits and compensation, to growth, inclusion,
and communication.
Colleague Engagement actionable insights. We are proud that in been recognized and more than 414,000 direct reports by the end of the year to align
2022, on average 88 percent of colleagues recognitions have been given. on their growth aspirations and identify
From recruitment to retirement, Pfizer works
reported feeling engaged, as measured by actions to help propel them forward on
to cultivate a positive colleague experience
pride in working at Pfizer, a willingness to Growth and Development their growth journey.
dedicated to professional and personal
recommend Pfizer as a great place to work,
success, providing equitable opportunities, In 2022, Pfizer continued the shift from a
and intent to stay. In addition, 93 percent Pfizer is also committed to providing
and creating breakthroughs. We focus traditional, linear view of career growth
agreed their daily work contributes to our colleagues with opportunities to grow
on ensuring each of our employees feels to one that is built on aspirations and
purpose. through experiences, connections with
connected to our purpose and supported empowers individuals to boldly own their
others, and learning. In 2022, we launched
by the culture we continuously work to growth journey. We deepened our efforts
In addition to Pfizer Pulse, we initiate the Pfizer Growth Universe—a singular
maintain, which is built on our company to redefine growth as a fluid process that
informal requests for feedback during the source for colleagues to access growth
values of courage, excellence, equity, and promotes incremental in-role growth
year. Throughout the restructuring of our resources and explore new experiences.
joy. or mobility along horizontal, vertical or
growth strategy, for example, more than The Growth Universe connects colleagues
diagonal individualized pathways—what we
6,000 colleagues provided input, leading to roles, people, and projects with the
Managers are committed to discussing are calling “Zig-Zag” growth.
to a platform with overwhelmingly positive functionality to:
colleague performance assessments twice
feedback and engagement.
annually, with the intent to encourage From a managerial perspective, Pfizer is
• Search for growth opportunities
breakthrough goals and drive leadership adopting a collective talent mindset to
Along with effective listening, Pfizer including full-time roles and short-term,
in Pfizer values. However, we understand support colleague growth across the entire
prioritizes colleague recognition to drive project based “gigs” to build skills and
that communication goes both ways. organization. We recognize that diverse
engagement, motivation, and productivity. gain exposure to other parts of the
Continuously listening and responding to experiences drive better outcomes. In 2022,
In 2022, we launched Bravo, Pfizer’s first business
colleague feedback is essential to fostering our senior managers and above made
global rewards and recognition program
a healthy work environment with the power 368 diagonal zig-zag moves across the • Explore people connections through
with peer-to-peer capabilities. Colleagues
to attract and retain top talent. Our annual enterprise, a 50 percent increase over the colleague resource groups, networking,
are celebrated for demonstrating Pfizer
engagement survey, Pfizer Pulse, provides a prior year baseline of 245. and mentor matching
values in a way that makes an impact on the
forum for our colleagues to give structured company, a colleague, a team or a patient. • Get inspired by other colleagues’ stories
feedback and allows us to measure and From Bravo’s launch in April through We also set the expectation that managers and reflections
track priority areas and equip leaders with
fiscal 2022, 82 percent of colleagues have
have growth conversations with all of their
33 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Social
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Social
— Continued
In 2022, we also launched the Pfizer Learning Academy to To build authentic connections and encourage diverse • Global Black Community hosted the “Freedom to Be
provide personalized learning pathways for colleagues, perspectives, in 2022, we launched DEI Learner’s Journey Me” Juneteenth series, which highlighted the various
which draw on Pfizer and third-party learning materials. pilots among a number of business groups. Courses are cultural, ethnic, religious, and gender identities within the
Colleagues can access articles, videos, podcasts, and focused on “The Neuroscience of Smarter Teams” and a community through colleague stories
toolkits that address a variety of topics, from leadership “Conscious Inclusion Workshop” for people managers.
• Disability CRG initiated 10 hiring pilots and 150 colleague
and cultural awareness to content for specialized business The program will be rolled out to all colleagues in 2023.
events since 2021, leading to an increase in local CRG
functions. Additionally, in response to colleague feedback and to
chapters, more than 60 hires with disabilities, and more
amplify equity and inclusion, we made the decision to make
than 25 interns with disabilities in summer worker
Colleague Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Juneteenth a U.S. company holiday in 2023.
programs
At Pfizer, we believe every person deserves to be seen, Partnerships • Pfizer Women’s Resource Group held regular skills-based
heard, and cared for. This belief drives our refreshed Global learning events designed to support women in taking
DEI strategy launched in 2021, focused on building a more We hire, grow, and empower diverse talent by partnering ownership of their career progression, including topics
inclusive colleague experience, advancing equitable health with organizations that provide rich engagement like executive presence, breaking the glass ceiling, and
outcomes, and transforming society through external opportunities with people of diverse backgrounds and the power of empathy
partnerships. DEI is a path we choose both mindfully experiences. In 2022, Pfizer engaged in new partnerships
and actively, and is cultivated by listening, learning, and with the National Association of Black Journalists, National • Out Pfizer Employee Network established new chapters in
connecting with our colleagues, patients, and communities. Association of Hispanic Journalists, and MyGWork—a five countries and conducted allyship training focused on
networking community for LGBTQ+ professionals. We “Training the Trainers” to prepare colleagues to facilitate
We focus on accountability and transparency by setting also launched a refreshed strategy to better attract top future sessions
clear goals the company aspires toward and benchmarking candidates from Historically Black Colleges and Universities • Pfizer Latino Community engaged in a clinical trial
our progress against 28 key workplace DEI initiatives and (HBCUs). translations partnership with Pfizer’s Clinical Trial
outcome metrics for 2022—down from 35 in 2021 due to the Experience team
completion of some initiatives. In addition, we surpassed Through October, Pfizer executed 15 diversity partnership
our goal of hiring 100 refugees with our Pfizer Refugee events at the enterprise level, strengthening diversity • Veterans in Pfizer hosted an inaugural Veteran Service
Leadership Initiative, which aims to support economic representation in our talent pipeline and resulting in more Week to show appreciation for veterans, including
inclusion of refugees and other displaced people through than 40 new hires by the end of calendar year 2022. learning sessions on mentoring transitioning service
members and valuing character
hiring, mentorship, and advocacy. With such positive results,
we announced an expanded goal to hire an additional 500 Colleague resource groups
Pfizer’s ECRGs are supported by regional, country, and
qualified refugees over the next three years. In keeping with our core value of Equity, in 2022, Pfizer
local CRG chapters that offer development, mentoring, and
encouraged greater collaboration among our seven
networking opportunities to help members enhance their
We also launched a Self-Identification campaign, inviting Enterprise Colleague Resource Groups (ECRGs) with a sharp
skills and advance their careers, while fostering community.
all U.S. colleagues to disclose demographic information if focus on intersectionality and co-hosted initiatives. Key 2022
This year, the return of in-person events reinforced a sense
they choose. With aggregated self-identification data, we initiatives for each group, many of which were co-hosted,
of belonging, allowing for positive momentum. Additionally,
can better understand the demographics of our colleague include:
Pfizer held a “Lead with Inclusion Master Class” series to
population and ensure our recruitment, development,
equip ECRG leaders and chapter CRG leads to be more
and promotion strategies, along with our benefits and • Global Asian Alliance trained additional colleagues
strategic.
policies, are inclusive for all colleagues. Approximately through the group’s Asian Leadership Forum and
5,000 colleagues self-identified within the first hour of the leveraged previous program graduates to host events and
campaign launch. discussions on culture, allyship, and intersectionality
34 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Social
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Social
— Continued
Pay equity Opportunity parity Health, Safety, and Well-being
Our commitment to pay equity for all colleagues is based At Pfizer, protecting the health, safety, and well-being of
Our 2025 Opportunity Parity Goals
in our value of Equity and our intention to continue to build colleagues and contingent workers, all of whom are essential
a diverse and inclusive workforce. In terms of base pay, By 2025, we aspire to achieve global workforce parity of 47 to driving our business forward, is an integral part of how
Pfizer pays our female colleagues globally at greater than 99 percent for women at the VP level and above. we operate.
percent (99.4 percent) of what we pay male colleagues. When
By 2025, we aspire to achieve workforce parity of 32 percent
looking at minority versus non-minority pay in the U.S., Our Global Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) Policy and
for U.S. minorities at the VP level and above, and double the
minorities are at dollar-for-dollar parity (100 percent) with the supporting standards outline our approach to assessment,
underrepresented population of African Americans / Blacks and
pay of non-minorities. evaluation, elimination, and mitigation of EHS risks
Hispanics / Latinos.
across our operations globally. In addition, they facilitate
For the second year, Pfizer released median pay gaps for colleague engagement in EHS thereby enabling continuous
2022 Progress1
women globally and minorities in the U.S., measuring the improvement. Each Pfizer colleague and contingent worker
distribution of pay among colleagues without accounting At the end of 2021, we reported that our representation for plays a crucial role in facilitating a culture of EHS excellence
for any factors. Pfizer’s pay equity study demonstrated the women at the VP level and above was 41.5 percent. By December where improvements, ideas, suggestions, and opportunities
median pay for women globally was 101.3 percent of the 2022, we have increased 1.6 percentage points to 43.1 percent. are welcomed. Fostering this culture of interdependence
median pay of men, and the median pay for minorities in the with everyone looking out for each other enables Pfizer
At the end of 2021, we reported that our representation for
U.S. was 83.6 percent of the median pay for non-minorities. to meet its commitment to our patients. In 2022, to
U.S. minorities at the VP level and above was 25 percent. By
complement our longstanding efforts to reduce workplace
December 2022, we have increased 3.1 percentage points to 28.1
In the UK, Pfizer continues to lead in closing the median
percent.
injuries, we launched a focused program on Serious Injury
gender pay gap, earning recognition from the Healthcare and Fatality Prevention designed to increase hazard
Businesswomen’s Association for integrating gender equity These aspirational goals are not quotas and Pfizer continues to make awareness and drive a more proactive approach to injury
into the company’s DNA and an award for closing the pay gap employment decisions based on qualifications. prevention. With the continued engagement and support of
from the Employer’s Network for Equity and Inclusion. our colleagues, we plan to deploy this program across our
manufacturing sites in 2023.
In 2022, Pfizer’s efforts with pay equity secured an ‘A’ grade Recognition
on the Arjuna Capital / Proxy Impact Racial and Gender Pay Through our annual EHS recognition program we recognize
Equity Scorecard. We intend to continue to measure pay Creating a working environment that is exciting, innovative, and celebrate actions taken by colleagues to implement
equity on an annual basis and to publicly release results. inspiring, and safe is one of our greatest motivations. Our or replicate innovative solutions that achieve measurable
efforts to build this culture with diverse perspectives at improvements in attaining an injury-free Pfizer. Examples
the center has earned Pfizer industry recognition. In 2022, of health and safety initiatives recognized in the past year
we remained a Best Place to Work by Disability:IN and the include:
Human Rights Campaign based on our top scores earned
in their equality and inclusion index reports. Additionally, • Perth Healthy Minds Workshop / WeCare program
Pfizer was included on Forbes’ America’s Best Employers designed to educate and apply management strategies to
for Diversity and Veterans 2022 Lists, and earned a five- support mental health well-being
star rating in procurement and governance on the Hispanic
Association on Corporate Responsibility Inclusion Index™. • India Driver Safety program focused on reducing the risk
associated with driving in the region
• Solvent transfer enhancement at our Ringaskiddy, Ireland
site to reduce the risk of incidents and injuries
1 Colleagues who select “Do Not Disclose” or have not filled in their profile are not included in the denominator or numerator for gender or racial / ethnic representation. Gender representation is calculated globally. Puerto Rico is excluded within racial /
ethnic representation but included in the Global Gender Representation.
35 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Social
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Social
— Continued
Colleague wellness throughout the pandemic
In 2022, we continued to carry out our pandemic
preparedness and response procedures to help ensure on-
site workers at all of our locations globally remained safe
and healthy. These precautions have been instrumental in
protecting our workforce and helping ensure a continued
supply of medicines and vaccines to patients. During 2022,
we:
• Continued to provide vaccinations for COVID–19
and other diseases to colleagues in countries where
employer vaccination programs are permitted
• Broadened the reach of our partnership with Thrive
Global, a wellness and organizational change initiative
with a primary focus on colleague mental health and
wellness
• Provided 45 educational webinars and information
sessions on mental health and well-being, nutrition,
and work-life balance through our employee assistance
program (EAP) provider, including targeted support for
our colleagues in Russia and Ukraine
• Shared wellness tips twice-monthly through the global
Pfizer World platform
In addition, as public health recommendations supported
the return of colleagues to office locations on a more regular
basis, Pfizer ensured benefits and processes were in place
to reinforce personal wellness and work-life balance. For
example, beginning in 2023 we are implementing a new,
flexible working model that enables work to be regularly
conducted from home while maintaining regular on-site
collaboration to provide greater flexibility for many of
our colleagues.
36 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Social
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Governance
Ethical decision-making guides us as we work to achieve our purpose of delivering breakthroughs that change patients’ lives. Through proactive,
business-led risk management, Pfizer prioritizes integrity, safety, and quality in every aspect of our business. Our Board of Directors is actively
engaged in the governance and oversight of our ESG strategy, which is embedded within our enterprise strategy.
Ethics, Transparency, Quality 38
How our approach Good Health and Well-Being
Ethical Decision Making
to governance issues We aspire to ensure health and well-being
Laws and Regulations Compliance supports the SDGs for all through equitable access to medicines
Open Door Culture and Investigations and vaccines.
Transparency Gender Equality
Safety and Quality We aim to end discrimination against women,
ensure equal opportunities for leadership, and
Counterfeit Medicines
access to reproductive health.
Supply Chain Transparency
Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions
Intellectual Property
We operate to uphold justice, promote the
Clinical Trials
rule of law, and develop ethical, transparent,
Data Privacy and Protection and representative decision-making.
Human Rights and the Right to Health
Political Contributions and Lobbying Activities
More information on the SDGs here.
Accountability 46
Right Incentives
Board of Directors and Board Committees
Board Leadership Structure
Governance of ESG
Board Diversity and Independence
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Governance
Ethics, Transparency, Quality
At Pfizer, we have established values and clear expectations regarding how we achieve our purpose. We are committed to living our values and to
acting with integrity. Our values help guide us in making decisions ethically, thoughtfully, and responsibly to help support our business in delivering on
our purpose with quality and integrity for our patients and society.
The Regulatory and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors oversees our quality and compliance governance framework, including the business-led Quality & Compliance
Committees across our core functions, which drive proactive risk management and accountability. This Committee’s oversight of healthcare quality and compliance includes business ethics;
quality and integrity in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and delivery of vaccines and medicines; responsible product marketing; third-party risk management; and compliance
with anti-bribery / anti-corruption, transparency, product promotion, and other applicable laws and regulations, in pursuit of advancing integrity and Pfizer’s purpose. Our leaders set the
tone for our strong culture of acting with integrity in all we do and support a speak-up culture in which colleagues can raise concerns without fear of retaliation. Our patient-centric purpose
and established culture of quality and safety are of paramount importance as we innovate and continue to deliver breakthroughs.
Ethical Decision Making innovation for patients and global health. Pfizer’s ethics and In 2022, we conducted an independent compliance
compliance expectations represent a shared undertaking program review to assess program effectiveness and seek
Values-based decision making promotes accountability
and drive accountability on the part of all colleagues. Pfizer opportunities for continuous learning and enhancement.
and helps ensure that integrity, quality, safety, and ethics
is committed to conducting business responsibly, and Our internal audit function has a systematic and regular
are foundational to all we do. Our Code of Conduct (the
acting ethically, in accordance with all applicable laws and audit process and, in coordination with the Legal Division
Blue Book) and related policies, procedures, and training
regulations. We expect the same commitment to acting and Compliance Division, works with key stakeholders across
are designed to support these values, including courage,
ethically and with integrity from suppliers, as well as from the company to conduct our Enterprise Risk Management
excellence, equity, and joy. Policies governing colleague
consultants, agents, representatives, and other companies process that assesses on an annual basis our operations
interactions with healthcare organizations, physicians,
and individuals acting on our behalf, as well as those acting and risk management priorities, including, among others,
patients, and other stakeholders are contained in the White
on their behalf (e.g., subcontractors), in connection with work those related to quality, compliance and ethical standards,
Guide for U.S. headquarters-based colleagues and the
for Pfizer. responsible marketing, and anti-bribery / anti-corruption.
Orange Guide for U.S. field-based colleagues. Pfizer also
maintains a Global Policy on Interactions with Healthcare
Pfizer’s ethics and compliance organization is led by our Chief Our culture and our purpose embody our proactive, robust,
Professionals. We incorporate ethics and business integrity
Quality, Compliance & Risk Officer who reports directly to the enterprise-wide commitment to bringing integrity and quality
into internal performance evaluations, which are designed
CEO and is a member of the Executive Leadership Team. This to everything we do, as we deliver breakthroughs that change
to enhance colleague accountability, including leadership
structure is designed to ensure direct access to leadership patients’ lives. Our quality and compliance governance
performance with integrity.
and sufficient resourcing, and to support execution of framework is driven by a global, cross-functional approach
responsibilities independently. Pfizer’s ethics and compliance built around the elements of effective quality, compliance,
Laws and Regulations Compliance program is overseen by a dedicated Regulatory and and risk management, including, for example:
Compliance Committee of the Board, which helps support
Our ethics and compliance program is structured around
impartiality and independence of the program. We regularly • Culture: Leaders are committed to and accountable for
eight fundamental elements, which form the framework for
engage independent third parties to assess our ethics and fostering a culture consistent with our values, including
effective compliance and risk management. Quality, integrity,
compliance program against standards established by psychological safety to support colleagues in speaking
and proactive risk management drive our efforts to enable
governments, rating agencies, and industry best practices. up or raising concerns without fear of retaliation and
38 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Governance
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Governance
— Continued
promoting continuous improvement. We also incorporate conducted regularly throughout the year (on a market- Open Door Culture and Investigations
ethics and business integrity expectations into by-market basis and within and across our three core
Leaders and management are dedicated to fostering a
performance management frameworks and assessments. functions) and feeding into our annual Enterprise
culture in which all colleagues can ask questions, raise
Risk Management process. This risk management
• Policies: Clear, easy-to-understand policies and concerns, and report potential misconduct without fear of
framework is aimed at identifying, assessing, prioritizing,
procedures provide guidance, including our principles- retaliation. We measure colleague comfort and awareness
and mitigating potential risks and enables enhanced
based Code of Conduct and our whistleblower policy to about raising concerns, including awareness of our
oversight and resourcing to proactively manage risks.
protect colleagues who raise concerns, outlined in our whistleblower policy, through the confidential Pfizer Pulse
Code of Conduct. Our international anti-bribery and • Monitoring: Live, continuous monitoring across key risk Engagement Survey sent to all colleagues annually. The
anti-corruption policies and procedures are designed areas is designed to detect and remediate any potential results are used to focus our leadership communications,
to ensure full compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt non-compliance and seek opportunities for enhancement training, and other proactive efforts to drive our ethical
Practices Act (FCPA) and applicable international anti- of our ethics and compliance program. culture.
bribery laws. Pfizer policy prohibits all forms of bribery
• Third Party Compliance: Robust controls and processes
and corruption, whether by colleagues or our business are designed to evaluate and mitigate risk related to Many channels exist for raising questions and reporting
partners. Colleagues and business partners must third parties we work with, including a formal global concerns, including the Compliance Helpline (third-party
never offer, promise, authorize, or provide a payment anti-bribery / anti-corruption diligence process that public hotline available by phone or web, with anonymous
or benefit that is intended to improperly influence a includes screening, auditing, training, confirmation of reporting where allowed under local law), the Compliance
government official, healthcare professional, or any other policies (including bribery / corruption prohibitions) and Division (through email, phone, fax, mail, and colleagues),
person, including commercial entities and individuals, in monitoring of third-party agents and intermediaries, management, and our Open Door Policy (whistleblower
exercising their responsibilities. and other risk-based compliance controls designed to policy), which encourages colleagues to present ideas, ask
• Training: Colleagues and certain third parties receive ensure ethical business practices and compliance with questions, and raise concerns. Retaliation against anyone
risk-based, role-specific training on our Code of Conduct applicable laws and regulations, including anti-bribery / who seeks advice, raises a concern, reports misconduct, or
and other key areas, including ethical standards, anti-corruption laws. provides information in an investigation is strictly prohibited
responsible marketing and advertising practices, and by our policy that protects whistleblowers. In addition, our
anti-bribery / anti-corruption training, upon hire and Quality and compliance committees for each of our core Office of the Ombuds is a resource to support colleagues
regularly thereafter (normally every one to two years), functional areas, as well as our Executive Compliance with information and guidance to help them resolve work-
to reinforce our policies and commitment to integrity. Committee (the highest-level internal compliance oversight related issues.
Our ethics and compliance training programs use body, composed of Pfizer’s executive leadership and chaired
multi-modal components to address different learning by the CEO) provide an innovative framework to advance Pfizer takes reports of known or suspected violations of
styles, maximize engagement, and reinforce training business-led proactive risk management and drive clear company policies and applicable law seriously; our goal is to
content. Our training program encompasses role-based accountabilities for leaders and colleagues to act with integrity respond promptly to all questions and reported concerns.
scope of topics and depth of knowledge to drive training in all that they do. The remit of the Executive Compliance We aim to identify and address any potential inappropriate
effectiveness. Committee includes oversight of healthcare quality and conduct as early as possible, prevent future recurrences, and
compliance; business ethics; quality and integrity in the inform continuous improvement.
• Communications: Messaging about ethics and integrity,
discovery, development, manufacturing, and delivery of
including communications from leadership, culture
vaccines and medicines; responsible product marketing; third We investigate all referable compliance issues (RCIs)—
campaigns, and creative use of various media, reinforces
party risk management; EHS; and compliance with anti-bribery significant potential, suspected, or actual violations of law or
our focus on always doing things the right way and
/ anti-corruption, transparency, product promotion, and other policy. For RCIs where there is a substantiated violation, we
speaking up with any questions or concerns.
applicable laws and regulations. institute individual discipline where appropriate, including
• Risk Assessment & Mitigation: Enterprise-level and measures such as coaching, warnings, and termination. Our
tailored quality and compliance risk assessments, compliance investigations process also includes analysis of
including in the area of anti-bribery / anti-corruption, the root cause of substantiated RCIs. After investigation, we
work with accountable stakeholders to implement corrective
39 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Governance
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Governance
— Continued
and preventive actions. Pfizer has a process to escalate on Pfizer.com to directly provide the public with ongoing Committees (DMCs), and health authorities and regulators.
certain significant matters to the Executive Compliance COVID-19 news and information, including how Pfizer is Pfizer communicates and actions relevant safety information in
Committee, the Regulatory and Compliance Committee, and responding to new variants a timely manner in accordance with both internal and external
the Audit Committee of the Board. standards.
Safety and Quality
Transparency Quality Management System (QMS)
Patient health and safety are foundational to everything we do.
Pfizer is committed to the principle of transparency, disclosing Pfizer’s QMS, as defined in our Corporate Quality Policy,
We achieve our high standards in product quality and safety
our efforts that relate to issues of public interest. We uphold provides an integrated framework through which Pfizer
through proactive and transparent systems and processes, and
high ethical, scientific, and medical standards in all our achieves its quality and safety standards. This framework is
clear communications to our patients, providers, and other
research and development activities and are committed to based on industry-recognized quality management principles
stakeholders about the benefits and risks of our products.
disclosing financial and other interests and relationships and is designed and built to adhere to applicable standards
These principles are codified in Pfizer’s integrated Quality
that may create apparent or perceived conflicts of interest. and requirements of health authorities and global regulators,
These include areas such as funding for educational activities, Management System (QMS). such as: International Organization for Standardization (ISO)
the status of our U.S. pharmaceutical post-marketing 13485; Good Practices (GxP) such as Good Laboratory Practices
commitments, our pipeline of experimental medicines, the Patient centric focus (GLP), Good Clinical Practices (GCP), Good Manufacturing
registration and reporting of results of clinical trials, corporate Patient health and safety comes first in our work from early- Practices (GMP), Good Distribution Practices (GDP) and
political contributions in the U. S., federal and state lobbying stage R&D through the full product lifecycle. Good Pharmacovigilance Practices (GPvP); and International
activities, and disclosures of medical grants.
Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for
Our patient-centric approach to R&D begins in the lab with data Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH) guidelines. The QMS
Pfizer also reports to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
modeling to determine potential therapies. Our clinical trials covers pharmaceuticals, vaccines, medical devices, and in-vitro
Services (CMS) payments and other transfers of value made to
(page 44) are designed around patient safety with equitable and diagnostic products, in addition to focusing on:
U.S.-licensed physicians and U.S. teaching hospitals. In 2022,
inclusive participation. Our global supply network manufactures
our continuing commitment to transparency also included:
and delivers products pursuant to quality policies and • Research and development of products
procedures designed to ensure safety and quality in accordance
• Adhering to the “plain language results summary” • Clinical trial design and execution
with Pfizer’s Global Quality Standards and relevant regulations,
initiative intended to make our clinical trial results and
including Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP). • Regulatory submissions
descriptions more understandable and accessible to a
general audience • Manufacturing, packaging, and supply of products,
Our policies and procedures are based on industry best including raw materials procurement
• Posting all Pfizer clinical trial results to the U.S. National practices and relevant regulatory requirements. Each of our
Library of Medicine’s clinicaltrials.gov website accessible internal manufacturing, supply, and distribution operations, • Pharmacovigilance and post-market surveillance
to the public as well as our external vendors, hold relevant manufacturing • Commercial and medical affairs activities
• Sharing our positions on issues important to Pfizer and licenses and GMP certificates. Our quality performance is
our industry; please see Report on Incongruencies actively monitored through an integrated management system This framework embeds quality management as an end-to-
to identify and mitigate risks. end organizational competency, supported by a governance
• Communicating more transparently around product
structure with clear policies, communications, and escalation
quality and safety standards and KPI progress Throughout each product’s lifecycle, we continuously monitor pathways. Our QMS is continuously monitored to drive
and evaluate all relevant safety and quality information, innovation and agility, while helping to ensure the timely
Our efforts to combat COVID-19, including those to provide
including complaints and adverse events. This awareness identification of quality, safety, and compliance issues.
equitable and affordable access to COVID-19 vaccines
enables effective communications and proactive, data-
and therapeutics for all, also demonstrate our continued
driven actions related to patients, consumers, healthcare
commitment to transparency.
professionals (HCPs), investigators, institutional review boards
• We maintained a dedicated COVID-19 information site / independent ethics committees (IRBs / IECs), Data Monitoring
40 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Governance
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Governance
— Continued
Risk management regulatory requirements, standards, guidelines (e.g., ISO &
ICH) and governing GxPs, to ensure patient safety, product
Pfizer’s Risk Management Framework is a systematic,
quality, and applicable licenses and certifications are
continuous, end-to-end process for identifying and mitigating
maintained.
quality and compliance risks. It provides criteria to conduct risk
assessments grounded in defined thresholds for escalation,
The audit program spans preclinical, clinical,
which are routinely tracked and monitored. The framework
pharmacovigilance, regulatory, medical, manufacturing and
provides timely notification to management of critical issues
logistics, suppliers, and post-launch activities. The program
and significant trends, and implementation of corrective and
also covers regulated processes and information technology
preventative actions.
controls. Our audits are designed to provide assurance that
we are compliant with regulatory requirements worldwide
Third party management
and that we proactively identify and remediate risks to
Pfizer’s global QMS framework is designed to ensure that our compliance. We also routinely undergo GMP, GCP, and
manufacturing sites and contract manufacturers meet or pharmacovigilance (PV) inspections from regulatory agencies
exceed our product quality standards. Pfizer has procedures worldwide.
in place designed to ensure third party partner materials
and services meet our exacting standards, spanning the Continuous Improvement (CI)
full product life-cycle including R&D, clinical research,
At Pfizer we pursue innovation and continuous improvement
manufacturing, and distribution. We select companies that
in our work, and CI initiatives are a cornerstone of Pfizer’s
are responsible, ethical, and reliable partners. After suppliers
business divisions across the enterprise. Recent examples of
Quality & Integrity Culture
are selected and onboarded, they are expected to comply
CI initiatives include:
with Pfizer’s Responsible Sourcing guidelines and Supplier
Quality & Integrity Culture initiatives are developed and Conduct Principles, which are aligned to the Pharmaceutical
• Enhanced management of Pfizer’s quality, safety, and
implemented by colleagues at all levels throughout the year Supply Chain Initiative. We have similarly high standards for
audit data
to continuously reinforce the importance of product quality all materials used by third parties in clinical and commercial
and safety and drive a culture of integrity. Examples of these manufacturing, including initial supplier qualification prior to • Increased efficiency and effectiveness of Pfizer’s quality
initiatives include Quality & Integrity Day, Quality & Integrity use in manufacturing and incoming inspection on a routine lab practices and safety systems
Awards, and learning case studies. basis. • Increased use of advanced analytics in Pfizer’s
Manufacturing and Supply Chain networks
Training and qualification Pfizer monitors the performance of and regularly audits our
Our comprehensive global training and qualification policies direct suppliers. Audit outcomes are used to drive continuous Pfizer’s Integrated Manufacturing Excellence (IMEx) program
and procedures are designed to ensure compliance with our improvement in both performance and compliance. drives continuous improvement across the entire supply
scientific, ethical, legal, and regulatory obligations, as well as network, standardizing a ‘one best way’ of working focused
our own high standards. Requirements are in place to ensure Due to the strategic importance of Contract Manufacturing on consistent work and increased effectiveness. Under this
all individuals (based on role and responsibility) who perform Organizations (CMOs) and Contract Research Organizations program, all colleagues have a voice and receive required
work for or on behalf of Pfizer have the appropriate education, (CROs), Pfizer has dedicated teams to maintain the necessary support when needed.
policies and effectively identify and mitigate risks.
training, and resources to work in compliance with applicable
laws, regulations, and Pfizer policies. Training compliance is
Audits and inspections
actively monitored and formally documented.
As part of our independent audit program, we regularly
assess the effectiveness of our QMS. Pfizer’s internal audit
processes are conducted in accordance with all applicable
41 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Governance
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Governance
— Continued
Safety and Quality KPIs 2022
# Internal Audits across GCP / PV / GMP1 91
# Third Party Audits across GCP / PV / GMP2 875
# GCP / GMP / PV FDA Inspections3 46
# GCP / GMP / PV Inspections from All Other Health Authorities3 137
# Unique Health Authorities Completing Inspections 63
# FDA inspections of Pfizer facilities that resulted in an enforcement action4 0
# GMP Inspections resulting in VAI status 18
# GMP Inspections resulting in OAI status 15
# GCP Inspections resulting in VAI status 0
# GCP Inspections resulting in OAI status 0
# PV Inspections resulting in VAI Status 0
# PV Inspections resulting in OAI Status 0
# FDA Recalls6 7
% of batches distributed with no recalls (U.S. Market) 99.8%
# Class I Recalls 37
# Class II Recalls 4
# Class III Recalls 0
GCP Good Clinical Practices
GMP Good Manufacturing Practices
PV Pharmacovigilance
VAI Voluntary Action Indicated (US FDA)
OAI Official Action Indicated (US FDA)
1 Count of internal audits includes all Pfizer audits performed of a Pfizer clinical / GMP / PV facility and / or process
2 Count of third party audits includes all Pfizer audits performed of an external clinical / GMP / PV vendor, clinical site, or contract manufacturing organization (CMO)
3 Count of inspections includes all GCP / GMP / PV inspections of Pfizer listed below:
• GCP: Investigator sites, sponsor, vendors / CROs
• GMP: Pfizer Global Supply (PGS) sites, PharmSci sites, Pfizer Country Offices (PCOs), Distribution / Logistics Centers (LC), SLS (Labs), Quality Centers
• PV: Sponsor, vendors
4 Data includes both regulatory warning letter as well as enforcement actions (e.g., seizure, injunction, criminal prosecution and / or criminal fines)
5 In January 2023, this facility was reclassified as Voluntary Action Indicated (VAI)
6 Definition of Recall Classifications
7 Data includes one recall that was initiated in 2022 and classified as Class I in January 2023
42 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Governance
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Governance
— Continued
Counterfeit Medicines Pfizer evaluates and invests in the latest packaging and rights standard. If we identify these higher risk areas, our
information technologies to align with global serialization process outlines additional due diligence processes to be
Counterfeit medicines pose a significant risk to patient health
regulations and challenges associated with counterfeiting, implemented to help avoid being complicit in supporting
and safety. To protect our patients, we take a proactive
theft, and diversion. The unique Product Identifiers modern slavery.
approach to product safety by investing in an enterprise-wide,
developed for serialization will enable the tracking and
global strategy to combat counterfeit threats through patient
tracing of product movement through the supply chain, from Through a combination of remote and on-site audits we
education, legislative advocacy, surveillance, and interdiction1.
the manufacturing site to patient dispensation (including assessed EHS performance for 116 supplier facilities in 2022,
Additionally, we are building a coalition with healthcare
Government Systems and Trading Partners) and allows resulting in 921 observations. Of the suppliers audited, 2
providers and associations, policy leaders, regulatory
authorized trading partners today to verify the authenticity of were identified as not meeting Pfizer’s expectations for EHS
agencies, distributors, insurers, pharmacies, patient advocacy
our medicines with a simple scan. performance, resulting in Pfizer not pursuing business with
groups, and other pharmaceutical companies to combat the
those suppliers. We require our suppliers to develop action
risk counterfeits pose to the health of our communities.
Supply Chain Transparency plans in response to our audits and implement improved
controls, as needed.
Pfizer routinely provides training to policy makers and law We set high standards for our internal and external partners
enforcement to better identify counterfeit medicines and guided by robust governance processes to help ensure
discourage counterfeiting. In 2022, we launched the No responsible supply chain management. This helps ensure the
Fakes for Health Sake education and awareness campaign, safety and quality of everything we produce and aligns with
which aims to raise greater awareness about the dangers our core value of equity. We see compliance with regulatory
of counterfeits among patients, healthcare providers, standards as the foundation of risk mitigation and a crucial
pharmacists, policy leaders, and government agencies. Our component of providing the world with a reliable supply of
Counterfeit Medicines: A Serious Threat to Patient Safety toolkit safe and effective medicines and vaccines.
provides robust resources for U.S. Attorneys General and
lawmakers ready to engage and to join the fight against Our regular evaluation of these stakeholders extends to
counterfeits. For additional resources on how to safely buy assessing environmental, health, safety, and sustainability
online, please visit Pfizer.com/Counterfeits. performance, including labor and human rights reviews. Our
collaborations with our suppliers are focused on improving
In addition to our traditional anti-counterfeit efforts, Pfizer sustainability, compliance with laws, and alignment to our
addresses illicit online prescription drug offers through Supplier Conduct Principles and the Pharmaceutical Supply
advanced internet monitoring and disruption programs. Chain Initiative (PSCI) Principles for Responsible Supply Chain
We search and systematically disrupt online pharmacy and Management. We act on these engagements and reviews
social media groups dispensing counterfeit versions of Pfizer by working together to improve operational efficiency and
medicines and vaccines with enhanced digital tools that impact reductions.
keep pace with the sophisticated and rapidly evolving tactics
employed by counterfeiters to target patients. These reviews are also conducted through a human rights
lens. Pfizer maintains a focused Modern Slavery program as
If a counterfeit product is identified in the legitimate supply described in our Modern Slavery Statement which outlines
chain, a formal process is in place to alert the appropriate our management approach in our supply chain and our
authorities and relevant trading partners. Additionally, we operations. Pfizer is currently focusing on targeted high-risk
collaborate with distributors and repackagers to monitor areas as identified by the Global Slavery Index and is taking
distribution channels and improve surveillance. steps to address these risks as described in our Statement,
including implementation of our corporate labor and human
1 In this context, “interdiction” refers to the seizure, raids, and arrests to prevent counterfeits from reaching their targeted audience.
43 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Governance
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Governance
— Continued
Intellectual Property Clinical Trials • The Declaration of Helsinki
Pfizer’s ability to drive science forward and deliver Our work in clinical trials is fundamental to achieving our • The United States Belmont report
breakthroughs that change patients’ lives is fueled by the purpose of delivering breakthroughs that change patients’ More information on Pfizer policies related to clinical trials can
protections provided by the intellectual property system. lives. Patient health and safety is at the heart of this— be found on our research integrity and transparency page at
These protections are the incentive that turns ideas into reality including how we design, run, and communicate our clinical Pfizer.com
and contributes to a thriving society and global economic trial research. Our conduct is guided with the help and
You can learn more about our clinical trial work at Pfizer.com/
development. We are committed to the responsible use of oversight of a variety of groups, including patient groups,
ClinicalTrials and by searching Pfizer on ClinicalTrials.gov.
our intellectual property, as reflected in the “IP Principles for institutional review boards, regulatory authorities, data and
Advancing Cures and Therapies” (IP PACT). safety monitoring boards, medical and industry association
guidelines governing ethical clinical trial conduct and research
We recognize the unique socioeconomic challenges facing integrity, and our own Bioethics Advisory Council.
Least Developed Countries, as defined by the United Nations
Committee for Development Policy, and have a policy of patent In keeping with our core value of equity, our teams continue to
nonenforcement in those countries. With regards to Pfizer’s find new ways to remove barriers to trial participation, such as
efforts to expand access to our oral COVID-19 treatment, our identifying clinical trial sites that offer mobile site options and
voluntary licensing agreement with the Medicines Patent Pool implementing protocols that permit at-home follow-ups, where
(MPP), a United Nations-backed public health organization, is possible. By meeting potential participants where they are,
intended to help facilitate the production and supply of generic we’re able to offer flexibility, increasing participation among
versions of our oral COVID-19 treatment to the most vulnerable those who may have not participated otherwise and accelerate
populations. development so we can bring more potential breakthroughs
to more patients faster. We have that same mindset for
We believe that accessible patent information promotes increasing awareness, using the internet and social media to
scientific progress and helps improve the procurement of share educational information about our trials. Recognizing
medicines; in line with this belief, we are a member of the that language can also be a barrier to participation, in 2022
Patent Information Initiative for Medicines (Pat-INFORMED), we launched Pfizer Estudios Clinicos, a searchable, Spanish-
an initiative hosted by the World Intellectual Property language website about Pfizer clinical trials.
Organization (WIPO) that facilitates access to medicine patent
DIVERSITY IN CLINICAL TRIALS
information. All Pfizer-sponsored interventional studies respect human
rights and patient privacy and are conducted in accordance Pfizer has made a commitment to conducting clinical trials
with populations that reflect the racial and ethnic diversity
As a founding member of the WIPO Re:Search public- with our high ethical standards, applicable laws and
of the communities that we serve. Pfizer continues to
private partnership, we’re proud of the impact this 11-year regulations, and principles derived from relevant international take decisive steps to improve diversity in our trials and
collaboration, which came to a close at the end of 2022, standards, including: share our insights with others. In 2022, Pfizer published
has had in the fight against neglected tropical diseases. a whitepaper on the role of pharmacology in improving
Additionally, the 2022 Access to Medicine Index recognized • The Council for International Organizations of Medical diversity in clinical trials. We recognize that different
people may respond to our medicines and vaccines
Pfizer as performing “above average” in terms of sharing IP Sciences (CIOMS) International Ethical Guidelines
differently and including these groups in our trials would
assets with third-party researchers. We are also a sponsor • The International Council for Harmonisation of Technical allow for enhanced understanding of a study medicine.
of the Inventor Assistance Program, a WIPO initiative in
Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH)
cooperation with the World Economic Forum that matches
E6 guideline for Good Clinical Practice
developing country inventors and small businesses of limited
financial means with patent attorneys that provide pro bono • PhRMA’s Principles on Conduct of Clinical Trials and
legal assistance to secure patent protection. Communication of Clinical Trial Results
44 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Governance
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Governance
— Continued
Data Privacy and Protection Human Rights and the Right to Health
We are committed to the responsible, transparent, and secure Pfizer is committed to conducting business in an ethical and
use of personal data entrusted to us by patients, customers, responsible manner. This includes respecting internationally
employees, and others. Our privacy practices are governed by recognized human rights throughout our operations. Our
our Global Privacy Committee, a cross-functional governance responsibility to respect human rights extends throughout
body composed of senior-level leaders who provide oversight our operations from lab to patient, including our diverse
and guidance that informs company practices. Additionally, global supply chain of numerous local and global third-party
our Global Privacy Office maintains an enterprise-wide vendors.
policy and standards that guide the collection, maintenance,
and protection of personal data and consider the legal and In line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and
regulatory requirements where we do business. We also Human Rights, Pfizer’s Human Rights Policy Statement
mandate regular employee and contractor training on global focuses on addressing risks that could have the most severe
privacy principles in accordance with our commitment to impact on people: our patients, our colleagues, the workers
respect and safeguard personal data. We do all of this to of our business partners, and the communities in which
help ensure that we are respecting the right to privacy of we operate. We also seek to prioritize the individuals and
individuals and responsibly collecting and managing the data groups who may be most vulnerable to impacts. True to our
we collect. efforts to continually monitor and address risks and impacts
on people, we are currently updating Pfizer’s human rights
In 2022, we developed a set of Privacy Principles outlining policy statement to reflect the evolving landscape for human
our view of the appropriate uses of personal health data and rights—progressing our responsibility to address the salient
what we do to help ensure safeguards are in place to protect human rights issues for our business.
what has been entrusted to us.
Throughout 2022 and looking forward, we have continued
to focus on the right to health as our most salient issue,
with availability, accessibility, and affordability as key focus
areas. Other salient human rights are the principle of non-
discrimination; the right to privacy; freedom from slavery and
forced labor and other abuses; the right to enjoy just and
favorable working conditions; the right to a safe workplace;
and the right to a healthy environment.
Read more about Pfizer’s commitment to human rights at
Pfizer.com/about/responsibility/human-rights.
45 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Governance
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Governance
— Continued
Accountability
Political Contributions and Lobbying Activities
We understand the impact public policy has on our
ability to meet patient needs and provide value to our
shareholders. As such, we actively participate in dialogue Right Incentives
around public policy with lawmakers to advocate and
We aspire to drive positive social and environmental change
educate, in addition to explaining our perspectives. We
in our role as a responsible corporate citizen. This commit-
believe the business community has a responsibility to
ment fundamentally informs how we fulfill our purpose:
transparently engage in this space, given our extensive
Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives. Our ESG strategy
knowledge, research, and societal impact.
is designed by leadership to leverage compensation as a key
motivator to hold ourselves accountable. For the 2022 perfor-
Pfizer is a member of various industry and trade groups
mance year, the Compensation Committee of the Board lever-
that represent both the pharmaceutical industry and the
aged the ESG Scorecard, which included three selected social
business community at large to bring about consensus
and environmental key performance indicators (KPIs). Those
on broad policy. In addition to trade group positions on
ESG Scorecard KPIs, listed below, were factors in determining
healthcare policy issues, we realize these organizations
the funding of our annual short-term incentive plan (Global
may engage in a broad range of other issues that extend
Performance Plan [GPP] program) for over 30,000 global col-
beyond the scope of what is of primary importance to
leagues and leaders.
Pfizer’s business. If concerns arise about a particular
issue, we convey our concerns, as appropriate. We
The three ESG metrics selected by the Compensation Com-
believe there is value in making sure our positions on
mittee, in relation to the 2022 GPP program, are consistent
issues important to patients, Pfizer, and our industry
with key guiding principles and aligned with our strategy.
are communicated and understood within those
Additionally, these KPIs are objectively measurable. We believe
organizations. In December 2021, Pfizer issued a report
these ESG Scorecard KPIs—(i) percentage of Vice President and
outlining the public policy positions of Pfizer and five
higher roles held by women (globally), (ii) percentage of Vice
trade associations across six areas of key public policy
President and higher roles held by minorities (U.S.), and (iii)
and ESG significance for Pfizer. The report also compares
Greenhouse Gas Emissions—are holistic drivers of our future
Pfizer and the trade associations’ positions and describes
success as a company. The goals set for 2022, as part of the
the degree of alignment and areas of misalignment. Pfizer
GPP program, were also based on our publicly announced
will update this report periodically, as needed.
longer term goals in these areas.
Pfizer’s corporate political contributions and lobbying
We will continue this approach for the 2023 performance year,
activities are focused on promoting the interests of the
as well. Incorporating ESG into our executive compensation
patients we serve and our company, without regard to the
program amplifies our commitment to long term value cre-
personal political preferences or affiliations of any of our
ation and sustainability.
employees, officers, or board members. The company’s
corporate political contributions and lobbying activities
For additional details on the GPP Program, refer to the Pfizer
are subject to robust internal procedures designed
2023 Proxy Statement.
to align these efforts with our public policy priorities,
applicable law, and patient-centric agenda. The company
has an extensive training and reporting program in place
designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and
regulations as well as Pfizer’s internal standards.
46 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Governance
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Governance
— Continued
Board of Directors and Board Committees interests of the company and its shareholders. The company The Board of Directors is fully engaged and supportive of
can more effectively execute its strategies with a Chair Pfizer’s ESG program. The G&SC of the Board is primarily
The Board of Directors is elected annually by the
who has deep scientific and industry expertise, along with responsible for oversight of our ESG strategy and reporting.
shareholders. The primary responsibility of the Board
extensive company knowledge. The combined role, coupled In addition, the G&SC is responsible for considering risks
is to represent shareholders and to enhance long term
with the strong Lead Independent Director, has enabled the relating to the company’s lobbying priorities and activities
shareholder value. The Board elects the chief executive
Board to be responsive to challenges and opportunities as and political spending, and the company’s policies and
officer and other members of the senior management team
they continue to arise. practices related to its human capital management, which
and acts as an advisor and counselor to senior management
may include culture, diversity, equity and inclusion, pay
and ultimately monitors its performance. The function of the
Governance of ESG equity, and talent management. Throughout the year, the
Board to monitor the performance of senior management
G&SC receives updates from company leaders regarding our
is facilitated by the presence of a majority of independent Our ESG efforts underscore our commitment to achieving
ESG priorities and progress and changes in the ESG external
non-employee Directors who have substantive knowledge our purpose —delivering breakthroughs that change
environment.
of the company’s business. The Board has determined that patients’ lives—and supporting the communities in which we
all of our current Directors (other than Dr. Albert Bourla) are live and work through ethical decision-making and our core
Other Board Committees oversee elements of our
independent. values: courage, excellence, equity, and joy. Values-based
ESG program associated with their respective areas of
decision making promotes accountability and helps ensure
responsibility. For example:
Pfizer’s Board Committees are integral to the overall that integrity, quality, safety, and ethics are foundational
functioning of the Board. The Board has six committees: to all we do. Pfizer’s robust governance of ESG priorities—
• The Audit Committee, which has primary responsibility
aligned with our enterprise strategy—is critical to help
for overseeing Pfizer’s Enterprise Risk Management
• Audit Committee enable impact, innovation, and reporting.
(ERM) program, reviews and receives briefings
• Compensation Committee concerning risks to Pfizer associated with certain
The ESG function within Pfizer and its cross-functional
priority issues (for example, information security and
• Executive Committee governing committees (at the senior management and the
technology, cybersecurity, drug pricing, access, and
executive level) have responsibility for considering and
• Governance & Sustainability Committee reimbursement) and company culture (compliance
adopting potential goals and targets, with escalation to the
related concerns, workplace behavior, and harassment
• Regulatory and Compliance Committee Governance & Sustainability Committee (G&SC) of the Board,
and retaliation). ERM provides a framework for risk
• Science and Technology Committee based on input from experienced subject matter experts and identification and management which includes risks
advisors.
associated with ESG factors. The Audit Committee is
also monitoring potential mandatory sustainability
The committee’s charters may be viewed on our corporate Our cross-functional Sustainability Steering Committee, reporting under consideration by regulators.
website at: Board Committee Charters chaired by our Chief Sustainability Officer, advises on key
issues and guides the integration and implementation • The Compensation Committee has responsibility
of Pfizer’s non-financial reporting related to ESG. for the executive compensation program, which
Board Leadership Structure This Committee is overseen by a dedicated Executive includes approving the compensation of our executive
Sustainability Committee, chaired by the Executive officers, overseeing executive diversity, pay equity,
In December 2022, following a thorough review by the Leadership Team member leading Corporate Affairs, who inclusion, recruiting, retention, career development
Governance & Sustainability Committee, the independent reports directly to the Chairman and CEO. and succession planning (in collaboration with the
Directors re-evaluated the Board’s leadership structure and Governance & Sustainability Committee). Effective
considered the company’s current operating environment, Our ESG governance has as its foundation oversight by for the 2022 performance year, the Compensation
peers’ Board leadership structures, best practices, as well the Board of Directors, commitment and accountability Committee adopted the ESG Scorecard to tie the
as investor feedback. The Committee, along with the other by leadership, and engagement by colleagues across the funding of our annual short-term incentive plan for over
independent Directors, determined that continuing to company. Diverse perspectives from internal and external 30,000 global colleagues and leaders, in part, to select
combine the roles of Chairman and CEO would be in the best stakeholders inform our ESG strategy and priorities. social and environmental key performance indicators
47 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Governance
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Governance
— Continued
(KPIs). In addition, the overarching ESG factors, including
the three metrics used in the ESG Scorecard for the short-
term annual incentive plan, may also be included in the
individual performance goals of executives throughout the
organization, which will further align their compensation 7
with ESG factors. See Pfizer’s 2023 Proxy Statement for
further details on the executive compensation program. 2
• The Regulatory and Compliance Committee oversees the 4
compliance program, ethics and integrity, product quality
6
and safety, the compliance governance framework, and risk
management, in addition to overseeing healthcare-related
regulatory and compliance risks in connection with the
development, manufacture and marketing of products, and
risk mitigation efforts.
We encourage all colleagues to contribute to achieving our ESG
goals by understanding our strategy and to apply an ESG lens
to their day-to-day activities. We integrate ESG by partnering
closely with colleagues in our priority areas to establish ESG
goals and define action plans to achieve those goals.
Board Diversity and Independence
Our Board is composed entirely of independent directors other
than our Chairman and CEO, Albert Bourla, and is diverse, with
diversity reflecting gender, age, race, ethnicity, background,
professional experience, and perspectives. Each Director provides
a unique perspective, experience, and skill set, which creates an
effective and well-functioning Board.
To help ensure effective refreshment and proactively manage
eventual vacancies on the Board, the Governance & Sustainability
Committee and the full Board consider a diverse pool of qualified
director candidates on an ongoing basis. This process resulted in
the election of five new independent directors over the past five Shareholders and other interested parties may communicate with any of our directors, including the Lead Independent Director and the
Audit Committee Chair, as follows:
years, bringing our average Board tenure to seven years.
By email: https://investors.pfizer.com/Investors/Corporate-Governance/Contact-Our-Directors/default.aspx
By mail: 66 Hudson Boulevard East
New York, NY 10001-2192
48 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Governance
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Performance
Measuring and reporting our ESG performance is key to
understanding the impact of our operations, driving
continuous improvement, and maintaining a transparent
dialogue with our stakeholders.
We are committed to improving our ESG
performance because it is crucial to our long term
success as a responsible business and is essential
to achieving our purpose. The key performance
indicators we track are driven by an assessment
of issues of greatest relevance and impact to our
stakeholders and our business.
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Environment
2019 2020 2021 2022 2030
(baseline) Goal
Climate change (Scopes 1 & 2)1,2,3
Carbon emissions (in million metric tons CO2e)4 1.28 1.16 1.15 1.14 .69
Renewable electricity (%) 9.5 3.9 7.7 7.8 100%
2019 2020 2021 2022 2025
(baseline) Goal
Supply chain environmental sustainability (Scope 3)3
Suppliers of purchased goods and services by spend with science-based targets (%)5 19% 29% 64%
Business travel carbon emissions (in thousand metric tons CO2e)6 359.5 97.9 31.8 80.2 270
Upstream transportation & distribution carbon emissions (in thousand metric tons CO2e)7 509.0 517.6 777.3 712.3 458
1 Pfizer’s organizational boundaries for environmental performance include all owned sites and leased facilities where Pfizer has operational control. Data are baseline adjusted, reported absolute, using reporting boundaries per the World
Resources Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. The 2019–2021 GHG data is independently verified to the limited assurance level. Verification of the 2022 GHG data will be completed in 2023.
2 Scopes 1 and 2 as defined by the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard
• Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions. Direct GHG emissions occur from sources that are owned or controlled by the company, for example, emissions from combustion in owned or controlled boilers, furnaces, vehicles, etc.; emissions from
chemical production in owned or controlled process equipment.
• Scope 2: Electricity indirect GHG emissions. GHG emissions from the generation of purchased electricity consumed by the company. Purchased electricity is defined as electricity that is purchased or otherwise brought into the
organizational boundary of the company.
3 Data presented represents information available as of 31 Jan 2023, including certain estimates and assumptions. Historical estimates may periodically be subject to revision due to data source restatements and updates to methodology.
Updated 2022 data will be published on Pfizer’s Environmental Sustainability page.
4 Pfizer’s 2030 GHG emissions goal is to achieve a 46% reduction from the 2019 baseline, inclusive of the 100% renewable electricity target. There may be differences in baseline and subsequent reporting year values due to changes in the
business that require baseline adjustments conducted in accordance with the GHG Protocol. Estimates comprise less than 3% of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions.
5 Tracking of the Scope 3 supplier engagement goal was initiated in 2021. We have expanded to include companies publicly committed to setting science-based targets through the Science Based Target Initiative (SBTi), along with companies
with SBTi-approved targets.
6 Pfizer’s 2030 GHG emissions goal is to achieve a 25% reduction in business travel emissions from the 2019 baseline. There may be differences in baseline and subsequent reporting year values due to changes in the business that require
baseline adjustments conducted in accordance with the GHG Protocol.
7 Upstream transportation emissions are calculated from Pfizer and third-party datasets. We recently revised our methodology to more accurately capture source data and have applied this methodology to our 2022 calculations. Data for
previous years is in review. Updated data will be published on Pfizer’s Environmental Sustainability page.
50 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Performance
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Environment
— Continued
2019 2020 2021 2022
Water and waste1,2
Water withdrawal (in million cubic meters) 34.8 32.4 27.5 28.8
Water discharge (in million cubic meters) 30.8 28.5 23.6 24.8
Water consumption (in million cubic meters) 4.0 3.9 3.9 4.0
Hazardous waste generated (in thousand metric tons) 86.4 83.1 73.8 75.7
Hazardous waste diverted from disposal (in thousand metric tons) 9.3 11.6 10.6 6.4
Hazardous waste disposed (in thousand metric tons) 77.0 71.5 63.2 69.3
Non-hazardous waste generated (in thousand metric tons) 37.7 36.9 39.7 37.6
Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal (in thousand metric tons) 16.6 17.4 23.9 20.4
Non-hazardous waste disposed (in thousand metric tons) 21.2 19.5 15.8 17.2
1 Pfizer’s organizational boundaries for environmental performance include all owned sites and leased facilities where Pfizer has operational control. Data are baseline adjusted, reported absolute, using reporting boundaries per the World
Resources Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. The 2019–2021 GHG data is independently verified to the limited assurance level. Verification of the 2022 GHG data will be completed in 2023.
2 Data presented represents information available as of 31 Jan 2023, including certain estimates and assumptions. Historical estimates may periodically be subject to revision due to data source restatements and updates to methodology.
Updated 2022 data will be published on Pfizer’s Environmental Sustainability page.
51 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Performance
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Social
Innovation and Global Health 2020 2021 2022
Product Innovation
Time to market (in years) (first-in-human (FIH) to approval)1 8.4 8.1 4.8
Success rate (FIH to approval)2 21% 21% 18%
Number of drugs in portfolio3 Product Listing
Number of drugs in research and development4 95 89 110
Products on WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal Products and Vaccines5 WHO Medicinal Products and Vaccines List
Key projects driving large-scale digital solutions in R&D, manufacturing and healthcare provider and patient engagement 28 38 38
1 Biosimilars and generics are excluded from all analyses, as are product enhancements (supplemental indications, major new formulations, etc.). New molecular entities (NME) are the foundation of Pfizer’s, and the industry’s, innovative
medicines pipelines. NMEs originating outside of Pfizer and acquired or licensed by Pfizer after achieving FIH or more advanced development milestones are generally excluded from FIH-approval cycle time calculations where substantial
development effort occurred before Pfizer’s operational control. Cycle times from FIH to approval are calculated between the FIH date for the NME in its first indication pursued, and first major regulatory approval (U.S. FDA or EU European
Medicines Agency) for the NME. The NME approval may or may not be for the same indication by which the NME triggered its first FIH milestone. Rolling cohorts are used to provide sufficient sample sizes to calculate cycle times between
major development milestones.
2 The FIH to approval NME success rate metric is a composite metric. It is a cumulative success rate derived using individual phase success rates from FIH (start of Phase 1) to approval (first regulatory approval) at an NME level. Combinations
of approved NMEs, biosimilars and generics are excluded from all success rate calculations. Cumulative NME success rate is calculated using three-year rolling cohorts for Phase 1 and five-year rolling cohorts for Phase 2, Phase 3 and
registration.
3 Included on Pfizer’s Product Listing:
• Co-Marketing agreements - Products that were co-marketed with other companies are included in the products listing. However, the third party may be taking or be responsible for a significant portion of the underlying marketing.
• U.S. Products Only – The product listing shows products available to U.S. consumers only.
• New Drug Application (NDA) / Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) / Biologic License Application (BLA) – Products included are only shown (or removed) if they have an active application (or the application has been withdrawn).
This results in certain products being listed that are not actively marketed.
4 The 2022 figure is as of January 31, 2023 and represents the number of R&D programs in Phase 1 to registration, including programs for additional uses and dosage forms for in-line and in-registration products. For latest information, please
see Pfizer’s R&D Portfolio.
5 To see the products prequalified, perform a database search per manufacturer name.
52 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Performance
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Social
— Continued
Innovation and Global Health 2021 2022
Breakthrough and Expedited Regulatory Designations1
% of Pfizer NME / BLA novel drug approvals by the U.S. FDA achieving breakthrough therapy designation (over a rolling 5-year period) 45% 44%
(vs. 30% for industry) (vs. 30% for industry)
% of Pfizer NME / BLA novel drug approvals by the U.S. FDA achieving one or more expedited review designations (over a rolling 5-year period) 91% 100%
(vs. 66% for industry) (vs. 67% for industry)
1 Breakthrough and other expedited U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulatory designations are cited as a proxy measure of innovation among Pfizer and biopharmaceutical industry novel drug approvals. As with success rate and
time-to-market metrics, the metrics exclude biosimilars, generics and product enhancements. Our criteria for FDA expedited designations includes breakthrough therapy, fast track, priority review and accelerated approval. These four
designations are well-defined and established in FDA reporting and suitable for tracking over time. The metrics cover a rolling 5-year period (e.g., 2021 values represent 2017-2021; 2022 values represent 2018-2022). and references Pfizer
internal medicines portfolio data and data provided by the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) and Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER). The scope of these metrics is limited to new molecular entities (NME),
novel biologics license applications (BLA) and novel vaccine approvals. Pfizer novel drug approval counts include co-developed or acquired assets which may not be listed as distinctly Pfizer assets among FDA data. Industry novel drug
approval counts exclude Pfizer approvals.
53 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Performance
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Social
— Continued
Innovation and Global Health 2020 2021 2022
Equitable Access and Pricing
Description of actions and initiatives to promote access 2020 ESG Report – 2021 ESG Report – 2022 ESG Report – Tackling the
Social Narrative Social Narrative Health Equity Gap Together
2022 ESG Report – Equitable
Access and Pricing
Patients treated 1 399 million 383 million 372 million
(excluding COMIRNATY® and PAXLOVID®) (excluding COMIRNATY® and PAXLOVID®)
1.4 billion 1.3 billion
(including COMIRNATY® and PAXLOVID®) (including COMIRNATY® and PAXLOVID®)
Access to Medicine Index (ATMI) Ranking2 4th 4th 6th
Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) Benchmark Position3 69% / 2nd 81% / Joint Leader 81% / Joint Leader
Percent change in average net price for U.S. portfolio4 1% -5% 6%
Patient-centric design
Position in Global PatientView Survey5 4th 2nd 2nd
1 The Patients Treated metric is calculated from Pfizer and third-party datasets. Figures may be limited given the coverage provided by external sources (e.g., calendar duration, geographic and product coverage). Numbers are estimates and in
some cases use global volume, daily dosage and number of treatment days to facilitate calculations. Methodologies to calculate estimates may vary by product type given the nature of the product and available data. Patients taking multiple
Pfizer products may be counted as multiple patients towards total. Numbers include estimated patient counts from U.S. Patient Assistance Programs, ex-U.S. access & affordability programs, product donations and Global Commercial Access
Partnerships (this does not include An Accord for a Healthier World). Historical estimates may periodically be subject to revision due to restatements in the underlying data source. Note: 2021 Patients Treated estimate of 383 million is a
revision from the figure included in the 2021 ESG Report due to data source restatements and updates to methodology.
2 The 2022 Access to Medicine Index assesses the top 20 largest research-based pharmaceutical companies on their actions to improve access to medicines in 108 low- and middle-income countries for 83 diseases, conditions and pathogens. As
the ATMI is published every 2 years, the 2021 disclosure is the same as the 2020 disclosure. ATMI 2022 Ranking
3 The 2021 AMR Benchmark evaluates companies active in the development and deployment of antibacterials and antifungals. Among the eight R&D-based multinational companies assessed, Pfizer achieved a 81% total score and was
designated “joint leader”. As the AMR Benchmark is published every 2 years, the 2022 disclosure is the same as the 2021 disclosure. AMR Benchmark
4 The U.S. portfolio includes all pharmaceutical products marketed by the company. The product sales utilized in the analysis represent ~88% of the total U.S. portfolio in 2022 and exclude our alliance products and contract manufacturing
operations. Excluding COMIRNATY® and PAXLOVID®, the percentage change in average net price for the U.S. portfolio for 2021 and 2022 is -4% and -2%, respectively. Year-over-year comparisons of net price may be impacted by changes to
our portfolio, including, but not limited to, new formulations, strengths, and product delivery formats.
5
Ranked #1 among the largest Pharma companies in the 2021 PatientView Global Survey. The survey was conducted from November 2021 to February 2022 across 2,150 respondent patient groups from 89 countries, covering 234 medical
specialties. Forty-seven companies were assessed for performance on 10 patient related key-indicators of reputation. PatientView website.
54 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Performance
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Social
— Continued
Human Capital
Colleague Diversity, Equity and Inclusion* 2020 2021 2022
Gender representation (global) Female Male Female Male Female Male
Vice President and above 38.1% 61.9% 41.5% 58.5% 43.1% 56.9%
Senior Director 42.4% 57.6% 46.4% 53.6% 48.4% 51.6%
Director 49.7% 50.3% 50.9% 49.1% 52.9% 47.1%
Manager / Senior Manager 50.7% 49.3% 52.0% 48.0% 53.6% 46.4%
Analyst and below 47.3% 52.7% 47.7% 52.3% 49.6% 50.4%
2022 Racial / Ethnic Group Representation (U.S. only)* Asian Black or African Hispanic or White Two or More Other
American Latino Races
Vice President and above 14.4% 7.4% 5.4% 71.9% 0.9%
Senior Director 16.7% 3.7% 5.3% 72.5% 1.8%
Director 20.0% 5.0% 5.3% 67.7% 2.0%
Manager / Senior Manager 20.9% 6.1% 6.4% 64.5% 2.1%
Analyst and below 9.2% 21.2% 7.7% 58.4% 3.5%
* Colleagues who select “Do Not Disclose” or have not filled in their profile are not included in the denominator or numerator for gender or racial / ethnic representation. Gender representation is calculated globally. Puerto Rico is excluded
within racial / ethnic representation but included in the Global Gender Representation.
55 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Performance
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Social
— Continued
Human Capital 2020 2021 2022
Description of talent and recruitment efforts 2020 ESG Report – 2021 ESG Report – 2022 ESG Report -
Social Narrative Social Narrative Social Narrative
Pay equity 2020 ESG Report – 2021 ESG Report – 2022 ESG Report -
Social Narrative Social Narrative Social Narrative
Employee Engagement and Purpose
Employee Engagement (composite score, favorable %)1 91% 90% 88%
Employee Purpose (favorable %)2 93% 92% 93%
Employee Turnover3
Voluntary Employee Turnover 5.3% 7.2% 7.3%
Involuntary Employee Turnover 3.9% 5.3% 7.0%
1 Composite score across four questions: 1. I am proud to work for Pfizer, 2. I would recommend Pfizer as a great place to work, 3. I would like to be working at Pfizer one year from now, 4. If I were offered a comparable position with similar pay
and benefits at another company, I would stay with Pfizer.
2 Scored from question: “My work contributes to our purpose – Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives”.
3 Average Monthly Headcount = (Total of Headcounts for January 2022 through December 2022) / 12. The number of employees at Pfizer who are actively working and are paid directly by the company, or those on leave for 6 months or less and
eligible for benefits available to Pfizer employees in the country of their employment or hired without an actual expected termination date.
56 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Performance
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Social
— Continued
Colleague Health & Safety1 2020 2021 2022
Total Injury Rate (TIR)2 0.27 0.30 0.29
Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR)3 0.13 0.14 0.12
Fatalities4 0 0 0
1 To facilitate consistent reporting practices, Pfizer applies the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration Recordkeeping Requirements as its global reporting standard.
2 Injuries or illnesses per 100 colleagues.
3 Injuries or illnesses resulting in time away from work per 100 colleagues.
4 Work-related injuries or illnesses that led to loss of life.
57 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Performance
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Governance
2020 2021 2022
Ethics, Transparency, Quality
Ensuring quality and patient safety during clinical trials 2020 ESG Report – 2021 ESG Report – 2022 ESG Report -
Governance Narrative Governance Narrative Governance Narrative
Products listed on FDA’s MedWatch List FDA’s MedWatch List
Fatalities as reported in FDA Adverse Event Reporting System FDA AE Reporting System
Code of ethics governing the promotion of off-label use of products 2020 ESG Report – 2021 ESG Report – 2022 ESG Report -
Governance Narrative Governance Narrative Governance Narrative
Code of ethics governing interactions with healthcare providers 2020 ESG Report – 2021 ESG Report – 2022 ESG Report -
Governance Narrative Governance Narrative Governance Narrative
Alerts of risks associated with counterfeit products 2020 ESG Report – 2021 ESG Report – 2022 ESG Report -
Governance Narrative Governance Narrative Governance Narrative
Counterfeit drug process for maintaining traceability 2020 ESG Report – 2021 ESG Report – 2022 ESG Report -
Governance Narrative Governance Narrative Governance Narrative
Accountability
Proportion of women on Board of Directors1 4 out of 12 4 out of 12 4 out of 12
1 Pfizer’s Board of Directors
58 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Performance
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Sustainability Bond
Allocation of the Net Proceeds from the 2020 Sustainability Bond
In March 2020, Pfizer issued the biopharmaceutical industry’s first Sustainability Bond, which raised a total of $1.25 billion notional, resulting in approximately $1.24 billion of net proceeds. In
accordance with the Use of Proceeds defined on pages S-6 and S-7 of the Prospectus Supplement dated March 25, 2020, the proceeds were allocated to new projects and projects that had received
funding in the three years prior to the issuance of the March 2020 Sustainability Bond as follows: (1) to help manage our environmental impact by supporting more environmentally efficient design
and the construction of new office and manufacturing facilities, (2) to support increased patient access to Pfizer’s medicines and vaccines, especially among underserved populations, and (3) to
help strengthen healthcare systems. As of December 31, 2022, the net proceeds of approximately $1.24 billion from the March 2020 Sustainability Bond were fully allocated, funding a portion of the
aggregate spend of $1.275 billion. A breakdown of the specific allocation of funds can be found in the table below.
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Spend Through 2022
$ in Millions Full Year Actual Full Year Actual Full Year Actual Full Year Actual Full Year Actual Full Year Actual
API Manufacturing, Tuas Singapore 0 0 2 26 208 354 591
NYHQ Transformation - 66 Hudson 0 1 4 10 150 190 355
Sayana Press filling line 6 10 7 12 4 2 41
Pfizer Foundation 200 0 10 10 50 10 280
AMR Fund 0 0 0 0 1 8 9
Total 206 11 23 59 413 564 1,275
1 Some figures may not add due to rounding
For additional details, see About This Report
59 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Performance
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Sustainability Bond
— Continued
API Manufacturing, Tuas Singapore:
Through the application of proceeds from the 2020 Sustainability Bond, Pfizer is nearing completion of a new multi-product API manufacturing facility in Tuas, Singapore. Design priorities included
integration of systems and technologies to increase energy efficiency and enable effective energy demand management. The design was informed through identification of the largest energy
consuming systems and processes enabling evaluation of opportunities for reduction of electrical and thermal loads. This analysis included use of benchmarking studies to identify good practices,
including incorporation of a comprehensive metering infrastructure facilitating early investigation and action of energy demand changes. The project was issued a Green Mark Gold Certificate by the
Singapore Building and Construction Authority in December 2022 and is on track for completion in 2023.
NYHQ Transformation - 66 Hudson:
Proceeds were also used to advance sustainable design principles in Pfizer’s new corporate headquarters in Hudson Yards, New York City. This new Pfizer facility was designed to meet or exceed the
Gold level of two independent certification standards including the US Green Building Counsel (USGBC) Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEEDv4) standard and the International WELL
Building Institute (IWBI) WELLv2 Pilot Standard and is currently undergoing certification review. The design includes maximizing the use of natural lighting, reducing lighting power demand 30% below
the LEEDv4 baseline, water use management through incorporation of low flow plumbing fixtures, and enabling effective energy management through installation of advanced energy metering and
energy performance modeling. Based on this energy performance modeling, we are forecasting a greenhouse gas emissions reduction of around 70% compared with emissions levels in 2019 at our
previous headquarters location. This forecast is based on design efficiencies in space utilization and energy reduction strategies. Colleagues began working from the new Hudson Yards facility at the
end of 2022.
Sayana Press Filing Line:
An estimated 190 million women of reproductive age worldwide would like to delay or prevent pregnancy but are not using any method of contraception. Pfizer Inc. and a consortium of partners are
part of a public-private collaboration to broaden access to Sayana® Press, Pfizer’s long-acting, injectable, and reversible contraceptive. In total, Pfizer allocated $41 million from our Sustainability Bond
proceeds to fund the capital expense of establishing a new automated filling line for the Uniject™ injection system, which delivers the contraceptive. Once operational, this new filling line will allow for
capacity to scale from 23 million units per year, to up to 30 million units per year. In 2023, the new automated filling line will undergo process validation and EU regulatory review and is expected to
enter into commercial production.
Pfizer Foundation:
Proceeds from the March 2020 Sustainability Bond are being used to support the company’s work to increase access to Pfizer’s medicines and vaccines, especially among underserved communities,
and strengthen healthcare systems. Pfizer has allocated $280 million of the Sustainability Bond proceeds to The Pfizer Foundation, a charitable organization established by Pfizer Inc., that works to
help address the challenges of a complex and evolving global health landscape. The Pfizer Foundation is a separate legal entity from Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions. The Pfizer Foundation is
focused on accelerating innovative solutions and improving health systems to help improve the health of communities around the world. Through its programs, The Foundation aims to help reduce
the impact of infectious disease and improve access to healthcare for underserved patients around the world.
AMR Fund:
In 2020, Pfizer pledged $100 million to support the AMR Action Fund, a collaboration of more than 20 biopharmaceutical companies that aims to bring two to four new antibiotics to patients by 2030.
Pfizer plans to use proceeds from the Sustainability Bond to invest $20 million over 5 years. The Fund has begun investing in clinical-stage biotechs developing antibiotics and other anti-infectives
that target WHO and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) priority drug-resistant pathogens. These investments are expected to help bring novel antibiotics to market and, importantly,
re-establish an innovation ecosystem to support long term antibiotic development. In 2022, Pfizer contributed $7 million of the Fund’s $54 million investment to three early stage drug development
companies aligned with this focus: Ventorex Pharmaceuticals Inc., Adaptive Phage Therapeutics, Inc., and BioVersys AG.
60 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Performance
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Appendix
We are aligning our efforts and reporting to recognized ESG
standards: The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
(SASB), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Task Force on
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), as well as the UN
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), where appropriate.
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
We have included a GRI Index in this ESG Report as a reference tool to help readers more readily locate relevant information. This index was prepared with reference
GRI Index
to the GRI standards. Pfizer continues to evaluate our approach to reporting, including reference to several existing, globally recognized external frameworks—for
more information please see Global Reporting Frameworks on page 81.
GRI Table
GRI Indicator Description Reference United Nations (UN) Sustainable
Relevant SDGs
Development Goals (SDGs)
GRI 2: Universal Disclosures
2-1 Organizational Details Direct Response: Pfizer Inc. is a publicly owned incorporated entity headquartered in New York, NY, USA.
Our global operations are detailed on our Global Manufacturing, Supply, and Distribution webpage.
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s About This Report; pg. 81
sustainability reporting Direct Response: This report covers all of Pfizer’s global operations included within the 2022 financial
statements, unless otherwise stated.
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point About This Report; pg. 81
2-4 Restatements of information Direct Response: Pfizer restates information as appropriate and when needed. Please refer to the Key
Performance Indicator tables in the Performance section of the report for any restated information included
during this reporting period.
2-5 External Assurance Direct Response: There is no third party assurance on the information provided in the GRI standards.
Information about assurance we have obtained can be found in About This Report; pg. 81.
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business Letter from our Chairman & CEO; pg. 4 - 5
relationships Our Approach to ESG; pg. 8
Connecting our Purpose, Strategy, and ESG; pg. 9
Priority ESG Issues; pg. 10
Tackling the Health Equity Gap Together; pg. 16 - 17
Keeping Patients at the Center of Everything We Do; pg. 18 - 20
Climate Change; pg. 23
Innovation and Global Health; pg. 31
Ethics, Transparency, Quality; pg. 41, 43
Pfizer Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022; pg. 3 - 14
Direct Response: There were no significant changes within the organizational value chain during the
reporting period.
2-7 Employees Human Capital; pg. 33 - 35
Direct Response - Omission Statement: The organization considers the data confidential and thus cites
‘confidentiality constraints’ as our reason for omission.
Reason for Omission: Confidentiality Constraints
2-8 Workers who are not employees Direct Response - Omission Statement: The organization considers the data confidential and thus cites
‘confidentiality constraints’ as our reason for omission.
Reason for Omission: Confidentiality Constraints
62 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Appendix
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
GRI Index
— Continued
GRI Indicator Description Reference United Nations (UN) Sustainable Relevant SDGs
Development Goals (SDGs)
2-9 Governance structure and composition Accountability; pg. 47 - 48 Goal 5: Gender Equality
Board of Directors Goal 16: Peace, Justice, and
Board of Committees and Charters Strong Institutes
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest Accountability; pg. 47 - 48 Goal 5: Gender Equality
governance body Goal 16: Peace, Justice, and
Strong Institutes
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body Accountability; pg. 47 - 48 Goal 16: Peace, Justice, and
Strong Institutes
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the Connecting our Purpose, Strategy, and ESG; pg. 9 Goal 16: Peace, Justice, and
management of impacts Priority ESG Issues; pg. 10 Strong Institutes
Ethics, Transparency, Quality; pg. 38 - 41
Accountability; pg. 47 - 48
Board Committees and Charters
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Connecting our Purpose, Strategy, and ESG; pg. 9 Goal 16: Peace, Justice, and
Accountability; pg. 47 - 48 Strong Institutes
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability Accountability; pg. 47 - 48
reporting About This Report; pg. 81
2-15 Conflicts of interest Ethics, Transparency, Quality; pg. 39 - 40 Goal 16: Peace, Justice, and
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Members of the Board Strong Institutes
2-16 Communication of critical concerns Ethics, Transaparency, Quality; pg. 38 - 40 Goal 16: Peace, Justice, and
Direct Response - Omission Statement: Pfizer does not publicly Strong Institutes
disclose the number of critical concerns communicated during the
reporting period. Pfizer considers the data confidential and thus cites
‘confidentiality constraints’ as our reason for omission.
Reason for Omission: Confidentiality Constraints
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance Accountability; pg. 47 - 48
body
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest Accountability; pg. 47 - 48
governance body About this Report; pg. 81
2-19 Remuneration policies 2023 Proxy Statement
2-20 Process to determine remuneration Board Compensation Committee Charter
2023 Proxy Statement
63 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Appendix
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
GRI Index
— Continued
GRI Indicator Description Reference United Nations (UN) Sustainable
Relevant SDGs
Development Goals (SDGs)
Governance
2-22 Statement on sustainable development CEO and Chairman Letter; pg. 4 - 5
strategy Message from the Lead Independent Director; pg. 6
2-23 Policy commitments Our Approach to ESG; pg. 8 Goal 16: Peace, Justice,
Connecting our Purpose, Strategy, and ESG; pg. 9 and Strong Institutes
Ethics, Transparency, Quality; pg. 38 - 39, 44 - 45
Accountability; pg. 46
Human Rights Policy Statement
Our Values and Culture
Corporate Compliance
2023 Proxy Statement
Direct Response: Pfizer may apply the precautionary principle in order
to manage and report on risks and impacts.
2-24 Embedding policy commitments Ethics, Transparency, Quality; pg. 40
2023 Proxy Statement
Commitment to Quality: Everyone’s Job
Pfizer Training
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising Ethics, Transparency, Quality; pg. 38 - 41 Goal 16: Peace, Justice,
concerns SASB Index; pg. 72 - 73 and Strong Institutes
Corporate Compliance
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations Ethics, Transparency, Quality; pg. 38 - 39
Direct Response: Omission Statement: Pfizer does not publicly disclose
the number, nature, or monetary value of fines imposed for significant
instances of non-compliance. Pfizer considers the data confidential and
thus cites ‘confidentiality constraints’ as our reason for omission.
Reason for Omission: Confidentiality Constraints
2-28 Membership of associations Ethics, Transparency, Quality; pg. 46
Political Partnerships
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Connecting our Purpose, Strategy, and ESG; pg. 9
Priority ESG Issues; pg. 10 - 12
Our Stakeholders; pg. 13 - 14
Accountability; pg. 46 - 48
64 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Appendix
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
GRI Index
— Continued
GRI Indicator Description Reference United Nations (UN) Sustainable
Relevant SDGs
Development Goals (SDGs)
GRI 3: Material Topics
3-1 Process to determine material topics Our Approach to ESG; pg. 8
Connecting our Purpose, Strategy, and ESG; pg. 9
Priority ESG Issues; pg 10 - 12
About This Report; pg. 81
2022 Annual Review: About This Review; pg. 54
3-2 List of material topics Priority ESG Issues; pg. 11
3-3 Management of material topics Our Approach to ESG; pg. 8
Connecting our Purpose, Strategy, and ESG; pg. 9
Priority ESG Issues; pg. 10 - 12
GRI 200: Economic Disclosure
Economic Performance
3-3 Management of material topics Annual Review: Performance Review; pg. 51 - 52
201-1 Direct economic value generated and Annual Review: Performance Review; pg. 51 - 52
distributed
65 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Appendix
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
GRI Index
— Continued
GRI Indicator Description Reference United Nations (UN) Sustainable
Relevant SDGs
Development Goals (SDGs)
Indirect Economic Impacts
3-3 Management of material topics Priority ESG Issues; pg. 10 - 11
Innovation and Global Health; pg. 27 - 32
Corporate Compliance
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services Priority ESG Issues; pg. 10 - 11 Goal 5 Gender Equality
supported Tackling the Health Equity Gap Together; pg. 16 - 17 Goal 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure
Keeping Patients at the Center of Everything We Do; pg. 18 - 19 Goal 17 Partnerships for the Goals
Improving Health Literacy for All Patients; pg. 20
Innovation and Global Health; pg. 27 - 32
Corporate Compliance
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Priority ESG Issues; pg. 10 - 11 Goal 1 No Poverty
Tackling the Health Equity Gap Together; pg. 16 - 17 Goal 3 Good Health and Well-being
Keeping Patients at the Center of Everything We Do; pg. 18 - 20 Goal 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth
Innovation and Global Health; pg. 29 - 30
Anti-Corruption
3-3 Management of material topics Ethics, Transparency, Quality; pg. 41 - 43
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to Ethics, Transparency, Quality; pg. 41 - 43 Goal 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions
corruption Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy
Direct Response: Omission Statement - Confidentiality Constraint:
Pfizer does not publicly disclose critical concerns communicated during
the reporting period. Pfizer considers the data confidential and thus
cites ‘confidentiality constraints’ as our reason for omission.
GRI 300: Environmental Disclosures
Water
3-3 Management of material topics Climate Change; pg. 23
Sustainable Medicines; pg. 25
303-2 Water withdrawal Climate Change; pg. 23 Goal 6 Clean Water and Sanitation
Sustainable Medicines; pg. 25
Performance Data; pg. 51
Emissions
3-3 Management of material topics Climate Change; pg. 23
Performance Data; pg. 50
TCFD Report; pg. 79 - 81
66 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Appendix
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
GRI Index
— Continued
GRI Indicator Description Reference United Nations (UN) Sustainable
Relevant SDGs
Development Goals (SDGs)
Emissions
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 2022 Progress and Highlights; pg. 7 Goal 3 Good Health and Well-being
Climate Change; pg. 22 - 23 Goal 12 Responsible Consumption and Production
Performance Data; pg. 50 Goal 13 Climate Action
TCFD Report; pg. 79 - 81 Goal 14 Life Below Water
Goal 15 Life on Land
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emission 2022 Progress and Highlights; pg. 7 Goal 3 Good Health and Well-being
Climate Change; pg. 22 - 23 Goal 12 Responsible Consumption and Production
Performance Data; pg. 50 Goal 13 Climate Action
TCFD Report; pg. 79 - 81 Goal 14 Life Below Water
Goal 15 Life on Land
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Climate Change; pg. 22 - 23
Performance Data; pg. 50
TCFD Report; pg. 79 - 81
Waste
3-3 Management of material topics Sustainable Medicines; pg. 24
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related Sustainable Medicines; pg. 24 Goal 3 Good Health and Well-being
impacts Goal 6 Clean Water and Sanitation
Goal 12 Responsible Consumption and Production
Goal 14 Life Below Water
Goal 15 Life on Land
306-2 Management of significant waste-related Sustainable Medicines; pg. 24 - 25 Goal 3 Good Health and Well-being
impacts Goal 6 Clean Water and Sanitation
Goal 12 Responsible Consumption and Production
306-3 Waste generated Performance Data; pg. 51 Goal 6 Clean Water and Sanitation
Goal 12 Responsible Consumption and Production
Goal 14 Life Below Water
Goal 15 Life on Land
67 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Appendix
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
GRI Index
— Continued
GRI Indicator Description Reference United Nations (UN) Sustainable
Relevant SDGs
Development Goals (SDGs)
Waste
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Performance Data; pg. 51 Goal 6 Clean Water and Sanitation
Goal 12 Responsible Consumption and Production
Goal 14 Life Below Water
Goal 15 Life on Land
306-5 Waste directed to disposal Performance Data; pg. 51 Goal 6 Clean Water and Sanitation
Goal 12 Responsible Consumption and Production
Goal 14 Life Below Water
Goal 15 Life on Land
GRI 400: Social Disclosures
Employment
3-3 Management of material topics Human Capital; pg. 33 - 35
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Performance Data; pg. 55 - 56 Goal 5 Gender Equality
Goal 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth
Goal 10 Reduced Inequality
Occupational Health and Safety
3-3 Management of material topics Human Capital; pg. 35 - 36
Ethics, Transparency, Quality; pg. 40 - 42
EHS Governance
EHS Policy Statement
Prioritizing Health and Safety
403-1 Occupational health and safety management Human Capital; pg. 35 - 36 Goal 3 Good Health and Well-being
system Ethics, Transparency, Quality; pg. 40 - 42
Performance Data; pg. 57
EHS Management Systems
Direct Response: To facilitate consistent reporting practices,
Pfizer applies the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health
Administration Recordkeeping Requirements as its global
reporting standard.
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and Human Capital; pg. 35 Goal 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth
incident investigation Ethics, Transparency, Quality; pg. 40 - 42
EHS Governance
EHS Policy Statement
68 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Appendix
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
GRI Index
— Continued
GRI Indicator Description Reference United Nations (UN) Sustainable
Relevant SDGs
Development Goals (SDGs)
Occupational Health and Safety
403-3 Occupational health services Human Capital; pg. 35 - 36 Goal 3 Good Health and Well-being
Goal 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth
403-4 Worker participation, consultation and Human Capital; pg. 35 - 36 Goal 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth
communication on occupational health and Goal 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions
safety
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and Blue Book - Code of Conduct; pg. 10 - 12 Goal 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth
safety EHS Governance
Prioritizing Health and Safety
403-6 Promotion of worker health Human Capital; pg. 35 - 36 Goal 3 Good Health and Well-being
Prioritizing Health and Safety
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational Ethics, Transparency, Quality; pg. 40 - 41 Goal 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth
health and safety impacts directly linked by Prioritizing Health and Safety Goal 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions
business relationships
403-9 Work-related injuries Performance Data; pg. 57 Goal 3 Good Health and Well-being
Goal 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions
Training and Education
3-3 Management of material topics Human Capital; pg. 33 - 34
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and Human Capital: pg. 33 - 34 Goal 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth
transition assistance programs
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
3-3 Management of material topics Human Capital; pg. 35
Accountability; pg. 47 - 48
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Human Capital; pg. 35 Goal 5 Gender Equality
Accountability; pg. 47 - 48 Goal 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth
Performance Data; pg. 55
69 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Appendix
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
GRI Index
— Continued
GRI Indicator Description Reference United Nations (UN) Sustainable
Relevant SDGs
Development Goals (SDGs)
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Human Capital; pg. 35 Goal 5 Gender Equality
women to men Performance Data; pg. 55 Goal 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth
Goal 10 Reduced Inequality
Human Rights Assessment
3-3 Management of material topics Human Capital; pg. 35
Ethics, Transparency, Quality; pg. 38 - 40
Human Rights Statement
Human Rights Policy Statement
2021 Modern Slavery Statement
Supplier Conduct Principles
412-1 Operations that have been subject to human Human Capital; pg. 35 Goal 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth
rights reviews or impact assessments Ethics, Transparency, Quality; pg. 38 - 40
Human Rights Statement
Human Rights Policy Statement
2021 Modern Slavery Statement
Supplier Conduct Principles
412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or Ethics, Transparency, Quality; pg. 39
procedures Human Rights Policy Statement
2021 Modern Slavery Statement
Local Communities
3-3 Management of material topics Innovation and Global Health; pg. 29 - 32
Ethics, Transparency, Quality; pg. 44 - 45
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Innovation and Global Health; pg. 29 - 32 Goal 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth
impact assessments and development Ethics, Transparency, Quality; pg. 44 - 45
programs
Public Policy
3-3 Management of material topics Ethics, Transparency, Quality; pg. 46
Political Partnerships
State Lobbying Activities
415-1 Political contributions Ethics, Transparency, Quality; pg. 46 Goal 16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions
Political Partnerships
State Lobbying Activities
70 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Appendix
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
SASB Index
Pfizer has chosen to use the voluntary Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) framework for our industry—biotechnology and pharmaceuticals—as well as the professional and
communication services and healthcare drug retailer sectors for human capital metrics that fit our priority issues.
We are continually improving our data collection and coordination across Pfizer’s operations in support of our commitment to strengthen our reporting processes and disclosures in the
coming years.
SASB Table
SASB Code Metric Description Disclosure Location
Safety of Clinical Trial Participants
HC-BP-210a.1 Discussion, by world region, of the management process for ensuring quality and patient safety during clinical trials pg. 40; 44: Ethics, Transparency, Quality
HC-BP-210a.2 Number of FDA Sponsor Inspections related to clinical trial management and pharmacovigilance that resulted in: (1) Voluntary pg. 42: Ethics, Transparency, Quality
Action Indicated (VAI) and (2) Official Action Indicated (OAI)
HC-BP-210a.3 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with clinical trials in developing countries Pfizer is not reporting against this metric at this time.
Access to Medicines
HC-BP-240a.1 Description of actions and initiatives to promote access of the management process to healthcare products. pg. 16: Tackling the Health Equity Gap Together
pg. 29: Innovation and Global Health
HC-BP-240a.2 List of products on the WHO List of Prequalified Medicinal Products as part of its Prequalification of Medicines Programme (PQP) WHO Medicinal Products
WHO Prequalified Vaccines
Direct Response: To see the products pre-qualified,
perform a database search per manufacturer name.
Affordability & Pricing
HC-BP-240b.1 Number of settlements of Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) litigation that involved payments and / or provisions to Pfizer is not reporting against this metric at this time.
delay bringing an authorized generic product to market for a defined time period
HC-BP-240b.2 Percentage change in: (1) average list price and (2) average net price across U.S. product portfolio compared to previous year pg. 54: Performance Data
HC-BP-240b.3 Percentage change in: (1) list price and (2) net price of product with largest increase compared to previous year Pfizer is not reporting against this metric at this time.
71 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Appendix
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
SASB Index
— Continued
SASB Code Metric Description Disclosure Location
Drug Safety
HC-BP-250a.1 List of products listed in the FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products database FDA MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human Medical Products database
HC-BP-250a.2 Number of fatalities associated with products as reported in the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System FDA Adverse Event Reporting System
HC-BP-250a.3 Number of recalls issued; total units recalled pg. 42: Ethics, Transparency, Quality
HC-BP-250a.4 Total amount of product accepted for takeback, reuse or disposal Pfizer is not reporting against this metric at this time.
HC-BP-250a.5 Number of FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations of current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by type Pfizer is not reporting against this metric at this time.
Counterfeit Drugs
HC-BP-260a.1 Description of methods and technologies used to maintain traceability of products throughout the supply chain and pg. 43: Ethics, Transparency, Quality
prevent counterfeiting
HC-BP-260a.2 Discussion of process for alerting customers and business partners of potential or known risks associated with counterfeit pg. 43: Ethics, Transparency, Quality
products
HC-BP-260a.3 Number of actions that led to raids, seizure, arrests, and / or filing of criminal charges related to counterfeit products Pfizer is not reporting against this metric at this time.
Ethical Marketing
HC-BP-270a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with false marketing claims Pfizer is not reporting against this metric at this time.
HC-BP-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing promotion of off-label use of products pg. 38: Ethics, Transparency, Quality
Direct Response: Our Global Policy covers information on
ethical marketing and off-label promotion. Furthermore, we
disclose several policies and information that address ethical
marketing and promotion of off-label use of products.
Employee Recruitment, Development, and Retention
HC-BP-330a.1 Discussion of talent recruitment and retention efforts for scientists and research and development personnel pg. 33 -35: Human Capital
HC-BP-330a.2 (1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover rate for: (a) executives / senior managers, (b) midlevel managers, (c) pg. 56: Performance Data
professionals, and (d) all others
72 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Appendix
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
SASB Index
— Continued
SASB Code Metric Description Disclosure Location
Supply Chain Management
HC-BP-430a.1 Percentage of (1) entity’s facilities and (2) Tier I suppliers’ facilities participating in the Rx-360 International Pharmaceutical Pfizer is not reporting against this metric at this time.
Supply Chain Consortium audit program or equivalent third-party audit programs for integrity of supply chain and ingredients
Business Ethics
HC-BP-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with corruption and bribery Pfizer is not reporting against this metric at this time.
HC-BP-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing interactions with healthcare professionals pg. 38: Ethics, Transparency, Quality
Activity Metrics
HC-BP-000.A Number of patients treated pg. 29: Innovation and Global Health
pg. 54: Performance Data
HC-BP-000.B Number of drugs (1) in portfolio and (2) in research and development (Phases 1-3) pg. 27: Innovation and Global Health
pg. 52: Performance Data
Other Relevant Industry Standards (not currently reported under SASB, but included in ESG report)
Healthcare: Drug Retailers - Drug Supply Chain Integrity
HC-DR-250a.1. Description of efforts to reduce the occurrence of compromised drugs within the supply chain pg. 43: Ethics, Transparency, Quality
Services: Professional & Commercial Services - Workforce Diversity & Engagement
SV-PS-330a.1. Percentage of gender and racial / ethnic group representation for (1) executive management and (2) all other pg. 35: Human Capital
employees pg. 54; Performance Data
SV-PS-330a.3. Employee engagement as a percentage pg. 33: Human Capital
pg. 56: Performance Data
73 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Appendix
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Report
Pfizer recognizes the significant risks posed by climate Risk & Operational Governance: President, Chief Global Supply Officer leads Pfizer’s
change, including potential adverse impacts on human manufacturing and supply chain, serves as the executive
The Governance & Sustainability Committee of the Board of
health, increasing frequency of severe weather events sponsor of climate change risk management and has
Directors, composed solely of independent directors, provides
impacting communities, personnel and operations, and operational control over PGS operations and strategy,
oversight of Pfizer’s ESG strategy and reporting and corporate
the potential disruption of value chains critical to providing including operating expenses (OPEX) and capital expense
citizenship matters. The committee is regularly updated by
medicines and vaccines to patients. That’s why we have (CAPEX) investment in GHG emission reduction projects.
management on Pfizer’s climate action program and progress
made long-standing commitments to climate action through
toward goals.
resource conservation and greenhouse gas (GHG) emission Environmental sustainability has been integrated into Pfizer’s
reductions. Over the period 2001 – 2021 we reduced business strategy and GHG emissions reduction is monitored
Pfizer’s Global Supply (PGS) Quality & Compliance Committee
our Scope 1 & 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 64%, fully as a key performance indicator. In 2022, an ESG modifier that
(PGS QCC) reports key risks, including those related to
delivering three generations of GHG goals. In 2015, we were includes a climate performance KPI was added to Pfizer’s
climate change, to the Executive Compliance Committee of
one of the first companies to have our then GHG emissions annual performance-based variable bonus program to
Pfizer’s Executive Leadership Team, including the CEO, and
reduction goal approved by the Science Based Targets support Pfizer’s commitment to reducing GHG emissions.
to the Regulatory and Compliance Committee of the Board
Initiative (SBTi), and we remain committed to developing
of Directors. The PGS QCC risk management process also
and implementing a science-based climate action strategy. ESG Governance:
informs Pfizer’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program.
In June 2022 we announced our ambition to achieve the
The ESG function within Pfizer and its cross-functional
voluntary Net-Zero standard by 2040, 10 years ahead of the
Pfizer’s ERM program provides a framework for risk governing committees (at the senior management and
timeline outlined in the standard. In addition, as described in
identification and management of significant risks, the executive level) have responsibility for considering and
our Climate Change Position Statement, we aim to conduct
including risks related to climate change and the long- adopting potential goals and targets, with escalation to the
robust risk assessments to safeguard resiliency of our
term sustainability of the business. Each risk is assigned to Governance & Sustainability Committee (G&SC) of the Board,
research, manufacturing, and commercial activities and to
a member or members, as appropriate, of the Executive based on input from experienced subject matter experts and
transparently report on our progress, risks, and opportunities
Leadership Team. The Audit Committee of the Board of advisors.
aligned with Task Force on Climate-related Financial
Directors, composed solely of independent directors, has
Disclosure (TCFD) recommendations.
primary responsibility for overseeing Pfizer’s ERM program. Our cross-functional Sustainability Steering Committee,
Periodically, the Regulatory and Compliance Committee chaired by our Chief Sustainability Officer, advises on key
Governance
and the Audit Committee hold joint sessions to discuss risks issues and guides the integration and implementation
Pfizer has embedded Environmental, Social & Governance relevant to both committees’ areas of risk oversight, including of Pfizer’s non-financial reporting related to ESG. This
(ESG) principles into the company’s strategy and has an annual discussion of the ERM program. The board is kept Committee is overseen by a chartered Executive Sustainability
identified climate change as one of six priorities in Pfizer’s informed of its committees’ risk oversight and other activities Committee, chaired by the Executive Leadership Team
ESG strategy. Our climate change strategy is championed by through reports by the committee chairs to the full board. member leading Corporate Affairs, who reports directly to the
the Executive Vice President, Chief Global Supply Officer, who Chairman and CEO.
reports to the CEO. Implementation of the strategy is led and Pfizer’s integration of climate change into divisional and
managed by the Global Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) enterprise risk management processes includes reviewing Strategy
team in partnership with Legal with active engagement of a risks that could be material to the company to support U.S.
Our Scenario Analysis Process
cross-disciplinary team of leaders representing Engineering, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) 10-K reporting.
Facilities, Sourcing, Scientific and Manufacturing lines, and More information on the risk assessment process for climate To improve the understanding of Pfizer’s resilience to the
is integrated into Pfizer’s operational and risk management change is provided in the risk assessment section below. impacts of climate change, we conducted an in-depth
processes as described below. assessment of our exposure to physical and transition risks
Manufacturing at our internal network of sites, managed and opportunities using scenario analysis; informed by data
by PGS, accounts for over 70% of the company’s energy modelling insights from a global sustainability consultancy.
consumption and GHG emissions. The Executive Vice
74 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Appendix
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Report
— Continued
Table 1
Aligned with TCFD guidance, we assessed risks and
opportunities on a short- (2030) and long-term (2050) basis,
Type Scenario 2100 Warming Description Key Parameters & Assumptions
while also considering transition risks and opportunities on a
medium-term basis (2040). This is aligned with our strategic
2040 Net-Zero planning, international and national climate Physical IPCC +1.8⁰C This scenario is aligned to the • Global Net-Zero reached
policy milestones, and the expected lifetime of our assets. SSP1-2.6 current commitments under in 2050
the Paris Agreement. The • Renewables account for
world shifts towards a more more than half of the
The scenario analysis began with the identification of sustainable path, emphasizing energy supply by 2050
relevant physical and transition risks and opportunities that more inclusive development, • Few challenges to
could have a potential impact on our business. Each risk driven by an increasing climate mitigation and
commitment to achieving adaptation
and opportunity was qualitatively assessed using impact
development goals.
and uncertainty ratings and validated with a wide range of
stakeholders representing different Pfizer functions and
divisions. Impact ratings were assigned using the same IPCC +4.4⁰C This is a high emissions • Energy demand triples
categorizations applied in our enterprise risk management SSP5-8.5 scenario with no additional by 2100, dominated by
climate policy (business-as- fossil fuels
framework.
usual). The push for economic • Current atmospheric CO
2
and social development is levels double by 2050
As climate scenarios are inherently uncertain, the scenario coupled with the exploitation of • Many challenges to
analysis considered the full range of potential impacts abundant fossil fuel resources climate mitigation,
and the adoption of resource with few challenges to
from all scenarios without considering the likelihood
and energy intensive lifestyles adaptation
of each scenario developing. The top 20 potential risks around the world.
and opportunities were prioritized based on the impact-
uncertainty rating for a deeper dive using specific scenario
Transition NGFS Current +3⁰C This scenario assumes that • Emissions peak in 2080
data, using physical and transition scenarios described in
Policies (CP) only currently implemented • IPCC’s SSP2 ‘Middle of
Table 1. policies are preserved, with an the Road’ socioeconomic
expected temperature outcome assumptions adjusted for
For each prioritized item, a scenario indicator was assigned, of ~3°C. COVID-19 impact1
acting as a proxy to explore how it may develop in each
scenario. These were combined with exposure ratings, NGFS Net- +1.5⁰C This is an ambitious scenario • Ambitious climate
derived from the assigned impact rating, to give an overall Zero 2050 that limits global warming policy is introduced
risk / opportunity rating at each timeframe. Items rated a (NZ 2050) to 1.5 °C through stringent immediately
climate policies and innovation, • Global Net-Zero reached
high risk / opportunity at any timeframe are described in
reaching Net-Zero CO₂ in 2050
Table 2. emissions around 2050. • IPCC’s SSP2 ‘Middle of
the Road’ socioeconomic
assumptions adjusted for
COVID-19 impact1
1 NGFS Climate Scenarios for central banks and supervisors. Network for Greening the Financial System, June 2021, p. 21.
75 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Appendix
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Report
— Continued
Table 2
Risk or opportunity TCFD Category Description Scenario & Risk / Opportunity Rating Potential Financial Impact
Transition Risk - Policy & Legal As policymakers implement carbon pricing mechanisms in 2030: High risk Increased direct costs and increased
Carbon pricing more geographies, as well as increase the weight and scope 2040: High risk indirect (operating) costs
of these mechanisms, Pfizer is increasingly exposed to the 2050: High risk
mechanisms
cost of carbon in our operations and could be exposed to
pass-through costs in the supply chain. Carbon prices are
expected to increase dramatically in a Net-Zero scenario,
reaching upwards of $200 / mtCOe.
2
Transition Risk - Technology A growing need to decarbonize and reach Net-Zero to meet 2030: Medium risk Increased capital expenditures, decreased
Stakeholder both internal Net-Zero targets and external stakeholder 2040: High risk asset value or asset useful life leading to
pressure will require large investment to decarbonize capital 2050: High risk write-offs, and asset impairment or early
pressure to
assets. This could include replacing production equipment retirement of existing assets
decarbonize capital with equipment that is newer and more efficient, runs on
assets renewables or alternative fuel sources, or is electrically
powered. In the NZ2050 scenario, emissions in the chemicals
sector decrease significantly, from almost 3,000M mtCO
2
in 2020 to less than 500M mtCO in 2040. Achieving
2
this emissions reduction will require significant capital
investment.
Transition Risk - Resource A transition away from fossil fuels may result in volatile 2030: Medium risk Increased direct costs
Increasing Efficiency energy and fuel prices. Rapid shifts away from fossil fuel 2040: High risk
supplies without adequate low-carbon energy infrastructure 2050: High risk
energy price
in place could lead to supply constraints, which may be
volatility exacerbated in a disorderly scenario. Gas price increases
sharply in the NZ2050 scenario reaching almost $30 /
gigajoule (GJ) in 2050, more than double the gas price in the
CP scenario ($12.5 / GJ).
Transition Risk – Market An increasing number of national healthcare systems and 2030: Medium risk Decreased revenues due to reduced
Increasing demand countries have announced targets to become Net-Zero by 2040: High risk demand for products and services
future dates, e.g., NHS England 2050 Net-Zero target which 2050: High risk
for low-carbon
may impose additional requirements of their suppliers and
products a preference for low-carbon goods. There may be increasing
pressure to decarbonize products across their whole life
cycle including Scope 3 emissions. As ~80% of Pfizer’s
emissions are Scope 3, there is additional complexity in
producing low-carbon products as it relies on suppliers
decarbonizing their operations. Competitor products with
lower emissions intensity / lower energy demand than
Pfizer products may lead to substitution of Pfizer products,
resulting in reduced revenues.
76 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Appendix
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Report
— Continued
Table 2 - continued
Risk or opportunity TCFD Category Description Scenario & Risk / Opportunity Rating Potential Financial Impact
Transition Resource Through replacing our capital assets to become more 2030: High opportunity Decreased direct costs and increased
Opportunity – Efficiency efficient and use alternative fuel sources, Pfizer could 2040: High opportunity demand for products and services
increase resilience to volatile fuel and energy prices 2050: High opportunity
Increased resilience
resulting from the low-carbon transition and increase
to energy and fuel returns on investment in low-emissions technology. Gas
price volatility price increases sharply in the NZ2050 scenario reaching
almost $30 / GJ in 2050, more than double the gas price
in the CP scenario ($12.5 / GJ). Transitioning from gas to
alternative sources of heating therefore is a cost savings,
reducing Pfizer’s exposure to increasing gas prices. Fuel
prices would be expected to follow a similar trajectory.
Transition Market An increasing number of national healthcare systems and 2030: Medium opportunity Increased revenues resulting
Opportunity – countries have announced targets to become Net-Zero 2040: High opportunity from increased demand for
by future dates, e.g., 2050 including in their supply chain 2050: High opportunity products and services
Increasing demand
i.e., the suppliers and pharmaceutical products used by
for low-carbon healthcare providers. Healthcare systems may therefore
products prefer or require suppliers to provide low-carbon products.
If Pfizer’s products are demonstrably lower in carbon
than competitors, this may lead to increased demand for
products and increase revenue.
Physical Risk - Water Chronic physical Higher temperatures and more extreme, less predictable, 2030: High risk Increased direct (operating) costs and
scarcity and drought weather conditions under climate change are expected to 2050: High risk decreased revenues due to reduced
affect water availability by altering the distribution of production capacity
impact on operations
rainfall, snowmelt, river flows and groundwater. A lower
availability of water may heighten potential financial risk for
Pfizer by increasing water costs, and / or reducing revenue
due to production shutdowns.
By 2030, under a high emissions scenario, almost half of
the 40 manufacturing and research and development sites
assessed during the scenario analysis are shown to be at a
high risk of water scarcity and drought.
77 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Appendix
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Report
— Continued
Table 2 - continued
Risk or opportunity TCFD Category Description Scenario & Risk / Opportunity Rating Potential Financial Impact
Physical Risk - River Acute physical Extreme weather events, including high levels of 2030: High risk Increased capital expenditures, increased
and extreme rainfall precipitation and extreme rainfall, are projected to increase 2050: High risk direct (operating) costs, decreased asset
due to climate change. This is likely to heighten both the value or asset useful life leading to write-
flooding impact
frequency and intensity of flooding, increasing the risk of offs, and decreased revenues due to
on operations and physical damage to infrastructure, and / or supply chain reduced production capacity
supply chain disruption.
By 2030, under a high emissions scenario, 7 of the 36
manufacturing sites assessed during the scenario analysis
are shown to be at a high risk of flooding.
Physical Risk - Acute physical Maximum temperatures and the frequency of extreme 2030: Low risk Increased direct costs and decreased
Extreme heat impact heat events are anticipated to rise globally due to climate 2050: High risk revenues due to reduced production
change. A higher prevalence of this hazard may increase capacity.
on operations and
potential financial risk for Pfizer by increasing operating
supply chain costs associated with running air conditioning, or backup
generators if electricity supply is interrupted, and / or
reducing revenue due to production shutdowns.
By 2050, under a high emissions scenario, eight of the
40 manufacturing and research and development sites
assessed during the scenario analysis are shown to be at a
high risk of extreme heat.
78 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Appendix
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Report
— Continued
Strategic Resilience Under Climate Scenarios • Climate hazards could manifest due to natural variability allocated, funding a portion of the aggregate spend
which is not fully captured by the models. of $1.275 billion. Certain of these funds have been
Following the findings from the scenario analysis, we consider
allocated to more environmentally efficient design and
our current business model and strategy to be resilient under
Trends in some physical climate hazards are also more construction of a new office and manufacturing facility
the assessed scenarios.
difficult to project than others. For example, hazards driven (a breakdown of the specific allocation of funds can be
by rainfall variables (e.g., flooding, water stress and drought) found on page 59).
A number of risks and opportunities were found to have
are more uncertain than those related to temperature
potential impact on financial performance and financial • Pfizer responds to numerous requests for environmental
variables (e.g., extreme heat) as they depend on the response
position for which mitigation measures have been identified. performance information from current customers
of regional atmospheric circulations to global warming.2
To further understand the financial impact of these risks, and as part of tenders. While the level of influence
Pfizer has begun a pilot to quantify the financial impact of that our environmental performance has on customer
Key uncertainties that could influence our resilience to
selected potentially significant items. We will evaluate the purchasing decisions has not been fully quantified, the
transition risks and opportunities include:
findings from the pilot, refine the methodologies and data number of customer and tender inquiries has been
sources, and expand quantification to other items in the observed to increase each year.
• How quickly our suppliers can decarbonize; given that
next year.
80% of our emissions are in the value chain rather than • Annual targets are established for energy conservation
in our direct operations; project savings. Our medium and large sites are required
Physical climate risks are currently managed through our
to maintain master plans that identify opportunities
Loss Prevention and Business Resilience programs, described • How quickly technology will become commercially
for emission reductions. These projects are reviewed
in further detail under Risk Management. We continue to available to decarbonize our company hard to abate
through our capital project appropriation process.
review these programs considering the scenario analysis to processes; and
The costs to implement these projects as well as the
assess whether further measures could be required.
• How healthcare systems and services will implement expected cost savings are included in the site’s operating
Net-Zero requirements in the supply chain. budgets and / or capital plans as appropriate.
By achieving our Net-Zero goal we can mitigate many
transition risks and maximize transition opportunities • Our Loss Prevention and Business Resilience programs
identified in the scenario analysis (e.g., meeting an increased Impact of Climate-related Risks and Opportunities on our assess and manage potential impacts of acute and
demand for low-carbon products and minimizing our Businesses, Strategy, and Financial Planning chronic physical risks on our operations. Assessments
exposure to volatile energy prices). We plan to publish a are refreshed annually. Costs to maintain Pfizer’s risk
Climate-related risks and opportunities have influenced
transition plan summarizing the strategies and actions we are engineering provider is estimated at $0.3M annually.
Pfizer’s business strategy and are incorporated into
taking to achieve our goal. Costs relating to property protection and supply chain
financial planning.
management are annualized, expected to be incurred
It should be noted that there are key uncertainties associated annually and are incorporated into existing budgets.
• In 2020, Pfizer completed a $1.25 billion ten-year
with using global climate models to project the effects Site protection systems improvements and maintenance
sustainability bond, a first for a biopharmaceutical
of physical risks on our business strategy. These include costs are estimated at $0.1M annually. Direct staff costs
company. Proceeds from the bond are being used to
uncertainties in how: related to managing this risk is estimated at $2.0M
help manage our environmental impact and support
annually.
increased patient access to Pfizer’s medicines and
• Future emissions could lead to changes in the global
vaccines, especially among underserved populations,
climate system;
and strengthen healthcare systems. As of December 31,
• Changes in this larger system may evolve for us 2022, the net proceeds of approximately $1.24 billion
locally; and from the March 2020 Sustainability Bond were fully
2 Multiple sources are used to consider these uncertainties and variables. IPCC AR6 is one of the primary sources, but also includes sources for specific hazards such as flooding and water stress and drought, including WRI Aqueduct and
Fathom-Global 2.0.
79 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Appendix
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Report
— Continued
Risk Management potential vulnerabilities. Through our Loss Prevention with fully implemented plans for the management of risk
and Business Continuity programs we maintain plans associated with natural perils such as flooding and severe
Pfizer’s strategy for managing climate-related risks and
to minimize business disruption, including alternative weather, noting it is not possible to state with certainty
opportunities includes our ambitious 2040 Net-Zero target
sourcing options and buffer inventory (depending on whether individual weather events are a result of climate
covering our operations and entire value chain. Measures we
product). Pfizer maintains resources for assessing and change).
take to mitigate climate-related risks include:
establishing business continuity arrangements such as
the activation of alternative supply chains. Supply chain Pfizer discloses our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions
• Operational emissions reductions – To achieve our
and business continuity professionals are retained as annually through our CDP submittal and publishes our Scope
public goals for GHG emission reductions, Pfizer has
staff and consultants to ensure these plans are updated 1 + 2 emissions in our ESG Report (formerly in our Annual
implemented numerous efficiency improvements to
at least annually, exercised at least annually, and key Review) and on our website.
our operations. We look for opportunities to design
colleagues on site are trained on their content and
environmental sustainability attributes into new facility
implementation. We have achieved three consecutive GHG reduction goals
or renovation projects, replace equipment at end of life
(2000-2007, 2007-2012, and 2012-2020) and have reduced our
with energy-efficient alternates, and invest in no / low • Working and engaging our suppliers – As part of our
GHG emissions over 60% since 2000. We remain committed
carbon technologies at our sites and in programs that Net-Zero goal we aim to use our influence to catalyze
to ambitious long-term actions and have announced our
enable sourcing of clean energy from renewable sources ambitious GHG emissions reductions across our value
ambition to achieve the Science Based Target initiative’s
(for example, our North American solar virtual power chain. We are implementing a multipronged approach,
voluntary Net-Zero standard by 2040. As part of the
purchase agreement is described on page 23 of our ESG including embedding environmental sustainability
commitment, Pfizer aims to decrease our GHG emissions by
report). We are a member of Renewable Energy 100 criteria in our vendor selection processes, strengthening
95% and value chain emissions by 90% from 2019 levels by
(RE100) and we have a goal to achieve 80% renewable expectations within contracts, and engaging with key
2040 through accelerating the transition away from fossil
electricity by 2025 and 100% by 2030. We are currently suppliers of goods and services to drive at least 64% by
fuels and engaging suppliers to catalyze equivalent action.
working to develop site-specific emissions reduction spend to adopt science based GHG emission reduction
plans to achieve our near-term (2030) and Net Zero goals (SBT goals) by 2025. Pfizer is part of Energize,
In 2020, after achieving our third generation GHG emission
(2040) targets. a collaboration between 10 global pharmaceutical
reduction goal, Pfizer set a new goal to reduce Scope 1 & 2
companies that provides pharmaceutical suppliers, some
• Research and innovation in green chemistry – Pfizer has GHG emissions 46% by 2030 from a 2019 baseline and, by
of which may not otherwise have the internal resources
a long history of using the concepts of green chemistry 2025, advancing goals to reduce emissions in three Scope
or expertise available, the opportunity to participate
and promoting them across our industry. Through 3 categories. This includes catalyzing 64% of suppliers of
in the market for power purchase agreements. We are
scientific innovation we aim to design more efficient goods and services by spend to set science-based emission
also members of Activate, a collective action initiative
processes that can reduce the environmental impact reduction goals and reducing emissions related to upstream
supporting the decarbonization of active pharmaceutical
of our medicines throughout the product life cycle. To logistics by 10% and business travel by 25% by 2025 from a
ingredient supply chains.
support environmental footprint reduction efforts, Pfizer 2019 baseline. Pfizer continues to make progress towards
is conducting representative life cycle assessments these near-term targets while advancing our long-term Net-
(LCAs) for small molecules, large molecules, vaccines, Metrics & Targets Zero by 2040 goal.
and devices. Guided by these assessments, we are
working to define environmental sustainability criteria Pfizer calculates Scope 1 and 2 emissions in accordance with Recognizing that Scope 3 emissions are the most challenging
across the product lifecycle. the GHG Protocol (revised edition). Our 2019-2021 GHG data to quantify due to complex global value chains, inconsistent
(including Scope 3 categories 1-8 and 15) was independently methodologies, and lack of transparent disclosure, we
• Loss Prevention and Business Continuity programs – assured pursuant to ISAE 3000 (revised) by ERM-CVS and have launched initiatives to improve our measurement
Pfizer’s primary controls for the management of acute verification of 2022 data is underway. Emissions are reported and reporting capabilities and are collaborating with our
and chronic physical risks are our infrastructure and annually in our CDP response and are broken down by type, pharmaceutical peers to align on Scope 3 data collection and
systems. Many of our facilities are located in areas country, and business division. We also track metrics relative emissions calculation methodologies.
with limited exposure to physical risks and we have to our business continuity and disaster recovery programs
robust processes in place to identify and mitigate (e.g., number of supplier assessments completed; sites
80 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Appendix
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
About This Report
This ESG Report details our performance on Environmental, Social, and Governance topics and contains non-financial disclosures covering the period of
January 1, 2022, through December 31, 2022, unless otherwise stated. Our financial disclosures can be found in our 2022 Annual Review and our 2022
Annual Report on Form 10-K. We plan to report our ESG performance on an annual basis as a supplement to our Annual Review.
This report covers all of Pfizer’s global operations included within the 2022 Management Assertion of emergency use of the medical product during the COVID-19 pandemic
financial statements, unless otherwise stated. Our priority assessment has under Section 564(b)(1) of the FFDCA, unless the declaration is terminated
As of December 31, 2022, Pfizer has fully allocated approximately $1.24 billion
validated issues that traditionally have been viewed as meaningful to our or authorization revoked sooner. Please see the EUA Fact Sheets at www.
in net proceeds from the issuance of its March 2020 Sustainability Bond to
business and our external stakeholders. covid19oralrx.com and www.cvdvaccine-us.com.
eligible projects identified on page 59 of this report in accordance with the Use
of Proceeds defined on pages S-6 and S-7 of the Prospectus Supplement dated
In addition, we intend to continually evaluate our performance reporting
and enhance our related data collection processes and controls. Some of March 25, 2020. Forward Looking Statements
our disclosures in this report are estimates or based on assumptions, due to
Pfizer is responsible for its assertion and the completeness, accuracy and This ESG Report includes forward-looking statements about, among other
the inherent measurement uncertainties. As an example, because of patient
validity of the information and metrics presented in this ESG Report. things, our performance on Environmental, Social, and Governance topics,
privacy laws, data constraints, and contractual obligations, we have used
our ESG strategy, targets, and goals, company strategies, product pipeline,
shipping data, financial performance, and third-party reports to determine
in-line products, product candidates, and growth potential, and our efforts to
patient counts in support of our KPI measuring the number of patients treated. Third Party Websites and Links
respond to COVID-19, including COMIRNATY® (the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19
Although we believe such estimates and assumptions are reasonable, actual
results will vary. This ESG Report may contain references or links to other websites maintained vaccine) and our oral COVID-19 treatment (PAXLOVID® (nirmatrelvir tablets
by third parties over whom Pfizer has no control. Such links are provided and ritonavir tablets)) that are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties.
Except as indicated on this page, the information in this report has not been merely as a convenience. Pfizer makes no warranties or representations of We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized.
audited, verified, or attested to by any third party. We have obtained limited any kind as to the accuracy, currency, or completeness of any information Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or should
assurance verification by ERM-CVS of certain greenhouse gas emissions data contained in such third party websites, including any third party social underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially
that we submit to CDP. We have obtained reasonable assurance over our media or mobile app platform. The information contained on our website, from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Please refer
Management Assertion from KPMG LLP, see Independent Accountants’ Report. our Facebook, YouTube, and LinkedIn pages or our Twitter accounts is not to Pfizer’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022,
incorporated by reference into this ESG Report. Inclusion of any third party and Pfizer’s subsequent reports on Form 10-Q, including the sections thereof
The term “material” as used in context of this report and in our GRI Index are link in this ESG Report does not imply an endorsement or recommendation captioned “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That
different from such terms as used in the context of filings with the Securities by Pfizer and a link to this ESG Report from another website does not imply May Affect Future Results,” as well as Pfizer’s subsequent reports on Form
and Exchange Commission (SEC). Issues deemed material for the purposes of a relationship between Pfizer and any third party. Your use of any such third 8-K for a description of the substantial risks and uncertainties related to the
this report should not necessarily be considered material for SEC reporting party site or platform is at your own risk and will be governed by such third forward-looking statements included in this ESG Report. These reports are
purposes. party’s terms and policies (including its privacy policy). available on our website at www.pfizer.com and on the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission’s (SEC) website at www.sec.gov. The forward-looking
statements in this ESG Report speak only as of the original date of this ESG
This report has been reviewed by our head of Corporate Affairs, our Chairman Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) Statement Report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of these
and CEO, members of our cross-functional Sustainability Steering Committee,
statements, as the result of new information or future events or developments
and the Governance & Sustainability Committee of our Board of Directors. As used in this Pfizer 2022 ESG Report, “PAXLOVID®” refers to an oral COVID-19
or otherwise.
treatment (nirmatrelvir [PF-07321332] tablets and ritonavir tablets), and
Note: All trademarks mentioned are the property of their owners. “COMIRNATY®” refers to, as applicable, and as authorized or approved, the
Note on Non-Financial Reporting
Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine, the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine,
Global Reporting Frameworks Bivalent (Original and Omicron BA.4 / BA.5), the COMIRNATY® Original / Non-financial information is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting
Omicron BA.1 Vaccine, and COMIRNATY® Original / Omicron BA.4 / BA.5
from limitations inherent in the nature of, and the methods used for
This report’s content is grounded in our ESG priority assessment and has been Vaccine”. PAXLOVID® and emergency uses of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 determining, such data. Some of our disclosures in this report are based on
informed by several globally recognized external frameworks. These include Vaccine or the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine, Bivalent (Original and assumptions due to the inherent measurement uncertainties. The selection
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Sustainability Accounting Standards Omicron BA.4 / BA.5), have not been approved or licensed by the FDA. of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially
Board (SASB), and Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD). PAXLOVID® has been authorized for emergency use by the FDA under an EUA, different measurements. The precision of different measurement techniques
We relied to some extent on each framework to develop this report while for the treatment of adults and pediatric patients (12 years of age and older may also vary.
formally adhering to none in their entirety. weighing at least 40 kg) with a current diagnosis of mild-to-moderate COVID-19
and who are at high risk for progression to severe COVID-19, including
For questions or feedback, contact our ESG Office:
Pfizer also considers elements of other ESG indices and sustainability hospitalization or death. Emergency uses of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 ESG.Office@pfizer.com
indicators—in particular, the Access to Medicine Index (ATMI) and the United Vaccine and the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine, Bivalent have been
Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (also known as the Global Goals). authorized by the FDA under an EUA to prevent COVID-19 in individuals aged
As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we submit an annual communication 6 months and older. The emergency uses are only authorized for the duration
to the UN on our progress made toward achieving the Global Goals. of the declaration that circumstances exist justifying the authorization
81 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Appendix
Introduction Impact Stories Environment Social Governance Performance Appendix
Independent Accountants’ Report
Pfizer Inc. Management:
We have examined management of Pfizer Inc.’s (“Pfizer”) assertion Our examination was not conducted for the purpose of evaluating
set forth on page 81 of the Pfizer 2022 Environmental, Social Pfizer’s 2022 Environmental, Social & Governance Report or any
& Governance Report that as of December 31, 2022, Pfizer has of the metrics contained herein. Thus, we did not examine the
fully allocated approximately $1.24 billion in net proceeds from sufficiency, completeness, appropriateness or accuracy of such
the issuance of its March 2020 Sustainability Bond to the eligible metrics, reporting criteria, or other information. Accordingly, we
projects identified on page 59 of Pfizer’s 2022 Environmental, do not express an opinion or any other form of assurance other
Social & Governance Report (the “Allocations”), in accordance than on management’s assertion.
with the Use of Proceeds as defined on pages S-6 and S-7 of the
Prospectus Supplement dated March 25, 2020 (the “Prospectus In our opinion, management’s assertion that the Allocations were
Supplement”). Pfizer’s management is responsible for its assertion. allocated in accordance with the Use of Proceeds as defined in the
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s Prospectus Supplement, is fairly stated in all material respects.
assertion based on our examination.
Our examination was conducted in accordance with attestation
standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the examination to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
management’s assertion is fairly stated, in all material respects. An
examination involves performing procedures to obtain evidence
New York, New York
about management’s assertion. The nature, timing, and extent of March 16, 2023
the procedures selected depend on our judgment, including an
assessment of the risks of material misstatement of management’s
assertion, whether due to fraud or error. We believe that the
evidence we obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.
We are required to be independent and to meet our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with relevant ethical requirements
relating to the examination engagement.
82 Pfizer 2022 ESG Report Appendix
Pfizer 2022 ESG Report
The product information provided in this
site is intended only for residents of the
United States. The products discussed
herein may have different product labeling
in different countries.
Copyright © 2022-2023 Pfizer Inc.
All rights reserved
66 Hudson Boulevard East
New York, NY 10001-2192
(212) 733-2323
www.pfizer.com
