Corporate
Responsibility
Report
Environmental
Social
Governance
2022
poolcorp.com
TTaabbllee ooff CCoonntteennttss
Environmental 6
• Improve Energy Efficiency ..................................... 8
• Reduce Waste ......................................................... 11
• Protect Natural Resources ................................. 12
Social 15
• Employee Care and Safety ................................... 16
• Diversity, Equity and Inclusion ............................ 21
• Give Back to the Community ............................. 23
Governance 26
• Ethics and Compliance ........................................ 27
• Strong Governance ............................................... 29
• Data Privacy and Security .................................... 31
2
FFrroomm OOuurr LLeeaaddeerrsshhiipp
To our shareholders, supporters and communities we serve,
As a leading global distributor of outdoor lifestyle products, • striving to be an Employer of Choice through the expansion
POOLCORP’s® purpose is clear. We serve to make a of our diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives. In
difference: to provide exceptional value through innovation 2022, we partnered with diversity-focused recruiters like
within our industry, with our over 2,000 vendors and 125,000 Diversity Jobs, Women in Trucking, and Recruit Military.
customers, in the lives of our 6,000 employees and within We also launched a DEI mentoring program for diverse
the communities where we operate 420 sales centers. employees and introduced the Women’s Interactive
Network (WIN) to offer a unique networking experience to
But purpose alone does not suffice. It takes purpose with a
women at POOLCORP® including leadership development,
plan, followed by deliberate and consistent execution by our
mentorship and other interactive opportunities.
teams, which is something POOLCORP® has proudly delivered
over our nearly 28 years as a public company. We live and work in communities surrounded by water
and are proud of our partnership with the YMCA to provide
Our company is guided by four operating priorities, which
swimming lessons that teach basic water safety skills to
are safety, growth, profitability and being an Employer of
children. From the inception of our program in 2021, we
Choice. These values are instilled in our culture and drive
have donated more than $3 million to YMCAs throughout
how we serve our customers while positively impacting the
the country, funding swim lessons for more than 30,000
communities we serve.
children and training 2,000 lifeguards.
Our current year achievements across
When we reflect on the value that we have created for
our operating priorities were focused on: our shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees and
communities – our commitment to corporate stewardship
• ensuring safety by keeping this at the forefront of
is within the core of our actions. Together, we are working
everything we do. In 2022, we launched the annual
to shape a brighter, more sustainable future for all in our
POOLCORP® Safety Challenge Coin program to recognize
continual pursuit of creating exceptional value, returns
employees who exemplify our safety values and actively
and opportunities.
foster a safer work environment;
Sincerely,
• driving growth through sales center openings, acquisitions
and the expansion of existing sales centers, as well as
increasing our product selection and unveiling emerging
products utilizing the latest technology in energy
efficiency and other trends;
• delivering profitability while lessening our environmental John E. Stokely Peter D. Arvan
impact through optimizing our fleet’s fuel consumption Chairman of the President and Chief
and enhancing the energy efficiency of our facilities; and Board of Directors Executive Officer
3
4
We are guided by our four
About POOL
2022 Highlights
operating priorities:
1. Safety
Pool Corporation, a member of the
S&P 500 Index, is the world’s largest
Safety is our first operating priority, and we consider 420
wholesale distributor of swimming pool safety first in everything we do. We owe it to our people,
sales centers
supplies, equipment and related leisure their families, and our communities to operate safe
facilities and a safe fleet. 12
products and is one of the leading
distributors of irrigation and landscape 2. Growth countries
products in the United States.
Growth is a critical part of our success. We have grown,
and will continue to grow, through sales center openings,
Our Mission acquisitions and the expansion of existing sales centers.
Increasing our product selection and capitalizing on
6,000 41
emerging products utilizing the latest technology will
To provide exceptional value to our customers
provide additional growth opportunities. employees states
and suppliers, creating exceptional return for our
shareholders while providing exceptional 3. Profitability
opportunities for our employees.
One key to capturing additional profit is capacity creation, 200,000
which means making better use of current investments.
Our Vision products
4. Employer of Choice
To be the best worldwide distributor of outdoor 125,000
lifestyle products that include all products relating Our employees are our greatest asset and the foundation
customers
to swimming pools, irrigation and other products for our growth and success. We strive to be an
that enhance the quality of outdoor home life. Employer of Choice by investing in our people.
$6.2
billion net sales
About This Report
$18.70
The information in this report covers our corporate responsibility performance for the 2022 calendar year and generally applies to Pool Corporation
on a company-wide basis. We calculated non-financial references, including carbon emissions, fleet metrics, water and electricity usage and recycling diluted EPS $1.0
impacts, based on our North American operations as information is more readily available for analysis and represents the largest component of our
business. Our prior year metrics were updated using current year methodology and were restated to include total North American operations. billion operating income
4
E S G
POOLCORP® is
firmly committed
to safe, sustainable
Environmental: Social: Governance:
work practices.
Our goal is to enrich outdoor home
life for families while ensuring the
best future for our employees,
our customers, our suppliers and
the communities in which we Improve Employee Care Ethics and
Energy Efficiency and Safety Compliance
live and work.
We are dedicated to appropriately
managing environmental, social
and governance matters and
believe it is essential to our
Reduce Diversity, Equity Strong
role as a global industry leader. Waste and Inclusion Governance
Protect Give Back to Data Privacy
Natural Resources the Community and Security
5
6
Environmental Policy
Purpose
POOLCORP® strives to implement and administer an environmental policy that prioritizes
legal compliance, pollution prevention and resource conservation. We share an obligation with
our suppliers across all stages of the supply chain to unify our efforts toward continued environmental
integrity. Further, we expect our suppliers to abide by the principles of this policy.
Environmental Sustainability
Our environmental priorities include:
• Sustainable Sourcing:
• Performance Tracking and Reporting:
We are committed to sourcing our products from environmentally-conscious suppliers.
We encourage all companies involved in the lifecycle of our products to adhere to
We report environmental, social and governance advancements in our annual corporate
ISO 14000 environmental standards and all other relevant environmental legislation.
responsibility report. In addition to our annual corporate responsibility reporting, we
utilize internal programs which track progress relating to our environmental objectives.
• Climate Protection:
• Employee Awareness:
As our company continues to expand, POOLCORP® and our suppliers aim to reduce
carbon emissions throughout all phases of the supply chain. We are mitigating greenhouse
We believe that well-defined duties, training and engagement opportunities promote
gas emissions by introducing electric vehicles and equipment, implementing renewable
a culture of environmental distinction.
energy and enhancing energy efficiency.
• Waste Mitigation:
We divert waste through our recycling programs and sensible disposal of hazardous products.
We manage our waste comprehensively and address all locations with an individual plan.
7
Environmental
Improve Energy Efficiency
Energy Efficiency in Our Fleet
and at Our Facilities
In our operations, we are committed to efficiency and minimizing our impact on
the environment through reduction of our natural resource usage and emissions.
Our Fleet Our Facilities
Maximizing the efficiency of our fleet is an important step In 2022, we benchmarked the electricity usage of our North
in reducing our carbon emissions. We actively monitor American facilities, including sales centers, central shipping
metrics such as vehicle utilization, speed, idle time, miles locations and corporate offices. Based on this data, our
per gallon and historical maintenance and use this data to facilities consumed 32.9 million kilowatts (kW) of electricity
make decisions regarding when and where to use a vehicle or an average of 3.3 kW per square foot.1
and when to retire a vehicle.
We are improving energy efficiency at our facilities by reducing
In line with our commitment to improve the efficiency of energy consumption and advancing our use of alternative
our fleet and reduce our impact on the environment, we energy sources. Updating our facilities with LED lighting and
have implemented the following initiatives: occupancy and motion sensors trims energy consumption and
cost. We are also utilizing alternative energy sources such
• We ensure that our delivery routes maximize vehicle
as skylights and solar panels in 139 of our locations. We are
efficiency and minimize emissions.
expanding these improvements to more of our locations, along
• We aim to maintain idling time of 10% or less throughout our with increasing the number of occupancy sensors and motion
fleet. We partner with our delivery vehicle manufacturers sensors in our warehouses.
to factory set an engine shutdown after 10 minutes of idle
1 Usage estimations were incorporated when actual data was not available.
time on new vehicles as well as set parameters on existing
delivery vehicles to this same standard. In 2022, we
Our Fleet 2022 2021
achieved our target idling time of less than 10% across
our fleet, which we expect to maintain going forward.
Gallons of fuel consumed 3.7 million 3.5 million
• We are modernizing our fleet by purchasing alternative fuel
vehicles with an emphasis on electric vehicles. We added
eight electric vehicles to our fleet in 2022 and anticipate
Fleet vehicles 2,106 2,007
adding more in 2023.
8
Environmental
Improve Energy Efficiency ReNew™ vinyl liner
Energy-Efficient and
Environmentally-Friendly Products
We make an impact by promoting and selling energy-efficient
and environmentally-friendly products.
• Energy Star® certified pool and • High-efficiency pool and spa • Battery-operated power
spa pumps meet strict energy heaters heat water using less equipment and propane gas
efficiency criteria and provide up energy, more cost-effectively zero-turn mowers reduce
to 80% energy savings per year. and with lower noise levels. greenhouse gas emissions
and harmful noise.
• Variable speed pumps • ReNew™ vinyl liners contain 51%
require less energy than their recycled content and are made • Solar-powered heating produces
single-speed counterparts. from the first high-performance lower emissions than other
pool vinyl to be certified as a comparable products.
• Eco Select® products save
sustainable product.
energy, conserve water, eliminate
or reduce noise or otherwise • Pool covers prevent heat, water The Energy Star® certification mark,
contribute to a more and chemical loss, allowing EcoSelect® certification mark, and
ReNew™ trademarks are third-party
environmentally-responsible homeowners to conserve
marks unaffiliated with POOLCORP®.
equipment system. energy and water.
• Cartridge filters allow pool • Solar pool heating systems boast
owners to efficiently filter out extremely low annual operating
even the smallest particles costs and typically pay for
without using water to backwash. themselves in a few years.
• Robotic pool cleaners can be • LED and solar landscape lighting
up to 90% more efficient than significantly reduce energy usage.
suction and pressure cleaners.
9
Environmental
Improve Energy Efficiency
Irrigation and Landscape Energy-Efficient
and Environmentally-Friendly Products
Smart Water Products Battery Equipment
For nearly two decades, the irrigation industry has been dedicated to Two-cycle handheld tools and gas-powered mowers have been
developing new technology to reduce the amount of water needed to difficult to displace in lawn care because of the run time and power
maintain the lush beauty of turf and ornamentals. These products required for commercial work. However, recent innovations in battery
include pressure-regulating sprays and nozzles, soil moisture and rain technology have created an opportunity to move the industry to a
sensors and weather-based controllers. Our Horizon® sales centers more environmentally-friendly platform and we have embraced the
have continuously developed initiatives to guide industry professionals change. Our team is advancing the transformation by offering one of
to these new products through in-store signage and literature to the largest selections of battery equipment in the industry, including
explain the benefits of choosing these new generation products and blowers, chainsaws, push and riding mowers and even utility vehicles.
in-app tools to calculate the total savings when updating an Further, we are driving adoption through training, demonstrations,
irrigation system to “smart.” advertising, social media and more.
Soil Health Plant Nutrition
For almost 10 years, our Horizon® business has been promoting the Our private label line of fertilizer gives us the opportunity to create
importance of soil health as a means to reduce the need for chemicals fertilizer blends that we believe are better for the environment.
and fertilizer on the turf. “Stop Treating Your Soil Like Dirt” has been Many of our TurfGro® products include Synergy, a unique additive
our battle cry to encourage our customers to improve the overall that improves the penetration of water on turf to reduce the frequency
microbial makeup of the soil in order to naturally reduce the and volume of water needed to maintain healthy grass. We also
occurrence of weeds, fungus and other pests. Our pioneering tool, encourage the use of slow-release nitrogen to minimize runoff and
“Turf Triage,” walks customers through the stages of soil testing and decrease the number of applications required each season.
uses technology to make product recommendations that result in
healthy, attractive lawns without the use of synthetic fertilizer.
10
Environmental
Reduce Waste
Recycling
Tons of Waste Diverted
2022
by Material Type
Impact
Total tons diverted from landfills 7,857
POOLCORP® participates in a diverted Mixed recyclables 3,773
refuse project to reduce our carbon
Construction/demolition 2,615
footprint and keep recyclable items
out of landfills. In 2022, we diverted
Cardboard 926
7,900 tons of waste materials,
reducing our waste content going to Wood 388
landfills by 17%. We continue exploring
Organics 106
innovative ways to increase recycling to
further reduce our carbon footprint. Trash 49
% diverted 17%
Returnable Packaging
Our returnable container and bulk
Reducing Paper
chemical programs reduce waste. Tons of Packaging Returned 2022 2021
These two programs are having a
Documentation
powerful impact on our waste
Cardboard 2,200 2,100
reduction efforts. In 2022, our bulk
bleach chemical sales prevented Over the years, we have progressed in the conversion of purchase orders
1,800 tons of plastic and 2,200 tons Plastic 1,800 1,700 and invoices from paper to electronic. Our electronic documentation in 2022
of cardboard from entering landfills. and 2021 represented approximately 65% of our document usage.
11
Environmental
Protect Natural Resources
Environmental Health and
Safety Program
We distribute products and transport chemicals across North America,
Europe and Australia. Protecting the environment and our people and
using resources responsibly are our foremost concerns.
All employees have a duty to report any We outline responsibilities in our POOLCORP®
environmentally harmful acts with no threat of Safety Manual and within site-specific evacuation
negative repercussions. We are committed to plans. Our North American sales centers have
complying with applicable regulations pertaining 24/7 access to the POOLCORP® Safety Emergency
to our packaging, labeling, reporting and Line and response management vendors
transportation, and we expect our suppliers to who are available to respond immediately to
meet these same standards. on-site emergencies, including hazmat and
weather-related events. In addition, we also
We extensively train our employees to manage
provide our customers 24/7 emergency support
chemicals appropriately and train them on
through a third-party vendor to assist with any
handling, storage, disposal, on-site response
product-related emergencies.
management and recalls. Our program consists
of regular site inspections to identify deficiencies When we are notified of a chemical recall,
and provide measures for prompt correction if we immediately quarantine the product and
necessary. We also review new processes to discontinue sales. We then coordinate the
identify potential hazards and make changes where product’s disposal from our sales centers through
necessary to ensure that our employees and the the manufacturer or hazardous waste disposal.
environment are protected.
12
Environmental
Protect Natural Resources
Reducing Our Carbon Footprint
Reducing greenhouse gas emissions is critical to protecting our environment
and slowing climate change.
We are committed to addressing the risks of climate
change by taking action to reduce our greenhouse gas Indirect – Purchased and Consumed Electricity
emissions. Our main source of direct greenhouse gas
from Our North American Facilities (in MtCO2e)
emissions comes from our fleet of company vehicles.
2022 14,235
Direct – Carbon Emissions from Our
North American Fleet (in MtCO2e) We estimate that we offset 18,067 MtCO2e of our
emissions in 2022 through our landfill diversion
program and tree planting efforts. In 2022, we donated
2022 35,189
5,000 trees through the National Forest Foundation
in celebration of Earth Day and partnered with
2021 33,410 LightStream™ and American Forests™ to plant a tree
with every LightStream™ loan.
Carbon emissions from our fleet grew 5% from 2021
to 2022 in support of our business growth, which saw
Carbon Emissions Offset (in MtCO2e)
a 17% increase in net sales over the same period. We
more than offset this growth in our emissions with
our carbon emissions offset efforts.
2022 18,067
In 2022, we conducted an electricity usage
benchmarking assessment of our North American
2021 5,600
sales centers, central shipping locations and corporate
offices and calculated our indirect carbon emissions
from this data. Our goal is to have 5% less net direct carbon
emissions in 2025 than in 2021.
13
Environmental
Protect Natural Resources
Conserving Water
Our industry revolves around water, and we are committed to protecting this vital
resource through our product offerings and conserving water at our facilities.
We offer our customers a variety of water conservation We have also implemented practices to monitor and
solutions, as discussed in our earlier product section. minimize water consumption in our business. As
Further, we are a member of the U.S. Environmental disclosed in our 2021 Corporate Responsibility Report,
Protection Agency’s WaterSense program, which offers we conducted an initial water study to understand our
a simple way for consumers to identify water-efficient usage patterns. Based on this data from a sample of
products. WaterSense-labeled products are third-party locations, we used an estimated 36 gallons of water per
certified to use at least 20% less water, save energy day per employee. In 2022, we expanded our assessment
and perform as well as or better than other competing substantially to estimate water usage for our North
models. Our WaterSense-labeled products include American sales centers, central shipping locations
irrigation products sold by Horizon® that reduce a and corporate offices. Based on this data, we used
household’s irrigation water usage. approximately 63.8 million gallons of water, or
32 gallons of water per day for each employee.
We also offer our customers many options of swimming
pool covers, which fight evaporation and conserve We set a goal in 2021 to reduce our employees’ water
water. Physical pool covers, including safety, solar and usage per day by 5% by 2026 from 36 gallons a person.
automatic covers, as well as liquid covers, all prevent
evaporation and help pool owners conserve water and
reduce chemical loss.
In 2022, in celebration of World Water Day, we donated to DIGDEEP, a human rights
nonprofit organization working to close the water gap and bring clean, hot and
cold running water to every American.
14
15
Social
Employee Care and Safety
Employer of Choice
We know our people are critical to our success,
and we strive to be an Employer of Choice
every day.
Our goal is to be an Employer of Choice to our 6,000 employees
through focusing on the engagement, development, retention
and health and safety of our employees. We believe that
our success is a direct result of our employees’
contributions. It’s their initiative and focus
that has helped build POOLCORP® into the
global market leader in outdoor living and
distribution that it is today. To reward
and engage our employees, we provide
competitive pay and benefits, ample
training and continuing education
opportunities, and a safe, supportive
and inclusive environment to grow
their careers.
16
Social
Employee Care and Safety
A Culture of Safety
Our commitment to the safety of our employees ranks at the top
“
of our operating priorities. Our ultimate goal
is to send every
We owe it to our people, their families and our communities to operate safe facilities and a safe fleet.
employee home
We strive for goal zero: zero employee injuries, zero preventable vehicle accidents and zero roadside
each night in the
violations. This effort begins immediately with new employees and is reinforced each day through intense
focus on training, safety awareness, risk identification and other essential safety protocols. same condition in
which they came
We take many steps to help us achieve our goal.
to work that
• We provide the safest workplace environments • We require extensive in-facility, as well as virtual, morning.”
possible, continually working to improve safety in training on safe work practices.
each of our locations. Constant vigilance is key to
• We continue to modernize our fleet with
maintaining a safe work environment.
advanced safety features such as hands-free
• We actively engage with employees and capabilities and back-up cameras.
demonstrate commitment to an injury-free
• We deliver high-quality products along with
workplace.
easily accessible safety data sheets and product
• We maintain strong safety and health policies and manuals.
procedures, including regular audits and
• We ensure employees understand they have the
investigations as needed.
right and the duty to stop unsafe situations
without risk of retaliation.
We celebrate our safety successes.
– Peter D. Arvan,
In 2022, we introduced the annual POOLCORP® Safety Challenge Coin to honor POOLCORP® President and
Chief Executive Officer
the significant contributions of our employees and their commitment to safety.
These coins were awarded to selected employees who embody our safety values
and go above and beyond to promote a safer working environment.
17
Social
Employee Care and Safety
Employee Compensation
and Benefits
Our performance-based compensation philosophy is based on rewarding
each employee’s individual contributions. Our total compensation package
includes cash compensation (base salary and incentive or bonus payments),
company contributions toward additional benefits (such as health and disability
plans), retirement plans with a company match and paid time off. We also
offer the opportunity to become a shareholder through equity grants for
management and through our employee stock purchase plan, which is
available to all employees who work a minimum number of hours per year.
Our employees can take advantage of a range of benefits, including healthcare Appreciating
and wellness programs, tuition reimbursement for eligible employees,
multi-year scholarship opportunities to their dependents, as well as financial
and Rewarding
wellness programs to provide education and tools to assist in improving
Our People
and maintaining our employees’ financial futures.
At POOLCORP®, we
POOLCORP® Reward and Recognition Programs:
believe that recognizing
and celebrating our
• President’s Club annual trip employees’ contributions
to our business is a critical
• Above and Beyond awards part of being an Employer of
Choice. We have
numerous programs
• Milestone achievements for learnings completed at our training facility
that celebrate the
achievements of
• Annual recognition of exceptional sales centers our employees.
• Annual driver recognition program
18
Social
Employee Care and Safety
Health and Wellness
Wellness encompasses a broad array of physical, mental, emotional and financial
dimensions. We offer a vast assortment of wellness resources to help our employees
balance these different aspects of life and stay on top of their game, fully engaged and
prepared to provide world-class service to our customers.
Our Diving Into Wellness program, available to all employees and their families,
promotes a healthy, active lifestyle with a long-term focus on wellbeing.
Some of the benefits of the program include:
• free annual health screenings that benchmark and track changes in metrics such as
weight, blood pressure and cholesterol;
• online training sessions focusing on physical and mental wellness;
• physical and mental wellness challenge activities that also provide employees with
opportunities to connect with others;
• access for all employees and their families to LifeWorks, an online program providing
tools on hundreds of topics including physical and emotional health, personal finance,
people management, addiction and recovery, legal support, retirement guidance,
workplace engagement and parenting;
• a wellness discount program, offering employee discounts on wellness-related
products and services such as fitness centers and nutrition counseling; and
• a healthy recipe forum on our Diving Into Wellness website.
Our comprehensive wellness approach also includes:
• tobacco cessation support;
• financial planning classes and assistance; and
• remote healthcare provider access through Teladoc.
19
Social
Employee Care and Safety
Employee Development
Our success directly depends on our ability to attract,
develop and retain a talented team. 6,000
To do this, we invest heavily in bolstering our employees’ skills, knowledge and employees worldwide
capabilities to ensure that we have the best workforce in our industry.
We provide all of our employees with continuous learning and development
opportunities that cover a wide range of topics from safety and security protocols,
product knowledge, technology skills, leadership techniques and more. In 2022
alone, our employees took part in approximately 88,000 hours of training and
development classes online, in-person at our EDGEucation training center, at
regional and divisional meetings and as a core part of our annual International
Sales Conference.
One of our cornerstone development efforts is our Management In Training (MIT)
88,000
program. This intensive development program prepares participants for significant
roles in outside sales and operations management. We offer these opportunities to training hours
external candidates entering the workforce or to existing employees who want to
continue advancing their careers. The program includes hands-on projects, detailed
role-play scenarios, customer interactions and classroom sessions facilitated by
industry experts to provide participants with the knowledge, tools and leadership
skills necessary to take on additional responsibilities in our organization.
We connect the importance of learning and development with concrete outcomes
through our annual performance management process for all employees. This
robust online process provides ongoing feedback to our employees regarding their
objectives (what they are working on) and their competencies (how they are getting
the work done). Our dynamic focus on development and performance has a strong
13%
impact on our organization, resulting in the promotion of over 13% of our workforce
in 2022.
workforce promoted
20
Social
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Our Approach to Diversity, Equity
and Inclusion (DEI)
“
It is up to each
We are committed to fostering a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace that represents
of us to treat
the communities in which we work and live. We believe that diversity drives innovation and
others fairly and
delivers the best solutions to complex problems, and our culture is one where differences
to strive for
are welcomed, valued and respected.
equality. We
Our approach to DEI is focused on expanding the diversity of our workforce through the hiring,
are all in this
retention and advancement of underrepresented populations through the following approach:
together.”
• Diversity: Recruit, develop and retain a diverse workforce and provide developmental
opportunities for career advancement for all employees;
• Equity: Maintain policies, practices and procedures that promote equal employment
opportunity for all prospective candidates and employees; and
• Inclusion: Provide action-oriented programs that produce results and employee engagement.
Equal Opportunity
We base employment decisions on merit, considering qualifications, skills and achievements.
We are committed to equal opportunity and do not tolerate discrimination or harassment on
the basis of sex, race, color, ethnicity, age, religion, sexual orientation, disability or any
status protected by applicable law.
Responsible Labor Practices
Across our operations and through our supply chain, our expectations of ethical practices In 2022, – Luther A. Willems,
regarding labor conditions remain as stringent as ever. We are committed to operating in full POOLCORP® Vice President
we expanded our efforts through collaboration and Chief Human Resources
compliance with wage, work hours, overtime and benefits laws. Our commitment to sound
with diversity-focused recruiting partners such Officer
labor practices exceeds minimum standards as we strive to create an environment where
as Diversity Jobs, Women in Trucking and
the best people want to work.
Recruit Military.
21
Social
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Equity and Inclusivity
Women at
in Action
POOLCORP®
While hiring a diverse workforce is a key first step, it is not enough. It is critical
that each of our employees can participate fully and equally in our business,
lending their unique voices to our long-term success.
DEI Mentoring Program
In 2022, we launched our DEI mentoring program to provide connection and Women represent
growth opportunities for our diverse employees. The program kicked off in 40% of our executive
person at our annual sales conference, followed by a virtual onboarding session leadership team
to provide details, tools and resources to participants. Mentors and mentees
meet monthly and regularly receive materials to support a rich, meaningful
dialogue about career goals and growth, while group feedback through sharing
sessions and surveys shapes the evolution of the program to better serve
participants.
Women’s Interactive Network (WIN)
We launched our Women’s Interactive Network (WIN) in 2022 to offer a
unique networking experience to women at POOLCORP® including leadership
development, mentorship and other interactive opportunities. Our kickoff event
In 2022, women as a
gathered hundreds of women to focus on career planning and development and
percentage of total
the power of goal setting. Other events included a guest speaker who shared
promotions increased
her personal career journey, an interactive panel discussion with our senior
300 basis points and
female leadership and an informative session on the power of mentoring and
130 basis points as
building relationships inside and outside of our organization. This network also
a percentage of
hosts an in-person event at our annual sales conference. As we look ahead, our
total hires.
goal is to cultivate a stronger leadership network and offer career development
opportunities to the women at POOLCORP® and in the outdoor living and
distribution industries.
22
Social
Give Back to the Community
Making a
Difference
POOLCORP® employees
actively volunteer in
a multitude of efforts
that positively impact
our communities.
Whether it is an event to
support a local or global charity
or assisting in the refurbishment
of community swimming pools,
our employees make our local
communities better places
to live, work and play. Our
company’s matching donation
program amplifies the impact
made by our employees and
instills a sense of teamwork in
all that we do.
The logos pictured are third-party trademarks
unaffiliated with POOLCORP®.
23
Social
Give Back to the Community
Disaster Relief
It is paramount that we rally around each other
and provide support in times of crisis.
We have a long history of supplying humanitarian relief to our
communities following natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes
and fires. We know that unexpected events can create extreme hardship
for our employees, impacting the physical, emotional and financial
wellness of our employees and their families.
To help our employees when disaster strikes, we offer the POOLCORP®
Employees 1st program. This program provides cash grants to
employees in the U.S., Mexico and Canada who meet the program
criteria. Employees, vendors and others may also make donations
to help POOLCORP® employees facing extreme hardship. We also stock
supplies such as generators, water and fuel cans locally to provide to
our employees in their time of need.
24
Social
Give Back to the Community
“
Teaching
Everyone Should Know
children to swim
is our number
How to Swim
one outreach as
a company. We
We believe everyone should know how to swim, and we have partnered
are committed
with the YMCA to serve those children who otherwise would not have the
to making a
chance to learn water safety skills or take swimming lessons. For children,
difference in the
learning to swim also instills confidence and paves the way for a brighter,
communities
healthier future.
where we live
From the inception of our program in 2021 through the opening of the
and work.”
swim season in 2023, we have donated more than $3 million to 21 YMCAs
throughout the country, funding swim lessons for more than 30,000 children
and training 2,000 lifeguards. In 2022, we were honored to receive the C.
Allen Favrot Humanitarian of the Year Award from the YMCA of Greater New
Orleans. We are thankful to our partners at the Y for helping us to build
stronger, healthier communities.
We are excited about the future of this program and
empowering the next generation of swimmers!
– Jennifer M. Neil,
POOLCORP® Vice President,
Over $3 million 30,000 2,000 2022 C. Allen Favrot
Secretary and Chief Legal Officer
donated to children received lifeguards Humanitarian of
21 YMCAs swim lessons trained the Year Award
25
26
Governance
Ethics and Compliance
“
Our culture is defined
by a longstanding
Ethics and Compliance
history of working
collaboratively with
We are proud of our culture of ethics and compliance, our suppliers.
which shapes our conduct and guides decisions at all Together, we hope
to drive the growth
levels in our organization.
of our industry
We believe that ethical decision making not only complies with laws and through responsible
regulations but also builds trust and strengthens connections with our operations and
employees, supply chain partners, customers and communities.
expanded offerings
The POOLCORP® Code of Business Conduct and Ethics reflects our deep of environmentally-
commitment to ethical behavior across the organization. To maintain friendly and
awareness and ensure a robust culture focused on integrity, we require our energy-efficient
employees to complete ethics and compliance training annually. We also
products.”
encourage our employees to direct questions or report concerns or violations
to their supervisor, any member of our senior management team, our human
resources department or our legal department. Further, employees may report
concerns regarding unethical behavior or a possible violation of our Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics anonymously through an independent third-party
provider that offers 24/7 access via a toll-free hotline or online. These reports
are reviewed by our human resources and legal teams and disclosed quarterly
to our Board’s Audit Committee.
Supplier Code of Conduct
Our suppliers play an important role in our operations. As such, we expect our
supply chain partners to share our values and commitment to ethics, safety
and health and environmental stewardship. Importantly, we also expect our
suppliers to uphold the human rights of workers, to treat them with dignity
and respect, and to conduct responsible business with integrity, honesty and
transparency. To learn more about these requirements and our compliance
– Ike Mihaly,
POOLCORP® Vice President,
monitoring activities, please read our Supplier Code of Conduct.
Operations and Supply Chain
27
Governance
Ethics and Compliance
Political Involvement
Public policy issues have the potential to impact our business, employees and the
communities in which we operate. Our policies prohibit all employees from using
company funds or assets as political contributions to any political party or committee
in or outside of the United States or to any candidate for, or holder of, any office in
any national, state or local government, including purchases of tickets to fundraising
activities.
International Guidelines
Given our international presence, we are governed by various global and country-
specific laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and UK
Anti-Bribery Act. We conduct annual trainings to prepare our employees to comply
with these laws and ethically represent our business.
Human Rights
Our Human Rights Policy captures our belief that being a responsible corporate
citizen includes treating all human beings with fairness and dignity. We are
committed to guarding human rights in our operations and our supply chain.
28
Governance
Strong Governance
Strong Governance System Governance Highlights
We have an engaged and diverse board of directors • Our Board is led by an independent member • Four of our nine directors are diverse and
serving as chair. five of our directors have been added to our
committed to strong corporate governance practices
Board since 2018.
• All of our committees are comprised solely
that establish an environment of accountability for
of independent directors. • The Nominating and Corporate Governance
both our Board and our management team, promote
Committee annually evaluates the
• Our executive pay is predominantly
the long-term interests of our stockholders and build effectiveness of the Board and each of
performance-based, and all of our variable
public trust in our company. its committees.
compensation plans have caps.
• Our Board and committees meet regularly
Our Board provides governance and oversight of the strategy and operations • We maintain stock ownership guidelines
in executive session without management
of our company and oversees our senior management team, who manage for our senior executives and directors.
present.
the day-to-day operations of our business. Our Board is also responsible for
• We maintain anti-hedging and
oversight of our risk management programs, ensuring that an appropriate
anti-pledging policies.
culture of risk management exists within the company, and assisting
management in addressing specific risks, such as strategic, financial,
regulatory, cybersecurity, compensation and operational risks.
Our Board includes four standing committees that concentrate more fully
Director Dashboard (as of May 15, 2023)
on specific oversight responsibilities: Audit, Compensation, Nominating and
Corporate Governance and Strategic Planning. Each of these committees
is comprised solely of independent members, and each operates under a Director Independence Board Diversity Tenure Balance
written charter, which is posted on our website.
1
Our directors are a balanced and diverse group, with members who bring a 2 2
variety of skills, experience, perspectives and backgrounds, including with Avg
regard to gender, age and ethnicity. 10
78% 44%
5 5
3
Shareholder Engagement years
2
Our board and management place a high priority on engaging with our 7
shareholders, and we believe that transparency is key to maintaining trust
and driving long-term success. In addition to our regular communications,
in 2022 we also completed an investor perception study to better Independent Not Independent H -Ais mp ea rn ii cc a/ nCuban Women C Ma eu nc asian <5 years 5-10 years >10 years
understand what matters most to our shareholders.
29
Governance
Strong Governance
“
We are proud of
our board and
management’s
ESG Oversight
steadfast dedication to
safeguarding the health
We work collaboratively with customers,
and safety of every
employees, suppliers and other stakeholders employee, making a
to promote environmentally-sustainable and positive impact on
the outdoor living
socially-responsible business practices.
industry and improving
Our Board is responsible for the oversight of our ESG programs and the many communities
goals, including monitoring our strategies, initiatives, policies and
where our employees,
reporting standards and disclosures.
customers and
We have also formed an ESG Oversight Committee that assists suppliers live and
the Board and our executive leadership team in advancing our ESG operate.”
efforts. Our ESG Oversight Committee is a cross-functional team
with representatives from operations, legal, human resources,
marketing, investor relations and finance who work together to
develop and implement our short- and long-term ESG programs
and initiatives, monitor our progress and provide regular
updates to our Board.
– Melanie M. Hart,
POOLCORP® Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
30
Governance
Data Privacy and Security
Ensuring Data Remains Secure
We require minimum
personal identifiable
We are committed to ensuring that our company, customer,
information (PII) for
consumer and employee data are secure. business functions.
Our chief information officer (CIO), along with a supporting team of dedicated
internal resources and third-party experts, is responsible for our data security. Our
director of information security, reporting to our CIO, oversees security operations,
our regulatory compliance and our rigorous employee training program with
company-wide certifications required quarterly.
We evaluate our network against the National Institute of Standards and Technology
Employees participate in
(NIST) Center for Information Security (CIS) framework. Our Board considers data
a rigorous cybersecurity
security to be of the utmost importance. As such, management provides a full
report to the Board at least twice a year. training program requiring
quarterly company-wide
We deliberately store the minimum personal identifiable information (PII) required
for business functions. All data are encrypted both in place and in motion. We certifications.
conduct routine adversarial cybersecurity engagements to test readiness and
protection of data. We leverage an independent consulting firm for our managed
detection and response program, including security incident event management
(SIEM) and multiple levels of both internal and external security operations centers
(SOC).
In the event of a security issue, we employ an incident response plan to quickly
We routinely perform
triage, contain and understand, and eliminate the threat. This plan also includes
adversarial cybersecurity
working with our information security partners to help our team rapidly respond to
new and emerging threats, and steps to help our vendors and customers if they are engagements to test
under attack. Our plan is tested as part of our adversarial red team engagements readiness and protect data.
and updated routinely with lessons learned.
31
Governance
Data Privacy and Security
Maintaining Clear Policies
on Privacy Compliance
We are committed to protecting our customers’ and consumers’ right to privacy. Our
published Privacy Policy both protects the rights to privacy and provides transparency on
our approach to data. Further, we comply with the European Union's General Data Protection
Regulation (GDPR) and with the California Consumer Privacy Act.
We do not store credit card information, and we monitor for any attempt to move this
data in or out of the organization. We have also invested in additional auditing to ensure
compliance and governance in deleting unused data. We are audited annually by a Qualified
Security Assessor to verify our compliance with the Payment Card Industries Data
Security Standard.
Key Points in our Privacy Policy:
• Personal information will not be sold or transferred to unaffiliated third parties.
• We retain personal information only for the length of time required for the specific
purpose or purposes for which it was collected.
• Customers and consumers can unsubscribe from marketing communications
at any time and can request that we delete their information.
• We have a dedicated data privacy team whose mission is to assess and monitor
the environment ensuring compliance with our data privacy policies. This team
performs audits and ensures that we safeguard the information entrusted to us.
• Monitoring is in place to prevent unauthorized access, use and disclosure of
personally identifiable information.
• Customers and consumers can submit a data rights request to exercise
their data rights.
32
FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS
This report includes “forward-looking” statements regarding the future made pursuant
to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995,
including statements about our expectations, projections and assumptions concerning
our environmental, social and governance program, commitments and goals and
business outlook, priorities, expectations and intentions. Such statements involve risks
and uncertainties and we can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct. Actual
results may differ materially due to a variety of factors, including those discussed in
this report and in our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC), as may be updated by our subsequent filings with the SEC.
Our forward-looking statements, and all other information included in this report, speak
only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update any of these
statements or information.
While certain matters discussed in this report may be significant and relevant to our
investors, you should not assume that these matters are material to our business or
rise to the level of materiality for purposes of complying with the U.S. federal securities
laws or the disclosure requirements of the SEC. The goals and projects described in
this report are aspirational, and are likely to change if our business strategies change.
As such, no guarantees or promises are made that these goals and projects will be met
or successfully executed and they are not intended to create legal rights or obligations.
Unless otherwise indicated, information contained in this report concerning our views
and expectations regarding the industries in which we operate are based on estimates
made by us using data from industry sources and assumptions based on our industry
knowledge and experience. We have not independently verified data from industry or
other third-party sources and cannot guarantee its accuracy or completeness. The ESG
data, statistics and metrics included in this report are neither audited nor prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and it is possible that other
2022
companies calculate or disclose their data in a manner different from us.
© 2023 POOLCORP® | All rights reserved. poolcorp.com
