Visit ppg.com/sustainability
ESG Report
2023
ESG Report
2023
Products
Products overview 19
Communities
Sustainably advantaged products 20
Community engagement 92
Research partnerships 24
Sustainability Product stewardship 26
People
To our stakeholders 04
People overview 60
About PPG 07
Diversity, equity and inclusion 62
How we create value 08
Engagement 70
Recognition and awards 09
Learning and leadership development 73
Priority issues 10
Safety and health 76 Transparency
Stakeholder engagement overview 12 Environment
Wellness 81
2023 progress summary 13 Governance overview 102
Environment overview 31
Cybersecurity and data privacy 105
Energy and emissions 32
About this report 107
Climate-related risks and opportunities 46
Data index 108
Water 48
Previous reports 111
Waste 52
Annual Report and Form 10-K 111
Transportation 57
Forward-looking statements 112
Suppliers
Financial
Suppliers overview 85
Financial overview 16 Human rights 86
Strategic milestones 17 Supplier sustainability 87
Responsible minerals sourcing 90
PPG ESG Report 2023 02
Sustainability
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
To our valued stakeholders, Sustainability and productivity remain critical
components to our growth. More than ever, various
2023 marked a year of continued progress, as we remain stakeholders are looking to companies like PPG to
laser focused on positioning PPG for growth. Our more take a leadership position in sustainability — providing
than 50,000 PPG people throughout the world made it products and solutions that enhance productivity and
happen for our customers every day, delivered record drive sustainability throughout the value chain. Delivering
sales and earnings, and drove $150 million of incremental these innovations is a core pillar that will enable a
sales in the first year of our enterprise growth strategy. stronger, growth-focused PPG moving forward.
Helping our customers meet their sustainability goals
provides an enormous opportunity, and we are uniquely
positioned to be their partner of choice. More than While we innovate sustainably advantaged products
44% of our sales came from sustainably advantaged and processes for our customers, we also recognize the
products in 2023, and we anticipate customer demand need to drive environmental excellence in our operations
for sustainable choices to continue to increase. For and through our supply chain. In 2023, we became
example, our Architectural Coatings business in Europe the first U.S.-based coatings manufacturer to receive
identified a significant opportunity to meet market validation from the Science Based Targets initiative
demand for products with sustainability benefits. (SBTi) for our 2030 scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse
gas emissions reduction targets. We recognize this
We introduced low fossil carbon paints in the PPG brands commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions
SEIGNEURIE™ PANTEX™ and GUITTET™ ODYSSÉE™, across the value chain will take great collaboration
providing mass market access to these bio-based paints with our suppliers and with our customers and we
without compromising on affordability or performance. have started that work. As part of these targets, PPG
These competitively positioned products have been also announced broader 2030 sustainability goals,
widely embraced by trade professionals and consumers. which focus on driving sales of sustainably advantaged
This is just one example within this report of how PPG is products while reducing environmental impacts and
leveraging sustainability as a competitive advantage. improving social impacts for our stakeholders.
PPG ESG Report 2023 04
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Our approach to sustainability also includes investing
in communities where we live and work. In 2023, PPG
and the PPG Foundation donated more than $17.5 million
to support educational programming and community
sustainability around the world. We work with more than
450 nonprofit and community organizations, across
nearly 40 countries. In a particularly exciting milestone,
we completed our 500th COLORFUL COMMUNITIES®
project since the program’s inception in 2015, bringing
color and brightness to public spaces around the world.
None of this would have been possible without PPG
people who deliver on our purpose every day: We
protect and beautify the world®. We’re committed to
maintaining our inclusive and equitable culture and
ensuring that each of our employees have the right
resources and development opportunities to contribute
to our success in a meaningful way.
The progress described in this report is a direct reflection
of our teams’ commitment to environmental stewardship,
product innovation and continuous improvement of
our business practices. Thank you for your continued
collaboration, partnership and interest in PPG.
Tim Knavish
PPG chairman and chief executive officer
PPG ESG Report 2023 05
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
To our valued stakeholders, Through transparent disclosure, we evaluate our In addition to environmental progress, we remain
performance and set the stage for continuous proud of our evolution in social and governance areas,
Focusing on sustainability in its broadest sense is core improvement. Over the last year, we renewed our including continued progress on our signature Colorful
to PPG’s purpose - We protect and beautify the world®. commitment to sustainability by setting new 2030 Communities program and further integration of
From supporting social wellbeing, to contributing to goals, including greenhouse gas emissions reduction sustainability into global grantmaking. In addition, our
the circular economy, and developing products and targets that have been validated by the Science Based commitment to driving a diverse, equitable and inclusive
processes that help mitigate climate change and solve Targets initiative (SBTi). This year’s report continues our culture at PPG is unwavering because we know that
our customers’ biggest challenges, PPG’s sustainability ongoing journey of accountability toward these goals, diverse teams perform better.
commitments contribute to the positive impact we and I am pleased by the progress we have been able to
achieve through our purpose, and ultimately support the show in the pages that follow. We have a long history of enabling the success of our
long-term growth of our organization. customers, delivering industry-leading innovations,
Our 2030 goals push us into new areas and seek to acting ethically and responsibly, and mitigating the
demonstrate our global leadership. Recognizing the environmental impacts of our operations. We believe the
importance of collaborating with partners to reduce inputs to this year’s report continue that strong history.
environmental impacts beyond our operations, our
2030 goals include our first scope 3 emissions Thank you for your continued collaboration and interest
reduction target. This science-based target aligns to the in our progress, and for reading our 2023 ESG Report.
expectations of the Paris Agreement and commits us
to the difficult but important task of reducing emissions Diane Kappas
across our value chain. Our aim is to reduce greenhouse PPG vice president, global sustainability
gas emissions related to the extraction and production
of input materials, and the application, use and end-
of-life treatment of PPG products. To this end, we are
collaborating with suppliers and customers to reduce
their emissions, and we are developing new product and
service innovations that meet our customers’ emissions
reduction ambitions.
PPG ESG Report 2023 06
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
We Protect and Beautify the World®.
At PPG, our vision is to be the first-choice partner to
meet our customers’ evolving needs for innovative
paints, coatings and specialty materials. Our global team
of more than 50,000 innovators, achievers and partners
are united by the single belief that our paints, coatings
and specialty materials enrich lives. Together, we protect
and beautify the world. Learn more at PPG.com.
PPG ESG Report 2023 07
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Our purpose Our focus and our targets Our sustainability impact
Value Creation 2-4% 8-12% ~$1B
We Protect and W ane
d
d re el wiv ae rr
d
f i on ua rn sc hia al
r
r ee hs ou ldlts
e rs.
a san ln eu sa gl ro or wga thnic a E thn P rn S ou
u
ga grl ho a w 2d t 0j hu 2s 6ted f fr loe we c pa es r h y ear S gou s tota mina ab rkil eit ty
,
ais
n
i dn t ce og rr ea l
t
oto
t
hh eo w
va
w lue
e
i n wn eo pv ra ote vi,
d
o ep te or a ot ue
r
and
Beautify the World customers and communities.
Customers 50%
PPG is a global team of approximately We develop industry-leading of sales from sustainably advantaged Mitigating climate change
50,000 innovators, achievers and partners sustainable solutions for products by 2030
We develop products and processes that reduce
high-impact opportunities.
united by the single belief that our paints, waste, water use, emissions and energy consumption
coatings and specialty materials enrich lives. for our customers and our own operations. We
Environment 50% 30% 100% process
Together, we protect and beautify the world. reduction in reduction waste sent to collaborate throughout our supply chain to reduce
We reduce PPG’s and our
scope 1 and 2 in scope 3 reuse, recycle, GHG emissions and invest in renewable energy
customers’ operational impact
Our Vision through innovation and partnership, GHG emissions GHG emissions and recovery sources that help mitigate climate change.
developing solutions that help 15% 5% 25%
preserve natural resources. reduction in annual reduction in
Our vision is to be the first-choice partner to water intensity improvement waste intensity Contributing to the circular economy
meet customers’ evolving needs for innovative 2030 targets with 2019 baseline in water scarce in spill and Our paints and coatings help assets last longer,
communities release rate
paints, coatings and surface solutions. reducing the cost and natural resources needed to
Our People 100% 50% replace them. We continuously improve our processes
The PPG Way We believe fostering a safe, ethical, of employees go employee participation in DE&I and incorporate recycled materials in our products
inclusive and fulfilling work culture home safely each day capacity-building by 2025 and packaging to reduce their end of life impacts.
is essential for our business, guided 34-36% 45-55%
by aspirational targets.
We partner with customers representation of increased headcount of Supporting social well-being
to create mutual value non-frontline, global non-frontline, U.S.-based We sustain our people and surrounding communities,
female professionals Black, Latino and Asian
supporting over 50,000 jobs across 70 countries and
by 2025 professionals by 2025
We are “One PPG” to the world working with over 17,000 suppliers. We create diverse
Suppliers workplaces and an inclusive culture, and work to
100%
We trust our people We foster partnerships across the of key suppliers assessed to sustainability and social ensure our employees return home safely every day.
supply chain to monitor and help
every day, in every way responsibility criteria by 2030
improve social and environmental
outcomes. Promoting vibrant communities
We make it happen We create vibrant communities where we live and
Communities $15MM $20MM
work through our products, employee volunteerism
We empower our employees with the in Colorful by 2025 to advance
We run it like we own it resources to strengthen connections Communities racial equity in the U.S. and charitable giving. We promote responsible
to the communities we call home. funding by 2030 business practices at PPG and in our supply chain,
and deliver substantial returns and annual dividends
We do better today than for our shareholders.
yesterday - everyday All supported by strong corporate governance
PPG ESG Report 2023 08
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
We do better today than yesterday, every day. Employer awards Product and process awards
2023 Gallup Exceptional Workplace Award for 2023 R&D® 100 award for PPG Polyurea Gelcoat, finalist
In recognition of our leadership in environmental, employee engagement for PPG PITT-THERM™ 909 spray-on insulation coating
social and governance practices, we receive recognition
100% on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s GLIDDEN MAX FLEX™ exterior fabric spray paint by PPG
from a variety of external organizations each year. 2023 Corporate Equality Index named a winner in Good Housekeeping’s 2023 Home
We believe in showcasing these acknowledgments Newsweek Magazine awards: Renovations Awards
of our efforts and will continue to enhance our approach
- America’s Most Responsible Companies 2024 2023 Awards for Excellence from the Ohio Chemistry
as expectations from our stakeholders evolve. - America’s Greatest Workplaces 2023 Technology Council (OCTC) awarded to five PPG
- America’s Greatest Workplaces for Women 2023 projects for environment, health and safety excellence
PPG company rankings - America’s Greatest Workplaces for Diversity 2024 GLIDDEN® floor paint and concrete stain product line
No. 2 in the Chemicals Industry on the 2024 FORTUNE® Best Place to Work for Disability Inclusion by the featuring COOL SURFACE TECHNOLOGY™ formulation
World’s Most Admired companies list, our 16th DISABILITY EQUALITY INDEX® was named a 2023 Innovation Award winner – second
consecutive year on the list 2023 Forbes America’s Best Employers runner up at The Home Depot’s 2023 Innovation Awards
No. 232 on the Fortune 500 Forbes America’s Best Employers for Veterans
No. 81 on IndustryWeek’s U.S. 500 Best Places to Work in IT 2024 by Foundry’s
No. 307 on Newsweek Magazine’s America’s Computerworld
Most Responsible Companies
No. 14 in the chemicals category on JUST ESG recognition
Capital’s list of America’s Most JUST Companies EcoVadis gold rating 2023
No. 633 on the FORBES® Global 2000
Public Company Board of the Year by the National
No. 1 on Coatings World’s Top 100 Companies List Association of Corporate Directors (NACD) Three Rivers
Chapter
ESG ratings and rankings FTSE4Good Index Series for fifth consecutive year
AA rating from MSCI ESG, and recognized as a leader in Corporate Knights Clean 200 2024
the specialty chemicals industry No. 43 on Barron’s 100 Most Sustainable Companies
90% rating on the CPA Zicklin Index of Corporate Corporate Social Responsibility and Young Leader of the
Political Disclosure and Accountability, recognized Year from the British Coatings Federation Awards 2023
as a “Trendsetter” Home Depot 2023 Innovation award: Supplier Diversity
Tier II Partner of the Year
PPG ESG Report 2023 09
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
We focus our efforts on what matters most to our ESG issue (in no particular order)
business and stakeholders.
Addressing chemical-related social and environmental impacts, real and perceived
Our priority issues
Upholding human rights in PPG’s supply chain
Our formal prioritization assessment identifies the
Fostering a diverse, equitable and inclusive workforce
ESG risks, opportunities and impacts that are essential
considerations for developing and executing PPG’s Managing interactions with water as a shared resource
strategy and reporting.
Ensuring safe work environments and promoting employee wellbeing
Our most recent assessment was completed in
Maintaining positive community relationships
2022. The assessment prioritized issues based on
their capacity to impact people, the economy, the Decarbonizing PPG operations, supply chain and customer emissions
environment (stakeholder impact) or their capacity to
Using circular economy principles to reduce impacts from materials and waste
create or erode enterprise value (financial impact). Some
ESG issues have been prioritized based solely on their
Providing ESG training and career progression pathways for our people
stakeholder or financial impacts, while other issues are
included because of their impact on both stakeholders Effectively prioritizing and deploying technological improvements
and PPG. Throughout 2024, we are working to update
Attracting and retaining talent in a post-COVID world
our assessment in line with current best practice,
including implementation guidance for the materiality Building climate change resilience in physical assets
assessment published by EFRAG.
Understanding and communicating the financial importance of ESG to PPG and how PPG contributes to economic,
social and environmental outcomes
Our ESG approach focuses on managing the stakeholder
impacts and financial effects related to these ESG
issues. Each issue is addressed through comprehensive
policies, action plans and risk management procedures.
We also used the issues identified by this assessment
as inputs when developing our 2030 goals.
PPG ESG Report 2023 10
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Prioritization assessment process Evaluating and prioritizing impacts In addition to focusing on the priority topics identified
by this exercise, PPG works to continuously improve
We identified our impacts based on a range of sources, We assessed PPG’s sustainability-related risks, our corporate governance and compliance program.
including: opportunities and impacts using the dual lenses of This includes addressing important issues, including
- Analysis of global megatrends impacting PPG impacts on stakeholders and risks and opportunities for corporate governance and ethics, data privacy, and
- Interviews with PPG executives and external the company’s financial position. This approach ensures regulatory compliance and maintaining a productive
stakeholders, including industry representatives our strategy and reporting meets the expectations relationship with our workforce and labor unions.
- Formal and informal feedback received from of investors interested in the long-term success of Learn more in the governance section.
customers and employees our business, customers’ evolving needs, as well as
- Strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats the expectations of stakeholders interested in our
(SWOT) analyses of PPG’s current position contribution to sustainable development objectives. Our
- Review of internal strategy papers, policies and public prioritization assessment reflects guidance from global
disclosures ESG standard setting organizations, including the Global
- ESG reporting frameworks and standards, including Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Sustainability Accounting
surveys shared by external ratings organizations Standards Board (SASB).
- Media coverage of PPG and the broader paints and
coatings industry Based on our research and a series of internal and
external interviews, we developed a shortlist of issues
Engagement with each of PPG’s stakeholder categories that are most likely to be impactful for PPG and its
is an important part of our strategy, and helps ensure stakeholders. The list of issues was refined at a workshop
we’re prioritizing the right issues. See the stakeholder with PPG’s senior leadership where each issue’s relative
engagement section for information on the variety of impact was considered. Issues were deemed to be
ways that we engage throughout our value chain. a priority based on a combination of desk research,
perceptions of key stakeholders, peer review and
discussion with PPG’s senior leadership. The results of
this assessment were then disseminated to everyone
that had participated in the process, including the Board
of Directors, PPG’s sustainability committee and interview
participants, including functional and business leaders.
PPG ESG Report 2023 11
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
We actively engage with internal and external Each of our locations, businesses and functions are
stakeholders to understand the most important issues expected to engage its stakeholders effectively and on
impacting our company, industry and the communities an ongoing basis. While our approach to stakeholder
where we operate. Maintaining a regular and transparent engagement varies, activities are tailored to establish
dialogue with our stakeholders helps us better integrate and maintain productive relationships with our
stakeholder priorities into our strategy. stakeholders. Typical engagement activities include
proactive ESG investor outreach, attending forums,
PPG recognizes that embedding stakeholder interests industry gatherings, trade shows, and hosting open
in our strategy and business model is essential to how house and community events. To amplify our reach,
we create value. Our proactive engagement strategy we also attend online events, share updates on social
shapes the way we assess priority ESG impacts, risks media, and engage in various marketing activities, as
and opportunities and enables us to focus on programs examples. We maintain open lines of communication for
and initiatives that deliver positive impacts across PPG’s our stakeholders to contact us through various means,
stakeholder groups. such as PPG.com, over the phone and through our
various social media accounts.
We consider any individual or entity who can affect or be
affected by our actions, objectives and policies to be a Learn more about our key stakeholder engagement
PPG stakeholder. Key stakeholder groups include: activities and key topics raised in 2023 in the
stakeholder engagement table.
- Employees
- Customers
- Suppliers
- Investors and analysts
- Government
- Philanthropies, nonprofits and nongovernmental
institutions
- Residents of communities where PPG operates
PPG ESG Report 2023 12
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
In early 2023, we publicly announced PPG’s 2030 sustainability targets, a set of ambitious goals that build on our previously reported sustainability progress and align with our corporate
growth strategy. These goals focus our efforts on areas that have the most important impacts on our business and stakeholders, and have been informed by global collaborations such
as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi).
Topic Target 2023 progress
(all goals are by 2030 with a 2019 baseline, unless otherwise noted)
Sustainably advantaged products 50% of sales from sustainably advantaged products 44% of sales from sustainably advantaged products
Waste 25% reduction in waste intensity 7% increase in waste intensity
Drive to 100% process waste to reuse, recycle and recovery 45% of process waste sent to reuse, recycle and recovery
5% annual improvement in spills and release rate at our facilities 21% increase in spills and release rate
Water 15% reduction in water intensity at priority sites in water 13% reduction in water intensity at priority sites
stressed communities
Energy and GHG emissions 50% reduction in GHG emissions from our own operations 10% reduction in scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions
(scope 1 and 2 emissions), validated by SBTi and aligned with
the emissions reductions required for a 1.5 degrees C future
30% reduction in GHG emissions in our value chain (scope 3 12% reduction in scope 3 GHG emissions, reflective of reporting
emissions), validated by SBTi and aligned with the emissions categories 1, 10 and 12
reductions required for a well below 2 degrees C future
Supplier sustainability 100% of key suppliers are assessed to sustainability and 97% of key suppliers assessed to sustainability and social
social responsibility criteria responsibility criteria
PPG ESG Report 2023 13
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Topic Target 2023 progress
(all goals are by 2030 with a 2019 baseline, unless otherwise noted)
Diversity, equity and inclusion 34-36% representation of non-frontline, global female 32% representation of non-frontline, global female professionals
professionals by 2025
45-55% increase in headcount of Black, Latino and Asian 42% increase in non-frontline headcount for U.S. Black professionals
professionals across non-frontline, U.S.-based employee 44% increase in non-frontline headcount for U.S. Latino professionals
population by 2025 26% increase in non-frontline headcount for U.S. Asian professionals
50% global employee resource network and DE&I 42% global employee resource network and DE&I
capability-building participation by 2025 capability-building participation
Communities Invest $20 million by 2025 to advance racial equity in the $18.1 million donated by end of 2023, 89% of committed funding
U.S. by funding educational pathways for Black communities
and people of color
$5 million additional commitment to Colorful Communities $13.8 million invested through the Colorful Communities initiative
projects globally, with all projects incorporating an element
of sustainability, increasing the total investment to $15 million
since 2015
Safety and health 100% of employees go home safely each day. On our way, 0% annual improvement in injury and illness rate
drive at least 5% annual improvement in injury and illness rate
PPG ESG Report 2023 14
Financial
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
We have been creating value for our customers, 2023 was a record financial year for PPG. Higher selling
employees and shareholders for more than 140 years. prices, moderating input costs, structural cost savings and
favorable foreign-currency translation all contributed to
$18.2
significant improvements. Highlights from the year include:
billion - record net sales
- record operating cash flow
- record adjusted EPS, increasing 27% since
reported net sales
the previous year
$7.67
As we reached these milestones, we have continued
our long history of rewarding shareholders with our 124th
adjusted earnings consecutive year of dividend payments, including 52
per diluted consecutive years of dividend increases.
share (EPS)
$2.41
In addition to our record financial performance, we
implemented many strategic initiatives that will underpin
billion+ our continued success. A key initiative throughout 2023
was a review of our portfolio, which led to the divestitures
of our European and Australian Traffic Solutions
full-year operating
businesses. This process also prompted a review of
cash flow
strategic alternatives for our silica products business
which is ongoing and expected to be complete in 2024.
In early 2024, we also announced a review of strategic
alternatives for our architectural coatings business in the
U.S. and Canada.
Learn more about our performance in the 2023
Annual Report and investor relations website.
PPG ESG Report 2023 16
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Key achievements and investments in 2023.
April - Announced $15 million expansion of powder coatings plant in Brazil.
- Announced that GLIDDEN® paint by PPG will be the primary paint brand at Walmart.
May - Announced 2030 sustainability goals, including decarbonization targets validated by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi).
- Two leading U.S. homebuilders, Fischer Homes and Brightland Homes, selected PPG as their exclusive paint providers.
- Announced a $44 million investment to boost powder coating production across five manufacturing facilities in the U.S. and Latin America.
- Universal Display Corporation and PPG opened a new organic light-emitting diode (OLED) manufacturing site in Shannon, Ireland.
June - Announced agreement with NRG Energy Inc. to reduce PPG’s total greenhouse gas emissions by more than 9,400 metrics tons annually.
- Announced a new aerospace e-coat system partnership with Satys in Dugny, France.
- Opened a new Color Creation Lab with Chery Automobile in Wuhu, China, after 20 years of collaboration.
- Opened a new $30 million battery pack application center in Tianjin, China, to support the development of new electric vehicle technologies.
July - Approved the company’s 500th consecutive dividend payment to shareholders.
August - Celebrated our 140th anniversary by opening a new customer and employee experience center at the global headquarters in Pittsburgh.
- Announced $2.6 million investment in center of excellence at the Quattordio, Italy, site to increase the efficiency of color development and application.
September - PPG Board of Directors elected Tim Knavish chairman of the Board and CEO.
- Marked 500th Colorful Communities project with a makeover at the Carnegie Science Center in Pittsburgh.
- Completed $2.7 million expansion of powder coatings factory in Sumaré, Brazil, to increase production capacity by 40%.
October - Divested Traffic Solutions operations in Australia and New Zealand.
December - Opened $17 million aerospace application support center in Toulouse, France.
PPG ESG Report 2023 17
Products
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
We develop industry-leading innovations that
2030 target 2023 progress
support our customers’ sustainability ambitions.
50% of sales from sustainably advantaged products 44% of sales from sustainably advantaged products
Our approach to developing safe and sustainably
advantaged products is built upon more than 140
years of expertise. The result is a broad portfolio of
paints, coatings and specialty materials that transform
everything from the places we work to the vehicles we
drive. Learn more about PPG’s history of innovation at
PPG.com
PPG ESG Report 2023 19
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Our products, tools and processes help make our Sustainably advantaged product sales
customers – and the world – more sustainable. As % of total sales
PPG has been providing customers with innovative 44% 50%
paints, coatings and specialty materials for more than 140
years. We’re continuing to partner with our customers to
develop new products and find new uses for our existing
products to help meet their greatest challenges. In 2023, we made significant advances in our approach One of our most impactful changes in 2023 was
to developing products that are both commercially viable improving the way that we track sustainably advantaged
Learn more about our approach, including our and sustainably advantaged. Sustainably advantaged products in our development pipeline. We added
sustainably advantaged product methodology, products are identified using PPG’s internal methodology additional touchpoints in the R&D process, reviewing
on PPG.com that validates product attributes and their contribution each product multiple times as it passes development
towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals. milestones. Evaluating innovative, differentiated
technology more frequently ensures that we are
We are on track to meet our 2030 goal, with 44% of developing a sustainably advantaged product portfolio
sales coming from sustainably advantaged products in that fits our customers’ needs and helps us invest
2023. The increase in sales was driven by a combination resources in developing the right products. We also
of customer interest in more sustainable solutions, continually monitor to ensure that a percentage of our
adding TIKKURILA® products into our scoring process, R&D pipeline meets our sustainably advantaged product
and a more thorough review of existing product data. methodology. This helps our researchers focus their
Our sustainability team has now evaluated 180,000 efforts on products that align with our enterprise growth
PPG products against our sustainably advantaged strategy and meet our customers’ sustainability needs.
product methodology.
PPG ESG Report 2023 20
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
PPG Advanced
Surface Technologies:
painting with films
Shifting our product
In May 2023, PPG introduced PPG Advanced Surface
portfolio to meet
Technologies, a new joint venture formed with entrotech,
Inc. The joint venture is aimed at providing paint and
customer demand
clear film solutions for automotive and industrial
customers. Paint films are multilayer applications that
Consumers’ expectations of sustainability and product
include a protective film wrapping and at least one layer
performance are increasing, and companies like PPG
of paint. This technology is currently used for automotive
must innovate to meet increased demands, with a focus
applications and has potential applications across a
on minimizing resource use through circular practices.
range of industrial end-uses.
There is increasing demand for products that use fewer
natural resources and produce less waste.
Films have a range of customer benefits. Notably, the
product is less complicated to apply than conventional
Our architectural coatings business in Europe identified
automotive coatings. Paint films offer a consistent finish
a significant opportunity to meet market demand
without the need for a paint booth. Films produce less
for products with sustainability benefits. With the
volatile organic compounds (VOCs) overall, and do not
introduction of paints with lower environmental impacts
produce hazardous waste during application so there is
in the European market, including low fossil carbon
less need for protective equipment and safety training.
paints in the Seigneurie Pantex and Guittet Odyssée
Films have a less energy-intensive curing process,
PPG brands, we have provided mass market access
which streamlines the application and reduces customer
to low-carbon, bio-based paints without compromising
energy costs. These combined benefits make paint films
on affordability or performance. These competitively
attractive for customers.
positioned products have been widely embraced by
trade professionals and end consumers, demonstrating
PPG’s industry leadership in driving towards a more
sustainable future.
PPG ESG Report 2023 21
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Helping reduce
Waterborne paint plastic waste with
partnership with HP COMEX® TOP™
Impertop S
PPG’s customers are facing growing demands to reduce
their environmental impacts across their operations. We
The Comex brand by PPG is contributing
are collaborating closely with our customers to incorporate
to plastic circularity through its TOP line of
sustainably advantaged solutions from the early design
products that leverage both circularity and
phase of their product lifecycles.
provide sustainable advantages. In 2023, the
company launched one of several offerings
After anticipating a series of regulatory changes, our
in the lineup, TOP Impertop S, a new asphalt
global account team approached HP, a leading consumer
waterproofing product that is reinforced with
electronics brand, on a product innovation that replaces
recycled polyethylene from plastic bags. The
traditional solvent-based coatings with waterborne
product is intended for application on roofs
alternatives. Waterborne coatings can have lower
to provide waterproofing. Our Comex team
environmental and human health impacts for the workers that
has already recycled more than 42 tons of
apply our products, without compromising on quality. Placing
plastic in Impertop S.
sustainability at the heart of our value proposition allowed
PPG to secure a preferred supplier position and collaborate
closely with the team at HP on product strategy.
In 2023, sales of our waterborne coatings increased 30%
and overall sales to HP also grew significantly. Understanding
HP’s needs and advancing sustainably advantaged products
allowed PPG to partner with HP to deliver lower impact
coatings for their products. To listen to a conversation
between PPG and HP about the innovation, click here.
PPG ESG Report 2023 22
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
An EPIC customer
Sustainable packaging
solution
for DYRUP™ paint by PPG
We collaborate closely with customers to ensure
Packaging is a key component of a product’s
our products meet their performance expectations
environmental footprint. As part of our efforts to
while delivering real-world sustainability benefits.
reduce packaging waste, Dyrup paint by PPG,
sold in the Scandinavian region, has introduced
One example is the PPG ENVIROPRIME™
new “bag-in-a-box” packaging made from 75%
EPIC300 line of electrocoat products, which
recyclable and biodegradable materials for its
cure at a lower temperature and require less
Dyrup Wall Extra Covering paint. The packaging
process time than conventional electrocoat
is made from 100% Forest Stewardship Council
products. These features are especially valuable
(FSC)-certified paper and cardboard, which ensures
to manufacturers that produce electric vehicles,
that the materials come from responsible forestry
which require heavier metal supports, resulting in
and forest conservation suppliers worldwide.
longer required coating cure times. Regardless
The new packaging uses 81% less plastic and
of whether the model is electric or a traditional
was designed to make shipping and handling
combustion engine, PPG Enviroprime products
the paints easier than conventional packaging.
help automotive customers use less energy and
produce fewer greenhouse gas emissions while
In addition to its sustainable properties, the Dyrup
improving the quality of their finished goods.
bag-in-box is easy to use and minimizes product
dry-out. The handling and smart tapping function
make the application of Dyrup Wall Extra Covering
paint simple and hassle-free. The bag-in-box concept
has been recognized for its practicality, manageability
and environmental benefits by ScanStar, a
competition that has been held annually since
1969 by the Scandinavian Packaging Association.
PPG ESG Report 2023 23
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
We believe in advancing sustainability through High performance coatings to combat corrosion Reducing environmental and occupational
collaboration. health impacts
We are working with the Department of Defense (DOD)
We partner with a range of public and private entities to develop coatings materials that are more durable Through our ongoing research partnership with the U.S.
to advance sustainable initiatives and technologies. and resistant to corrosion. The goal of this project Army Combat Capabilities Development Command
Many of our research projects relate to the intersection is to develop coating materials that reduce process Army Research Laboratory, we are working to develop
of our products and environmental impact. Projects times and significantly improve performance, thereby enhanced polymer coatings and materials that provide
include investigating the use of renewable and bio- reducing the need for rework and repair operations. superior protection to military assets with reduced
based materials, improving recyclability and reusability These coatings will benefit the public by protecting vital environmental and occupational health impacts. These
and removing potentially harmful substances. Our infrastructure, safeguarding workers from exposure goals are aligned with PPG’s commitment to develop
commitment to responsible research and development to organic solvents and reducing maintenance costs and commercialize products that are safe to use,
applies to all legacy and recently acquired product lines. related to corrosion, which costs the DOD an estimated produce less waste and avoid hazardous materials.
$20 billion each year. Additionally, the proposed In 2023, we collaborated with the Army Research
materials are expected to reduce hazardous waste and Laboratory on research into environmentally enhanced
associated waste disposal costs. chemical agent resistant coatings (CARC), technologies
to reduce or eliminate the use of volatile organic
In the initial phase of the project, we developed a novel compounds (VOCs) and hazardous air pollutants (HAPs),
pretreatment technique that significantly reduces process and coatings that reduce surface contamination by
steps and simplifies the application process. Conventional minimizing the use of hazardous materials.
primers are then applied over this treatment. This process
enables our customers to apply spray coatings in a wider
set of locations including manufacturing facilities, depots
or even in the field. Moving forward, we will develop and
test a spray treatment that further reduces process times
without the use of organic solvents. To make this effort
more viable for both commercial and DOD needs, we will
assess available commercial materials and compare their
performance to identify the optimal materials for this novel
technology. This work was funded by the National Center
for Manufacturing Sciences (NCMS).
PPG ESG Report 2023 24
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Fostering collaboration across the industry
Our teams presented and participated in a variety of
conferences throughout 2023, such as the CARES
Conference, American Coatings Association and
Green Chemistry & Engineering. PPG participates
in conferences, industry associations and related
meetings to learn about ongoing research and share
our progress in developing more sustainable practices.
Our participation helps PPG people stay informed of the
newest developments in the industry while also giving
PPG employees opportunities to explore innovative
new collaborations with other industry leaders to solve
sustainability challenges.
Beyond our research partnerships, PPG engages
broadly with industry associations and other
stakeholders around the world. Learn more in the
stakeholder engagement section. We also work closely
with our customers to develop innovative new products
that address their greatest challenges. Learn more in
the sustainably advantaged products section.
For more information about our how we approach
research partnerships visit PPG.com
PPG ESG Report 2023 25
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
We are committed to minimizing adverse human
health and environmental impacts at every stage of
the product life cycle.
35,378
Our product stewardship function provides an ever-
expanding set of tools and informational resources to
training courses completed
help PPG scientists and customers responsibly design, on product stewardship
manufacture and use our products. Over the past year, topics through our
we have continued to develop our product stewardship professional
development
processes, systems and tools. 457
system
products certified with
Environmental Product
Declaration (EPDs) 28
additional Substances of
Interest scorecards and 739
new substances added
to the Restricted
Substances
List (RSL)
PPG ESG Report 2023 26
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
EPD process certification Product-specific carbon footprint information
In 2023, we received third-party certification of our The PPG Product Sustainability Center of Excellence
Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) process (COE) developed an internal cradle-to-PPG gate Product
by the only qualified certification body in the U.S. By Carbon Footprint (PCF) tool. The PCF tool enables
standardizing our process, PPG is able to increase product managers and developers to quickly access
product transparency for our customers and publish a and evaluate carbon emissions associated with a
higher volume of EPDs at a rate three times faster than product’s raw material composition, the production and
the previous process. processing of those materials, inbound transportation
and manufacturing. Product developers can leverage this
improved visibility to design products with lower carbon
footprints. PPG’s PCFs are based on industry average
emissions data that we will continue to refine to be more
precise over time. As a complement to this new capability,
we developed an automated workflow that generates Tracking global emerging issues
PCF declaration for customers, allowing PPG to reduce
response times and fulfill more customer PCF requests. Last year, we launched an ‘Emerging Issues’ portal as
part of an ongoing effort to identify, track and monitor
Food contact compliance emerging global issues including proposed regulations,
societal trends and evolving customer expectations. The
Our Food Contact COE acquired a new tool to portal also helps us anticipate regulatory changes so that
evaluate regulatory compliance in food contact (FC) we can capitalize on business opportunities and comply
coating formulations used in cookware and bakeware with new requirements. Our product stewardship team
applications. The tool enables PPG to streamline and analyzes issues as they arise to determine their risk and
automate the process for FC regulatory compliance potential impact on PPG. When issues are determined to
checks. It also features a robust data collection engine be high priority, the team develops a monitoring or action
that powers our FC regulatory database by continuously plan that may include advocacy with trade associations
monitoring new and evolving FC regulatory changes or governmental agencies. Plans can also include
globally. This technology represents a significant business, technical or manufacturing activities to help
upgrade from our previous system. maintain compliance or explore new business concepts.
PPG ESG Report 2023 27
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Managing evolving Product Stewardship Management System
regulations
Our Product Stewardship Management System
(PSMS) was updated in 2023 to align with our One
As a global business, we track evolving regulatory PPG approach to product stewardship. Focused on
activity around the world and evaluate potential reducing complexity and standardizing requirements
impacts on our operations. We take a proactive across business units, this realigned system allows our
approach, assessing potential regulatory impacts and product stewardship team to provide guidance at each
developing appropriate action plans while regulations phase of the product lifecycle. The updated system
are developing. In cases where PPG expects to face provides clear, consolidated and consistent guidance
significant impacts, we form cross functional interest on our product stewardship practices and clarifies our
groups to track developments and ensure we are well company-wide responsibility to minimize our products’
positioned to remain in compliance. environmental impacts. These efforts help safeguard
PPG’s reputation and protect the health, safety and
We work with government agencies to promote wellbeing of PPG employees, customers and the
sensible, evidence- and risk-based legislation that will communities where we operate.
protect consumers while still allowing PPG to produce
innovative, sustainably advantaged products. Through Substance of Interest scorecards
stakeholder engagement activities and participation
in industry associations, our government affairs team Over the course of 2023, we created 28 additional
maintains open lines of communication with regulators Substance of Interest Scorecards, which track hazards
and politicians to educate them about the paint and and regulatory requirements. At the end of the year, our
coatings industry. product stewardship organization had a total of 208
scorecards tracking 283 substances. In 2023, carbon
Learn more about our engagement strategy, including footprint information was added to the SOI scorecards,
with government agencies, in our stakeholder providing additional data to our formulators and chemists.
engagement section.
PPG ESG Report 2023 28
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Restricted Substances List United Nations Globally Harmonized System for
Classification and Labeling
PPG’s Restricted Substances List (RSL) is applied to
all PPG products globally, even in areas of the world We assess our products according to the United
where there are no chemical regulation programs, which Nations Globally Harmonized System for Classification
means that our RSL program goes beyond regulatory and Labeling (UN GHS) for category 1 and/or 2 for hazard
compliance. PPG’s RSL includes all substances covered warnings on products. Of the products scored globally
by the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic in 2023, 28% were not classified with hazards under
Pollutants and industrial substances on the Rotterdam UN GHS category 1 or 2. We consciously choose lower
Convention Prior Informed Consent (PIC) list which cover hazards, especially in architectural coatings products
193 substances. In 2023, based on recommendations due to their heavy use in consumer, commercial and
from our product stewardship organization, PPG’s residential projects.
Sustainability Committee approved the addition of 739
new substances to the RSL. PPG’s RSL now includes For more detailed information about our ongoing
1,875 substances that are restricted for all uses, and 403 approach to product stewardship, visit PPG.com
substances that are restricted for specific uses, such as
consumer products. Of the 739 substances that were
added to the RSL in 2023, 725 of these substances are
perfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) included in ChemSec’s
Substitute It Now (SIN) List, the Stockholm Convention
and the US EPA’s PFAS listings. These substances, to
the extent utilized at all, will be phased out of existing
products and they will not be used in new product
development globally moving forward. Perfluorooctanoic
acid (PFOA) and other long-chain PFAS substances were
added to PPG’s RSL in 2019.
PPG ESG Report 2023 29
Environment
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
We are committed to using resources efficiently
Target (all targets are by 2030 with a 2019 baseline, 2023 progress
and minimizing environmental impacts throughout
unless otherwise noted)
our value chain.
25% reduction in waste intensity 7% increase in waste intensity
Drive to 100% process waste to reuse, recycle 45% process waste to reuse, recycle and recovery
and recovery
5% annual improvement in spills and release rate 21% increase in spills and release rate
at our facilities
15% reduction in water intensity at priority sites 13% reduction in water intensity at priority sites
in water stressed communities
50% reduction in GHG emissions from our own 10% reduction in GHG emissions from our own
operations (scope 1 and 2 emissions), validated operations (scope 1 and 2 emissions)
by SBTi and aligned with the emissions reductions
required for a 1.5 degrees C future
30% reduction in GHG emissions in our value chain 12% reduction in GHG emissions in our value chain
(scope 3 emissions), validated by SBTi and aligned (scope 3 emissions), reflective of reporting categories
with the emissions eductions required for a well 1, 10 and 12
below 2 degrees C future
PPG ESG Report 2023 31
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
PPG is committed to reducing our contribution to Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions reduction
global climate change.
10% 50%
We work to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (GHG)
across our operations and value chain through initiatives
to minimize energy usage, improve energy efficiency,
and increase the energy that we source from renewable Scope 3 GHG emissions reduction
power generation. Our emissions reduction efforts are
focused on aligning PPG with a 1.5-degrees C future,
12% 30%
ensuring that our efforts support the global response
to climate change while lowering operating costs and
maximizing resource efficiency.
PPG ESG Report 2023 32
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
PPG GHG Emissions for 2019 Baseline Year
Reduction focus
Scope 3 upstream Scope 3 downstream
Category 1 Category 4 Category 8 Scope 2 Category 10
Purchased goods Upstream transportation Upstream leased Indirect Customer processing
and services and distribution assets Emisions of sold products
29% 2% 1% 2% 47%
1% 1% 2% 1% 14%
Category 3 Category 5 Scope 1 Category 9 Category 12
Fuel and energy-related Waste generated Direct Downstream transportation End-of-life treatment
activities not included in in operations Emisions and distribution of sold products
scope 1 and 2
Total value chain greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1, 2 and 3) - 25MM MTCO E
2
PPG ESG Report 2023 33
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
In 2023, we achieved a 10% reduction in absolute Science-based GHG
direct (scope 1) and indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions
reduction targets
from the 2019 baseline. These reductions represent
meaningful progress against our company-wide 2030
goal of achieving a 50% reduction in GHG emissions
The Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi)
from our own operations (scope 1 and 2 emissions). This
is a global body enabling businesses to set
target has been validated by the Science Based Targets
ambitious emissions reductions targets in line
initiative (SBTi) and aligns PPG’s operations with a 1.5
with the latest climate science. The SBTi defines
degrees C future. The reduction is primarily due to the
and promotes best practice in science-based
greening of the grid, power purchase agreements, and
target setting, offers resources and guidance to
purchasing renewable energy credits.
reduce barriers to adoption, and independently
assesses and approves companies’ targets.
Following an extensive review of our value chain to identify
and measure scope 3 emissions, we also established our
In 2023, PPG became the first U.S.-based
first value chain GHG emissions reduction target in 2023.
coatings manufacturer to have science-based
Scope 3 emissions refer to all other indirect emissions
greenhouse gas emissions targets validated
an organization is connected to through its upstream and
by the SBTi. Our targets, which cover scope 1, 2
downstream business activities.
and 3 emissions, align our emissions reduction
activities with the goals of the Paris Agreement.
Learn more about science-based targets and
our commitments on the SBTi target dashboard.
PPG ESG Report 2023 34
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
By 2030, we are committed to reducing our absolute Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions
scope 3 emissions by 30% from a 2019 baseline across Million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent
the following categories, as defined by GHG Protocol’s
Corporate Value Chain (scope 3) Standard:
- Category 1: Purchased goods and services, including
raw materials and PPG-manufactured packaging
- Category 10: Customer processing of sold products
- Category 12: End-of-life treatment of sold products
We selected these three categories because they
account for more than 80% of our scope 3 emissions and
we are positioned to influence reductions in these areas.
Our category 1 and 12 emissions are calculated based
on the actual substance breakdown of our purchased
raw materials and their quantity, instead of the spend
based method. PPG has modeled its tens of thousands
of raw material substances using literature or database
data to improve the accuracy of category 1 and 12 carbon
emissions, compared to the spend based method.
In 2023, we saw a 12% reduction in our scope 3
emissions against our baseline year of 2019. The
reduction was primarily due to improved data, grid
greening benefits across the value chain and volumes.
PPG ESG Report 2023 35
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Steam system
Reducing direct and indirect (scope 1 and 2)
improvement in
GHG emissions
Shenyang, China
Reducing GHG emissions from our own operations is
our most direct and impactful means of contributing to
Engineers across PPG are continuously seeking
the low carbon transition. Addressing our scope 1 and
out process improvements to drive energy
2 emissions also helps establish PPG’s commitment
efficiency and reduce our operational emissions
to decarbonization and sets the stage for future
(scope 1 and 2). At our Shenyang facility in China,
partnerships to reduce GHG emissions across our value
the operations team identified inefficiencies in
chain. To meet our 2030 goals, PPG partnered with
our existing steam system. The team installed a
NextEra Energy to develop a decarbonization roadmap
new heat recovery system to re-route clean hot
to achieve a 50% GHG emissions reduction in our
water, which was previously being discharged
scope 1 and 2 emissions footprint by 2030. The roadmap
to the local sewer system, back into the water
includes PPG energy efficiency investments in our
tank. They also installed a high precision steam
manufacturing facilities and increased use of renewable
regulating valve to improve the overall efficiency
energy to replace our current sources of electrical
of our steam system.
energy supply. PPG’s largest emissions sources come
from the U.S. and Europe, representing 82% of our total
These adjustments are projected to save 5,000
2023 emissions footprint. The key components of the
metric tons of steam each year, which helps
renewable energy roadmap include on-site and off-site
avoid more than 800 MT in operational GHG
renewable energy installations and the purchase of
emissions and achieve meaningful cost savings.
renewable energy via power purchase agreements.
The upgraded system also avoids approximately
10,000 m3 of water withdrawals annually. Moving
forward, we plan to replicate this heat recovery
process at facilities with similar steam systems.
PPG ESG Report 2023 36
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Investing in renewable In 2023, the global engineering group identified PPG’s
largest energy saving opportunities at our global
energy generation in
manufacturing sites and began installing energy
monitors to better assess energy efficiency to identify
Texas
opportunities to reduce usage at sites. We are taking
a two-pronged approach to reducing energy use that
Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) are legal includes process improvement and the adoption of new
instruments that account for renewable electricity technologies such as combined heat and power units. In
generation. Renewable energy generated by Europe, the five PPG facilities that use the most energy
renewable sources is put into the electric grid, and adopted rigorous energy management requirements in
RECs are awarded to the renewable energy facility. line with ISO 50001 standards to help systematize the
These RECs are then sold to fund the continued identification of energy wasteful processes and drive
operation of the facility. The owner of the REC down energy consumption.
has the exclusive right to claim that purchased
electricity comes from renewable sources, as well As we identify the need to replace process and utility
as any associated scope 2 emissions reductions. equipment that is inefficient and is at its useful life, we
are upgrading and retrofitting to more energy efficient
In June of 2023, we entered into an agreement with assets. In one example, our Oak Creek, Wisconsin, site
Direct Energy to purchase RECs generated by a replaced traditional incandescent and fluorescent light
wind facility located in Crockett County, Texas. The bulbs with energy efficient LEDs in 2023. The change
agreement will help reduce emissions associated will save approximately 4,400 MWhs annually. Initiatives
with the annual power usage of four PPG paints such as this one support our goal to continuously
and coatings manufacturing facilities and 62 improve energy efficiency and, as a direct result, reduce
PPG PAINTS™ stores in Texas. The RECs cover GHG emissions across our operations.
approximately 126,000 megawatt hours (MWh) of
renewable energy, which will help reduce PPG’s
scope 2 emissions by more than 9,400 metric tons
each year.
PPG ESG Report 2023 37
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
We also expanded our renewable energy sourcing Reducing emissions across our value chain (scope 3)
efforts over the past year. In 2023, 31% of our
purchased electricity was generated by renewable We recognize our ability to influence the reduction of GHG emissions that extend beyond the footprint of our own
sources. Thus far, we have completed on-site solar operations. For that reason, PPG is committed to collaborating with our customers and suppliers to advance their
installations at our Oak Creek, Wisconsin; Valencia, own GHG emissions reduction goals and limit our collective impact. In 2023, we announced the validation of our
Spain; and Bucharest, Romania, sites. Many of our science-based targets by SBTi to reduce our absolute scope 3 emissions by 30% from a 2019 baseline by 2030.
Texas sites and PPG Paints stores in Ohio have active Our value chain emissions goal applies to three categories: purchased goods and services (category 1), processing
power purchase agreements (PPAs). We continued of sold products (category 10), and end-of-life treatment of sold products (category 12). We have identified the primary
to work with partners to evaluate onsite renewable levers of scope 3 reductions to be customer innovations that lower energy use, circular solutions, value chain energy
opportunities and to secure renewable electricity transition and solvent emissions.
through PPAs, which guarantee a renewable electricity
supply for years into the future, while allowing us to lock
in a fixed rate for electricity.
Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance
provided limited assurance on our Category 1 Category 12
scope 1 and scope 2 GHG data. Purchased goods and services End-of-life treatment
of sold products
View the assurance report Emissions generated while
producing the raw materials Emissions from the waste
and services that PPG disposal and treatment
purchases to make paints, of PPG products at the
coatings and packaging end of their life
Category 10
Customer processing
of sold products
Emissions generated by our
customers and end users
in the application and
curing of PPG paints
and coatings
PPG ESG Report 2023 38
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Purchased goods and services In the last year, PPG initiated a process to monitor
decarbonization performance of our largest suppliers
Our operations depend on the use of raw material in addition to monitoring other key environmental and
inputs that generate GHG emissions from upstream social performance metrics. We constructed our scope
production activities. In an effort to address these 3 emissions footprint using industry average data and
upstream impacts, we established a new global ESG are actively assembling more accurate emissions
procurement manager position in 2023, dedicated data from our largest raw material suppliers. We will
to supporting PPG’s supplier base through education continue to gather the most accurate data available
and engagement. This new position collaborates with over time. We track scope 3 emissions related to our
our global procurement team to engage suppliers in spending, follow emissions by supplier and region,
defining lower carbon feedstocks and raw materials, evaluate supplier performance and put action plans in
setting expectations for supplier GHG emissions place. We also recognize the importance of developing
reductions of their operations, aligned to our target of strategic supplier relationships with partners who
30% by 2030, and tracking and monitoring supply chain share our commitment to sustainability. In the past
due diligence activities. year, we engaged with our top 20 suppliers to lay out
our expectations and discuss pathways for achieving
traceable reductions to our scope 3 emissions. Once
engaged, suppliers submit proposals for emissions
reduction projects, not limited to direct greenhouse gas
intensity reduction, which PPG reviews for feasibility
and potential impact. We use an internal platform to
intake supplier proposals, track progress across our Beyond partnering with our suppliers and customers,
supplier base and understand the sustainability benefits we continue to embed circular economy principles
attributed to those specific projects. PPG is focused across our operations. By limiting waste, reusing
on evaluating alternative, lower carbon feedstocks and materials and extending product life cycles we are
expanding knowledge of hot spots of process emissions reducing both our value chain GHG emissions and
up the value chain to determine where actions can be raw material costs. Learn more in the supplier
taken to meet our scope 3 emissions reduction target. sustainability and waste sections.
PPG ESG Report 2023 39
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Customer processing of sold products
Energy efficient
In 2023, we modeled the emissions intensity of applying
manufacturing in
and curing different PPG products at our customer sites.
Tepotzotlán, Mexico With this information, we are partnering with customers
to promote the use of existing products that require less
energy to apply and cure and develop new products
PPG is focused on integrating circular economy
that improve this further. These efforts will reduce our
principles across our manufacturing processes to
customers’ GHG emissions, reduce PPG’s downstream
reduce waste and use raw material more efficiently.
scope 3 emissions and position PPG to better meet the
At PPG’s facility in Tepotzotlán, Mexico, the
opportunities resulting from climate change economic
operations team identified an opportunity to update
transitions. Learn more in the sustainably advantaged
our traditional production model to one that uses
products section.
fewer materials and reduces process time.
For PPG paints and coatings that require electricity in
Historically, architectural paints have been
the application and curing processes, the emissions
manufactured by measuring a series of dry
intensity of our sold products is also impacted by
ingredients and mixing them with a liquid solvent.
our customers’ energy mix. We have already seen
Our team developed an innovative production
improvements in our downstream scope 3 emissions
process that significantly lowered production time
based on the greening of the energy grid, and expect
and the energy used in mixing paints. At the same
to see continued organic reductions in our scope 3
time, the process reduced waste, and reduced the
emissions as the energy mix shifts to renewables.
amount of raw materials needed in the formulas,
Our ability to work with our customers to advance less
without impacting the performance of the products.
energy intensive curing approaches such as electron
In total, the process is expected to reduce our
beam curing vs. UV curing will also have a favorable
scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emission by more than
impact on lowering GHG emissions.
5,000 MT annually.
PPG ESG Report 2023 40
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
End-of-life treatment of sold products Other air emissions
Downstream scope 3 GHG emissions associated While we do not report hazardous air pollutants (HAPs)
with end-of-life treatment are largely a function of on a global level, we do track those emissions at our U.S.
the chemical composition of our products. While facilities. In 2023, our U.S. operations emitted 252 metric
the reformulation and removal of carbon intensive tons of HAPs. As we reformulate products to enhance
raw materials in formulations offers opportunities for their environmental performance, our emissions of
significant GHG emissions reductions, we must continue hazardous air pollutants should decrease over time.
to meet customer expectations and not compromise Learn more in the product stewardship section.
product performance including protective properties.
In some of our product formulations, we have already For more detailed information about our
started to replace fossil fuel derivatives with bio-based approach to reducing energy use across
materials. Resins made from renewable resources our operations, visit PPG.com
such as sugars, natural oils, and starch from corn and
agricultural waste offer more sustainable alternatives For more information about our
without compromising the quality and performance of the ongoing approach to managing
final product. By removing fossil fuel derivatives wherever our GHG emissions, visit PPG.com
possible, the end-of-life emissions of our products can
be significantly reduced. Moving forward, we will continue
to partner with our customers to develop and test new
technologies that make our products more durable and
limit end-of-life GHG emissions.
PPG ESG Report 2023 41
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Multi-year data highlights
Greenhouse gas emissions
Million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Direct (scope 1) 0.44 0.36 0.44 0.43 0.42
Indirect (scope 2) 0.62 0.54 0.53 0.54 0.53
Value chain (scope 3)* 21.04 19.59 20.42 19.7 18.54
Total (scope 1 and 2) 1.05 0.90 0.97 0.97 0.94
Data changes from prior reporting reflect updated data and adjustments for acquired and divested locations from the 2019 baseline onward.
* Categories: purchased goods and services (category 1), processing of sold products (category 10), and end-of-life treatment of sold products (category 12).
Greenhouse gas emissions intensity
Metric tons of emissions per metric ton of production
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Direct (scope 1) 0.10 0.08 0.10 0.10 0.11
Indirect (scope 2) 0.13 0.13 0.12 0.13 0.13
Total 0.23 0.21 0.22 0.23 0.24
Total intensity data include direct and indirect emissions. We report greenhouse gas as carbon dioxide equivalents for carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide. Data changes from prior reporting reflect updated data and
adjustments for acquired and divested locations from the 2019 baseline onward. Total may not equal the sum of direct and indirect due to rounding.
PPG ESG Report 2023 42
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Air emissions
Metric tons
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Particulates 269 325 291 302 176
Volatile organic compounds 2,673 1,909 3,908 1,983 3,117
Nitrogen oxides 1,178 996 938 1,572 706
Sulfur dioxide 76 59 53 48 55
Data changes from prior reporting reflect updated data and adjustments for acquired and divested locations.
Air emissions intensity
Metric tons of emissions per 1,000 metric tons of production
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Particulates 0.06 0.08 0.07 0.07 0.14
Volatile organic compounds 0.58 0.45 0.89 0.47 0.81
Nitrogen oxides 0.26 0.23 0.21 0.38 0.56
Sulfur dioxide 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.02
Data changes from prior reporting reflect updated data and adjustments for acquired and divested locations.
PPG ESG Report 2023 43
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Energy intensity
Gigajoules per metric ton of production
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Total 2.93 2.58 2.91 3.04 3.15
Direct 1.69 1.46 1.74 1.78 1.81
Indirect 1.23 1.12 1.18 1.26 1.34
Total may not equal the sum due to rounding.
Energy intensity includes all types of energy consumed within the organization related to manufacturing and research and development.
Data changes from prior reporting reflect updated data and adjustments for acquired, divested and closed locations.
Energy consumption
Million gigajoules
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Total 13.40 11.03 12.82 12.71 12.41
Direct 7.75 6.26 7.63 7.45 7.13
Indirect 5.56 4.78 5.19 5.26 5.28
Total may not equal the sum due to rounding.
Direct energy consumption is the amount of primary energy we combust onsite. Our direct energy sources may include coal, natural gas, fuel distilled from crude oil, propane, biofuels, ethanol and hydrogen. Indirect energy
refers to the energy we consume that is generated by external suppliers. We consume indirect energy through electricity, heat, steam and electricity generated from renewable energy sources, such as solar and wind.
Data changes from prior reporting reflect updated data and adjustments for acquired, divested and closed locations from the 2019 baseline onward.
PPG ESG Report 2023 44
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Energy consumption by source
Million gigajoules/percent of total energy consumption
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Million Million Million Million Million
Source Percent Percent Percent Percent Percent
gigajoules gigajoules gigajoules gigajoules gigajoules
Nonrenewable fuels purchased and consumed 7.75 58 6.26 57 7.63 60 7.45 59 7.13 57
Nonrenewable electricity purchased 2.90 22 2.63 24 2.81 22 2.65 21 2.43 20
Steam/heating/cooling and other nonrenewable
2.04 15 1.45 13 1.58 12 1.83 14 1.75 14
energy purchased
Total renewable energy purchased or generated 0.71 5 0.69 6 0.80 6 0.78 6 1.10 9
Total non renewable energy sold 0.00 - 0.00 - 0.00 - 0.00 - 0.00 -
Total nonrenewable energy consumption 12.69 95 10.34 94 12.02 94 11.93 94 11.31 91
Energy
Millions of dollars
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
125 125 117 263 203
Data changes from prior reporting reflect updated data and adjustments for acquired, divested and closed locations.
PPG ESG Report 2023 45
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
We take a systemic approach to managing climate Managing physical risk at PPG facilities We also have a clear process that allows the
risks, and look for opportunities to support the sustainability team to work alongside PPG’s businesses
transition to a low-carbon future throughout our PPG has a rigorous approach to managing physical to identify market opportunities related to climate change
operations. climate risk across our facilities. We proactively impacts. Learn more in our research partnerships and
undertake climate change scenario analysis, climate sustainably advantaged products sections.
Addressing the transition to a low-carbon economy risk modeling and strategic planning based on guidance
from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Tracking climate-related regulations around the world
The global transition to a low-carbon economy presents Disclosures (TCFD). In 2023, we continued to expand
risks and opportunities for PPG. Transition risks and our understanding of the physical climate risks that In 2023, countries where we operate continued to
opportunities include those related to technology, threaten to impact in our operations. Guided by the advance climate-related laws and regulations. We
market changes, reputational impacts, as well as outcomes of our most recent climate risk assessment, have been tracking these developments through our
regulations and policy changes. In 2023, we advanced we are implementing infrastructure improvements to corporate risk management process, including those
our approach to managing transition risk by validating mitigate physical risks at those sites that are most regulations related to the EU Green Deal. We will
our scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions threatened by climate change. Learn more about PPG’s continue to monitor emerging legislation that could
targets with the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). climate risk management activities on our website. impact our activities in the future.
We’re committed to reducing our GHG emissions in line
with the goals of the Paris Agreement and have aligned Meeting market opportunities
our scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions approach
to the reductions necessary to limit global warming to 1.5 PPG customers and users of our products are
degrees C above pre-industrial levels, and aligned our increasingly aware of the climate impacts associated
scope 3 approach to a well below 2 degrees C future. with their purchases. We have seen growth in the
Learn more about our science-based targets in the demand for low impact products across our businesses
energy and emissions section. – from homeowners who want low-volatile organic
compound (VOC) and water-based paints to supporting
automakers at the forefront of the transition to electric
vehicles. Throughout the year, we continued to foster
partnerships with our customers and work together to
develop new, more sustainably advantaged products.
PPG ESG Report 2023 46
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Understanding nature-related risks and We have a sophisticated understanding of the
opportunities chemicals we use, and take responsibility for
minimizing the environmental impacts from our
According to the World Economic Forum’s Global products. As discussed elsewhere in this document,
Risk Report 2024, biodiversity loss and ecosystem we track and report on a range of environmental
collapse are some of the most severe global risks facing metrics including water use, waste generation and
humanity over the next ten years. As we innovate new management, energy use and greenhouse gas
sustainably advantaged products, we see opportunities emissions. The nature-related screen only helps
to meet this moment by developing bio-based and us further develop our approach to managing
nature-positive products and services. nature-related risks, impacts and opportunities.
In 2023, our sustainability team worked with an external We will continue to advance our understanding of
consultant to conduct a nature-related screening nature-related risks and opportunities over time
exercise. The exercise aimed to develop an integrated and will evaluate the evolving work of standard
understanding of the many ways that we depend on and setters to provide guidance going forward.
impact natural systems, identify any of our activities that
have higher risk of impacting natural systems, and to For more detailed information about our
review our management of nature-related impacts. ongoing approach to climate-related risks
and opportunities, visit PPG.com
PPG relies on natural capital across every aspect
of our global business. We transform raw materials To learn more about how PPG is addressing climate
into high performing paints and coatings, and rely on change, see our Task Force on Climate-related
a range of ecosystem services for everything from Financial Disclosure (TCFD) index on PPG.com
access to clean water to flood mitigation around our
facilities. We already have an advanced management
approach for many of our impacts on nature.
PPG ESG Report 2023 47
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Reduce water intensity at priority sites
We focused our efforts in 2023 on 26 PPG facilities
13% 15%
that were identified for high water use and proximity
to water stressed regions. We invested in submeters
to measure the water used for different production
processes rather than relying on facility-level water
meters. These submeters helped us to identify the most
We recognize that water is a finite, shared resource water-intensive production processes so we could
and we minimize water use in our facilities through develop strategies to reduce our usage. The detailed
conservation, innovation and reuse. view of our water usage also helped identify water lines
in need of repair or replacement, which helped reduce
We consider our impacts on the entire water basin, and water waste.
take into account the local environmental, regulatory and
socioeconomic context of each of our sites. Combined, these strategies have helped reduce
the amount of water that we use in water stressed
Our most significant impact on water availability in local communities by 13% from a 2019 baseline. We are
communities comes from our facilities located in water continuing to broaden our focus, evaluating more of our
stressed communities. When setting our 2030 water facilities in water stressed areas and building on our
goal, we chose to prioritize water efficiency measures in progress to date. Given our rapid progress toward meeting
areas with high water scarcity risk rather than reducing the 2030 goal, we are exploring the possibility of setting a
our overall water intensity. more ambitious water reduction target in the future.
PPG ESG Report 2023 48
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Zero Discharge Project Leak detection in
Caivano, Italy
During our production processes, some paint gets
left behind in the tanks and pipes we use to mix and
package our products. We clean out the system with As climate change increases the frequency and severity
water to keep it running properly and avoid cross of droughts, many countries have responded by instituting
contamination between batches. Historically, we water rationing measures. We focus our investments to
have sent pretreated wash water to a municipal water ensure we’re abiding by local regulation and using water
treatment facility to be further cleaned and then released efficiently, particularly in water stressed areas.
back into the local water system. The Zero Discharge
Project is an ongoing initiative which aims to reuse wash The PPG site in Caivano, Italy, responded to local
water and reduce raw material waste. In 2023 alone, water stress by installing water monitoring systems
we were able to reuse approximately 16 million pounds to identify leaks in the facility. The operations team
of water in our U.S. and Canada architectural coatings found underground leaks in the sanitary water system
business, an increase of 615,000 pounds, or 4%, over and fire water storage tank which had previously gone
the previous year. unnoticed. By repairing the leaks and stopping water
losses, we reduced monthly water use at the site by
Reuse of wash water may be limited by a range of more than 60%. The repairs are projected to reduce
factors, including local legislation that limits certain water use at the site by 210,000 m3 per year and save
material use and physical constraints on the amount PPG more than €200,000.
of water that can be stored for reuse at our production
facilities. In 2023, we implemented an optimization The operations team at our Caivano site continues
process to consider these factors and expand the to reduce the amount of water withdrawn from the
reuse of wash water and recovery of raw materials municipal water supply through a combination of
from the Zero Discharge Project. We expect that repairs, refurbishments and process improvements.
this process will enable us to reuse as much as The long-term goal for the Caivano site is to reduce
10% more water in 2024. water use by 90% from a 2022 baseline.
For more detailed information about our
ongoing approach to water management,
visit PPG.com
PPPPPPGGG EEESSSGGG RRReeepppooorrrttt 222000222333 004009
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Multi-year data highlights
Water intensity
Cubic meters per metric ton of production
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Water intensity for priority sites in water stressed areas 1.26 1.32 1.30 1.38 1.09
Data changes from prior reporting reflect adjustments for acquired and divested locations from the 2019 baseline onward.
Water consumption - all sources
Million cubic meters
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Withdrawn 18.73 15.28 17.72 17.73 14.86
Discharged 13.87 13.29 14.38 14.64 12.39
Net consumption (withdrawn minus discharged) 4.86 1.99 3.35 3.09 2.47
Total may not equal the sum due to rounding.
Water withdrawal and water discharge data are provided by each location on a monthly basis using the best available data, including direct measurements when possible.
Data changes from prior reporting reflect adjustments for acquired and divested locations.
2023 water withdrawn - all sources 2023 freshwater consumption
Million cubic meters Million cubic meters
Source Amount withdrawn Source Amount withdrawn
Surface water 4.16 Municipal water withdrawn 5.07
Groundwater 1.62 Fresh surface water withdrawn 4.16
Seawater 0 Fresh groundwater withdrawn 1.62
Produced water 0 Water discharged 12.39
Third-party water 5.07 Net freshwater consumption 1.54
PPPPGG EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 22002233 0500
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Water usage in water stressed regions
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Total water withdrawn in water stressed regions 1.68 1.63 1.71 1.58 1.28
Percent of water withdrawn 9% 11% 10% 9% 9%
Percent of total consumed 20% 53% 29% 28% 27%
Included facilities are in North America, South America, Europe, Australia and Asia. Data changes from prior reporting reflect adjustments for acquired and divested locations and updated water scarcity analysis.
Water non-compliances
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Number 6 7 6 10 5
Data cover non-compliances associated with water quality permits, standards and regulations and is based on the year that PPG is notified of the non-compliance by a governmental authority.
Water non-compliances are typically minor deviations from existing discharge permits. These incidents are thoroughly investigated, and corrective actions are implemented to minimize reoccurrence.
PPPPGG EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 22002233 0501
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Reduction of total waste intensity
-7% 25%
Increase process waste to reuse, recycle and recovery
45% 100%
Annual improvement in spills and releases
-21% 5%
PPG recognizes the importance of moving toward a Our waste intensity in 2023 increased by 7% compared
circular economy. to the 2019 baseline. 45% of process waste was
either reused, recycled or recovered. While operating
Beyond the environmental benefits, reducing waste and sites have continued to implement waste reduction
increasing resource efficiency helps lower our costs and measures, we expect that progress toward our
supports our continued success. We consider circularity waste goals will not be linear. Extensive cleaning and
in our product design, use raw materials as efficiently maintenance processes, which are completed at some
as possible, minimize operational waste and promote of our larger facilities every 2-3 years, result in increased
reuse and recycling throughout our value chain. waste output and we expect variability in our waste
intensity as a result.
PPG ESG Report 2023 52
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Transforming retail Reducing waste in our operations
displays with Tikkurila
When setting our 2030 targets, we changed our
approach to measuring waste intensity to prioritize the
reuse and repurposing of materials in our production
PPG’s Tikkurila brand recently sought to renew
processes. We now include any materials sent offsite
its retail store presence with a new display
for recycling in our waste intensity metric. This shift
concept that emphasized sustainability.
acknowledges that recycling is less efficient than waste
The team piloted the new display concept in
elimination, repurposing and reuse and ensures that we’re
select stores in Finland over the course of 2023.
incentivizing desired behavior across our manufacturing
and operations functions. Reusing materials that would
When designing the display concept, the goal was to
have otherwise been recycled helps reduce our yield loss
develop a model using high quality, durable materials
and ultimately improves profitability.
that could be used in stores for many years. The new
and improved displays consist of 89% renewable
While we encourage reuse and repurposing where
materials, and use 100% recovered wood. The display
possible, we also recognize that recycling plays an
concept also provides value to consumers. It features an
important role in keeping waste out of landfills. Our goal
interactive lighting system that lets consumers see how
to drive 100% of process waste to reuse, recycle and
their paint will look in different settings, helping them
recovery supports continuous improvements in the
make more accurate color choices.
percentage of our waste that is diverted from landfills and
other disposal facilities.
This new concept helps minimize Tikkurila’s waste,
while also highlighting its status as a premium Nordic
brand. The concept was designed for all countries
where Tikkurila is available. The updated displays
will be made available across all major stores
in Finland over the next three years.
PPG ESG Report 2023 53
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Advancing our circularity approach
PPG supports the circular economy by focusing on
Circular Economy Enablers
every stage of our products’ life cycle. We reviewed
n
o
opportunities to reduce waste from the sourcing of raw erati
Innovation
materials, through the manufacturing process, to the n
e
g R
application and usage of products, and their end-of-life. e a
&
R w
M
T aph pro ru og ach ho u bt
y
2 u0 n2 d3 e, rw ste
a
nw do ir nk ge d
h
oto
w
f Po Prm Ga il siz ae
l
ro eu ar
d
c yi rcularity
of-life
PPG’s
at
eri
al
SO up se tar ia nt aio bn ila itl
y
contributing to the circular economy and developing a d- s
n
E
formal circular economy strategy to guide future efforts. Circular Economy
s
n
o
As part of this operational review of our contributions
Focus Areas ati Digitalization
er
p
to the circular economy, we identified a need for more P O
r
o &
g
t
inhr vaa etn ngu tel oa
n
rr
i
e
ew
r
saa
t
as et ne
t dh
d uea
s
mt ia n.
o
g
W
s rt
oe
w
o’r ae
t
s
c
w
t
aeo u,r sdk ei en
v
ag
e
n
w
l ao
li
p
yth
sin
i2
sg
5
td
o
P
e
iP
t
daG
eil ne
s
td
ii ft ye
w
s
a ste
d u
ct
s
i
n
u
s
ufacturing
Collaboration
e n
opportunities to reduce sources of waste. This effort a
M
is aligned to our 2030 ambition to reduce our waste
Product Application
intensity by 25% vs. a 2019 baseline.
PPG ESG Report 2023 54
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Spills and releases We are also engaging PPG employees Paint circularity with
by leveraging Job Safety Analysis (JSA), a
GDB International
The median spill in 2023 was 4,802 pounds, with 100% systematic process designed to identify
of spills contained onsite. We had six substantial spills potential hazards and develop improved
during the year, which totaled 16,677 gallons (59,431 work practices for carrying out a specific As a high-volume paint supplier, fluctuations
liters). Many of these spills have been attributed to issues task or job operation. This is one of several in customer demand or production volume
with mechanical integrity or work instruction practices. tools within our EHS Management System inevitably cause a portion of our raw
that help address causal factors, such materials or paint products to go unused.
PPG facilities employ management practices to prevent as equipment, process, or people For more than 20 years, we have partnered
spills and releases, including employee engagement interactions, to prevent future with GDB International to help keep these
activities, training, spill elimination assessments, occurrence of spills and releases. unused materials from going to waste. GDB
operational improvements, self-assessments and best is a leader in paint recycling that facilitates
practice sharing. For more detailed information a sustainable ‘cycle’ in the paint supply
about our ongoing approach chain by recovering, recycling, and reusing
To reduce the likelihood of spills and releases from to waste management surplus materials, and is also the partner to
mechanical integrity issues, PPG’s operations team and circularity, visit PPG.com the ACA PAINTCARE™ program.
recently launched initiatives around the use of digital
tools and maintenance standard work processes. GDB takes materials including pigments,
Digital sensors and in-line monitoring tools are being resins, solvents, frozen paint, and even
implemented to predict equipment failure and address waste/wash water that PPG is unable
these prior to an incident. We are also standardizing to recover on site. The company sorts,
maintenance processes across our sites. As part of recovers, and repackages any unused
these initiatives, our team is moving to more proactive products with their private branding. Over
maintenance practices. We are already seeing the course of our 20+ year partnership,
the benefits at locations that these initiatives have GDB has processed and recycled more
been implemented and continue to closely track our than 3,000 truckloads of PPG product,
performance over time. including 10.1 million gallons of paint across
all PPG brands.
PPPPGG EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 22002233 0505
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Multi-year data highlights
Waste disposal
Thousand metric tons
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Waste generated 194.62 164.39 170.15 188.17 179.19
Total waste intensity metric tons per 100 metric tons of production 4.25 3.84 3.87 4.50 4.55
Disposed 112.49 89.68 90.18 116.70 99.12
Disposal intensity metric tons per 100 metric tons of production 2.46 2.10 2.05 2.79 2.52
Waste Recycled 82.13 74.71 79.97 71.47 80.07
Disposed waste does not include waste that is recycled, reclaimed or incinerated for energy recovery. Waste generated includes all waste from manufacturing and R&D locations generated
as a consequence of the activities involved in the production of our products and services. Data changes from prior reporting reflect adjustments for acquired and divested locations.
Waste generated/recycled
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Non-hazardous waste Generated thousand metric tons 81.96 70.69 74.03 100.56 81.05
Recycled percent 35 37 38 25 34
Disposed thousand metric tons 52.90 44.40 46.26 75.30 53.29
Hazardous waste Generated thousand metric tons 112.66 93.70 96.12 87.61 98.14
Recycled percent 47 52 54 53 53
Disposed thousand metric tons 59.59 45.28 43.91 41.40 45.83
Disposed waste includes waste that is sent off site for landfill, incineration without energy recovery and physical/chemical treatment. We report our hazardous waste data using the regulatory framework of each country where we
operate. Data changes from prior reporting reflect adjustments for acquired and divested locations.
Spills and releases rate
Per 1,000 employees
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
1.25 1.24 1.28 1.50 1.59
PPPPGG EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 22002233 0560
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Each day, PPG products are transported by land, Reducing transportation emissions We utilize a range of tools to track emissions associated
sea and air around the world. with moving our products, including a dashboard for
To reduce the emissions associated with moving tracking supplier emissions by mode of transportation.
Internal experts, mandatory practices and effective our products, we continue to work with our suppliers Using the dashboard allows us to identify how factors
processes help ensure our products make it to their to optimize shipping patterns, adopt alternative fuel such as distance, transport mode and fill rate of vehicles
destinations safely and minimize the environmental sources, consolidate shipments, and shift to low impact transportation-related emissions. These insights
impact of transportation. emissions transport modes. In Europe, we integrated empower our centralized operations team to identify
sustainability-related criteria into our freight tender improvement opportunities and select carriers that are
Our transportation highlights in 2023 process for the first time. Our EU transportation taking meaningful action to reduce emissions.
management team meets with sustainability experts
In 2023, our teams reported 276 incidents via a U.S. at our top carriers to identify opportunities to curb As the capacity and availability of low emissions
DOT 5800 incident report or PPG transportation incident emissions and ensure suppliers have future-proof technologies continue to ramp up, we are working in
report, representing less than 0.03% of total shipments. plans for meeting their sustainability targets. Suppliers parallel to avoid excess emissions from air freight – our
Our incident report numbers are relatively stable with lower-emission programs that align with PPG’s most emissions-intensive form of transport. In 2023, we
compared to 2022, reflecting our mature approach to decarbonization strategy are given priority in our freight established new approval flows for expedited shipping,
transportation safety. Nine of these incidents required tender process. which require director-level sign off on all air shipments.
immediate notice to a governmental authority and
were therefore considered significant according to our PPG is actively considering ways to decarbonize Looking ahead, we are exploring external partnerships
internal criteria and that of the Sustainability Accounting transport, but is limited by aspects of the market that to develop a track and trace system that will provide
Standards Board (SASB). Of these, four occurred outside require further development. In some instances, there greater visibility into transport emissions at the carrier
the U.S. and five were within the U.S. may not be cost-effective methods available to reduce and route level.
the emissions associated with moving our products.
For example, while the range on electric vehicles has
improved, there are many routes where the range of
electric trucks is still too limited. These issues can also
be compounded in cold weather and when hauling
heavy loads.
PPG ESG Report 2023 57
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Multi-year data highlights
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Total number of incidents reported 293 255 561 288 276
Switching to a more
Number of significant incidents 20 12 16 12 9
efficient shipping model
For more detailed information about
While electric vehicle infrastructure is not yet
our ongoing approach to transportation,
sufficiently advanced to replace conventional
visit PPG.com
trucks in most places, we are focused on
reducing transport miles and increasing
shipping efficiency in the short term. In the
past, we relied on a dedicated fleet of trucks
that were managed by a third-party provider.
The dedicated fleet was not always the closest
option to the pickup or drop off site which meant
that PPG was paying for drivers to transport an
empty vehicle. In 2022 alone, the fleet drove
more than 700,000 “empty miles,” costing PPG
more than $1.15 million.
Last year, our procurement team chose
to switch to a flat-rate, carrier agnostic
transportation model. This new system allows
PPG to select the closest carriers, reducing
empty miles. Once the driver delivers they are
free to find another load nearby and PPG is not
responsible for paying them to get home. The
change has eliminated spending on “empty
miles,” while also reducing our annual GHG
emissions by approximately 1,000 tons of COe.
2
PPPPGG EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 22002233 0580
People
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
PPG people make it happen. Diversity, equity and inclusion
At PPG, we aim to champion all employees,
Aspirational goals Progress since 2021
encouraging them to be their authentic selves and
empowering everyone to reach their full potential. 34-36% representation of non-frontline, 32% representation of non-frontline,
Our people strategies provide the foundation for our global female professionals by 2025 global female professionals
team members to thrive, deliver and grow, enabling
45-55% increase in headcount of Black, Latino 42% increase in non-frontline headcount for U.S.
them to deliver exceptional performance and live
and Asian professionals across non-frontline, Black professionals
our purpose: We protect and beautify the world.
U.S.-based employee population by 2025
44% increase in non-frontline headcount for U.S.
Latino professionals
26% increase in non-frontline headcount for U.S.
Asian professionals
50% global employee resource network and 42% global employee resource network and
DE&I capability-building participation by 2025 DE&I capability-building participation
Safety and health
2030 target Progress since 2019
100% of employees go home safely each day. 0% annual improvement in injury and illness rate
On our way, drive at least 5% annual improvement
in injury and illness rate
PPG ESG Report 2023 60
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Multi-year data
Number of employees
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
47,600 46,900 49,300 52,000 50,000
Numbers are average for the full year and include PPG joint ventures.
2023 employees by region
Asia Pacific Europe, Middle East Latin America U.S. and Canada Total
and Africa
Female 1,804 5,440 2,281 5,279 14,804
Male 5,554 11,899 6,410 13,343 37,206
Non-binary 0 0 0 18 18
Not specified 0 50 1 0 51
Total 7,358 17,389 8,692 18,640 52,079
Numbers are as of Dec. 31, 2023.
2023 employees by employee type
Full-time Part-time
Female 14,016 788
Male 36,591 615
Non-binary 17 1
Not specified 51 0
Total 50,675 1,404
Numbers are as of Dec. 31, 2023.
PPG ESG Report 2023 61
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
A diverse workforce and an inclusive culture are
fundamental for promoting employee wellbeing and
9,809
strong company performance.
Our DE&I Vision Statement
people managers and
employees participated in
At PPG, we aim to champion all employees, regardless of learning programs related
race, ethnicity, gender, age, physical and mental disability, to allyship, inclusion,
military or veteran status, sexual orientation, gender DE&I-focused hiring
practices, and more
identity or expression, and/or other diverse backgrounds; 7,420
since 2020
empowering them to show up as their authentic selves.
We know that diverse teams perform better – period.
Providing equitable experiences for our people results global participants in
in better engagement, increased business performance Employee Resource
Network (ERN) events
and more opportunities for all. In partnership with our
employee resource networks, we will continue to elevate 32%
and celebrate underrepresented communities. We will do
so with a spirit of humility, authenticity and vulnerability. We
may not always get it right, but we aim to do better today representation of
than yesterday – every day. non-frontline, global
female professionals
PPG ESG Report 2023 62
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
One of PPG’s greatest strengths is the diversity of our people. Simply put – diverse teams perform better. In 2023, we continued to cultivate a sense of belonging
We consistently seek out new ways to amplify the voices of underrepresented employees and help all of for all of our employees. Our dedicated DE&I team works
our people bring their best selves to work. in collaboration with our HR and business professionals
to empower PPG people to make a difference, both in
Representation of non-frontline, global female professionals their careers and in representing their unique identities.
In addition to the internal work to increase headcount of
underrepresented groups and execute DE&I capability-
32% 34-36%
building programming, we have committed to advance
racial equity in the U.S. by funding educational pathways
Increase in non-frontline U.S. headcount for Black professionals for Black communities and people of color. Learn more
about our funding commitment and progress to date in
the community engagement section.
42% 45-55%
Listen & Learn sessions
Increase in non-frontline U.S. headcount for Latino professionals
We continued creating a culture of dignity, respect,
empathy and understanding with one of our flagship
44% 45-55%
programs, DE&I Listen & Learn sessions. These
sessions are hosted by senior leaders who share
Increase in non-frontline U.S. headcount for Asian professionals personal anecdotes and perspectives on a variety of
DE&I topics, and offer an outlet for employees to ask
questions and share their lived experiences. The goal of
26% 45-55%
the program is to foster a safe forum for conversations
around inclusion. We held a total of 35 DE&I Listen &
Global employee resource network and DE&I capability-building participation Learn sessions in 2023, with more than 2,100 PPG
employees joining at least one session since 2021.
42% 50%
PPG ESG Report 2023 63
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
DE&I learning journeys Lunar New Year and
International Women’s Day
In 2023, PPG launched DE&I learning journeys through
our learning management system. Learning journeys are
detailed training programs, available to everyone at PPG, Last year, our Asian Employee Network (AEN) and
which help build DE&I capabilities across the company. Women’s Leadership Network (WLN) collaborated
The training programs cover topics such as inclusion, to organize a digital ‘fireside chat’ to celebrate the
allyship and belonging. Lunar New Year and International Women’s Day. More
than 1,100 PPG employees tuned in for an in-depth
Learn more about our approach to DE&I on PPG.com conversation with Deborah Liu, CEO of Ancestry.com
and author of “Take Back Your Power: 10 New Rules for
Women at Work.”
The AEN and WLN provided each of their members
with a copy of Liu’s book prior to the chat, stimulating
questions and discussions on topics including advice on
promotions, dealing with parental guilt, finding balance
and leading a team. During the event, Liu shared
impactful insights on leadership, overcoming obstacles
and the lessons she learned through her career as a
woman of color in Silicon Valley.
Cross-ERN events like this provide PPG people with
opportunities to build connections across groups,
learn from colleagues with different backgrounds or
experiences and embrace a wide range of perspectives.
PPG ESG Report 2023 64
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Employee Resource Networks Highlights from the past year are included below. Friendship Day, spotlighting the importance of workplace
connections and coaching employees to learn new skills
PPG’s Employee Resource Networks (ERNs) act as a The Black Employee Network (BEN) works to enhance to achieve personal goals, including career progression.
catalyst for our diverse employees across the world the personal and professional development of Black Through global webcasts and other experiences,
to realize their full potential. The ERNs empower employees, represent PPG through community outreach YPN brought forward over 1,400 employees to
employees to shape their careers, strengthen their and serve as a key resource in driving business growth foster a connection-centric workplace culture that
communities, and positively impact PPG’s business for the company. In addition to events recognizing Martin promotes productivity and camaraderie across diverse
strategies – all while celebrating their diverse culture, Luther King, Jr. Day and Black History Month, last year backgrounds and ages.
background and experiences. The eight ERNs operate BEN chapters across the United States volunteered to
in more than 60 countries and had more than 8,538 read Dr. Bernice King’s book “It Starts With Me” at local The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer
members in 2023. elementary schools. The network donated a total of (LGBTQ+) Network works to create an environment that
500 books to U.S. students. In an effort to foster a more recognizes and supports LGBTQ+ employees, assists
inclusive and culturally aware workplace, BEN leadership in PPG’s efforts to promote diversity and inclusion,
also engaged employees at key sites in a meaningful and helps identify best practices in a variety of areas
exploration of African American and Black culture, affecting LGBTQ+ team members. In 2023, the ERN
reaching over 1,000 people. The program, designed to celebrated key milestones, including bringing more
be both informative and interactive, included a series of than 1,100 employees together to celebrate PRIDE,
workshops, guest speaker sessions and cultural events. Transgender Awareness Week and Transgender
Day of Remembrance. Guest speakers included
The Young Professional Network (YPN), recently Dame Inga Beale, who discussed how to create an
renamed to the Cross-Generational Network (xGEN), inclusive workplace and the importance of LGBTQ+
aims to create connections across each generation, representation in corporate settings. The ERN also
forge stronger and more collaborative working held an event in partnership with Dow Chemical, that
relationships and leverage unique perspectives to gave attendees the opportunity to learn how to best
innovate and energize our work environment. Our goal is support transgender employees and learn about their
to use the collective wisdom of all generations to create lived experiences. The events and ongoing discussions
a positive impact on our organization, our community helped unpack misconceptions, educate and ensure the
and the world. In 2023, the YPN championed Career community feels supported within PPG and beyond.
Development Month and celebrated International
PPG ESG Report 2023 65
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
The Latino Employee Network (LEN) spearheads
initiatives to celebrate and share Latino culture and
help break down obstacles faced by the community.
In 2023, the network celebrated Spanish Language
Day (Dia É) by providing resources and encouraging
participation in discussions and activities to highlight
multilingualism and cultural diversity. Nearly forty
employees took advantage of LEN’s Spanish Language
program, complete with resources and Spanish
speaking mentors to help those interested in improving
their language skills. Throughout the year, the ERN held
events with guest speakers that included Dr. Robert
Rodriguez, President of DRR Advisors, Melanie Healey,
PPG board member and Marvin Mendoza, global head
DE&I, reaching more than 800 employees. These
events covered topics such as the current state of
Latino leadership and the Latino workforce, stories of
leadership as a Latino and how to foster a more inclusive
workplace environment at PPG.
The Abilities First Employee (AFN) Resource
Network provides individuals with disabilities with
opportunities to fully utilize their self-determination by
providing an inclusive environment, experience and
educational platform enabling all to meet their unique
and full potential. In 2023, the AFN hit a milestone of
over 1,100 members, the first of our newest ERNs to
reach this accomplishment. The network highlighted
PPG ESG Report 2023 66
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Global Accessibility Awareness Day as one of their The Asian Employee Network (AEN) works to
flagship events to raise awareness around accessibility connect Asian employees across the globe, inspire
and educate employees on how to create a more Asian and Asian-descent employees to share their
inclusive environment at work. Members of Microsoft’s unique heritages, educate non-Asian employees, help
accessibility team joined the global webcast to provide employees grow and give back to those in need. In
a live demonstration of the variety of digital accessibility 2023, AEN crafted enriching membership experiences
features within Microsoft Office, Outlook and Teams, as that celebrated Asian culture and the insights of PPG’s
well as give an overview of common accessibility issues senior Asian leaders, alongside notable guest speakers,
to look out for, such as low contrast text, empty links or like Cecilia Lui, founder of ILIA Connect, and Bernice
missing image alt text. Chao, co-author of The Visibility Mindset, who shared
their experiences and strategies for the Asian American
The Women’s Leadership Network (WLN) fosters an community and allies on overcoming barriers and
appreciation of the value of women in the workplace finding success in global workplaces. These events
and creates an inclusive work environment that captivated over 2,400 employees, highlighting the
attracts, retains and advances women. In 2023, WLN vibrancy of Asian heritage and the influence of leaders
successfully curated a series of enriching experiences within the industry.
that celebrated the role of women in our workplace,
reaching an audience of over 3,700 employees. The Veterans Employee Network (VERN) aims
These events honored the achievements of women to provide veterans with support and networking
and fostered a supportive community that uplifts and opportunities, such as mentoring, community outreach,
inspires members. The WLN also celebrated Women’s career development and cultural awareness activities.
Health Month, dedicated to promoting physical, mental PPG’s veterans appeared on “Military Makeover with
and emotional wellbeing among women. The month Montel,” highlighting PPG’s commitment to active
featured discussion groups, webinars and tribute trees military personnel globally, with the feature being viewed
to raise awareness for breast cancer. over 83,000 times. In addition, PPG honored veterans
in the community by sharing their stories as part of
a global webcast as well as collecting donations for
veterans in key PPG locations.
PPG ESG Report 2023 67
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Data highlights 2023 U.S. Employee Race and Ethnicity Representation
Percent
We track performance and progress against PPG’s DE&I
strategy using a data-driven approach. Our actions work Total may not equal the sum due to
rounding. “Other” category includes
toward achieving a comprehensive set of aspirational employees who are two or more races,
goals, and we continue to evolve to address gaps Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander and
Native American or Native Alaskan,
and capture emerging opportunities. This data does as well as employees who did not
self-identify their race. Frontline and
not include all employees who joined our company
select support employees encompass a
through recent acquisitions. Numbers may vary in past wide range of critical operational roles.
These include plant and manufacturing
and future reports as we continue to integrate new
employees, store employees, custodial
employees into our human resource systems and as employees, clerks, assistants, customer
service representatives, electricians,
employees continue to provide or update their self-
technicians, drivers, color matchers,
identification status. among others. Non-frontline employees
cover a variety of roles, including
chemists, engineers, corporate function
U.S. EEO-1 Reporting employees, managers, directors,
executives, among others. Management
team comprises employees who are
vice presidents and above.
While we do not use the Federal Employer Information
Report EEO-1 to guide our progress, our 2022 U.S. EEO-1
report is available.
PPG ESG Report 2023 68
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
2023 Total Global Gender Representation 2023 U.S. Non-Frontline Black, Latino and Asian Employee Headcount Changes
As of December 31, 2023 As of December 31, 2023 compared to prior year
2023 Total Global Generational Overview
As of December 31, 2023
Total may not equal the sum due to rounding.
PPG ESG Report 2023 69
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
PPG people do better today than yesterday, every day.
The productivity, motivation and engagement of our
workforce directly affects PPG’s financial performance.
2024
Through the guiding principles of The PPG Way, we create
a company where everyone can thrive, deliver and grow.
Exceptional Workplace
Award from Gallup
30%
higher engagement
growth than industry
average, as measured
via our engagement
surveys, facilitated 300K+
by Gallup
unique awards
through the One PPG
Recognition and
Rewards Program
PPG ESG Report 2023 70
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Listening to employees Organizational alignment
in Huangshan City, China
Our 2023 Employee Voice survey results, powered by
Gallup, showed a higher level of employee engagement
than any year prior. We also saw record employee When we acquired Huangshan Huajia, a powder
participation, with 89% of PPG employees responding. coating manufacturer based in Huangshan City, China,
PPG’s employee engagement score has improved with over 600 employees in six plants in six cities, our
across every category that Gallup measures, and our engagement team identified the need to proactively
overall score increased at a rate 30% higher than the assess cultural differences and align Huajia’s culture
industry average. with PPG. We engaged an external partner to objectively
assess the cultural differences between Huajia and PPG
A key aspect of our employee engagement strategy is using a blend of interviews and cultural diagnostics. We
to focus on improving personal connections between then involved business leaders at both Huajia and PPG
people leaders and their teams. Throughout 2023, we in a series of culture and engagement workshops with
encouraged management across the company to have action plans cascaded.
more frequent, quality conversations with their direct
reports, by providing additional training on how to facilitate In our 2023 engagement surveys, we found that this
these conversations. We also encouraged actionable, approach led to one of the highest year one results
ongoing performance feedback. Together, these for an acquired company. Employees at Huajia had
resources help people leaders across PPG empower higher engagement levels than PPG’s overall score,
their teams and ensure that our people have the as indicated through record survey participation. In
opportunity to hold transparent conversations, celebrate 2024, we are continuing engagement training and are
successes and voice their concerns to management. developing action plans with leaders at Huajia to further
increase engagement. We are replicating this model
for other acquisitions as we work to drive employee
engagement across PPG.
PPG ESG Report 2023 71
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Recognition Employee retention and turnover Turnover Rate
Percent
We recognize the achievements of our team members In 2023, turnover across PPG remained higher than
through the One PPG Recognition and Rewards pre-pandemic levels. A closer look at these numbers
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Program. Through the program, employees receive a revealed that we continued to experience elevated
thank you or congratulatory message and reward points turnover across our frontline employee population, or Overall 18.16 17.61 20.00 22.80 20.90
that can be redeemed for gift cards, travel or other those working in a manufacturing or retail environment.
Voluntary 13.02 11.74 17.40 17.40 15.00
items. Recipients can be nominated by their peers or We are seeking to reverse this trend through targeted
leadership for living our core values, aligned with The engagement measures with frontline employees. As part
Involuntary 5.14 5.87 5.40 5.40 5.90
PPG Way and The PPG Way to Lead. The program also of our annual process, our talent acquisition and total
recognizes certain milestone achievements, such as rewards team conducted a complete compensation
birthdays and PPG anniversaries. In 2023, we gave more review of our frontline workforce to ensure our employee
than 300,000 unique awards to PPG people. value proposition is in line with the rest of the market.
The team also worked with frontline leaders to help
Leadership development and accountability create a more positive, caring and growth-oriented
environment for our people. We are already seeing
2023 marked the first full year that we aligned our improvements in engagement across all six categories
engagement activities to The PPG Way to Lead, our measured by Gallup and are working to build on this
leadership competency model. We used specific momentum in 2024.
metrics from the Employee Voice survey to create PPG’s
leadership index, an evaluation rubric to track how people For more detailed information about our ongoing
across the company are growing their leadership skills. approach to employee engagement, visit PPG.com
The leadership index has already helped us identify
opportunities to enhance leader performance across the
organization. After our 2023 Employee Voice survey, we
worked with select leaders on techniques to enhance
team engagement. In some cases, we reviewed
individual responsibilities and shifted leaders into new
positions that better align with their unique skill sets.
PPG ESG Report 2023 72
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Our people are our most important competitive advantage.
We help people develop and succeed at every level of their
73%
careers through extensive resources and capability-building.
of eligible employees
participated in the
performance review
80%
process
of eligible employees
completed The PPG Way
to Lead assessments
to confirm career
development, up 27%
53,000
year-over-year
PPG Way to Lead
recognition awards
have been given
since the initiative’s
launch
PPG ESG Report 2023 73
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
PPG Way to Lead Sustainability
learning modules
The PPG Way to Lead is a research-based behavioral
competency model based on The PPG Way. The model
identifies specific behaviors that employees at all levels
Environmental and social issues impact every job at
of the organization can use to become better leaders.
PPG, but we don’t expect that everyone comes to their
2023 marked the first full year that the PPG Way to
role as an expert. To help drive sustainability awareness,
Lead was implemented across the company, and we
capability and accountability among our employees,
have continued to align our training and developmental
we launched three new sustainability-focused modules
resources with the core competencies defined in the
on our learning management system in 2023. Each of
model.
these modules is available in 10 languages to ensure
that they are accessible by the majority of our workforce.
We are continuing to actively develop competency
pathways, with the goal of providing more structured
The interactive modules focus on explaining the
educational curricula across each of the nine
costs and impacts of climate change, the sources of
competencies covered in The PPG Way to Lead.
global greenhouse gas emissions, and the ways that
emissions are categorized into scope 1, 2 and 3. These
topics were selected based on PPG employee feedback
to provide the most useful information possible. The
learning modules supplement existing materials that
we make available to all PPG employees, including an
internal sustainability website with resources and our
36-part sustainability audio series. As we continue on
our sustainability journey, we will be regularly updating
and expanding on these modules.
PPG ESG Report 2023 74
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
One PPG Mentoring Improving access to PPG training programs Updating how we measure progress
A focus of our leadership development efforts over the In 2023, we focused on improving the accessibility In 2023, we evaluated and adjusted the way that we
past year was the expansion of One PPG Mentoring, and utilization of our learning programs. The Learning measure the success of our training programs. In the
our online mentoring and coaching program. One and Development (L&D) team centralized our training past, PPG relied on scores that measured user loyalty,
PPG Mentoring aims to support insightful, respectful programs on an internal site and promoted the platform satisfaction, and enthusiasm. While this ensured that
connections across PPG by pairing employees across PPG to increase participation. We have also PPG employees were satisfied with the training they
with qualified mentors to support their professional taken significant steps to ensure our training programs received, it provided a limited understanding of the
development. In 2023, we significantly expanded are accessible and inclusive of the diverse needs of lasting benefits that programs provided. Going forward,
participation in the mentoring platform, as proven by PPG employees. The L&D team have reviewed our we are using the Phillips return on investment (ROI)
almost doubling available mentors and having over 150 training offerings to ensure programs are available in Model, which is a methodology and process that allows
active mentorships. multiple languages and that images and diagrams human resources teams to tie the costs of training
have high-quality, alternative text. We have also programs to actual results. The Phillips ROI Model
improved our eLearning modules to better support considers a combination of participant reaction, actual
those with visual impairments, including enhancements learning outcomes, behavioral changes, and cost of
to color contrast and screen reader interaction. administration to understand the effectiveness and ROI
Together, these changes help ensure that everyone of our training programs.
at PPG can access the resources they need to
succeed and grow in their careers. To support the continued growth of our programs, we
also recognize the need to invest in our Learning and
Development Center of Excellence. In 2024 and beyond,
we are investing in capabilities to support the continued
advancement of people throughout PPG.
For more detailed information about our ongoing
approach to Learning and Leadership Development,
visit PPG.com
PPG ESG Report 2023 75
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
The most important PPG value is the safety and Annual improvement in injury and illness rate
health of our employees.
0% 5%
We work every day to keep our people healthy and
ensure that everyone goes home safely. As a result of our
continued focus on safety and health, we experienced
no fatalities of PPG employees or PPG supervised
contractors related to PPG operations in 2023. The
overall PPG illness and injury (I&I) rate remained flat in
2023 compared to 2022. While the overall rate remained
flat, we did achieve a decrease in the number and
severity of the most significant injuries, due in large part
to our focus on serious injuries and fatalities. We had
0.51 Tier I and 0.27 Tier II process safety incidents per
one million hours worked. The highest I&I rates were
43
recorded at recently acquired sites. As we implement our
global, standardized EHS management system at these 193
sites we expect injury and illness rates to decrease in
sites audited for
line with the rest of our business.
compliance with EHS
PPG ERGO CUP® management system,
submissions other PPG requirements
and government
60
regulations
sites covered by ISO
14001 integrated global
certificate
PPG ESG Report 2023 76
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
The 2023 PPG Ergo Cup Incident review and reduction
The environment, health and safety (EHS) team
Each year since 2004, PPG has held an internal
conducts a detailed root-cause analysis for all process
ERGO CUP® competition to share new inventions
safety incidents. Around 47% of the 2023 incidents
and innovations that minimize or eliminate ergonomic
were primarily caused by human error, which we address
risks for our people. The winner of the 2023 Ergo Cup
through procedural and system changes. Around 28%
competition was the Aerospace Sylmar team, who
of the incidents in 2023 resulted from malfunctioning
developed a new grind and polish sandpaper changeout
equipment while around 19% were caused by
process for their facility. Their submission was selected
improperly designed equipment. The team resolved
as the winner from almost 200 entries for eliminating a
these incidents by modifying inspection programs,
substantial safety risk while delivering significant cost
reviewing equipment design, and repairing or replacing
savings.
inadequate equipment. Our EHS team works to foster a
learning culture where PPG employees are comfortable
Prior to this project, the sandpaper changeout process
reporting elements of their job that may lead to injuries
required an operator to sit in a crouched position below
in the future. We prioritize systemic changes rather than
a sanding wheel, pull off the existing sandpaper and
emphasizing additional training because this approach
scrape the leftover adhesive off the sanding wheel
protects everyone working in our facilities, rather than
with a sharp-edged tool. To improve the safety of this
focusing on the individuals involved in an incident.
ergonomically difficult task, the Sylmar team began
using Velcro instead of adhesive to apply the sandpaper
Over the course of 2023, we also worked to reduce our
to the wheel. The time spent changing sandpaper using
average response time for processing safety incidents
the Velcro was reduced from three hours to just five
and implementing mitigation measures. We track the
minutes, and is projected to save the Sylmar facility
percentage of follow up actions closed within 90 days. As
approximately 720 hours of machine downtime per year.
a result of this focus, we saw significant improvement in
the rate of corrective actions that we closed quickly. 93%
of follow up actions were closed within 90 days in 2023.
PPG ESG Report 2023 77
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Focus on avoiding serious incidents Other activities that we undertook in 2023 to improve - Integration of acquisition sites: Complete
the health and safety of our people include: integration of sites into our EHS process takes
Our EHS team takes a proactive approach to minimizing approximately five years. The performance of acquired
the likelihood of serious incidents and fatalities (SIFs). - ASTM International standard: In keeping with sites depends on a multitude of factors, including
When reviewing incidents, we prioritize our follow-up industry best practice, we incorporated elements existing safety and health culture and amount of
actions based on the actual and potential severity of of the ASTM International industrial hygiene and manual labor involved at the production level. We
injury. In 2023, we reviewed two actual SIF events, and safety standards into our practices. While we continue to focus on implementing our processes at
more than 300 minor injuries that were classified as continue to measure injuries using the PPG I&I rate, sites that we acquired to reduce their I&I rate.
potential SIFs. incorporating elements of the ASTM standards help
us to benchmark our performance against our peers. For more detailed information about our ongoing
The EHS team tracks the implementation of our EHS Over the course of the year, we provided training to our approach to safety and health, visit PPG.com
management system and a wide range of leading facility managers and implemented improvements in
indicators, including employee engagement at the our incident tracking systems to record incidents that
site level. We found that facilities in the top 50% for meet the ASTM standard.
employee engagement are less than half as likely to - Retrofitting fire suppression systems: We launched
have spills, and similarly less likely to experience SIFs. a program to prioritize and phase out foam containing
Learn more about how we engage PPG people around fire suppression systems in impacted global
the world in the engagement section. operations. Sites equipped with foam fire suppression
systems that contained per- and polyfluoroalkyl
While our central EHS team was addressing the substances (PFAS) will be upgraded with alternate
processes that led to actual and potential SIFs, we replacement foams formulated to protect PPG assets.
recognized an opportunity for improvement around our - Human and Organizational Performance (HOP)
approach by providing additional training for regional implementation: We expanded the implementation
and site managers focused on avoiding SIFs. Based on of our HOP program to 30 additional sites in 2023.
these findings, we implemented programs at the site The HOP program is aimed at reducing manufacturing
level to ensure that everyone at PPG understands how process errors, which may result in impacts on
to identify hazards that might lead to SIFs in the future. product quality or staff injuries. Employees at each
site were trained on how to predict, prevent and
identify system improvement opportunities that could
otherwise result in errors.
PPG ESG Report 2023 78
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Multi-year data highlights
Global health and safety performance
Employees and supervised workers
The fatality rate is the number of fatalities multiplied by 200,000 and
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 divided by the number of work hours. A PPG injury and illness (I&I) is
defined as an injury or illness that is significant enough that it is unlikely
to go unreported, regardless of the reporting culture in the region or
Fatalities Number 0 0 0 0 0
site. PPG I&Is include fatalities, fractures, surgeries, hospitalizations,
30 or more days of lost work and other similar criteria. The PPG I&I
Rate 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 rate is the number of injuries and illnesses that meet this definition
multiplied by 200,000 and divided by the number of work hours. Total
recordable incident rate is the number of Occupational Safety and Health
PPG injury and illness rate 0.32 0.26 0.26 0.32 0.32
Administration (OSHA) recordable injuries multiplied by 200,000 and
divided by the number of work hours. Lost workday rate is the number
Total recordable incident rate 1.29 0.99 1.14 1.45 1.18 of injuries and illness that resulted in days away from work or restricted
activity multiplied by 200,000 and divided by the number of work hours.
Occupational disease rate is the number of illnesses multiplied by
Lost workday rate 0.47 0.37 0.82 0.59 0.84
200,000 and divided by the number of work hours.
Occupational disease rate 0.15 0.12 0.17 0.40 0.07 Data changes from prior reporting reflect updated data and adjustments
for acquired and divested locations from the 2019 baseline onward.
2023 health and safety performance by region
Employees and supervised workers
Region Fatalities PPG injury and Total recordable Lost workday Occupational
illness rate incident rate rate disease rate
Asia Pacific 0 0.19 0.45 0.30 0.00
Europe, Middle East and Africa 0 0.17 0.96 0.74 0.02
Latin America 0 0.04 0.28 0.03 0.00
North America 0 0.68 2.26 1.65 0.19
Global 0 0.32 1.18 0.84 0.07
PPG ESG Report 2023 79
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
2023 contractor health and safety performance by region
Region Fatalities PPG injury and Total recordable Lost workday Occupational
illness rate incident rate rate disease rate
Asia Pacific 0 0.00 0.22 0.11 0.00
Europe, Middle East and Africa 0 0.00 0.96 0.55 0.00
Latin America 0 0.47 1.87 0.47 0.00
North America 0 1.05 2.45 1.05 0.00
Global 0 0.21 1.02 0.43 0.00
Process safety performance
Per million hours worked
Region 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Number of tier one incidents 23 13 5 21 61
Tier one incidents per million hours worked 0.20 0.02 0.04 0.18 0.51
Process safety total incident rate 0.04 0.07 0.06 0.27 0.78
Process safety incident severity rate 0.02 0.07 0.09 1.19 0.28
Process safety total incident rate is the number of incidents multiplied by 1,000,000 and divided by the total annual hours worked by employees, contractors and subcontractors. Process safety incident severity rate is the total
severity score for all process safety incidents multiplied by 1,000,000 and divided by the total annual hours worked by employees, contractors and subcontractors.
Please see the data index section for a list of our process safety incidents in 2023.
PPG ESG Report 2023 80
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
PPG is committed to engaging our employees by
fostering a global culture of health.
10
New and improved wellness program
We are advancing our vision of creating a global culture
global wellness awards
of health, enabling our employees and their families to
for innovative programs
prioritize mental and physical wellbeing through active
at PPG sites around
participation in a range of health and wellness activities. In 16 the world
2023, the global wellness council updated PPG’s Wellness
Culture Program Strategy to reflect the evolving structure
and vision for our wellness program. The strategy redefines
languages in which
the roles and responsibilities of our wellness leaders and
monthly global
articulates our strategy for addressing the four wellness
wellness newsletters
absolutes – nutrition, exercise, health screenings and are available 138
mindfulness/stress management.
high performance
wellness programs
recognized
PPG ESG Report 2023 81
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
In line with the new strategy, PPG launched a new
Abilities First Network
wellness goal across our sites in 2023. Our team
developed new program goals through a combination honors World Mental
of extensive research and external partnerships. We
Health Day
engaged with companies that have leading wellness
programs to understand best practices in the space
and learn how we could improve the structure of our PPG is committed to raising awareness
wellness program. around mental health challenges and taking
action to nurture mental wellbeing, both at
Recognizing that a successful wellness program and outside of work. Last year, our Abilities
requires both continuous engagement and a variety of First Network (AFN) shined a spotlight on the
initiatives, our new wellness goal focuses on supporting importance of mental wellbeing by celebrating
each of our sites in developing a mature wellness World Mental Health Day on October 10.
program. According to our internal guidance, a mature
wellness program must include: The AFN hosted a global webcast featuring
Petra Velzeboer, a renowned mental health
- an active site wellness team with at least two expert and TEDx speaker. Talking openly
members, quarterly meetings and agendas about mental health and listening without
- a minimum of 20% overall site engagement in judgement at events like this helps to break
wellness initiatives throughout the year down the stigma around mental illness.
- quarterly wellness initiatives in each of the four Petra’s presentation, ‘Mental Health and a
PPG wellness absolutes New World of Work,’ covered emerging trends
and offered practical advice for adapting to
To drive engagement within PPG, we have integrated hybrid work and enhancing company culture
the wellness programming into our environment, health and performance. Attendees were provided
and safety (EHS) management system. Each of our with information on available PPG resources,
sites receive a score based on how well they implement including confidential counseling services,
programs that effectively engage employees. These support networks and additional programming
scores are incorporated into their EHS scorecards and related to mental health and wellbeing.
are regularly reviewed by management.
PPG ESG Report 2023 82
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Updated wellness website 2023 Wellness Awards
To support the new strategy, PPG’s global wellness
We recognize our highest performing sites
council also created and launched a new internal
with the annual Global Wellness Awards. We
wellness website in 2023. The website is a forum for
award particularly innovative and creative
sites to share wellness program materials and wellness
programs, as well as programs that engage
updates across regions. It also acts as a centralized
particularly high percentages of the workforce.
repository for our global Employee Assistance Program
The global wellness team received more than
(EAP) materials and wellness resources on each of the
140 applications for wellness awards in 2023,
four wellness absolutes. It includes a list of all wellness
and ultimately selected the 10 most impactful
coordinators for each site, wellness newsletters that
programs from around the world. Winning
are translated into 16 languages, global EAP materials,
submissions included sporting competitions,
strategy and program materials and training, ergonomic
customized games, on-site health screening
stretching videos and more. The site also includes a
programs and family days that extend PPG’s
forum of wellness program resources that are posted
culture of health beyond our employees. We
by PPG corporate, regional wellness coordinators or
held a global webinar in early 2024 for site
individual sites to share best practices.
wellness coordinators to share the winning
initiatives. Awarding our employees’ best ideas
For more detailed information about our ongoing
fosters our global culture of health, and helps
approach to wellness, visit PPG.com
drive engagement across the company.
PPG ESG Report 2023 83
Suppliers
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
We foster partnerships across the supply chain to
2030 target 2023 progress
encourage strong management of environmental
and social impacts.
100% of key suppliers assessed to sustainability 97% of key suppliers assessed to sustainability
and social responsibility criteria by 2030 and social responsibility criteria
PPG ESG Report 2023 85
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
We respect the dignity and human rights of all people. Advances in our approach to respecting human Respecting human rights in our operations
rights in the value chain
We have a comprehensive strategy to protect human As stated in our Global Code of Ethics, we comply with
rights throughout our operations, and work with suppliers In 2023, we updated our Global Supplier Code of all laws pertaining to freedom of association, privacy,
to uphold human rights across our supply chain. Conduct, Supplier Sustainability Policy, and Responsible collective bargaining, immigration, working time, and
Minerals Sourcing Policy to more effectively wages and hours in our operations throughout the world.
communicate our expectations to uphold human We also uphold laws prohibiting forced, compulsory
rights in our supply chain. These policies are reviewed and child labor, human trafficking and employment
annually by our procurement Center of Excellence, discrimination.
and updated to ensure we stay ahead of evolving
stakeholder expectations and industry best practices. We are committed to valuing differences among us in
Changes to each policy were reviewed by subject matter experience, perspective, background, race, age, national
experts from across PPG and approved by the chief origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity
procurement officer. and/or expression, culture, interests, geography and
style. We strive for a collaborative environment in which
After the policy updates were complete, each was everyone is embraced for their differences and has
translated into 24 languages and made available on an equal chance to succeed. We base employment
our website. Suppliers were required to acknowledge decisions on job qualifications and merit, which include
the Supplier Code of Conduct when registering with education, experience, skills, ability and performance.
our eProcurement system. To raise awareness of the We give equal employment opportunity to – and will not
changes, we prompted visitors to PPG.com to review the discriminate against – individuals on the basis of any
updated policies. status protected by applicable laws.
Beyond these policy updates, we have continued our For more detailed information about our approach
work to uphold human rights across our value chain. to managing human rights in our operations and
We collaborate with a leading third-party ratings system value chain, visit PPG.com
to evaluate our suppliers’ sustainability practices and
partner with our most critical and highest risk suppliers
to improve their scores. Learn more in the supplier
sustainability section.
PPG ESG Report 2023 86
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
key suppliers assessed to sustainability and social responsibility criteria Evaluating supplier practices
Our procurement team has continued to improve our
97% 100%
approach to identifying opportunities for improvements
in our supply chain. We take a risk-based approach to
supply chain management and focus on the industries
and geographies most likely to have issues. In 2023, we
started using a new supplier monitoring tool to help us
We carefully select suppliers that share our understand where environmental, social and governance
commitment to operating more sustainably, and risks are concentrated along our supply chain. This is the
work throughout our supply chain to support newest in a suite of tools and informational databases
continued improvement. that we use to track our spending around the world and
understand the ESG practices of PPG suppliers. This
Approximately 96% of PPG’s emissions are in the value leading third-party tool helps our procurement team
chain, so we understand the criticality of working with review our entire supply chain’s performance across the
supplier and customer partners. In 2023, we spent categories of environmental, labor and human rights,
over $9.3B with more than 18,000 suppliers globally ethics and sustainable procurement practices.
on raw materials, indirect goods and services and
transportation of goods. We have prioritized work with a As PPG has grown through acquisition, we have
selection of key suppliers that represent the majority of inherited new suppliers that need to be onboarded to
our upstream scope 3 emissions. our procurement processes. We continued to onboard
suppliers into a leading third-party due diligence platform
We partner with suppliers to understand their current to evaluate suppliers’ sustainability practices. In early
practices and innovate products and processes that use 2023, we completed the process of integrating Tikkurila
less energy, produce less waste and avoid negative health suppliersinto our vendor management platform, marking
impacts on people throughout our value chain. By the end the completion of one of our largest integration efforts
of 2023, we assessed 820 suppliers, representing 63% to date. As of the end of 2023, 820 PPG suppliers have
of spend, against sustainability and social responsibility responded to surveys and received ratings from our
criteria, including 97% of PPG’s key suppliers. third-party platform.
PPG ESG Report 2023 87
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Recognizing responsible vendors
Every year, we recognize suppliers for responsible
business practices that exceed our expectations with
the Excellent Supplier Awards. There were eleven
award recipients in 2023. Our procurement, business
and functional teams evaluated and awarded suppliers
for competitive advantage and value, as well as
sustainability and supplier diversity.
Bringing sustainability expertise into our
procurement team
As our focus on sustainable supply chain management
continues to grow, we have added headcount within
PPG to support our suppliers and help build capacity
internally. In 2023, we created a new global ESG
procurement manager position, responsible for
collaborating with our global procurement team to
engage and educate suppliers on defining lower carbon
feedstocks and raw materials, setting expectations
for supplier GHG emissions reductions aligned to our
target, and tracking and monitoring supply chain due
diligence activities.
For more detailed information about our approach
to supplier sustainability, visit PPG.com
PPG ESG Report 2023 88
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Data highlights
Average EcoVadis score of suppliers
PPG supplier average score EcoVadis average score
Overall 58% 46%
Environment 62% 46%
Labor and human rights 59% 48%
Ethics 55% 44%
Sustainable procurement 51% 38%
Supplier sustainability audits by region
Region Onsite audits Remote audits
Europe, Middle East and Africa 38 21
U.S. and Canada 53 200+
Asia Pacific 48 1
Latin America 30 14
PPG ESG Report 2023 89
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
PPG is committed to ethical business conduct and
responsible sourcing.
Our policies, procedures, and controls help PPG further
the humanitarian goal of ending violent conflict and
inhumane treatment in countries these minerals are
sourced and aid in compliance with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission’s (SEC) rule on conflict minerals.
In 2023, our procurement team revised the global
Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy, formerly our
Conflict Minerals Policy, to expand its scope and ensure
alignment with current best practice. The updated
Responsible Minerals Sourcing Policy references our
Global Supplier Code of Conduct, which specifies
when and how PPG takes action where we find non-
compliance.
Conflict minerals currently include cassiterite, columbite/
tantalite, and wolframite (the most common derivatives
of which are tin, tantalum and tungsten, respectively)
and gold. Other minerals covered by the policy, including
cobalt, mica and silicon, may also be sourced from
areas where there is a risk of human rights abuses.
To learn more, read our most current Conflict
Minerals Report and read about our approach to
responsible mineral sourcing on PPG.com
PPG ESG Report 2023 90
Communities
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
With the support of funding from PPG and the PPG
Target 2023 progress
Foundation, our employees bring vibrant color and
brightness to the communities where we live and
$5 million additional commitment to Colorful $13.8 million donated by end of 2023, 92% of
work. Communities projects globally by 2030, with all committed funding
projects incorporating an element of sustainability,
PPG and the PPG Foundation invest in building the next making the total investment $15 million since 2015
generation of diverse and innovative STEM (science,
$20 million by 2025 to advance racial equity in $18.1 million donated by end of 2023, 89% of
technology, engineering and mathematics) leaders,
the U.S. by funding educational pathways for Black committed funding
delivering community transformations through our
communities and people of color
Colorful Communities projects and activating the talent
of our employees. From helping students thrive to
Other funding commitments
aiding our neighbors in times of need, our community
engagement activities support our company’s purpose
to protect and beautify the world. Commitment 2023 progress
NEW in 2023 $800,000 donated by end of 2023 40% of
$2 million to support workforce development committed funding
initiatives through 2025
NEW in 2023 $450,000 donated by end of 2023, 9% of
$5 million commitment by 2030 to environmental committed funding
sustainability education, aligned with climate action
and a more circular economy
PPG ESG Report 2023 92
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
In 2023, PPG Global Giving and the PPG Foundation
donated more than $17.5 million in total. More than 2,500
worldwide PPG volunteers* contributed more than 25,000
hours of their time. We partnered with more than 450
community organizations across 40 countries, to ensure
our funding and volunteer hours were put to the best
possible use in communities where we live and work.
PPG and the PPG Foundation announced two new
funding commitments in 2023, $2 million to support
workforce development programs through 2025 and $5
million to support environmental sustainability education
programs by 2030. These commitments reflect our
focus on ensuring the future workforce has the skills and
knowledge to succeed, regardless of where their career
journey takes them.
Our community engagement programs are organized
along three pillars:
- Education
- Community sustainability
- Employee engagement
*Volunteers only include those from Colorful Communities projects. PPG ESG Report 2023 93
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Community engagement around the world
PPG and the PPG Foundation aim to bring color and brightness to communities around the world. We supported hundreds of
organizations across more than 40 countries in 2023. By investing in educational opportunities and transforming community
assets, we help grow today’s skilled workforce and develop tomorrow’s innovators.
Sumaré, Brazil: PPG employee volunteers in Sumaré, Valladolid and Camarma de Esteruelas, Spain: PPG
Brazil, partnered with participants in the “Attitude for the supported girls’ interest in science, technology, engineering
Planet” program, a collaboration with Junior Achievement and math (STEM) fields at our Valladolid and Camarma
Brazil that addresses the social, economic and de Esteruelas automotive sites through our longstanding
environmental aspects of sustainability. national partnership with STEM Talent Girl.
Nickerie, Suriname: Colorful Communities project Vantaa, Finland: PPG provided a grant to the Finnish
volunteers helped to revitalize the OS Skroetjie primary Science Centre, Heureka to support STEM education and
school. workshops for young students.
Jingmen, China: Combining PPG’s Colorful Communities Pretoria, South Africa: PPG volunteers participated in a
program with the Chevrolet Red Chalk teacher support New Paint for a New Start project to refurbish more than 10
program for schools in rural regions, New Paint for a New school buildings, including 33 classrooms, at the Mamelodi
Start completed a colorful makeover at Caochang Primary Secondary School.
School. Caochang, a rural school that serves seven villages
with a total population of over 13,000, is currently home to Denver, Colorado: PPG employees participated in a
more than 470 students and educators. New Paint for A New Start project at the Dr. Martin Luther
King, Jr. Early College. The project brought a fresh coat
Dahej, India: Volunteers from PPG and Asian Paints helped of paint to classrooms, hallways and offices, and was
revitalize the Dahej Kanyashala primary school for girls. complemented by a STEM grant to support programs like
state competitions and certification classes.
PPG ESG Report 2023 94
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Education STEM education with
ScienceFest
PPG has a longstanding commitment to support
education in the communities where we operate. Our goal
is to build the next generation of diverse and innovative
PPG and the PPG Foundation are focused on
science, technology, engineering and math (STEM)
inspiring and supporting young people with an
leaders by inspiring learning and cultivating careers for
interest in STEM. In 2023, PPG partnered with
students of all ages. In 2023, we reached more than
VědaFest, or ScienceFest, the largest open-air
three million students across the range of educational
science event in Czechia.
programming that we support.
During the event, PPG sought to inspire young
In 2023, PPG and the PPG Foundation announced two
minds through interactive experiments, hands-
new educational commitments: a $2 million commitment
on activities and demonstrations. Visitors had
to support workforce development initiatives through 2025
the opportunity to participate in experiments to
and a $5 million commitment to support environmental
explore water repellency, create color-changing
education by 2030. Both of these commitments aim to
fabrics, develop “blue” photos using a cyanotype
support the next generation of innovators. Our workforce
process, test out glowing solutions and more.
development commitment will introduce students to a
Czech artist Klaudie Svrckova captured these
diverse array of high-tech career paths within modern
experiences on canvas using PRIMALEX™ paints
industry and provide them with educational opportunities
by PPG, which were then donated to the House
to pursue fields such as advanced manufacturing,
of Children and Youth of the Capital Prague.
automotive collision repair, automotive refinishing and
painting, and decorative and industrial painting. The
With PPG’s support, the festival delivered
environmental education commitment will provide
educational inspiration to hundreds of student
students and teachers with education on a range of topics
participants. By supporting educational events
related to climate action and circularity, including recycling
like ScienceFest, PPG is helping to develop the
and reuse, clean energy, climate change, energy efficiency
next generation of STEM innovators. Learn more
and more. As with all of our support for educational
about the educational programming we support
programming, these commitments are geared toward
on our community engagement page.
preparing students for future STEM careers.
PPPPGG EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 22002233 0905
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Educators NEED Our $20 million commitment to advance racial equity in
the U.S. also centers around education. We are focused
energy education
on funding educational pathways for Black communities
and people of color to help support equity in STEM
In the fall of 2023, PPG and the PPG Foundation teamed fields. To that end, we have made 89% progress and are
up with National Energy Education Development (NEED) on track to meet our commitment ahead of schedule.
to host a series of Energy Education Workshops. NEED’s Funding has supported a wide variety of educational
mission is to promote an energy conscious and educated programs, including Colorful Communities projects
society by creating effective networks of students, in diverse communities, social justice partnerships,
educators, business, government and community leaders. and other programs identified by PPG employees
and community partners. Learn more about our work
The goal of the Energy Education Workshops was to to advance racial equity in the diversity, equity and
create starting points and classroom inspirations for inclusion section.
STEM careers that can help to address climate change
and protect our environment. PPG employees and
leadership volunteered their time to participate, providing
an overview of sustainability and renewable energy
practices at PPG. The workshops equipped approximately
60 teachers with hands on training, activities, and tools to
take back to their classrooms in Pittsburgh and Cleveland.
This partnership between NEED and the PPG
Foundation aligns with PPG’s commitment to invest
$5 million by 2030 in educational programming
related to environmental sustainability. Learn more
about the educational programs we support on our
Communities website.
PPPPGG EESSGG RReeppoorrtt 22002233 0906
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
STREAM Global
Innovations partnership
Particularly in under-resourced communities, many
young people face systemic barriers that limit their
exposure to professional mentorship and career
opportunities. PPG is committed to supporting
education and career development in our communities
around the world.
In 2023, PPG continued our longstanding partnership
with S.T.R.E.A.M.™ Global Innovations (STREAM), a global
non-profit focused on connecting the dots between
education and career access in under-resourced
communities. PPG and STREAM co-hosted events at
local schools, where PPG volunteers interacted directly
with students – bringing professional experience and
innovation into the classroom. Beyond these events,
members of PPG’s Black Employee Network and Latino
Employee Network connected directly with student
groups.
Over the course of the year, we reached more than
2,700 students and almost 100 teachers and school
staff through this partnership. We’re continuing to
develop our partnership, with events already planned
around the country for 2024.
PPG ESG Report 2023 97
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Celebrating 500 Colorful
Community sustainability
Communities Projects
The Colorful Communities program, PPG’s signature
initiative for supporting communities, aims to
In October 2023, we celebrated the completion of our
protect and beautify the neighborhoods where
500th Colorful Communities project – a colorful and
PPG operates around the world. We bring together
transformational makeover at Carnegie Science Center in
committed volunteers and PPG paint to bring colorful
PPG’s hometown of Pittsburgh. More than 80 volunteers
transformations to schools, hospitals, and other
marked the milestone by creating science-themed murals
community spaces. Our employees completed 60
and applying fresh paint and color in learning spaces
Colorful Communities projects in 2023, bringing the total
around the center.
number of projects completed to more than 500 since
the program’s inception in 2015.
Over the course of the 500 projects completed since
2015, PPG employee volunteers have reached diverse
A central component of the Colorful Communities
communities and important spaces in need of bright and
program is our New Paint for a New Start initiative, which
colorful transformations, positively impacting more than
focuses on using color to create engaging environments
9.2 million people in 50 countries. Since its inception, the
for students to learn and grow. During the months of
program has:
June, July and August 2023, the New Paint for a New
Start initiative transformed 27 schools and impacted
- Used nearly 52,500 gallons of paint to create spaces
more than 12,200 students and educators.
where students are encouraged to learn and thrive,
patients and their families feel hope and support,
and communities are inspired
- Completed projects at more than 40 community
centers and nearly 30 hospitals or healthcare facilities
- Reached students in more than 140 educational
spaces to provide environments where young
learners feel engaged and supported
- Used PPG expertise to elevate the positive impact
that color can have on a space
- Empowered nearly 25,000 volunteers to spend over
160,000 hours revitalizing important spaces
PPG ESG Report 2023 98
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Employee engagement Community
sustainability and
We strive to activate the talent and time of our global
network of employees to make a difference where
disaster relief
they live, work and play. PPG employees use their time,
talents and financial resources to support causes they
believe in. In 2023, our people brought their expertise to In 2023, PPG and the PPG Foundation
bear for a total of 25,000 volunteer hours, including by donated more than $6.2 million to community
participating in career panels, mentoring opportunities, sustainability and disaster relief efforts. These
and volunteering in classrooms to foster a love of STEM. donations go to organizations like the Red
Cross, as well as local government agencies
For more detailed information about our ongoing dedicated to helping those impacted by
approach to community engagement, visit PPG.com disasters or humanitarian crises.
Learn more about PPG’s community engagement In Emilia-Romagna, Italy, PPG contributed a
activities and read the most recent updates at disaster relief grant and matched employee
PPG.com donations to recovery efforts following
catastrophic flooding that affected more than
50,000 people across 100 towns and cities.
PPG supported similar disaster relief projects
in Turkey, Slovenia and Morocco over the
course of the year.
Image Copyright
Regione Emilia-Romagna A.I.C.G.
PPG ESG Report 2023 99
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
2023 Data highlights
Giving by Priority Area
2023
Education $10.3 million
Community Sustainability $6.2 million
Employee Engagement $966,000
2023 Community Investments
2023
Community engagement-related marketing $379,500
Colorful Communities program $2,600,000
Business unit contributions $1,928,000
Global giving grants $2,616,000
PPG Foundation $9,494,000
Product donations $495,500
Employee volunteer hours 25,000
PPG ESG Report 2023 100
Transparency
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
We have an unwavering commitment to strong - New financial policies: The Board approved new
corporate governance, ethics and compliance. stand-alone policies for compensation recovery and
insider trading. Developing these new polices reflects
30%
Corporate governance our comprehensive approach to governance and
facilitates more transparent Board oversight. The
At PPG, we hold ourselves to high standards of integrity Human Capital Management and Compensation of Board members
and professional conduct. This means going beyond Committee is now responsible for overseeing these are diverse by
gender
ensuring compliance with laws, rules and regulations, policies and will receive updates on progress as
40%
and upholding our values, code of ethics and voluntary necessary.
commitments. We review and update our policies
of Board members
regularly to ensure they support us in meeting our high - Board composition: The composition of our Board
are diverse by racial
standards of integrity and professional conduct. Key continues to evolve as directors retire and new
background
33%
policy updates and other governance developments in members join, bringing fresh perspectives and
2023 include: expertise. Last year, we added one new director
and had two directors retire. In addition, one director of Executive Committee
- CEO transition: The Board oversaw and managed retired in February 2024. This ongoing Board Members are women
(as of February 16, 2024)
the successful transition to our new chairman and refreshment process allows PPG to respond more
9 of 10
CEO, Tim Knavish. The selection process included nimbly to the external environment by drawing on
an extensive review of potential candidates, in-depth the diverse perspectives and backgrounds of our
interviews and consultation with outside experts to members. The Board is currently comprised of 10 Data as of May 2024 Board members are
independent
determine the best path for the selection process. members, divided into three classes. Terms of the
classes are staggered, with one class standing for
election each year. Pursuant to our amended Articles
of Incorporation, all directors will be elected annually
beginning at PPG’s 2025 Annual Meeting.
PPG ESG Report 2023 102
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Sustainability governance Enhancing employee awareness of our incident At PPG, we have accomplished strong results in
reporting mechanisms was a focus area in 2023. 2023 through upholding processes, onboarding
We have a centralized sustainability organization We launched an internal communications campaign and awareness to anti-corruption and bribery.
responsible for developing our corporate sustainability to promote the availability of these channels and We will continue the work with suppliers to ensure
strategy and working across the business to execute that encourage employees to ‘Speak Up.’ To better reach they meet our anti-corruption standards and policies,
strategy. The Board engages with management on ESG frontline employees who don’t work at a computer, among other activities.
strategy, climate change risks and opportunities, and has we hosted live engagements with line managers and
oversight of the tracking of our sustainability progress. employees at our manufacturing and distribution For links to PPG’s Global Code of Ethics,
The vice president, global sustainability reported facilities. Across the company, we distributed wallet as well as other public policies, see the
progress to the Sustainability and Innovation Committee cards and posters with QR codes linking to our incident Policies page on PPG.com
three times in 2023, and the full Board of Directors once. reporting channels and Global Code of Ethics.
Compliance with our Code of Conduct Codes and policies
In 2023, we opened 858 investigations encompassing The PPG Global Code of Ethics, which is available in
1,228 allegations of employee misconduct. Of the 32 languages, sets forth the principles that apply to
allegations closed as of year’s end, 58% were all employees everywhere and in every circumstance.
substantiated and resulted in 418 disciplinary actions. Supplementing the code are specific policies and
54% of these reports came through the PPG Ethics procedures that include our Global Export Control Policy,
Helpline in the form of phone or internet submissions. Gifts, Sponsorships and Charitable Contributions Policy,
We received the remainder through internal sources, Anti-Corruption Policy, Due Diligence Procedure for Third
including direct communications to the compliance Party Intermediaries, Social Media Policy and Denied
department, human resources and management. Country Policy.
Through our Anti-Corruption Policy, PPG prohibits
bribery and corruption in all of its business dealings
in all countries. The policy applies to all transactions
between PPG and every other party, regardless of
whether it is between PPG and a private entity or
PPG and a government official.
PPG ESG Report 2023 103
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Investigations by Region Substantiation Rate
Percent
2021 2022 2023
2022 2023
Asia Pacific 80 93 81
PPG 61% 58%
Europe, Middle East and Africa 74 83 102
Benchmark 52% 46%
Latin America 123 131 183
Benchmarks represent comparisons to other manufacturing companies with
United States and Canada 381 403 492 50,000+ employees. Data for 2023 are as of Jan. 31, 2024.
Total 658 710 858
Anonymous Reporting Rate
Disciplinary Actions
2022 2023
PPG 37% 42%
2021 2022 2023
Benchmark 47% 49%
Warning 200 216 204
Benchmarks represent comparisons to other manufacturing companies with
Financial 7 10 7
50,000+ employees. Data for 2023 are as of Dec. 31, 2023.
Termination 127 173 207
Case Intake Method
A single allegation may be made against multiple individuals and could result in multiple disciplinary actions.
The 2023 data include only investigations closed as of Jan. 31, 2024.
2020 2021 2022 2023
We no longer report suspension as a disciplinary action, as they only occur in certain countries where
the labor law recognizes this option. Often, suspensions are employed as an interim solution during the
Helpline 318 323 352 466
pendency of an investigation until the matter is resolved.
Proxy 273 336 359 392
PPG ESG Report 2023 104
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
We apply industry standard cybersecurity and data Our data privacy policies are designed to prevent The data privacy and compliance organization have
privacy protocols and practices throughout PPG. unauthorized access to, and disclosure of, personal a close collaboration and frequent touchpoints. The
information using a range of operational and effort comprises members from our IT and compliance
PPG’s cybersecurity program protects and preserves technological safeguards. Our employees receive teams, and their goal is to foster collaboration between
the confidentiality, integrity and continued availability of comprehensive training on data privacy concepts to these two key functions. The functions meet regularly
our networks, systems and information. We follow the prevent misuse of personal information. and review IT-related compliance risks and ensure we
U.S. National Institute for Standards and Technology remain current with regulatory requirements as they
(NIST) and other applicable industry frameworks. We Cybersecurity and data privacy governance evolve. In the data privacy area, we formed a Global
implement physical, organizational and technological improvements Data Privacy Council with members representing key
safeguards to protect information about our customers, stakeholders from departments handling personal
employees and suppliers. We regularly assess and measure against industry information or supporting relevant systems and
practices to identify opportunities to improve people, processes. The council oversees all data privacy
processes and technology used to identify, prevent, compliance activities at a global level.
detect, respond and recover from cybersecurity
incidents. A key focus in 2023 was strengthening Progress in addressing cybersecurity and data privacy
corporate governance over data privacy along with issues is crucial for maintaining trust with PPG’s
continued investment in cybersecurity at PPG. We stakeholders. We will continue to monitor digital threats
established an executive council to oversee the and adapt our approach to safeguarding confidential
management of our information technology (IT) and information.
cybersecurity programs. Ensuring that our leadership
has a clear understanding of cybersecurity risks and
strategies also helps us appropriately allocate resources
to address these issues.
PPG ESG Report 2023 105
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Learn more about our standing approach to
cybersecurity and data privacy on PPG.com
Reducing emissions
Learn more, access our Global Data Privacy
from data centers
Statement and contact us at our privacy website.
Data centers are important enablers of PPG’s operations,
as they allow for the electronic storage, processing and
dissemination of data and applications. Physical data
centers are energy intensive and rely on continuous and
reliable electricity. As part of our efforts to reduce energy
use across the company, we have been transitioning
our data to cloud service providers, such as AWS and
Azure. These cloud providers are more than three times
as energy efficient when compared with our internally
managed physical data centers.
As of the end of 2023, 72% of our IT operations are
managed through the cloud. We were able to shut down
four out of eight physical data centers, which reduced
our annual energy consumption by an estimated 940
mWh. This transition also reduced our greenhouse
gas emissions by 471 metric tons of CO equivalent,
2
comparable to 112 gasoline-powered passenger
vehicles driven for one year.
PPG ESG Report 2023 106
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
We are committed to transparent reporting on This report, inclusive of the 2023 reporting year, includes We encourage feedback on this report and our
our sustainability and environmental, social and forward-looking statements within the meaning of the sustainability performance via email, a short
governance (ESG) approach and performance. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including online survey or a letter sent to PPG, One PPG
statements regarding our sustainability; suppliers; Place, Pittsburgh, PA 15272, Attention: Corporate
PPG recognizes the importance of clear, accurate culture; diversity, equity and inclusion; community Communications.
reporting on the ways that we manage ESG risks, act engagement; and related goals, commitments
on opportunities and understand the impacts of our and strategies. These statements involve risks and PPG Coatings Denmark A/S’s Statutory Report on Social
business on our stakeholders. We aim to consistently uncertainties. Our actual future results, including the Responsibility, cf. Section 99a of the Danish Financial
advance our disclosure as we improve our approach to achievement of our targets, goals or commitments, Statements Act.
managing ESG issues. could differ materially from our projected results as the
result of changes in circumstances, assumptions not
This report has been prepared in accordance with being realized, or other risks, uncertainties and factors,
the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, the including due to the risks and uncertainties that are
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) discussed in our most recently filed periodic reports on
Chemical Industry Standard and the Task Force Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K
on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and subsequent filings. We assume no obligation to
recommendations. The sustainability approach update any forward-looking statements or information,
described in this report supports progress against the which speak as of the date of this report.
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Relevant indices are available on PPG.com. In 2023, we again engaged Lloyd’s Register Quality
Assurance to provide limited assurance on our scope
Unless otherwise noted, the information and data 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions data. We
contained in this report cover all employees, PPG are confident our internal processes provide sufficient
locations and joint ventures where we maintain at least oversight regarding the accuracy of all other information
50% ownership. Monetary figures are U.S. dollars unless we present, and we continue to explore assurance
otherwise noted. options to provide independent verification of our
disclosure as expectations evolve.
PPG ESG Report 2023 107
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
Multi-year data highlights
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Economic
Net sales (millions) $15,146 $13,834 $16,802 $17,652 $18,200
Adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations1 $6.22 $6.12 $6.77 $6.05 $7.67
Dividends per share $1.86 $1.98 $2.26 $2.42 $2.54
Environmental2
Percent of sales from sustainably advantaged products 33% 35% 38% 39% 44%
Total waste disposed (thousand metric tons) 112.49 89.68 90.18 116.70 99.12
Total waste (thousand metric tons) 194.62 164.39 170.148 188.173 179.189
Total waste intensity (metric tons per 100 metric tons of production) 4.25 3.84 3.87 4.50 4.55
Total process recovery waste (percent) 42% 45% 47% 38% 45%
Hazardous waste generated (thousand metric tons) 112.66 93.70 96.12 87.61 98.14
Recycled or recovered hazardous waste (percent) 47% 52% 54% 53% 53%
Hazardous waste disposed (thousand metric tons) 59.59 45.28 43.91 41.40 45.83
Non-hazardous waste generated (thousand metric tons) 8.20 7.07 7.40 10.06 8.11
Recycled or recovered non-hazardous waste (percent) 35% 37% 38% 25% 34%
Non-hazardous waste disposed (thousand metric tons) 52.90 44.40 46.26 75.30 53.29
1 Beginning in 2021, the Company reports adjusted earnings per diluted share excluding amortization expense relating to intangible assets from completed acquisitions.
Adjusted earnings per diluted share for 2020 has been recast to exclude acquisition-related amortization expense. Refer to the Regulation G Reconciliation in Item 7 of the
respective Form 10-K for reconciliation of reported earnings per diluted share from continuing operations to adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations.
2 Environmental data changes from prior reporting reflect adjustments for acquired and divested locations from the 2019 baseline onward.
Energy data also include adjustments for closed locations.
PPG ESG Report 2023 108
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Environmental2
Water withdrawn (million cubic meters) 18.73 15.28 17.72 17.73 14.86
Water discharged (milllion cubic meters) 13.87 13.29 14.38 14.64 12.39
Net water consumption (million cubic meters) 4.86 1.99 3.35 3.09 2.47
Water intensity at priority water sites (cubic meters per metric ton of production) 1.26 1.32 1.30 1.38 1.09
Energy consumption (million gigajoules) 13.40 11.03 12.82 12.71 12.41
Total energy intensity (gigajoules per metric ton of production) 2.93 2.58 2.91 3.04 3.15
Direct energy intensity (gigajoules per metric ton of production) 1.69 1.46 1.74 1.78 1.81
Indirect energy intensity (gigajoules per metric ton of production) 1.23 1.12 1.18 1.26 1.43
Scope 1 and 2 total greenhouse gas emissions (million metric tons of CO e) 1.05 0.90 0.97 0.97 0.94
2
Scope 1 and 2 total greenhouse gas emissions intensity
0.23 0.21 0.22 0.23 0.24
(metric tons of COe per metric ton of production)
2
Direct (scope 1) greenhouse gas emissions (million metric tons of COe) 0.44 0.36 0.44 0.43 0.42
2
Indirect (scope 2) greenhouse gas emissions (million metric tons of COe) 0.62 0.54 0.53 0.54 0.53
2
Value Chain (scope 3) greenhouse gas emissions
21.05 19.59 20.42 19.7 18.54
(million metric tons of COe), reflective of reporting categories 1, 10 and 12
2
Purchased goods and services (category 1) 5.94 5.67 6.4 5.73 5.25
Processing of sold products (category 10) 11.6 10.56 10.22 10.45 10.31
End-of-life treatment of sold products (category 12) 3.5 3.36 3.8 3.51 2.98
Spills and releases rate (total spills and releases per 1,000 employees) 1.25 1.24 1.28 1.50 1.59
2 Environmental data changes from prior reporting reflect adjustments for acquired and divested locations from the 2019 baseline onward.
Energy data also include adjustments for closed locations.
PPG ESG Report 2023 109
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Social
Total employees 47,600 46,900 49,300 52,000 50,000
Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0
PPG injury and illness rate 0.32 0.26 0.26 0.32 0.32
Charitable contributions (millions) $11.80 $13.00 $13.30 $16.20 $17.50
Employee volunteer hours 36,000 3,587 11,750 25,000 25,000
PPG ESG Report 2023 110
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
2022 ESG Report Annual Report and Form 10-K
2021 ESG Report Executive Summary
2021 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Report
2020 Sustainability Report Executive Summary
2019 Sustainability Report Executive Summary
2018 Sustainability Report Executive Summary
2017 Sustainability Report Executive Summary
2016 Sustainability Report Executive Summary
2015 Sustainability Report Executive Summary
2014 Sustainability Report Executive Summary
2013 Sustainability Report
2012 Sustainability Report
2011 Sustainability Report
2010 Sustainability Report
2009 Sustainability Report
2008 Sustainability Report
PPG ESG Report 2023 111
Sustainability Financial Products Environment People Suppliers Communities Transparency
This ESG Report contains forward-looking statements Many factors could cause actual events to differ This ESG Report also includes forward-looking
that reflect PPG’s current views with respect to future materially from PPG’s forward-looking statements. statements regarding our sustainability; safety and
events and financial performance. These statements Such factors include statements related to the potential health; cybersecurity; culture; diversity, equity and
involve risks and uncertainties. You can identify forward- effects on our business of COVID-19, geopolitical events, inclusion; community engagement; and related goals,
looking statements by the fact that they do not relate global economic conditions, increasing price and commitments and strategies.
strictly to current or historic facts. Forward looking product competition by our competitors, fluctuations
statements are identified by the use of the words “aim,” in cost and availability of raw materials, energy, labor Our actual future results, including the achievement
“believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate,” and logistics, the ability to achieve selling price of our targets, goals or commitments, could differ
“project,” “outlook,” “forecast” and other expressions increases, the ability to recover margins, customer and materially from our projected results as the result of
that indicate future events and trends. Many factors PPG inventory levels, our ability to maintain favorable changes in circumstances, assumptions not being
could cause actual results to differ materially from PPG’s supplier relationships and arrangements, the timing realized, or other risks, uncertainties and factors.
forward-looking statements. of and the realization of anticipated cost savings from
restructuring initiatives, the ability to identify additional Consequences of material differences in the results
cost savings opportunities, the timing and expected compared with those anticipated in the forward looking
benefits of our acquisitions, difficulties in integrating statements could include, among other things, lower
acquired businesses and achieving expected synergies sales or income, business disruption, operational
therefrom, economic and political conditions in the problems, financial loss, reputational harm, legal liability
markets we serve, the ability to penetrate existing, to third parties, other factors set forth in the Risk Factors
developing and emerging foreign and domestic markets, sections of our most recently filed periodic reports on
foreign exchange rates and fluctuations in such rates, Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, any of which could have a
fluctuations in tax rates, the impact of future legislation, material adverse effect on PPG’s consolidated financial
the impact of environmental regulations, unexpected condition, results of operations or liquidity. Any forward-
business disruptions, and the unpredictability of existing looking statement speaks only as of the date on which
and possible future litigation. However, it is not possible such statement is made, and PPG undertakes no
to predict or identify all such factors. Unlisted factors obligation to update any forward-looking statement,
may present significant additional obstacles to the whether as a result of new information, future events
realization of forward-looking statements. While the list or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any
of factors presented here is considered representative, further disclosures we make on related subjects in our
not such list should be considered to be a complete reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.
PPG ESG Report 2023 112
Please consider
the environment
before printing
this report.
The PPG logo, Colorful Communities, and We Protect and Beautify the World are registered trademarks of PPG Industries Ohio, Inc. Comex is a registered trademark and Top is a trademark of Consorcio Comex, S.A. de C.V.
Tikkurila is a registered trademark of Tikkurila Oyj. Primalex is a trademark of PPG Deco Czech a.s. (Czech Republic). Glidden is a registered trademark and Cool Surface Technology, Glidden Max Flex and Pitt-Therm are
trademarks of PPG Architectural Finishes, Inc. Guittet, Seigneurie and Odyssée are trademarks of PPG AC France. Dyrup is a trademark of PPG Coatings Danmark A/S. Enviroprime and PPG Paints are trademark of PPG
Industries Australia Pty Ltd. All company names and third-party marks appearing in this report are property of their respective owners. © 2024 PPG Industries, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
