PPL CORPORATION
2023 Sustainability Report
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2
This annual Sustainability Report has been prepared with reference to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards
including the GRI Electric Utility Sector Supplement. We have also addressed topics identified in the Sustainability
Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Electric Utilities and Power Generators and Gas Utilities and Distributors Standards,
INTRODUCTION
as well as recommendations from the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
Our views about the company’s direct and indirect impacts, risks, challenges and opportunities are presented throughout
this report and in other publicly available documents. This report covers activities that occurred in calendar year 2023 and
SUSTAINABILITY
contains the best information available at the time of publication. Unless otherwise noted, figures reported are through
STRATEGY
Dec. 31, 2023. Environmental, social and governance data can be challenging to accurately measure. We correct and
About this report
report errors in prior-year data when found, and we work to continually improve our data measurement, gathering and
reporting processes to support the integrity of information presented.
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT The report is reviewed by the company’s leadership team, including the chief executive officer. The Corporate Audit
department has conducted reviews related to the compilation of this report, including in-depth reviews of specific metrics,
as part of ongoing controls related to voluntary sustainability reporting. An external audit has not been conducted.
SOCIAL You can find more information about PPL and our sustainability performance at pplweb.com/sustainability.
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT TABLE OF CONTENTS
About PPL Energy & Environment Social Impact Responsible Governance & Management
APPENDIX Message from Clean energy transition ...........................15 Stakeholder engagement .......................33 Governance structure and practices ...............53
our president and CEO ..............................3
Environmental stewardship Energy equity, environmental Compensation .................................................54
About PPL .................................................4 and resource management .....................26 justice and a just transition .....................34
Financial performance .....................................55
Performance data ......................................7 Water use and stewardship .....................28 Economic development ..........................37
Enterprise risk management ..........................56
Sustainability strategy .............................10 Waste management ................................29 Charitable giving .....................................38
Cybersecurity ..................................................57
Biodiversity ..............................................30 Safety .....................................................39
Supply chain management ..............................59
Vegetation management .........................31 Emergency preparedness ......................41
Ethics and compliance ....................................60
Customer experience .............................42
Public policy ....................................................62
Employees ..............................................44
Diversity, equity and inclusion ................45
Appendix
Workforce strategy .................................47
Material topics and
alignment with UNSDGs ...................................65
Voluntary Disclosures Index .............................66
Additional resources ........................................80
Metrics ..............................................................81
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3
Message from our President and CEO
INTRODUCTION
As we pursue our vision to be the best utility company in also received the green light to invest up to $153 million
the U.S. and our strategy to create the utilities of the future, to deploy advanced metering across Rhode Island, an
SUSTAINABILITY we never lose sight of the vital service we provide to power important step in creating a smarter, more resilient, more
STRATEGY people’s lives. reliable and more dynamic grid capable of supporting the
state’s ambitious climate goals.
That’s a responsibility we don’t take lightly.
Looking ahead, we recognize we still have room to improve
Our commitment to act responsibly guides our efforts as we
as we pursue our vision to be the best utility company in the
ENERGY & prepare the grid for climate change and transition our
U.S., and our focus in 2024 continues to be executing our As we continue to position ourselves to create long-term
ENVIRONMENT operations to a cleaner energy future, all while maintaining
utility of the future strategy. value for our customers and shareowners, we will engage
safe, reliable and affordable service for our 3.6 million
with stakeholders to drive legislative, regulatory and market
customers. We are affordably and reliably transitioning our fleet to
design changes that ensure we preserve sufficient
cleaner sources and remain on track to achieve net-zero
SOCIAL I’m very proud of what our PPL team was able to dispatchable generation capacity to meet our customers'
carbon emissions by 2050, along with our interim
accomplish in 2023. growing needs, including demand from data centers and
greenhouse gas reduction targets of 70% by 2035 and
We achieved top-quartile reliability at each of our utilities, 80% by 2040. other areas of economic growth and electrification.
record reliability for our companies in Kentucky and Rhode We will remain focused on best positioning PPL to
GOVERNANCE Island, and generation reliability in Kentucky that was We’re engaged in more than 150 active research projects, attract, engage and retain the best and brightest from an
& MANAGEMENT among the very best in the nation — all despite heightened with more than $100 million in active federal funding, to increasingly diverse talent pool in the U.S. and we will
accelerate development and commercialization of clean
storm activity across the regions we serve. continue to foster professional development and employee
energy technologies needed to achieve a net-zero carbon
We continued to enhance our safety programs with a strong future. engagement. In 2023, women held 36% of leadership
APPENDIX focus on reducing the severity of injuries and ensuring all positions and ethnic and racially diverse employees held
employees and contractors return to their families safe and We’re strengthening our transmission and distribution 17% of leadership positions.
systems to protect against climate impacts and keep
well at the end of each day. Finally, we will continue to support the success of the
our systems and data secure against cyber threats.
We completed $2.4 billion of planned capital investments to communities we serve — in 2023, our company and
advance a reliable, resilient, affordable and cleaner energy We’re expanding our industry-leading use of smart grid, affiliated foundations donated more than $13.6 million
future. automation, data analytics and AI to automate outage through philanthropy to improve lives, enable new growth
detection and response, support proactive asset and support economic development.
We continued to find ways to operate more efficiently, replacement and promote self-healing.
exceeding our annual operations and maintenance savings Guided by our responsible business strategy and strong
target and delivering $75 million in savings for 2023 through We’re focused on preparing our energy infrastructure to governance, we are confident that we will deliver a
our strong, enterprise-wide focus on technology and reliably meet two to three times today’s electricity demand sustainable energy future that benefits our customers,
as electrification and economy-wide decarbonization our employees, our communities and our shareowners.
business transformation.
progress. In addition, we’re intent on expanding our ability
Thank you for your interest in PPL, and we invite you to
These operational and financial achievements were to reliably manage two-way power flows and balance the
read more about our progress and plans in this report,
matched by strong results elsewhere that position us for grid as distributed energy resources increase.
which provides transparent and standardized disclosure
future success.
Lastly, we’re committed to expanding self-service options of our sustainability performance.
In Kentucky, we received regulatory approval to retire for our customers, using digital tools to enhance the
600 megawatts of aging coal generation and more than customer experience, and keeping energy as affordable as Sincerely,
50 megawatts of aging peaking units by 2027 and replace possible. In 2023, we helped connect customers to more
them with an affordable, reliable and cleaner energy mix. than $47 million in energy assistance to reduce the energy
We secured approval of our first Infrastructure, Safety and burden on low-income customers. Our utility of the future
Reliability plans since acquiring Rhode Island Energy. We strategy will continue to prioritize affordability and reliability Vince Sorgi
moving forward. PPL President and Chief Executive Officer
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4
About PPL
INTRODUCTION
WHO WE ARE WHAT WE BELIEVE
PPL Corporation (NYSE: PPL), headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, Our values guide our progress toward
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY is a leading U.S. energy company focused on providing electricity and natural gas safely, becoming the best utility in the U.S.
reliably and affordably to more than 3.6 million customers in the U.S.
Safety - We never compromise on safety and health
for our employees, contractors, customers and the
ENERGY & HOW WE MEASURE SUCCESS
ENVIRONMENT public. We’re committed to ensuring everyone on our
Our vision at PPL is to be the best utility company in the U.S. Here's how we will define success.
properties goes home safely at the end of every day.
Top quartile in Passion - We love what we do, we bring our energy
SOCIAL Premium stock
Top decile in customer satisfaction, and enthusiasm to work each day, we care about each
valuation relative
safety nationally reliability and cost other, and we’re driven to deliver long-term value for
to peers
efficiency nationally our customers and shareowners.
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT
Innovation - We anticipate our customers’
future needs and innovate to meet them.
We’re agile, creative and committed to continuous
APPENDIX
improvement.
Responsibility - Individually, and as teams,
$8.3 Billion 3.6 Million 6,600
we’re accountable for our actions and results. As a
in annual revenue utility customers in the U.S. Employees company, we’re good stewards of the environment
and we strengthen the communities we serve.
Integrity - We are transparent, ethical and fair in
all we do, and we comply with legal and regulatory
7,500 MW 71,700 GWh requirements.
of regulated generation capacity in Kentucky of electricity delivered
Teamwork - We act as OnePPL, one company
and one team. We leverage our collective and unique
talents, knowledge and experiences to deliver better
results for our customers. We value diversity, equity,
inclusion and respect.
86,500 Miles 7,700 Miles
approximate miles of electric power lines approximate miles of gas distribution mains
As of Dec. 31, 2023
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5
Our companies
INTRODUCTION
PPL’s high-performing, award-winning utilities are addressing energy
challenges head-on by building smarter, more resilient and more dynamic
SUSTAINABILITY
power grids and advancing sustainable energy solutions.
STRATEGY
Louisville Gas and Electric Company
and Kentucky Utilities Company
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT Louisville Gas and Electric Company (LG&E)
and Kentucky Utilities Company (KU) provide
essential energy services to more than 1.3 million
SOCIAL customers throughout Kentucky and parts of
Virginia. LG&E and KU also operate about
7,500 megawatts of power generation.
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT PPL Electric Utilities Corporation
PPL Electric Utilities Corporation (PPL Electric)
provides electricity distribution and transmission
APPENDIX
services to about 1.5 million customers in
Pennsylvania.
Rhode Island Energy
Rhode Island Energy (RIE) provides essential
energy services to nearly 800,000 homes and
businesses across Rhode Island through the
delivery of electricity and natural gas.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 6
Awards and recognition
INTRODUCTION
SUSTAINABILITY 2023 Charles Steinmetz Top Innovator Award
‘Top 20’ U.S. utility in economic Champion of Board Diversity for having at least
STRATEGY in Grid Operations for groundbreaking additions
development (LG&E and KU) 30% of its board consisting of women (PPL)
to its distribution system (PPL Electric)
Site Selection Magazine Forum of Executive Women
Public Utilities Fortnightly
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT
Emergency Response Awards for
ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year Award
Edison Award for industry-leading Dynamic restoration efforts related to severe
for energy efficiency program
SOCIAL Line Rating technology (PPL Electric) weather in our service territories
(PPL Electric and RIE)
(LG&E and KU, PPL Electric and RIE)
Edison Electric Institute
U.S. Department of Energy
Edison Electric Institute
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT
Named one of America’s Greatest
APPENDIX Workplaces for Women 2023 (PPL)
Newsweek Platinum Award for worksite wellness to Received the top score of 100% on the
recognize exceptional commitment to employee 2023 Disability Equality Index (DEI),
well-being, integration of wellness into the earning the designation as one of the best places
workplace, and exemplary leadership in to work for people with disabilities (PPL)
managing employee benefits (LG&E and KU)
Disability:IN and the American
Recognized as one of the top utilities in the Worksite Wellness Council Association of People with Disabilities
nation for workforce diversity in 2023 (PPL)
DiversityInc
Recognized as Utility Communicator of the
Technology Transfer Awards for achievements Trendsetter Award in 2023 for political
Year, receiving 18 awards for customer
in innovation, sustainability, research disclosures and accountability (PPL)
communications throughout Kentucky
and development (LG&E and KU)
(LG&E and KU) Center for Political Accountability and the
Electric Power Research Institute Zicklin Center for Business Ethics Research
Utility Communicators International
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7
Performance data
INTRODUCTION
Key performance indicators in support of our sustainability efforts in 2023
SUSTAINABILITY
ENERGY PORTFOLIO 2023
STRATEGY
GENERATION
Generation capacity (MW) 7,535
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT
Owned net generation (MWh) 29,422,636
Generation efficiency (MMBtu/owned net MWh) 9.8
SOCIAL
EMISSIONS
Net-zero goal-related emissions (COe) (metric tonnes)1 25,761,892
GOVERNANCE 2
& MANAGEMENT Generation carbon emissions intensity (metric tonnes/owned net MWh) 0.853
Sulfur dioxide emissions intensity (metric tonnes/owned net MWh) .00041
APPENDIX
Nitrogen dioxide emissions intensity (metric tonnes/owned net MWh) .00044
Mercury emissions (Kg) 41
WATER
Water withdrawal (megaliters/year) 379,422
Water intensity (withdrawal/owned net MWh) 0.013
Volume of water recycled and reused (percent total) 92.01%
WASTE
Coal combustion products beneficially used (percent total) 71.9%
1Net-zero goal-related emissions include Scope 1, Scope 2 and select Scope 3. See page 81 of this report for detailed information.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 8
INFRASTRUCTURE 2023
INTRODUCTION ELECTRICITY
Miles of distribution lines 75,497
SUSTAINABILITY Miles of transmission lines 11,076
STRATEGY
NATURAL GAS
Miles of gas distribution mains 7,674
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT
Miles of gas transmission mains 359
SOCIAL
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
EMPLOYEE SAFETY
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT Total hours worked 13,058,862
Number of lost-day cases 25
APPENDIX Lost-time incident rate 0.38
Recordable incident rate 1.33
Work-related fatalities 0
RELIABILTY
SAIDI - Average outage duration (in minutes) 78.84
SAIFI - Average number of interruptions 0.67
CAIDI – Average restoration time (in minutes) 118.32
Average plant availability factor 87.71%
Unplanned outage rate 5.15%
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 9
RESOURCES AND COMMUNITY 2023
INTRODUCTION CUSTOMERS
Customer count (at end of year) 3,618,844
SUSTAINABILITY ENERGY EFFICIENCY
STRATEGY
Incremental annual electricity savings from energy-efficiency measures (MWh) 367,908
Natural Gas Energy Efficiency Measures (MMBtu) 318,621
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT
Total rebates (in millions $) $120.77
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND WORKFORCE
SOCIAL
Female representation, Board of Directors (percentage) 40%
Ethnic and racially diverse representation, Board of Directors (percentage) 30%
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT Female representation, executives/senior managers (percentage) 36%
Ethnic and racially diverse representation, executive/senior managers (percentage) 17%
APPENDIX Total workforce 6,629
Female representation, workforce (percentage) 26%
Ethnic and racially diverse representation, workforce (percentage) 13%
SUPPLY CHAIN
Total spent on diverse businesses (in millions $) $399
Number of diverse businesses 231
COMMUNITY SUPPORT
Total charitable giving in communities served, including Foundation donations (in millions $) $13.6
Total volunteer hours 31,829
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 10
SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY
INTRODUCTION
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
11
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT Our committment to sustainability
12
APPENDIX
2023 sustainability highlights
13
Our sustainability priorities
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11
Our commitment to sustainability
INTRODUCTION
We understand the decisions we make today can help The company took a leadership role in developing report and other sustainability disclosures, and by the
shape our energy future for generations to come. the EEI and American Gas Association (AGA) inclusion of certain climate-related metrics in officers’
SUSTAINABILITY
Sustainability/ESG reporting template for long-term incentive compensation. The company has
STRATEGY We’re focused on an economical and sustainable
investor-owned utilities. PPL consults widely accepted also committed to strengthening diversity, equity and
transition to cleaner energy sources through
frameworks to inform the company’s transparent, inclusion efforts to support our current workforce,
innovation, responsible resource management and
voluntary sustainability disclosures and assesses attract future talent and empower the communities we
investments in infrastructure that support a more
ENERGY &
sustainability performance and best practices using serve. Our sustainability priorities related to safety,
ENVIRONMENT reliable, resilient and efficient grid.
a variety of ESG ratings. employee engagement, diversity and environmental
PPL collaborates with utility industry partners and
stewardship, along with modeling of corporate values,
PPL has also adopted a net-zero-by-2050
benchmarks its sustainability practices and
are incorporated into individual performance
greenhouse gas emissions goal and set targets for
SOCIAL environmental, social and governance (ESG)
evaluations and annual incentive compensation for
fleet vehicle electrification and building energy use.
performance through the Electric Power Research
all PPL executives.
The company’s commitment to greenhouse gas
Institute’s Sustainability Interest Group and the Edison
reductions is evident in the actions described in the
Electric Institute’s (EEI) ESG Committee.
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT
Sustainability Governance
APPENDIX
GOVERNANCE, NOMINATING AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE, BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Oversees the company’s practices and positions to further its sustainability strategy and corporate governance,
including specific environmental and corporate social responsibility initiatives.
CORPORATE LEADERSHIP COUNCIL AND KEY LEADERS
Reviews, provides strategic input on and approves the company’s sustainability strategy and priorities. Executive leadership
(CEO, CFO, COO, CLO, CHRO, CTIO), business segment presidents and the vice president of public affairs and sustainability officer guide the
development of the sustainability strategy and enable the integration of sustainability across the enterprise and in the corporate strategy.
CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE
Oversees and establishes sustainability priorities and performance metrics. This committee includes senior leadership membership
from operating companies, human resources, compliance, risk, investor relations, controller, legal, supply chain and corporate audit.
SUSTAINABILITY CORE TEAM
Cross-functional and enterprise-wide team of subject matter experts who conduct analyses of sustainability priority issues
and environmental, social and governance trends, and is responsible for developing environmental, social and governance disclosures.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 12
2023 sustainability highlights
INTRODUCTION
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY
Energy & Environment Social impact Responsible Governance & Management
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT
• LG&E and KU received regulatory approval • PPL’s employees and retirees, combined • Launched a new Transformation
to retire 600 megawatts of aging coal with matching contributions from its affiliated Management Office, combining technology,
generation and more than 50 megawatts of foundations, pledged more than $8 operations and finance to ensure a unified
SOCIAL
aging peaking units by 2027 and replace million during PPL's annual employee-led approach to achieving the initiatives vital to
them with an affordable, reliable and cleaner charitable giving campaign. The year's our transformational journey. Page 56.
energy mix. Page 16. record-setting contributions, in partnership
GOVERNANCE • Completed the transition of more than
with United Way, will support nearly
& MANAGEMENT • PPL Corporation’s capital plan includes 40% of Rhode Island Energy’s applications
500 local nonprofit organizations in
more than $14.3 billion of generation onto PPL systems in the ongoing integration
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Kentucky
replacement and transmission investments project. Page 55.
and Virginia.
APPENDIX through 2027 to strengthen grid reliability
• Utility industry veteran Linda G. Sullivan
and resilience and safely, reliably and • LG&E reached a new three-year contract
joined PPL’s Board of Directors in
affordably advance the clean energy agreement with International Brotherhood
January 2023.
transition. Page 20. of Electrical Workers Local 2100,
which currently represents more than
• Appointed Christine M. Martin, a 20-year
• Rhode Island Energy received regulatory
600 employees. KU also reached a new
veteran of PPL, president of PPL Electric
approval to implement advanced
five-year agreement with the United
Utilities Corporation in October 2023.
metering across the state, an important
Steelworkers.
step in modernizing the state’s energy
infrastructure. Page 20. • Rhode Island Energy launched Customer
Assistance Expos to provide customers
• U.S. Department of Energy selected PPL
with personalized information about various
Electric Utilities and Rhode Island Energy
energy-efficiency and payment programs,
for grid modernization projects. Page 20.
including bill assistance for low-income
customers and other initiatives to help them
save on their home gas and electric bills.
Page 34.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13
Our sustainability priorities
INTRODUCTION
PPL’s sustainability strategy is informed by regular priority issues assessments, stakeholder outreach and peer benchmarking. Assessments are conducted every two to three
years to identify the issues most helpful to stakeholders in evaluating the company’s environmental, social and governance performance and overall sustainability.
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY • Affordability – Drive innovation, agility, and operational and cost efficiencies across the company to preserve affordability for customers.
• Community support – Improve vitality and quality of life in the communities we serve through just and equitable community contributions including philanthropy,
volunteerism and economic development.
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT • Customer experience – Engage with customers to deliver industry-leading service and solutions.
• Cybersecurity and grid protection – Maintain comprehensive risk assessment and management strategy to protect the grid, customer and employee data, and the
company’s assets.
SOCIAL
• Decarbonize our generation – Economically retire aging coal-fired generation as it reaches the end of useful economic life, while maintaining reliability and affordability for
our Kentucky customers and supporting state economic development.
GOVERNANCE
• Decarbonize our non-generation operations – Reduce greenhouse gas emissions associated with our energy delivery and reduce our own carbon footprint through
& MANAGEMENT
electrification of our fleet vehicles and by reducing energy use in our buildings.
• Drive digital innovation and R&D – Advance new technologies through research, development and innovation in partnership with industry and research institutions.
APPENDIX
• Emergency preparedness – Maintain business continuity and prepare for events that affect our ability to serve customers.
• Environmental stewardship and resource management – Minimize our impact on the environment and communities we serve through responsible resource management,
conservation of natural habitats and native species, and identification of culturally sensitive areas.
• Governance, compliance and ethics – Maintain strong corporate governance, transparent public policy engagement, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements,
and ethical business practices.
• Position the grid to enable clean energy resources – Expand and modernize the grid to drive decarbonization, advance electrification and promote options to reduce
customer energy use, including energy efficiency.
• Reliability & Resiliency – Enhance the reliability and resiliency of critical infrastructure through continued investments and innovation.
• Safety – Provide leadership, guidance and support on safety measures to ensure safety of the public, our employees and contractors.
• Supply chain management – Ensure supply chain resilience by cultivating a pool of diverse, strategic suppliers and business partners.
• Workforce – Cultivate a diverse, equitable and inclusive culture where employees feel respected and engaged, and invest in the current and future workforce through
training and development, succession planning and a pipeline for recruitment and internal advancement.
Presented in alphabetical order.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 14
ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT
INTRODUCTION
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY
ENERGY & 15
ENVIRONMENT
Clean energy transition
SOCIAL 26
Environmental stewardship
and resource management
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT
28
Water use and stewardship
APPENDIX
29
Waste management
30
Biodiversity
31
Vegetation management
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15
Clean energy transition
INTRODUCTION
OUR CLEAN ENERGY STRATEGY infrastructure investment plans with this clean energy could disrupt operations and cause us to incur
DRIVES AN EFFICIENT TRANSITION AND strategy in mind to ensure a successful transition. significant costs. These or other meteorological
SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT, WHILE The four pillars of our strategy are: changes could lead to increased operating costs,
STRATEGY MAINTAINING RELIABILITY AND capital expenses or power purchase costs.
• Decarbonize our Kentucky generation as coal
AFFORDABILITY.
units reach end of useful economic lives. Greenhouse gas regulation could increase the cost of
> We have committed to achieve net-zero carbon electricity, particularly power generated by fossil fuels,
• Drive digital innovation and R&D to enable new
ENERGY & emissions by 2050.2 and such increases could have a depressive effect
technologies.
ENVIRONMENT on regional economies. Reduced economic and
> We are on track to achieve interim targets of 70%
• Decarbonize our non-generation operations
consumer activity in our service areas — both
reduction by 2035 and 80% reduction by 2040.
• Position the grid as an enabler for clean energy generally and specific to certain industries and
> We have committed to not burn unabated coal
SOCIAL resources and drive energy efficiency and consumers accustomed to previously lower cost
by 2050.
demand-side management. power — could reduce demand for the power we
> We are affordably and reliably transitioning our generate, market and deliver. Demand for our
As we transition to a clean energy future, we measure
generation fleet to cleaner sources, while reducing energy-related services could be similarly lowered
GOVERNANCE all proposed climate policies against three core
& MANAGEMENT carbon intensity and absolute emissions. by consumers’ preferences or market factors favoring
principles: Customer Focus, Sustainability and
energy efficiency, low-carbon power sources or
> We are investing in R&D and innovative Effectiveness. Our Climate Policy Principles are
reduced electricity usage.
technologies that we expect will advance the available online.
APPENDIX clean energy transition. While PPL prepares for risks associated with climate
change, policies and shifts in practices that combat
Risks and opportunities
Our Path to Net-Zero associated with climate change these issues can give rise to opportunities to meet
these challenges.
Our businesses are subject to physical, market and
62.6 Additional enhancements to the grid are necessary to
economic risks relating to potential effects of climate
make it stronger, more resilient and flexible to
change. Climate change may produce changes in
withstand increasingly frequent severe storm events,
weather or other environmental conditions, including
25.8
as well as to enable the connection of distributed
18.8 temperature or precipitation levels, and thus may
12.5 0 impact consumer demand for electricity. In addition, renewable and low-carbon generation sources.
2010* 2023* 2035 2040 2050 the potential physical effects of climate change, such Decarbonizing the economy will lead to increased
*Actual Metric Tons, in millions as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, electrification and demand for renewable energy, and
and other climatic events, could disrupt our operations the declining cost of renewables provides new
Our clean energy strategy
and cause us to incur significant costs to prepare for investment opportunities in the renewable and
Our broad-based clean energy transition strategy or respond to these effects. Climate change may also distributed energy space, including solar generation
ensures we can achieve our emissions reduction contribute to the heightened risk or severity of and energy storage solutions driven by customer
targets and deliver an affordable, reliable and wildfires. Though the annual FEMA National Risk demand, favorable policies and retirement of existing
resilient clean energy future for our customers and Index for wildfires in the jurisdictions we provide coal-fired generation plants at the end of their
communities. We continue to evaluate our service is very low to relatively moderate, wildfires economic life.
2The net-zero goal relates to direct and indirect carbon emissions consistent with Greenhouse Gas Protocol guidance and referenced by the EPA Center for Corporate Climate Leadership.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 16
Decarbonizing our generation
INTRODUCTION
Projected Coal-Fired Reduces Carbon Intensity Meaningful Transition to
SUSTAINABILITY Generation Capacity by More than 20%4 Lower Carbon Generation
STRATEGY
(metric tons per MWh)
(% of MWh)
4,715
4,118 Carbon Intensity
20%
ENERGY & 2,746
ENVIRONMENT 18%
919 0.853 0.67
0 1%
20233 2028 2035 2040 2050
SOCIAL 20233
20233 2030
> Economically retire coal-fired generation. We continue to assess the dynamic energy landscape
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT to identify opportunities to economically support this 81%
> Advance cleaner power generation and leverage
transition.
future technologies.
In Kentucky, LG&E and KU have received regulatory
> Maintain reliability and affordability for our
APPENDIX approval to retire 600 megawatts of aging coal-fired
Kentucky customers and support economic
generation and more than 50 megawatts of peaking
development.
units; construct a new 640 megawatt combined-
We continue to make progress toward our goal to
cycle natural gas plant; and add more than
achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2050, having
1,000 megawatts of solar generation and energy
reduced carbon emissions nearly 59% from 2010
storage. Once concluded, these actions will reduce
levels. We are also on track to achieve our interim
the company's carbon intensity by more than 20%.
targets of a 70% reduction by 2035 and an 80%
36%
To advance the cleaner energy transition, we are
reduction by 2040.
working on modernizing our electric grids and gas
2030
Maintaining reliability and affordability is a critical
LDC networks enterprise-wide.
component to achieving net-zero emissions as we
55%
economically decarbonize our generation fleet in
Kentucky.
9%
Coal Gas Renewables
3 Actual 2023 data used in graphs.
4 Projected absolute emissions reduction and carbon intensity reflect resource mis as approved in recent KPSC Order.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17
Drive digital innovation and R&D to enable new technologies
INTRODUCTION
> Advance new technologies through research, • Serving as an anchor sponsor of the Low Carbon • Creating innovative partnerships with academia
development and innovation in partnership with Resources Initiative, a five-year initiative led by the including our longstanding partnership with
SUSTAINABILITY
industry and research institutions. Electric Power Research Institute and Gas the University of Kentucky’s Institute for
STRATEGY
Technology Institute to help accelerate research Decarbonization and Energy Advancement (IDEA)
PPL is actively involved in industry and public sector
and development of low-carbon and zero-carbon at the PPL R&D Center and new strategic
partnerships focused on advancing research in
technologies. The Low-Carbon Resources research partnerships with the University of Rhode
several key technology areas: advanced dispatchable
ENERGY &
Initiative is a collaborative focused on identifying, Island and Kentucky State University. Our
ENVIRONMENT renewables and power electronics; long-duration
developing and demonstrating affordable research with IDEA aims to develop a flexible, net
energy storage and advanced demand efficiency;
pathways to economy-wide decarbonization. negative CO emissions technology that will be
zero-carbon fuels (e.g., hydrogen); advanced nuclear 2
This initiative is pursuing fundamental advances directly applicable to natural gas combined-cycle
energy; and carbon capture, utilization and storage.
SOCIAL
in a variety of low-carbon electric generation power generation while minimizing the associated
It is through a collective commitment to research and
technologies and low-carbon energy carriers, such capital costs of installing this technology. Our
development that PPL’s operating utilities are able to
as advanced nuclear; carbon capture, utilization partnerships with the University of Rhode Island
improve reliability, resiliency and flexibility of the power
GOVERNANCE and sequestration; hydrogen; ammonia; synthetic focus on offshore wind, climate change and
& MANAGEMENT grid while helping to usher in a new era of sustainable fuels and biofuels. Research also includes nuclear technology. Our research partnership
energy.
assessing low-carbon pathways for producing, with Kentucky State University (KSU) focuses on
We’re engaged in more than 150 active research transporting and storing these energy carriers, as the community benefits of decarbonization
APPENDIX projects, with more than $100 million in active federal well as opportunities to use them in power technologies.
funding, steering key industry partnerships and generation, transportation and other applications.
collaborating with industry and academia to enable
decarbonization.
Key partnerships include:
• Investing in Energy Impact Partners’ global
investment platform, which brings together leading
companies and entrepreneurs worldwide to foster
innovation toward a sustainable energy future.
PPL has invested $50 million across EIP’s
investment platform aimed at accelerating the
shift to a low-carbon future and driving
commercial-scale solutions needed to deliver
deep, economy-wide decarbonization.
Collaboration with EIP is expected to provide
PPL greater visibility into emerging technologies
that can be leveraged to advance the clean energy
transition.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 18
The following are examples of key research and development projects started or active in 2023:
INTRODUCTION
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY
ELECTRIC VEHICLE
ENERGY & SOLAR CHARGING INFRASTRUCTURE
ENVIRONMENT Deployed new, state-of-the-art, high-efficiency 360-degree tracking solar panels at our Renewable Committed to using all electric light-duty
Integration Research Facility. These multi-axis tracking panels follow the sun as it moves through the sky. vehicles by 2030, including new
We also continue to partner with the University of Kentucky to research ways to recycle solar panels and Ford F-150 Lightning electric trucks, and
SOCIAL reuse their input components to potentially lower costs, reduce waste and improve sustainability. deployed six electric vehicle charging
stations to enable electric transportation
between project locations. Three of the
R&D electric vehicle charging stations
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT are completely solar powered.
APPENDIX
HYDROGEN
WIND
Partnered with the University of Kentucky
Deployed Kentucky’s first utility-scale to develop green hydrogen production with
NUCLEAR
wind turbine in partnership with Northern Direct Air Capture technology that could be
Power Systems. The wind turbine is directly used to reverse the accumulation of carbon Partnered with Idaho National Laboratory
connected to the battery storage system dioxide in the atmosphere. Our joint team has to determine the feasibility of fully transitioning
located at our Renewable Integration won multiple federal awards for our process, the Ghent coal-fired generating plant
Research Facility demonstrating how has successfully demonstrated this technology to a nuclear power plant. The study
combining the strengths of solar, wind, in the laboratories at the bench scale, and in evaluated different types of small modular
hydro and energy storage can provide more 2023 won another federal award to scale nuclear reactor technologies, siting,
reliable and affordable renewable electricity up the technology at our Renewable permitting, and identifying the infrastructure
generation. In Rhode Island, we continue Integration Research Facility. Our pilot that can be reused to reduce the cost of
our partnership with the University of project will run on 100% on-site renewable converting a plant from coal to nuclear.
Rhode Island on off-shore wind and are energy and produce dedicated streams of PPL is also partnering with the University
applying jointly for federal research funding. captured carbon dioxide and hydrogen. of Rhode Island on nuclear research.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19
INTRODUCTION
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY STORAGE
Implementing battery-energy storage systems
to provide clean energy to customers during
ENERGY & times of peak electrical demand. RIE is piloting
ENVIRONMENT two battery-energy storage systems to improve CARBON CAPTURE
resiliency and performance. The two battery RESILIENCY PLANNING Collaborating with the University of Kentucky’s
systems are designed to store electrical Institute for Decarbonization and Energy
Collaborating in the Climate Resilience and
SOCIAL energy during low-usage periods. One is a Advancement to create net-negative carbon
Adaptation initiative (READi), a three-year
front-of-the-meter system, meaning it will dioxide emissions. The collaborative is
initiative launched by the Electric Power
remain in an at-ready state and can be utilized researching the capture of CO emissions at
Research Institute (EPRI) to address energy 2
GOVERNANCE immediately if an outage occurs to prevent natural gas combined-cycle power plants.
system climate resilience and adaptation as
& MANAGEMENT customer loss of power. The second system is The research aims to develop a flexible,
extreme weather events continue to increase.
a behind-the-meter system that can be net-negative CO emissions technology that
The effort is focused on strengthening grid 2
charged and discharged daily and used as a will be directly applicable to natural gas
resilience against potential climate and
APPENDIX load peak-shaving asset. The battery combined-cycle power generation while
weather impacts. Climate READi will enable
systems could provide an option that not only minimizing the associated capital costs of
global energy companies, climate scientists,
avoids outages but also avoids resorting to installing this technology. In partnership with
regulators and other stakeholders to
more expensive, less sustainable energy the University of Kentucky and EPRI, we are
proactively analyze and apply climate data,
alternatives during peak demand. developing plans for a large pilot and full-scale
allowing for the planning, design and operation
In Kentucky, PPL continues to test carbon capture system at the company’s Cane
of resilient energy systems of the future.
the state’s largest lithium-ion battery and Run natural gas combined-cycle generating
has applied for federal funding for newer station for net neutral operation with a product
long-duration storage technologies. stream of 99.9% purity carbon dioxide.
SOLAR VEGETATION MANAGEMENT
Adapting best practices to our additional solar site after successfully adding a flock of sheep to our E.W. Brown solar facility. We added
approximately 50 sheep to the Solar Share solar farm and integrated sustainable vegetation management with the previously installed
pollinator habitat. PPL won an EPRI Technology Transfer Award for “Enhancing Solar Facility Vegetation Management Through Grazing
and Native Solutions” for our deployment of sheep and pollinators at our E.W. Brown Solar Facility.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20
Position the grid as an enabler for clean energy resources
INTRODUCTION
> Leverage leading performance across our utilities
to expand and modernize the grid and integrate
SUSTAINABILITY
utility-scale renewables and distributed energy OnePPL SPIRIT | INNOVATION
STRATEGY
resources.
Grid modernization projects selected for federal funding
> Advance electrification and support adoption of PPL Electric and RIE have been selected to receive up to $100 million in federal funding to advance
electric vehicles. grid modernization and decarbonization efforts through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT > Promote options to reduce customer energy use. PPL Electric’s Grid of the Future project, which represents $99 million in planned investments, includes a
combination of hardware and software components that work seamlessly together to deliver grid flexibility to
PPL’s $14.3 billion regulated capital investment plan
the transmission and distribution systems and provide significant customer benefits, including increased
from 2024 to 2027 is focused on grid modernization reliability and resiliency, while advancing an affordable clean energy transition.
SOCIAL
and resiliency throughout our service territories and
RIE’s Smart Grid for Smart Decarbonization project proposed integrating a variety of advanced technologies
generation transition in Kentucky.
to improve visibility and control of the electric grid, strengthen reliability, better enable the electric grid to
A significant portion of our investments in integrate increased renewable energy resources, and reduce infrastructure costs for customers.
GOVERNANCE
infrastructure improvements has been focused on Across PPL, we’re focused on creating utilities of the future that are agile, innovative and technology-enabled
& MANAGEMENT
incorporating new technology and hardening to drive additional value for customers and shareowners and support a reliable, affordable clean energy
transmission and distribution systems. transition.
The federal funding opportunity was highly competitive, with PPL’s operating companies being among
PPL’s utilities are actively monitoring and maintaining
APPENDIX
34 proposals selected out of over 300 submitted. Federal funding is from the Bipartisan Infrastructure
their systems, updating aging power lines and
Law, also known as the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, via the Grid Resilience and Innovation
substations, building new ones, and incorporating
Partnerships funding opportunity managed by the U.S. Department of Energy’s Grid Deployment Office.
advanced technology to keep power flowing to our
Preliminary selection does not guarantee funding. PPL Electric and RIE are working with the Grid
customers.
Deployment Office to clarify details of its plan to secure the awards.
CAPITAL INVESTMENT PLAN
PPL is investing $14 billion between 2024-2027 Advanced technology enables us to monitor and data when a piece of equipment might fail, and
address the constantly changing conditions on the replace it preemptively, thus avoiding a power outage.
35% Electric Transmission
grid. We’re installing sensors and relays across the
As technology plays an increasing role in our
system to send back information in real-time, allowing
30% Electric Distribution business, we’re especially attentive to cyber threats
us to isolate problems and re-route power so the
and other potential dangers to the grid. We plan and
16% Electric Generation (non-coal) fewest customers are affected for the shortest
operate our systems with the latest intelligence around
amount of time.
cyber and physical intrusion and regularly evaluate
10% Gas Operations (LDC)
To help reduce maintenance costs, we are harnessing our security by testing our system’s defenses.
5% Electric Generation (coal-fired) the power of digital science and analytics to tell us
when parts need replacement. For example, we can
4% Other
now reliably tell from corrosion rates and other
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21
Reliability and resiliency
INTRODUCTION
PPL has been a leader in smart grid innovation, and we continue to invest in our
networks to advance the clean energy transition and make our already strong reliability
record even better.
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY Investments to modernize and strengthen the grid include:
• Replacing aging equipment, often to higher design standards.
• Installing smart grid technology and automation to enable real-time monitoring of
ENERGY &
system conditions, detect faults and quickly restore power to as many customers
ENVIRONMENT
as possible when outages occur.
• Building new power lines and substations to support increased demand, improve
resiliency and give us greater flexibility to reroute power.
SOCIAL
• Rebuilding existing power lines with stronger poles and wires to better withstand
extreme wind and tree impacts.
GOVERNANCE • Clearing trees and other vegetation that pose a threat to power lines.
& MANAGEMENT
• Installing devices to prevent lightning and animals from damaging equipment.
• Enhancing cyber and physical security to protect critical T&D assets.
APPENDIX • Assessing flood risks at critical facilities, such as substations and power plants, RIE’S ADVANCED METERING
and relocating facilities or installing defenses, where necessary. FUNCTIONALITY PROPOSAL APPROVED
RIE is committed to investing in its energy system to help meet the state’s
RELIABILITY
clean energy goals. The company took a major step forward in September
PPL's operating companies achieve top-decile reliability 2023 when the Rhode Island Public Utilities Commission authorized RIE to
performance, exceeding the national average implement Advanced Metering Functionality (AMF) across the state over
the next three years.
PPL Total US AVG5
Approximately 60% of the electric meters across the state are nearing
SAIDI 78.84 131.1 the end of their design life and need to be replaced. The advanced meters
will provide customers with greater control, choice and convenience in
SAIFI 0.67 1.09 managing their energy consumption. AMF technology will also help meet
evolving customer expectations by enhancing outage management
CAIDI 118.32 120.2
capabilities and enabling more convenient remote service connections.
SAIDI is the average outage duration (in minutes), excluding major events, per IEEE definition 1366. RIE expects the first of the new meters to be rolled out in late 2024.
SAIFI is the average number of interruptions per customer, excluding major events, per IEEE definition 1366. In advance of deployment, the company will engage customers with a
CAIDI represents the average time (in minutes) required to restore service after a sustained interruption
occurs, per IEEE definition 1366. robust communication plan, providing more details about the technology
in advance of installation.
5 2022 US Average
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 22
Enabling clean energy resources
INTRODUCTION
> Leverage leading performance across our utilities requires purchase of 100% renewable electricity
to expand and modernize the grid and integrate by 2033. In 2023, RIE met its requirement of
SUSTAINABILITY
utility-scale renewables and distributed energy 23% renewable electricity. In 2023, RIE issued a
STRATEGY
resources. request for proposals for long-term contract
capacity for 1,200 megawatts of offshore
> Advance electrification and support adoption of
wind energy.
electric vehicles.
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT • RIE also offers two customer programs to
> Promote options to reduce customer energy use.
encourage local renewable energy connections.
PPL’s operating companies are committed to
About 620 megawatts of renewable energy
advancing a renewable energy future and empowering
nameplate capacity has been connected by
SOCIAL
their customers and communities to do the same.
year-end 2023.
• LG&E and KU is currently accepting enrollments
more distributed energy resources like private
in the sixth section of their Solar Share facility.
GOVERNANCE solar while preserving network reliability and Electrification
The subscription-based Solar Share program is a
& MANAGEMENT power quality.
cost-effective option available to residential, In support of efforts to reach economy-wide
• To date, PPL Electric has connected nearly
business and industrial customers who want to electrification, PPL participates in the National
400 megawatts of renewable energy to the grid.
support solar energy for as little as 20 cents per Electric Highway Coalition. More than 60 electric
APPENDIX
day. More than 2,800 LG&E and KU customers • PPL Electric procures cleaner energy resources companies across the U.S. participate in this alliance
across Kentucky have enrolled in the program that under Pennsylvania’s Alternative Energy Portfolio organized around the common goal of deploying
helps them reach their own renewable energy Standards Act. From June 2022 to May 2023, electric vehicle fast charging infrastructure to
goals. Upon completion, the Solar Share facility alternative power sources comprised 18% of the accelerate electric transportation.
will have eight sections and a total capacity of power purchased by PPL Electric for its default
The coalition is also empowering drivers to make the
4 megawatts. service customers. This included 8% from solar,
switch to electric vehicles. From fast charging stations
wind and hydropower energy sources. Based
• The Renewable Choice Calculator helps LG&E to online marketplaces, member companies are
upon the current alternative-energy standard,
and KU customers explore their sustainability helping drivers plug in with an electric vehicle. Some
Pennsylvania’s renewable energy obligations
options. By inserting a few details — including of these initiatives include:
have plateaued at 18%. Any increase to the
customer type and average monthly bill — the
• Installing charging stations and helping others
requirement will require amendments to the
calculator uses the utilities’ Solar Share Program
install charging stations and connect to the grid.
state’s statute.
and Green Energy Program to provide a solution
• Providing charging locators so drivers know how
that enables most customers to support • The user-friendly Renewable Energy Connection
and where to charge up.
renewables at a level that is equal to 100% of their website makes it easier for PPL Electric customers
power consumption for less than $1 per day or to apply to connect solar panels and other • Providing resources to make buying an electric
about 5% more on their monthly energy bill. generation systems to the grid. vehicle easier.
• PPL Electric’s Distributed Energy Resource • RIE supports the state of Rhode Island’s • Offering rebates and incentives to help customers
Management System helps PPL Electric integrate Renewable Energy Standard (RES), which save while making the switch.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23
Energy efficiency
INTRODUCTION
GIVING OUR CUSTOMERS by mail, through digital means and in person. • Low-income weatherization.
THE TOOLS THEY NEED TO SAVE It includes home-energy analytics, energy-savings
SUSTAINABILITY • High-efficiency lighting.
tips and information about available energy-efficiency
STRATEGY PPL empowers our customers to save energy and
• HVAC testing and tune-ups.
rebates.
money while connecting them to the resources
• New construction advisory services.
they need to get the job done. Collectively, Our companies offer a variety of services to help
ENERGY & energy-efficiency programs helped customers save customers save energy, calculate their indirect • Education resources on electric vehicles.
ENVIRONMENT more than 367,900 megawatt-hours of electricity and greenhouse gas and carbon emissions and adopt
• Load management options with financial
reduced peak demand by more than 76 megawatts. renewable energy. Programs offered include:
incentives to reduce demand during peak hours.
Programs to support natural gas energy efficiency
• Online resources to make it easier to connect
• Appliance removal with incentives for replacement
saved 318,600 MMBtu throughout 2023.
SOCIAL renewable energy resources.
with EnergySmart appliances.
PPL’s utilities share important energy-efficiency
• Smartphone apps that allow customers to trace
• Smart energy profiles and dashboards for
information with both business and residential
their carbon footprint.
monitoring usage and performance.
customers on a regular basis. This information is
GOVERNANCE
• Conservation/home energy performance
& MANAGEMENT distributed through online and television advertising, • Energy-efficiency education.
monitoring.
APPENDIX
Energy Efficiency Program
173K
$186M
76 MW $121M 582K
Metric tonnes of COe
Total utility 2
Peak demand reduction Total rebates Total number of participants emissions avoided as a
investment in programs
result of energy savings
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 24
Decarbonize our non-generation operations
INTRODUCTION
> Electrify fleet vehicles.
SUSTAINABILITY > Reduce emissions associated with our electric and gas use, including increasing renewables consumption
STRATEGY at PPL’s company buildings.
> Assess operational improvements and investments necessary to maintain emissions rates at or below
industry average across PPL’s utilities, including an assessment of gas distribution system operations.
ENERGY &
PPL is working to make system enhancements necessary to meet electricity demand over the long term to
ENVIRONMENT
support electrification efforts by our customers, including the adoption of electricity-fueled transportation. We are
also reducing our own carbon footprint through electrification of our fleet vehicles.
We have strengthened our commitment to fleet electrification by setting goals on electric vehicle adoption. PPL’s
SOCIAL
operating companies are electrifying their light, medium and heavy-duty fleet vehicles and employing the use of
electric lifts on bucket trucks.
GOVERNANCE We are assessing opportunities for efficiency and renewable self-generation to reduce energy usage at our owned
& MANAGEMENT buildings by approximately 30% by 2030. We also plan to install at least one solar array annually per company to
help offset energy use.
INTEGRATING SOLAR
IN OUR OWN FACILITIES
APPENDIX Electrification and energy reduction goals6
PPL Electric added solar arrays to two more
buildings in 2023, as part of its goal to have solar
power at all buildings in Pennsylvania by 2030.
100% 80%
PPL Electric has installed a combined 250 kW of
solar at four facilities. More installations are
Electrification of Heavy-duty vehicles fitted with
planned across operating companies in the
light-duty vehicles by 2030 electric lift technology by 2030
upcoming years. It’s the type of investment that
customers expect and one that the company will
continue building on as part of our commitment to
a clean energy future.
In addition to the solar panels, a solar-powered
50% ~30%
system is being used to generate hot water at
three service centers. A closed-loop water
Electrification of medium- Reduction in building
system circulates from the rooftop solar array to
and heavy-duty vehicles by 2030 energy use by 2030
solar hot water tanks, heating up the water in
those tanks. Similar systems will be set up at
other service centers.
6 PPL is currently evaluating goals related to fleet electrification to reflect market availability.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25
Investing in safe, reliable natural gas service
INTRODUCTION
In addition to providing electricity, PPL’s utilities in • Completing the replacement of approximately The investigation into the gas distribution business will
Kentucky and Rhode Island also own and operate 15.5 miles of transmission pipeline. look at changes, such as moratoriums on new
SUSTAINABILITY
natural gas distribution systems, and we recognize the hookups, incentives for renewable natural gas, and
STRATEGY • Upgrading city gate stations and gas regulation
criticality of the natural gas system in maintaining transitioning customers to alternative heating sources
facilities with new valves, piping, and modern
safe, affordable and reliable energy for our customers like electricity.
regulation and measurement equipment. This work
as we decarbonize our economy.
was completed in 2023. As part of the proceeding, RIE is conducting a
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT In Kentucky, LG&E’s system is made up of over technical analysis to evaluate options that will achieve
In Rhode Island, the Public Utilities Commission is
4,800 miles of natural gas transmission and the emissions goals of the Act on Climate and identify
undertaking a regulatory proceeding to investigate the
distribution lines; compressor stations that move the investments in the natural gas infrastructure that are
future of gas use and infrastructure in the state, a
gas through the system to customers; and natural gas needed to maintain safety, reliability and affordability
SOCIAL response to the 2021 Act on Climate, which requires
storage fields that enable LG&E to purchase gas for customers. A key component of the proceeding is
economy-wide greenhouse gas emissions reductions
when costs are low and store it for later use, passing comprehensive stakeholder engagement, which is
to net-zero by 2050.
on the savings to customers. expected to conclude in 2024.
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT RIE’s natural gas system consists of 3,227 miles of
natural gas distribution lines.
Both utilities employ comprehensive natural gas safety
APPENDIX measures that include 24/7 monitoring by a central
Gas Control Room; conducting leak surveys;
operating a Pipeline Integrity Management Program
that identifies and minimizes potential pipeline risks;
and educating community partners and the general
public about natural gas safety.
LG&E has undertaken a multi-year asset
modernization and replacement program, which has
resulted in a reduction in methane leaks and gas loss
and has improved the safety and reliability of the gas
system. Natural gas infrastructure update projects in
Kentucky include:
• Replacing approximately 45,000 steel customer
service lines. About one-third of this ongoing
project is completed.
• Completing the removal of approximately
4,400 steel curbed services.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 26
Environmental stewardship and resource management
INTRODUCTION
A STRONG COMMITMENT TO Our Environmental Policy provides a framework to PPL’s operating companies have a strong commitment
COMPLIANCE, TRANSPARENCY AND ensure we conduct business in an environmentally to compliance, transparency and continuous
SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT responsible manner. improvement. The companies share best practices
STRATEGY and provide regular performance reports to senior
> Minimize our impact on the environment and In addition to ensuring compliance with all state and
leadership, and external reporting of environmental
communities we serve through responsible federal environmental regulations, we have a
performance is reflected in annual reports available to
resource management longstanding commitment to carry out all business
the public.
ENERGY & activities in ways that preserve and promote a clean,
> Seeking innovative solutions and opportunities to
ENVIRONMENT safe and healthy environment.
reduce, reuse and recycle waste materials
> Conserving natural habitats and native species
SOCIAL All facets of the daily operations of electric power
and natural gas companies — from water discharges
and atmospheric emissions to dams and transmission
line rights-of-way — can have an impact on the
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT environment.
PPL works throughout all phases of its projects to
avoid and minimize impacts to the environment,
APPENDIX especially in sensitive resource areas. We routinely
ensure structures and access roads are located to
avoid impacting sensitive areas like wetlands and
waterways, as well as critical habitat for rare,
threatened, or endangered flora and fauna.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27
Environmental Management Employees are expected to conduct business in accordance with PPL’s Environmental Policy:
INTRODUCTION
PPL’s environmental management system helps
our operating companies comply with applicable
regulations, minimize our impact on the environment, Personal Responsibility Resource Commitment
SUSTAINABILITY
and continually improve our processes.
STRATEGY Hold ourselves accountable for Provide the human and financial
We implement and maintain systems and procedures
conducting business with resources necessary to carry out
to provide a systematic approach to managing integrity and transparency. our environmental policy.
activities that could impact the environment and
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT ensure that we meet or exceed environmental
laws and regulations. An enterprise-wide director of
environmental compliance oversees environmental
Continual Improvement Innovation
compliance and management and reports to the
SOCIAL
senior vice president of engineering and construction. Monitor and assess our environmental Support leading research and invest
Risks related to environmental management are performance and risks to in innovation to advance sustainable
included in the Enterprise Risk Management process set measurable targets resource management and reduce
GOVERNANCE and reported quarterly to the Audit Committee of the that result in continual improvement. our environmental impact.
& MANAGEMENT
board of directors.
Procedures and plans include:
APPENDIX • Air Emissions Compliance Stewardship Compliance
• Water Discharge Compliance
Promote conservation of natural Meet or exceed all applicable
• Waste and Byproduct Compliance resources, protection of biodiversity, environmental laws, regulations and the
pollution reduction and protection of the voluntary standards we have adopted.
• Groundwater Protection Planning
environment. We expect suppliers and We move promptly to address
• Spill Prevention and Response Procedures contractors acting on our behalf to operate environmental compliance issues
consistent with our environmental policy. whenever they are identified.
• Environmental Audits and Assessments
• Permitting, Monitoring, Recordkeeping
and Reporting
Engagement
• Avian Protection
• Biodiversity and Habitat Openly communicate our environmental commitments, actions, performance and policy,
and listen to the concerns of our stakeholders. We provide environmental education
• Construction
opportunities to our employees, customers and the public. We engage with regulators,
customers, employees and the community to assess potential impacts of development activity,
environmental initiatives and actions stemming from the company’s business activities.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 28
Water use and stewardship
INTRODUCTION
PPL carefully manages the water it uses and monitors No water is sourced from • Utilizing closed-cycle cooling at our generating
the impact of wastewater discharged into waterways. plants to reduce the volume of cooling water
SUSTAINABILITY regions with high or extremely
PPL’s utilities support programs that protect water- withdrawn from the region’s watershed.
STRATEGY
high baseline water stress.
ways and the ecosystems that depend on them in the
• A Groundwater Protection Plan
service areas where the utilities operate. In addition,
• A Stormwater Best Management Practices Plan
the companies collaborate with a variety of on the Ohio River, which is not adversely affected by
ENERGY &
stakeholders and state agencies to ensure that drought. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric • A Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasure
ENVIRONMENT
watersheds and reservoirs meet both the needs of the Administration predicts the Ohio River’s water levels plan that facilitates the safe storage of chemicals
utilities and other stakeholders, including the public. daily and has never required LG&E and KU to reduce and oils on site. Proper secondary containment
With our utilities located in the eastern part of the non-hydro generation due to river temperature or and monthly tank inspections ensure chemicals
SOCIAL
United States, no water used for our operations is water volume issues. There is only one power plant, remain out of the watershed and groundwater.
sourced from regions with high or extremely high the Ohio Falls hydroelectric plant, that could be The companies also continue to decrease
baseline water stress. In fact, data from the National impacted by water volume because it is a run-of-river consumptive water use as they improve power plant
GOVERNANCE
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shows the dam. However, that plant accounts for only about 1% efficiency and have transitioned to dry-ash handling at
& MANAGEMENT
eastern half of the country has gotten more rain, on of the company’s power generation. remaining coal-fired power plants in Kentucky.
average, over the last 30 years than it did during the Our water management strategy includes:
20th century.
APPENDIX • Paying consumptive use fees to cover the costs of
PPL’s only operations with any significant water usage reservoir projects and storage space designed to
are the power generation operations in Kentucky. All benefit all users and maintain adequate river levels
but one of LG&E and KU’s power plants are located during low flow periods.
349,093 379,422 30,329 92%
Megaliters per year of water discharged Megaliters per year of water withdrawn Megaliters per year of Total volume of
water consumed water recycled and reused
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29
Waste management
INTRODUCTION
PPL has high standards for managing waste from our operations. In keeping with
the company’s commitment to advance a cleaner energy future and encourage
SUSTAINABILITY
responsible stewardship, we seek innovative solutions and opportunities to reduce,
STRATEGY
reuse and recycle waste materials.
The companies have strong waste management programs in place focused on
recycling and eliminating hazardous waste. Other waste streams include e-waste,
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT cardboard, municipal trash, scrap metals, wooden utility poles and coal combustion
residuals.
This year, over 71.9% of the coal combustion residuals generated by LG&E and
SOCIAL KU were recycled for manufacturing wallboard and cement. LG&E and KU have
closed 18 coal combustion residuals wet storage impoundments. Only three
facilities remain, with construction for closure expected to be complete in 2025.
GOVERNANCE Complying with the coal combustion residuals rule, no sluiced materials are sent OnePPL SPIRIT | RESPONSIBILITY
& MANAGEMENT for treatment to any of our utilities' wet coal combustion residuals storage
Responsible remediation of closed sites
impoundments.
As part of PPL’s environmental remediation program, our utilities are
responsible for rehabilitating sites where operations, even by predecessor
APPENDIX
companies, have long since ceased. These ongoing responsibilities include
monitoring, testing and remediating manufactured gas plants.
100% 54%
Manufactured gas plants had their roots in the 1700’s with the discovery that a
process of heating coal would produce gas for illumination.
Universal waste Non-hazardous waste
diverted from landfills diverted from landfills The remediation process includes working with each state’s environmental
protection department and keeping stakeholders informed about the company’s
environmental evaluation and response program for these sites throughout the
investigative and remediation processes.
Remediation has been conducted at three former LG&E manufactured gas
plant sites, which have been redeveloped for new land uses. Remediation has
also been conducted at four former KU manufactured gas plant sites.
RIE regularly shares up-to-date information with the community via public
meetings, project websites, mailed notices to site neighbors and fact sheets on
two prominent manufactured gas plant remediation projects in Rhode Island.
In Pennsylvania, PPL Electric is remediating two manufactured gas plants, with
the expectation that restoration efforts will conclude in 2026.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 30
Biodiversity
INTRODUCTION
> Protecting habitat and biodiversity environment is protected while work is being done
SUSTAINABILITY > Creating awareness on the electrical and natural gas delivery systems, POWERING
especially in sensitive resource areas.
STRATEGY POLLINATORS
> Working with key partners
We recognize the importance of conserving natural
Biodiversity is an essential component of a healthy UTILITY RIGHTS-OF-WAY
habitats and native species and work with various
environment, and PPL is committed to developing PROVIDE ECOLOGICAL
partners to protect biodiversity.
ENERGY &
solutions to preserve biodiversity and restore CONDITIONS THAT ALLOW
ENVIRONMENT
ecosystems across the areas where we operate. Our biodiversity strategy includes: NATIVE SPECIES TO THRIVE.
The day-to-day operation of the power delivery • Ensuring compliance with all state and Employees survey hundreds of miles of
network has the potential to affect ecosystems and federal regulatory requirements related to electric transmission rights-of-way within
SOCIAL
habitat, as well as the living plants, animals and habitat management, watershed management, our service territory and identify populations
aquatic species present in the natural environment. biodiversity preservation and ecosystem of native flowers and grasses. We use
restoration. maintenance practices that help facilitate
GOVERNANCE PPL’s biodiversity practices comply with state, federal
• Adopting comprehensive Avian Protection Plans to growth and will reintroduce native grasses and
& MANAGEMENT and local regulations. In addition, our operating
protect birds from coming in contact with electrical wildflowers when planting is appropriate.
companies work extensively to ensure the
equipment and power lines. PPL’s operating companies continue research
• Using pollinator-supportive and native plants as and development on management and
APPENDIX
part of construction, maintenance and restoration protection of pollinator habitats. The utilities
activities where practical. have established pollinator projects to test the
native plants that will reduce mowing costs and
• Implementing habitat mitigation practices to
mowing-related emissions, prevent soil
prevent or reduce detrimental effects on
erosion, and serve as a habitat for pollinators.
biodiversity from company actions and ongoing
operations, wherever possible.
• Partnering with state and nongovernmental
agencies to identify and protect species of concern
in proposed work areas before work is executed
and permits are requested.
230
• Engaging with stakeholders when planning,
building and operating our energy infrastructure.
Total acres of
• Supporting community initiatives to protect the
PPL pollinator test sites
environment through charitable contributions,
volunteerism and direct engagement on
restoration efforts.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31
Vegetation management
INTRODUCTION
Effective vegetation management along distribution and transmission lines is a critical part of maintaining the
reliability our customers depend on to power their homes and businesses.
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY Our vegetation management program is designed to promote the safe and reliable operation of the electric grid,
while making sure that we are sensitive to both the concerns of property owners and our obligations to electricity
customers. We work with conservation, land management and environmental groups, on both state and federal
levels, to advance common goals of electric reliability and environmental stewardship.
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT
Trees and other tall vegetation need to be kept away from power lines. If they get too close, power outages can
result. Tree-related outages can potentially affect thousands of customers for extended periods of time. Keeping
EMBARKING ON AN
overhead power lines clear of limbs and brush also enables our crews to detect and repair issues that impact service
ENTERPRISE-WIDE
SOCIAL during storms. Tree interference also poses potentially significant safety risks to our employees and the public.
MAPPING SYSTEM
PPL’s utilities all conduct tree clearance trimming throughout their service areas on cycles to maintain reliable
service. The utilities use integrated vegetation management practices to encourage compatible species that PPL is embarking on a multi-year initiative
GOVERNANCE reduce the need for herbicides. Our vegetation management practices promote healthy ecosystems and provide to create an enterprise-wide Geographic
& MANAGEMENT
measurable results, such as greater natural species diversity along rights-of-way to limit and control non-native Information System (GIS) that will allow users
species. throughout the company to see millions of
company assets on a map.
The utilities also use light detection and ranging technology (LiDAR) to map vegetation including individual trees
APPENDIX
adjacent to transmission rights-of-way. This technology helps our foresters identify trees that represent a risk to Employees from across the company will be
our electric facilities. The system is designed to assist in prioritizing vegetation management activities so tree able to track company assets like transmission
crews can be deployed more precisely. lines, gas pipelines, meters and much more.
Currently, this technology is limited and
In addition to tree trimming, which is a critical part of maintaining the reliability of the grid, the vegetation
available only to specific work groups, and
management team is also committed to enhancing the environment and landscape. We provide trees, saplings
separate systems are used across different
and native plants to public and conservation groups throughout Kentucky, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island.
business groups.
Collectively, more than 4,600 saplings are donated annually throughout our service territories in Kentucky and
Pennsylvania. RIE donates to the Rhode Island Tree Council for the purchase of saplings. The initial implementation was rolled out
in October as part of the integration of
RIE’s systems.
Rather than a standalone platform, the
GIS system will be connected to a work
management system and other software
75,500 11,000
platforms, allowing for greater organizational
efficiencies.
Miles of distribution lines Miles of transmission lines
The system will be rolled out over the next
five years.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 32
SOCIAL IMPACT
INTRODUCTION
33
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY Stakeholder engagement
34
ENERGY & Energy equity, environmental
ENVIRONMENT justice and a just transition
37
SOCIAL Economic development
38
GOVERNANCE Charitable giving
& MANAGEMENT
39
Safety
APPENDIX
41
Emergency preparedness
42
Customer experience
44
Employees
45
Diversity, equity and inclusion
47
Workforce strategy,
training and development
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33
Stakeholder engagement
INTRODUCTION
Our operating companies have a history of community engagement and public meetings to support development activities and engage with stakeholders regularly throughout
the year. That continuous and ongoing engagement is critical as we work to create the utilities of the future. Whether we are building and maintaining more resilient and reliable
SUSTAINABILITY
infrastructure or transitioning to cleaner energy sources, we are helping to ensure a balanced, responsible and just transition that considers the impact on our employees,
STRATEGY
communities and customers. PPL engages with our stakeholders regularly and values the insights they provide as we work to deliver results for today and set strategic goals for
the future.
ENERGY & OUR STAKEHOLDER GROUPS' APPROACH TO ENGAGEMENT
ENVIRONMENT
Communities Government Employees
(local, state, federal)
SOCIAL • Ongoing discussions and partnerships • Business resource groups
with environmental groups related to • Attendance at, and participation in, meetings • Company intranet
operational activities and hearings with regulators and policymakers • Employee feedback (via surveys)
GOVERNANCE • Power plant advisory committees for facility • Continuous dialogue • Performance reviews
& MANAGEMENT neighbors • Safety and health committees
• Support for events and programs of
Industry Associations • Town hall meetings
nonprofits, chambers and associations
• Training events
APPENDIX • Volunteerism (board service, events, Attendance at regular meetings and conferences
long-term programs) and active participation in organizations such as:
• American Gas Association Shareowners
Customers • Edison Electric Institute
• Investor calls
• Electric Power Research Institute • Investor relations website
• Billing statements and messaging
• Energy Storage Association • Ongoing discussions through meetings
• Consumer advisory panels
• Smart Electric Power Alliance and calls
• Customer commitment advisory forums
• State and regional chambers of commerce • Quarterly earnings news releases
• Customer feedback (surveys, online
and industry associations
comments, phone calls)
Suppliers
• Demand-side management/energy
• Supplier meetings
efficiency advisory groups
• Supplier networking summits
• Customer Assistance Expos
• Email newsletters
• J.D. Power survey
• Market research
• Press releases and media opportunities
• Websites
• Social Media
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 34
Energy equity, environmental justice and a just transition
INTRODUCTION
ENSURING A JUST AND Energy equity
EQUITABLE ENERGY TRANSITION
SUSTAINABILITY Whether siting new power lines or installing
STRATEGY > Consult with leaders in their fields of research environmental controls on existing generating
and innovation to advance sustainable plants, PPL encourages improvements that
practices reduce our environmental impact, modernize
energy infrastructure, empower customers
ENERGY & > Involve impacted communities and their
ENVIRONMENT with new options, and drive innovation that
leaders in decision-making processes and
benefits society.
projects under development
We believe decarbonization and grid resiliency
> Adapt our approach in partnership with the
SOCIAL are broad benefits to be enjoyed across all
communities we serve as we move forward
communities, and that those benefits can be
together toward a clean energy future
achieved reliably and affordably.
As markets, customers and the generation and
GOVERNANCE We are focused on investing in infrastructure
delivery of energy evolve, PPL remains true to
& MANAGEMENT improvements that will improve resiliency, deliver OnePPL SPIRIT | PASSION
our commitment to conduct business in an
clean energy and enhance associated program
environmentally responsible manner. Additionally, Connecting with our customers
offerings, such as electric vehicle charging and
we proactively take measures to bring value to all
RIE held a series of Customer Assistance Expos in
APPENDIX energy efficiency, to all communities that both
of our customers, create sustainable communities
2023 intended to provide customers with personalized
want and need it.
and treat our employees with dignity and respect.
information about various energy-efficiency and
Our approach takes into consideration equitable
payment programs, including bill assistance for
access and affordability for all customers in
low-income customers and other initiatives to help
planning and program design; complies with
them save on their home gas and electric bills.
existing local, state and federal laws while
RIE’s Customer Advocate team partnered with various
ensuring community awareness and involvement;
state agencies — including CAPP (Community Action
and ensures the workforce and local economy
Partnership of Providence County), United Way (211
are not negatively impacted by the transition to
van), LIHEAP (Low-Income Home Energy Assistance
clean energy.
Program), Green & Healthy Homes Initiative, Family
Services of RI and RI Food Bank, among others —
to provide customers with a convenient “one-stop
shop” of resources.
RIE’s Customer Advocates provided information on
critical programs, including discount rates, federal
grant programs and local emergency relief from the
Good Neighbor Energy Fund.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 35
Environmental justice Across our service territories, our teams work
INTRODUCTION
with various partners as we aim to minimize our
We recognize that our infrastructure projects have
operational impact on sensitive resource areas,
the potential to significantly impact local communities.
protecting biodiversity and ecosystems. In addition,
We leverage more than a century of experience
SUSTAINABILITY we offer grants to environmental conservation
developing and maintaining the systems that keep
STRATEGY organizations for community revitalization; support
electricity and natural gas flowing, and we have
research and development projects related to
long-established practices to ensure we are focused
pollinator habitat protection; manage pollinator
on engagement, access, affordability and community
ENERGY & habitats at company facilities; work to identify and
support in every project we develop, including:
ENVIRONMENT protect species of concern in proposed work areas;
• Using environmental screening to identify
and provide trees and pollinator-friendly plants to
all communities impacted by projects under
county and municipal parks, environmentally
development.
SOCIAL focused groups and schools through various
• Seeking early and frequent stakeholder distribution programs.
engagement, including public open houses
and public feedback surveys.
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT • Communicating with power plant advisory
committees and neighbors.
• Providing timely and transparent information.
APPENDIX
• Working with local community leaders.
• Expanding community support and development
efforts.
• Engaging with stakeholders, including regulators,
customers, employees, commercial and
recreational groups, and the community at large to
assess potential impacts of development activity,
environmental initiatives and actions stemming
from the company’s business activities.
• Supporting and utilizing leading research and
investing in innovation to advance sustainable
resource management and reduce our
environmental impact.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 36
Just transition
INTRODUCTION
We carefully consider environmental and economic
factors that impact employees, communities and
customers when assessing and planning development
SUSTAINABILITY
activity. The company is developing a framework that
STRATEGY
outlines the considerations, resources and plans we’ll
use to engage our stakeholders, prepare for retiring
our Kentucky coal-fired generation economically, and
ENERGY &
move forward with future replacement generation.
ENVIRONMENT
The framework takes into consideration best
practices, lessons learned from past experiences,
available data and ways to include internal and
SOCIAL
external stakeholders in this process.
While focused on generation retirements, our
approach to stakeholder engagement for all projects
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT that have the potential to significantly impact
communities we serve will include:
• Identifying key internal stakeholders and
APPENDIX accountable owners
employees and the community early and often The companies have successfully retired plants in the
• Conducting a project-needs assessment
during a multi-year process as we economically past with minimal to no disruption to the workforce or
• Assessing outreach and planning considerations retire existing generation and construct replacement our local communities. The companies’ transition plan
generation. for generation plant retirements through 2030 includes
• Creating a profile of the impacted area
consideration of employee impacts through multi-year
LG&E and KU’s long-standing commitment to being
• Identifying external stakeholders
workforce planning, with job impacts expected to be
good corporate citizens within the communities they
• Organizing community outreach minimized through attrition, internal transfers and
serve allows them to better understand the unique
retraining.
• Establishing a strategic communications plan challenges and interests facing each community.
LG&E and KU’s community relations and government The companies’ phased transition planning provides:
With PPL’s Kentucky-based power plants providing
affairs departments have pursued a strategy of
hundreds of well-paying jobs and ongoing tax • Flexibility for each location to address its specific
engagement through customer interaction, local
revenues for the communities in which they serve, we needs.
community board memberships, active participation
know that the retirement of a power plant can have a
• Less disruption to the workforce and community.
within neighborhood groups, and consistent dialogue
significant impact on employees and the community.
with elected officials. Company employees serve on • Opportunities for continued reinvestment and
To help ensure a just transition for our employees and
over 100 community boards and devote thousands of reuse of existing generation sites.
the communities we serve, we work to retire power
volunteer hours a year to various organizations.
plants in a way that aims to be the least disruptive to • Ability to support economic development through
the local economy, including through retraining replacement with a reliable, affordable and
programs. We engage with regulators, customers, resilient energy portfolio.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37
Economic development
INTRODUCTION
CONTRIBUTING TO THE ECONOMIC VITALITY OF OUR COMMUNITIES
SUSTAINABILITY Mapping out long-term energy plans that contribute to economic vitality is part of the way PPL’s
STRATEGY companies work to provide a bright future for the communities we serve. We understand enhancement
and construction of utility infrastructure, at a reasonable cost, is vital to attracting and retaining
businesses that create jobs for our communities.
ENERGY & We provide incentives to support economic development efforts. For example, LG&E and KU’s
ENVIRONMENT
Economic Development Rider — an incentive rate for existing industry expansions, new project
locations and redevelopment initiatives within the service area — continues to be recognized as an
exemplary business attraction tool. The company’s economic development and major accounts team
SOCIAL works with state, county and local officials, regional partners, site consultants, real estate developers
and industry associations on potential business relocations and expansions.
LG&E AND KU HELP FORD
In Pennsylvania and Rhode Island, the utilities’ key account managers work to engage business
BLUEOVAL SK BATTERY PARK
GOVERNANCE and industrial customers to help them get the most from their energy dollars through the utilities'
MEET MAJOR MILESTONE
& MANAGEMENT
energy efficiency programs. They also serve as liaisons with operations to assist with the electrical
power needs of large customers and proactively address potential reliability issues. In addition, the Ford BlueOval SK Battery Park in Glendale, Kentucky, is
companies’ community relations teams are actively involved in various organizations dedicated to energized for service, achieving a major milestone that will
APPENDIX helping communities thrive. allow the manufacturer to commission equipment for
service and be operation-ready ahead of schedule.
To further contribute to economic development in our regions, PPL’s subsidiaries and their executives
are actively involved in business organizations, such as local chambers of commerce and economic LG&E and KU continue to play a big role in the construction
development organizations. of the electric and gas infrastructure to support operations.
The $5.8 billion battery-manufacturing site – a partnership
of Ford Motor Co. and SK On – is expected to create
5,000 jobs and add substantially to LG&E and KU’s gas
and electric loads.
Years of advance planning by state officials, community
leaders and economic developers – including LG&E and
KU’s Business and Economic Development team – laid
the groundwork for Ford and SK On to bring its business
to Kentucky.
A project of this magnitude would generally take four years
or more. The LG&E and KU team successfully compressed
it to 18 months, while maintaining an excellent safety
record and coming in on budget.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 38
Strengthening the communities we serve
INTRODUCTION
MAKING A POSITIVE IMPACT THROUGH CHARITABLE GIVING
SUSTAINABILITY As we work to create the utilities of the future, we strive to be a responsible corporate citizen and support the
STRATEGY communities in which we live and work. Volunteerism and charitable giving are key in our efforts to be an active $13.6 million
and positive force in our communities.
Total company and
Charitable giving — through each utility and their affiliated foundations — help to bolster education; promote
foundation charitable giving
ENERGY & diversity, equity and inclusion; develop the future workforce of the energy sector; conserve and protect our
ENVIRONMENT
environment and strengthen local communities.
Collectively, PPL’s operating companies and affiliated foundations contributed more than $13.6 million in 2023 to
support local organizations through annual grant and charitable giving programs in Kentucky, Pennsylvania and
SOCIAL
Rhode Island. The support is one of the many ways the company works year-round to uphold its values, which
31,800
include a focus on corporate citizenship.
Our employees support their local communities through volunteerism and charitable contributions. In 2023, the
Number of employee volunteer hours
GOVERNANCE
company’s employee giving campaigns raised more than $4 million in employee and retiree pledges. Coupled with
& MANAGEMENT
matching funds from the PPL's affiliated foundations, which match contributions dollar for dollar, this will direct more
than $8 million to support local nonprofits in states where we operate.
APPENDIX
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39
Safety
INTRODUCTION
WE NEVER COMPROMISE ON SAFETY AND HEALTH FOR OUR
EMPLOYEES, CONTRACTORS, CUSTOMERS AND THE PUBLIC.
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY Safety is more than a commitment at PPL. It’s a value that is rooted in everything we do.
Our goal is to achieve top-decile safety performance nationally across the enterprise.
PPL’s operating companies all have a strong accident-prevention culture. Employees
ENERGY & own the concept of health and safety at a grassroots level, and that commitment enables
ENVIRONMENT
employees to hold each other accountable while sharing good practices focused on
reducing risks and preventing workplace accidents. Our approach is outlined in our
health and safety policy.
SOCIAL
As we continued to drive toward improving our safety performance in 2023, we undertook
a number of initiatives:
• Expanded our use of safety guidelines and training tools in order to address the
GOVERNANCE
most serious injuries experienced by employees.
& MANAGEMENT
OnePPL SPIRIT | SAFETY
• Empowered bargaining unit safety advocates to enhance employee engagement,
observe work done by peers and recommend ways to improve safety. Good Catch program engages employees in safety
APPENDIX • Encouraged daily stretching among all employees at all company locations. PPL Electric’s Good Catch program provides a way for employees to
identify problems and unsafe conditions and do something about them.
• Provided opportunities for health assessments to improve employees’ overall health
and fitness. Employees submit safety suggestions about existing or potential safety
issues through the Corporate Corrective Action Tracking System.
• Implemented an expanded and strengthened Stop Work Authority policy across the
corporation. “Good Catches of the Month” are selected monthly by the safety
operations team, based on recommendations by regional safety
committees. The suggestions are shared with all employees via the
2023 EMPLOYEE SAFETY company’s intranet to help them learn to identify programs and unsafe
conditions and be empowered to take action to address them.
LG&E-KU PPL RIE TOTAL
Good Catches typically are related to conditions of PPL equipment and
Total Hours Worked 5,709,917.5 4,926,163.0 2,422,782.0 13,058,862.5
facilities; improvements to processes and procedures to eliminate gaps
Number of lost-day cases 8 8 9 25 that could lead to unsafe conditions; and unsafe behaviors.
Lost-Time Incident Rate 0.28 0.32 0.74 0.38 The reports help to identify where potential issues may exist before a
negative outcome occurs. The consistently high number of Good Catch
Recordable Incident Rate 1.02 1.10 2.56 1.33
reports indicates that employees are engaged and using human
Work-related fatalities 0 0 0 0
performance tools like situational awareness. It also indicates a culture
that is committed to learning and focused on continuing to get better.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 40
Safety programs These committees, with representatives from first • Near-miss/close-call reporting — Report all
INTRODUCTION
line and management, communicate safety incidents that could have resulted in injury, so
Our ultimate goal is to ensure that we all remain safe
messages to employees and hold regular safety hazards can be addressed to prevent similar
and healthy at home and on the job and return home
meetings. In addition, collective bargaining incidents in the future.
to our families safely at the end of each and every
SUSTAINABILITY agreements contain language that references the
workday. • Empowerment — Seize the freedom,
STRATEGY need for a strong health and safety advisory
responsibility and accountability for controlling and
Components of our program include:
committee.
correcting unsafe work without repercussions.
• Hazard assessment and mitigation —
• Job briefings — Ensure that employees partici-
• Communication — Foster reciprocal
ENERGY & Aggressively identify, assess and mitigate hazards
pate in a job briefing prior to the start of any work
ENVIRONMENT of all types before they cause injuries. communication that will support safe work habits
related to natural gas or electricity operations.
and a hazard-free environment.
• Incident investigation and reporting — Perform
• Compliance — Ensure that all business areas
• Leadership — Demonstrate the courage and
a root-cause analysis and meaningful investigation
and employees comply with local, state and
SOCIAL knowledge to correct unsafe actions, ensure the
and report after the failure of any safety or health
federal regulatory requirements.
safety and well-being of co-workers and promote
control that results in an incident or a near-miss/
• Vehicle incident prevention — Ensure safety as the most important thing we do.
close call.
employees have the resources, skills and
GOVERNANCE • Health and wellness — Maintain and cultivate a
• Employee involvement — Capitalize on the
& MANAGEMENT knowledge necessary to drive safely and culture of health and wellness to reduce injuries,
company’s most valuable resource, employees, by
defensively in order to reduce the number of
reduce healthcare costs, promote productivity and
actively creating and facilitating opportunities to
vehicle incidents.
maintain a healthy workforce.
become involved in loss-prevention efforts. PPL
APPENDIX • Business partner relationships — Foster better
has voluntary employee safety committees across
communication and closer working relationships
the company in virtually every business unit that
between employees and business partners to
plan and execute safety improvement activities.
strengthen the company’s safety culture.
2023 CONTRACTOR SAFETY
Contractor Safety
PPL’s commitment to safety encompasses our LG&E-KU PPL RIE TOTAL
contractors, who are contractually obligated to comply
Total Hours Worked 7,607,192.0 3,410,248.5 822,420.0 11,839,860.5
with stringent safety and health requirements.
Our standard contract language includes expectations Number of lost-day cases 7 7 1 15
that contractors maintain current operator qualifications
Lost-Time Incident Rate 0.18 0.41 0.24 0.25
needed for job requirements. PPL also provides training
to satisfy these qualifications, when necessary.
Recordable Incident Rate 0.97 0.76 0.73 0.84
Contractors are required to comply with all applicable
laws, regulations and industry standards. Work-related fatalities 2 0 0 2
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 41
Community Safety The ultimate goal of our emergency and disaster plans agreement. When releasing employees for assistance,
INTRODUCTION
is to ensure the resiliency of the electric and gas the company always takes into consideration its own
We also have a responsibility to keep our communities
service we provide to the communities we serve. customers’ needs and ensures it has plenty of
safe in addition to conducting our day-to-day work
resources available for maintenance work and
activities safely. Our public websites provide a variety With a focus on safety and reliability, PPL’s operating
SUSTAINABILITY emergency situations back home. The crews providing
of safety resources for our customers, students and companies maintain business continuity plans and
STRATEGY assistance represent a fraction of the people available
the general public. We also conduct in-person policies and procedures for responding to a variety of
to maintain and repair our system.
electrical hazard awareness training for first emergencies as required by regulatory agencies. The
responders and emergency management personnel company conducts regular training including drills and With utilities spread across different geographic
ENERGY &
throughout our service territories, which helps ensure tabletop exercises that connect employees with key regions of the U.S., the company is able to take a
ENVIRONMENT
safe and effective practices for first responders when stakeholders to ensure preparedness. OnePPL approach in addition to mutual assistance.
responding to emergencies. When one of PPL’s operating companies needs
We work closely with public safety and emergency
support, we are able to share company resources
preparedness organizations to coordinate responses
SOCIAL
from one utility to another to assist with restorations.
Emergency Management to emergency events. To help restore electric service
to communities after catastrophic emergencies or Clear communication is the hallmark of our strategy
PPL’s corporate emergency management plan
significant natural events, LG&E and KU, PPL Electric that leads to successful disaster management with
summarizes the prevention, mitigation, preparedness,
GOVERNANCE
and RIE are among the utilities that developed less confusion, and we work closely with public safety
& MANAGEMENT response, business continuity and recovery activities
RESTORE, or Regional Equipment Sharing for and emergency preparedness organizations to
that serve as the comprehensive integrated approach
Transmission Outage Restoration. coordinate responses to emergency events.
to establishing and maintaining an effective response
to and recovery from internal or external disasters. PPL’s crews often are called upon to help restore Our emergency management plan considers:
APPENDIX
power in other regions as part of a mutual assistance
• The response to real-world and simulated
emergency scenarios and disasters.
• The recovery of time-sensitive processes in
accordance with pre-established recovery time
objectives.
• The restoration and ultimate return to a permanent
operating environment.
• Support to existing local response plans.
The Emergency Management team conducts a hazard
vulnerability analysis on an annual basis to evaluate
natural, man-made, technological and hazardous
materials risks and vulnerabilities.
Each employee is required to complete annual
training, which addresses all-hazards information for
the employee based on the Corporate Emergency
Management Plan and Corporate Security Plan.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 42
Customer experience
INTRODUCTION
CUSTOMERS
SUSTAINABILITY
3,156,187 454,495 8,068 3 91 3,618,844
STRATEGY
Residential Commercial Industrial Municipals/Wholesale Gas Transport TOTAL
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT
The PPL family of companies provides essential another way to gain insight about our customers from
energy services to more than 3.6 million customers in an objective source.
SOCIAL the U.S. Through our regulated utility subsidiaries,
We offer convenient customer care and support 24/7.
PPL delivers electricity to customers in Kentucky,
Customers can connect with us through:
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Virginia; delivers
• Phone
natural gas to customers in Kentucky and Rhode
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT Island; and generates electricity from power plants • Live chat
in Kentucky. We strive to provide the highest
• Web self-service
quality service, safely, reliably and affordably to
• Interactive voice response
our customers, improving quality of life in the areas
APPENDIX
we serve.
Affordability and Assistance
Customer Satisfaction
Our business strategy prioritizes affordability, and we
Customer feedback is important to us as we look to
continually seek to work more efficiently by eliminating
continuously improve our quality of service. PPL relies
redundancies, improving processes and using more
on independent market research firms to conduct
automation to minimize costs while maintaining our
periodic customer satisfaction surveys. Customer
high level of service. This helps keep energy
feedback is obtained through telephone and online
affordable for customers.
surveys, advisory boards, focus groups, online panels,
mail surveys and customer service lines. We use the
results of this feedback to evaluate our service,
identify customer interests and concerns, determine
critical needs and offer our customers an opportunity
to communicate their interests and concerns. We
also measure customer satisfaction for specific
transactions to ensure we are providing the best
customer experience possible. In addition, we
participate in syndicated studies, such as J.D. Power,
to benchmark performance among utility peers and as
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 43
Customer assistance
INTRODUCTION
We help our customers use energy wisely and provide
a number of assistance programs to help vulnerable
customers.
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY Financial assistance
PPL’s utilities have helped connect customers to
more than $47 million in energy assistance in 2023
ENERGY & through funds generated by employee and customer
ENVIRONMENT donations, state and federal programs, local agencies,
foundation grants and other sources. Our customer
service teams helped more than 231,000 customers
SOCIAL across our service territories in Kentucky,
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Virginia.
In Kentucky and Virginia, Winterhelp, WinterCare
GOVERNANCE and WinterShare are third-party heating assistance
& MANAGEMENT programs that provide heating assistance for the
utilities’ qualifying customers. The assistance offered that offers reduced monthly payments, debt Energy savings
by the programs is contributed by customers through forgiveness and referrals to other assistance
WeCare (Weatherization, Conservation Advice and
APPENDIX tax-deductible donations. In addition, the companies programs. It is funded through residential Recycling Energy) is designed to create savings
make contributions to the programs. Both LG&E and customer rates.
through weatherization and energy education to help
KU have relationships with local charities, community
In Rhode Island, the Good Neighbor Energy Fund LG&E and KU income-eligible customers in need.
action groups and government assistance offices to
provides assistance to households unable to meet
WRAP — PPL Electric’s Winter Relief Assistance
further help customers.
an energy expense due to financial difficulty.
Program — helps customers with limited incomes
In Pennsylvania, Operation HELP provides financial Administered by the United Way of Rhode Island, the
reduce their home energy use and lower their electric
aid to PPL Electric residential customers to help pay program is a cooperative effort funded by sponsoring
bills. WRAP provides energy education and energy
energy bills for low-income families with financial energy companies and their foundations, their
saving measures for customers, when applicable.
hardships. The program is funded jointly through employees and other donors.
All measures and services are free.
contributions from PPL Electric, employees, retirees
All of PPL’s utilities support the Low Income Home
Language assistance
and customers. Operation HELP also supports
Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), a federal
CARES, the Customer Assistance and Referral Our utilities provide live call translation that allows
program that assists eligible low-income households
Evaluation Service program. CARES is a special customer representatives to conference in a translator
with their heating and cooling energy costs, bill
referral service for customers with temporary for customers who would prefer to conduct business in
payment assistance, energy crisis assistance,
hardships such as illness, injury, loss of job or high their native language instead of English.
weatherization and energy-related home repairs.
medical bills.
In 2023, total LIHEAP assistance for PPL customers
Additionally in Pennsylvania, OnTrack is a special was $44 million.
payment plan for PPL Electric’s low-income customers
1,438
Number of employees
2,739
6,629
1,243
1,209
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 44
Our employees
INTRODUCTION
331
OUR PEOPLE ARE WORKING TO CREATE THE UTILITIES OF THE FUTURE TODAY
SUSTAINABILITY PPL is supported by more than 6,600 talented, innovative employees, foc1u,4s3e8d on providing safe, reliable and
STRATEGY affordable energy to our customers. PPL, in turn, is committed to providing employees with a diverse and engaging
workplace, rich with opportunities that foster innovation and personal success. Women
664
in the workforce
We’re always looking for people whose core competencies align with our company values, including safety and
Number of employees
ENERGY & teamwork. Potential employees can expect a work environment built around these values. 2,739 26%
ENVIRONMENT 6,629 498
1,243
REPRESENTATION IN LEADERSHIP
SOCIAL
36% 17% 223
GOVERNANCE 1,209
& MANAGEMENT Women in leadership Ethnically and racially diverse leadership
APPENDIX
EMPLOYEE DATA
331
1,438
161
280
Ethnically and
Women
Number of employees 664 racially diverse
in the workforce
2,739
6,629 employees
26%
1,243 498
13%
243
163
1,209 223
LG&E and KU PPL Electric PPL Services RIE
331
161
Women 280
664 Ethnically and
in the workforce
Racially Diverse
26%
Employees
498
13%
243
223
163
161
280
Ethnically and
Racially Diverse
Employees
13%
243
163
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 45
Fostering an inclusive workplace
INTRODUCTION
PPL supports the principles of non-discrimination and equal opportunity. We recognize that our communities are diverse,
and our goal is to empower others to celebrate differences and raise understanding. We are dedicated to making a long-lasting
impact through enterprise-wide commitments intended to cultivate a diverse, equitable and inclusive culture.
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION COMMITMENTS
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
MAINTAIN A WORKPLACE CULTURE
ATTRACT, DEVELOP AND OF EQUITY AND INCLUSION
RETAIN A HIGH-PERFORMING,
GOVERNANCE • Implemented a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Council, a governance model that includes
DIVERSE WORKFORCE
& MANAGEMENT executive oversight, provides guidance for company leadership and raises awareness among
• Developed recruiting strategies, which include
employee on the enterprise-wide strategy.
requiring diverse interview panels and the
• Sponsored and supported business resource group initiatives focused on Career, Culture and
identification of good faith efforts to fill positions.
APPENDIX Community, expanded to 21 business resource groups enterprise-wide, and hosted an annual
• Participated in job fairs and advertised business resource group conference.
open positions with niche websites focused
• Conducted annual pay-equity reviews. Also, with all external hires and internal promotions or
on job placement for underrepresented
lateral job moves, we review employee pay from both an internal equity and external equity
candidates.
perspective and adjust when appropriate.
• Engaged business resource group leaders to
• Engaged management and their employees during staff meetings to increase awareness of
share bi-weekly reports of new job postings
diversity, equity and inclusion.
within their networks to expand our search for
diverse talent. • Provided compliance and unconscious bias training for employees as well as training for
leadership focused on appreciating differences, performance management and lawful hiring
• Provided test prep and mock interviewing to
practices.
prepare students for testing and interviews.
• Hosted a multitude of events and shared communications to educate employees on topics
• Identified and partnered with community
including Black History Month, Hispanic Heritage Month, Juneteenth, Lunar New Year, Diwali, the
organizations to educate high school students
empowerment of women leaders and Pride Month.
about careers in the utility industry, creating a
pipeline of diverse applicants for future openings. • Introduced a mental health wellness platform to provide resources and to lessen the stigma of
mental illness.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 46
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION COMMITMENTS
INTRODUCTION
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY
ENERGY & DEVELOP AND SUSTAIN RELATIONSHIPS WITH DIVERSE
ENVIRONMENT FOSTER PARTNERSHIPS THAT SUPPORT THE
SUPPLIERS, VENDORS AND SERVICE PROVIDERS
GROWTH AND VITALITY OF THE DIVERSE
• Hosted in-person supplier and virtual networking events in our service territories
COMMUNITIES AND CUSTOMERS WE SERVE
and participated in others nationwide to connect with diverse and small
SOCIAL • Provided financial and volunteer support to organizations serving
businesses.
historically underrepresented groups.
• Sponsored and participated in the Energizing Powerful Connections Conference
• Awarded grant funding through the PPL Foundation to nonprofits
with other utility companies to support development of diverse suppliers.
GOVERNANCE that are improving multi-cultural relations and supporting
& MANAGEMENT • Continued participation in the Energy Impact Partners Elevate Council focused on
minority-led organizations leading change.
funding for diverse businesses advancing clean energy technologies.
• Partnered with community organizations focused on the economic
• Continued to lead and participate in the Louisville Mayor’s Procurement and
advancement of the diverse communities in the areas we serve.
APPENDIX Equity Task Force.
INCREASE DIVERSE REPRESENTATION IN LEADERSHIP ROLES
• Increased the number of women in leadership positions to 36%, up from 23.8% in 2020.
• Increased the number of ethnic and racially diverse employees in leadership positions to 17%, up from 8.6% in 2020.
• Increased representation in our Formal Mentoring Program, in which 16% of mentors and 21% of mentees were minorities.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 47
Our workforce strategy university leadership summits, mock interviews,
INTRODUCTION
14% resume reviews, panel discussions, career
PPL supports the success of our current and future
bootcamps, networking and affinity group
workforce by cultivating a diverse, equitable and
30% sponsorships are part of our ongoing efforts to
inclusive culture, fostering professional development,
SUSTAINABILITY maintain PPL’s position as an employer of choice.
and encouraging employee engagement. Matters
STRATEGY
related to these priorities and corporate culture are Employee age range
overseen by PPL’s senior management, which Training and development
provides updates to the PPL Board of Directors.
PPL is focused on continually developing current
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT PPL has a strong focus on workforce planning, employees, while also building a strong pipeline of
enabling the company to: skilled workers for the future. The company has also
56%
continued efforts to build a more inclusive workforce.
• Forecast ebbs and flows in workforce
SOCIAL requirements. PPL’s operating companies are committed to creating
Under 30 30-50 Over 50
a workplace atmosphere that rewards performance
• Determine the size and type of workforce
and encourages professional development. Beyond
required for future business success.
internship and co-op programs that engage students occupational training, the companies offer:
GOVERNANCE
• Identify and address talent gaps and plan for in career-specific work experience, informational
& MANAGEMENT • Craftworker and lineworker development
future talent needs. interviews, fun activities, community service
programs.
• Develop plans, sourcing strategies and tactics. opportunities and networking with employees at
all levels. With nearly 200 interns annually, many • Tuition reimbursement for undergraduate and
APPENDIX In 2023, PPL had a retention rate of 91% and a
of which are hired into full-time positions, the graduate degrees.
turnover rate of 9%. The company's internal hiring
program provides a pipeline of skilled workers in • Leadership development programs.
rate is 31%.
a variety of fields.
• Personal skills and management training courses.
To attract top talent, generate awareness of careers in
PPL participates in many outreach activities focusing
energy and foster a love of STEM subjects (science, • Mentoring programs.
on historically underrepresented populations such
technology, engineering and math) among students,
as women, ethnic and racial minorities, LGBTQIA+ • Skill development opportunities.
PPL’s operating companies participate in learning
people, veterans and individuals with disabilities.
opportunities for students of all ages, support strong
Career fairs, multicultural leadership conferences,
TRAINING
2,477 $1.13M
299K 45
Number of training courses Continuing education
Total training hours Average training hours per employee
offered annually to employees contributions
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 48
Craft trade apprentice and trainee programs
INTRODUCTION
PPL is taking a proactive approach to expanding the talent pool for positions that will be available in the
next several years due to retirements.
In addition to college co-op programs, our operating companies have various apprenticeship programs for
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY lineworkers, electricians and craft workers in generation and natural gas operations.
With the average apprentice program taking more than four years to complete, this is a long-term
investment in the future workforce of the company.
ENERGY &
Many students are able to gain hands-on knowledge about the various career paths that utilities offer
ENVIRONMENT
while they obtain the degrees that are required for some craft worker positions.
We partner with community and technical colleges throughout our service territories in Kentucky,
SOCIAL Pennsylvania and Rhode Island to recruit top student talent. Additionally, we work with many lineworker OnePPL SPIRIT | TEAMWORK
training schools to recruit trainees, including the Southeast Lineman Training Center.
Trainees welcomed to the PPL Electric team
Twenty new PPL Electric Utilities employees recently
GOVERNANCE
began training to become future lineworkers who will
& MANAGEMENT
play critical roles in helping the company provide safe,
reliable and affordable power to nearly 1.5 million
customers.
APPENDIX
The latest group of helpers at PPL's training center is
the third class to go through the program this year. The
previous two classes produced a combined 36 helpers
who are now working with crews across our 29-county
service territory.
During their initial eight to 10 weeks of training, the
trainees get lessons in the classroom and learn to
climb poles safely before they are assigned to crews.
They learn PPL Electric’s safety rules and human
performance tools, as well as the company’s
processes, procedures and work methods.
Once they complete that portion of the training, they
take on roles in the field and go through on-the-job
training to become journeyman lineworkers. The
company currently has 142 trainees working in the field.
Trainees serve in apprenticeships for approximately
four years before becoming journeyman lineworkers.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 49
Human Rights
INTRODUCTION
PPL is committed to operating in ways that
help promote, protect and support human
rights in our workforce and the communities
SUSTAINABILITY
in which we do business.
STRATEGY
Beyond complying with federal, state and
local laws and regulations applicable to
human rights, PPL’s Standards of Integrity and
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT Supplier Code of Conduct provide a
framework for operations that reflect these
values and principles, not only for our own
operating companies but for vendors and
SOCIAL
suppliers as well. The full human rights policy
statement is available online.
Training on the Standards of Integrity is
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT conducted annually to ensure every employee
understands the company’s commitment to
and respect for human rights.
APPENDIX PPL engages an independent, third-party
vendor to operate our EthicsHelpline, which is
the growing expectations of our customers,
available 24 hours a day, seven days a week,
and adapt to the challenges of rapidly
via phone or online. Employees, suppliers,
changing technologies.
customers and other stakeholders can report
a human rights concern through the Among other things, employees are OnePPL SPIRIT | INTEGRITY
EthicsHelpline, which provides anonymity, encouraged to participate in health and safety
A collaborative approach to worker representation
or directly to the company. groups such as the safety advocate program
LG&E reached a new three-year contract agreement with
and to join one or more business resource
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 2100,
groups, which are employee-driven
Collective bargaining and
which currently represents more than 600 employees.
organizations formed around common
freedom of association
experiences and perspectives. Company and union leaders worked together in the
PPL supports our employees’ right to freedom
best interests of employees and customers, continuing
Bargaining unit employees have access to
of association as well as the right to form or
a positive partnership that has spanned more than
a grievance procedure for internal dispute
join a union, bargain collectively and engage in
four decades.
resolution. The grievance procedure promotes
union activities. With 37% of PPL’s workforce
a prompt and responsible conclusion of issues The agreement, which is currently in effect through Oct. 1,
represented by a labor union, the company’s
raised by bargaining unit employees. 2026, includes 3% annual wage increases in each year of
operating utilities collaborate with union
the contract for all employees represented by IBEW 2100.
leadership to enhance workplace safety, meet
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 50
Military veterans
INTRODUCTION
PPL’s operating companies have earned a trusted
reputation among the military community as preferred
employers.
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY In addition to supporting time off for active duty and for
periodic military training, the company also supports
employees who are members of a military reserve
organization in the following ways:
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT • Pays the difference between the regular pay they
would have received, if they had worked, and their
government pay for a period of six months for
SOCIAL eligible employees.
• Provides additional time off to take care of
personal affairs, if necessary, before reporting for
GOVERNANCE duty.
& MANAGEMENT
• Implements retroactively any step and merit
increases that were deferred during the leave of
absence.
APPENDIX
Business resource groups
PPL empowers our employees to form and participate
21
in business resource groups to foster an environment
of inclusion and provide an opportunity for employees
Business resource groups
with common experiences and perspectives to
network and engage in professional development
opportunities. PPL’s companies have a combined
37%
21 business resource groups.
Throughout the year, business resource group
Employees covered by
members organize employee events to educate fellow
collective bargaining agreements
employees and build awareness regarding diversity
and inclusion as well as professional development.
Members are also actively involved in various cultural,
5%
community and volunteer programs that enable them
to extend their reach outside their workplaces.
Veterans
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 51
INTRODUCTION
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY
Benefits
• Medical, dental and vision coverage.
ENERGY &
• Paid vacation, sick leave and holidays, in addition to flexible and hybrid schedules for certain positions.
ENVIRONMENT
• Family-friendly parental and caregiver leave, including up to six weeks of paid parental leave for eligible employees.
• 401(k) plan that provides employer match and employer contributions (if eligible).
SOCIAL
• Health care and dependent care reimbursement accounts.
• Health Savings Account (HSA) with employer contribution.
Support for our employees
• Tuition reimbursement.
GOVERNANCE
We provide resources to help our employees
& MANAGEMENT
• Basic life and supplemental employee and dependent life insurance.
thrive.
• Long-term disability coverage.
In addition to challenging, rewarding careers
APPENDIX and competitive salaries, PPL offers an excellent • Lifestyle perks and discounts.
benefits program for both salaried and union
positions. PPL offers comprehensive health and
welfare benefits and a total rewards package that
supports and promotes work-life balance.
PPL offers competitive vacation offerings; a
comprehensive retirement program; and internal
Health and Wellness
and external development opportunities,
including tuition reimbursement offerings for • Employee Assistance Program including virtual and in person mental health support services.
undergraduate and/or graduate degrees. • Tele-health medical services.
Our commitment and partnership with our • Onsite primary care for many of our employees.
employees has successfully powered PPL
• Coaching/registered dietitian services.
decade after decade and fosters an environment
that encourages employees to directly impact the • Chronic disease care.
overall success of PPL. As we look toward the
• Tobacco cessation.
future, PPL is looking for team members that
• Maternal health programs.
embrace and foster new ideas and perspective to
build upon our strong, value-based culture. • Financial wellness resources.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 52
GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT
INTRODUCTION
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY
53
Governance structure and practices
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT
54
Responsible compensation
SOCIAL
55
Financial performance
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT
56
Enterprise risk management
APPENDIX
57
Cybersecurity
59
Supply chain management
60
Ethics & compliance
62
Public policy
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 53
Governance
INTRODUCTION
ENSURING TRANSPARENCY, business strategies and risk management, ensuring
ACCOUNTABILITY AND we continue to deliver long-term value for our
SUSTAINABILITY
ETHICAL STEWARDSHIP customer and shareowners.
STRATEGY
Governance structure and practices The Board of Directors’ responsibilities include
Strong leadership and well-managed operations are overseeing the company’s long-term strategy and 4 Average tenure 4
execution, risk management policies and practices,
ENERGY & the cornerstones of a successful business. PPL’s 8.6 years
ENVIRONMENT selecting the company’s leaders and advising senior
corporate governance practices are designed to
management.
ensure long-term value for our shareowners,
customers and the communities we serve. The board’s oversight also includes reviewing senior
SOCIAL management’s approach to environmental, social and
An engaged, experienced and diverse board is
governance performance. The board has designated
aligned with and responsive to shareowner interests.
its Governance, Nominating and Sustainability
PPL’s Board of Directors is committed to its role in 2
Committee (GNSC) as the body responsible for
GOVERNANCE exercising independent oversight of the company’s
& MANAGEMENT overseeing PPL’s sustainability strategy and 0-5 years 6-11 years >11 years
responsible business practices and positions. The
BOARD COMPOSITION board stays informed on these matters through regular
updates from subject matter experts.
APPENDIX 9
40% Committed to diversity, the GNSC considers skills,
expertise, background, professional experience, Directors are independent
Percentage of women education and other individual characteristics, such as
on Board of Directors race, gender and ethnicity, as well as a variety of
attributes that contribute to the board’s collective An engaged, experienced
strength. Two of the board’s four independent and diverse Board
30%
committees are led by women. In 2023, longtime utility
Key skills in:
veteran Linda Sullivan joined the Board of Directors,
Percentage of ethnic and serving on the audit and finance committees. • Risk Management
racial diversity on Board of Directors • Capital Markets, Finance and Accounting
More information on our directors and board structure
• Regulated Industry/Regulated Utility Experience
is provided on the governance section of the
• Operations Experience and Safety
company’s website, along with PPL’s annual proxy
50% • Environmental and Sustainability
statement and Guidelines for Corporate Governance.
• Technology, Digitalization and Innovation
Additional details about the role of the board,
Independent board • Cybersecurity
independence of the directors, role of the independent
committees chaired by women • Customer Relationships and Marketing
directors (including the independent chair), and
selection of directors can be found in the Guidelines
Based on 10 directors as of December 2023
for Corporate Governance.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 54
Responsible Compensation
INTRODUCTION
The board is committed to responsible compensation programs that support the company’s strategy, culture and values over the long term. Incentive compensation for executives
and employees is based on performance against financial and nonfinancial goals set by the Board of Directors through its People and Compensation Committee. Each year,
the board and executive management team evaluate the company’s strategy and, together with the advice of the company’s independent compensation consultant, refine
SUSTAINABILITY
performance goals and priorities to help ensure long-term benefit to our shareowners.
STRATEGY
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT
DIRECTOR COMPENSATION EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION NON-EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
SOCIAL
The board believes that to continue to The board has taken steps to further align PPL provides variable compensation for
attract talent to the board, outside directors with shareowners’ interests, and in 2022 non-executive employees, including short-term
should be remunerated for their services and continuing in 2023, added a new incentives, long-term incentives and variable
GOVERNANCE
at a level competitive with that provided by environmental, social and governance pay, such as bonuses, based on individual
& MANAGEMENT
other comparable publicly traded corporations. component to the long-term incentives of the performance, company financial performance
Directors who are company employees executive compensation program. Information and the company’s attainment of operational
(currently only PPL’s chief executive officer) regarding PPL’s executive compensation goals. All eligible employees receive an
APPENDIX do not receive any separate compensation program and compensation philosophy and evaluation of their skills and performance on
for service on the board of directors or its objectives, as well as a discussion of how an annual basis, helping to strengthen the
committees. Information regarding executive compensation decisions affecting connection between pay and performance.
compensation of PPL’s directors can our named executive officers were made for
be found in the 2024 Proxy Statement, 2023, are included in the “Compensation
beginning on page 31. Discussion and Analysis” section of the 2024
Proxy Statement. Additional details about
specific compensation of the named executive
officers are included in the 2024 Proxy
Statement, beginning on page 37.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 55
Financial performance
INTRODUCTION
2023 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
SUSTAINABILITY For the years ended December 31
STRATEGY
FINANCIAL 2023 2022
Operating revenues (millions) $8,312 $7,902
ENERGY & PPL COMPLETES
Net income (millions) $740 $756
ENVIRONMENT
MAJOR RIE
Earnings from ongoing operations (millions) (a) $1,183 $1,041
INTEGRATION
Total assets (millions) $39,236 $37,837
MILESTONE
SOCIAL
Earnings per share - Diluted $1.00 $1.02
Employees and contractors
Earnings from ongoing operations per share – Diluted (a) $1.60 $1.41
across the enterprise continue
GOVERNANCE Book value per share (b) $18.90 $18.89 to provide a smooth and
& MANAGEMENT seamless transition to PPL
Market price per share $27.10 $29.22
management for our RIE
Market price/book value ratio 143% 155% customers, completing all
planned integration milestones
APPENDIX
for 2023 and keeping us on pace
OPERATING – ELECTRICITY SALES (GWh) (c)
to end in 2024 our remaining
Retail delivered 63,982 67,405 transition services currently
provided by National Grid.
Wholesale supplied (d) 531 1,080
PPL has successfully
exited about 40% of the
(a) Management utilizes “Earnings from Ongoing Operations” or “Ongoing Earnings” as a non-GAAP financial measure that should not be considered
transition services.
as an alternative to reported earnings, or net income, an indicator of operating performance determined in accordance with GAAP. PPL believes
that Earnings from Ongoing Operations is useful and meaningful to investors because it provides management’s view of PPL’s earnings
Completed integration includes
performance as another criterion in making investment decisions. In addition, PPL’s management uses Earnings from Ongoing Operations in
systems that support gas pipeline
measuring achievement of certain corporate performance goals, including targets for certain executive incentive compensation. Other companies
may use different measures to present financial performance. Earnings from Ongoing Operations is adjusted for the impact of special items. planning, operation and
Special items are presented in the financial tables on an after-tax basis with the related income taxes on special items separately disclosed. compliance; electric work order
Income taxes on special items, when applicable, are calculated based on the statutory tax rate of the entity where the activity is recorded.
design and management;
(b) Based on 737,130 and 736,487 shares of common stock outstanding (in thousands) at December 31, 2023, and December 31, 2022.
development of operating
(c) Excludes the Rhode Island Regulated segment electricity sales as revenues are decoupled from volumes delivered. procedures for planned electric
(d) Represents FERC-regulated municipal and unregulated off-system sales. work; certain procurement and
warehousing activities; and other
operations.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 56
Enterprise risk management
INTRODUCTION
PPL maintains a robust enterprise risk management
process that provides a business portfolio view of
SUSTAINABILITY
material risks that may impact the achievement of
STRATEGY
PPL’s business strategy. As part of the enterprise risk
management process, representatives from PPL’s
operating companies and service groups identify,
ENERGY &
assess, monitor and report ongoing and emerging
ENVIRONMENT
risks, including climate-related and broader
environmental, social and governance risks.
The company’s Risk Management group oversees
SOCIAL
this process and reports quarterly to the Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors.
GOVERNANCE
Business Continuity and
& MANAGEMENT
Crisis Response Planning
PPL has a Corporate Crisis Plan to ensure the
company is prepared to respond quickly in the event
APPENDIX
of a corporate-level crisis; to protect the public,
environment, employees, facilities and operations;
to mitigate impacts; to define roles for response and
vice president-Corporate Communications; and the With goals to be top decile in safety and top quartile
recovery; and to establish internal and external
senior director and chief physical security officer. in reliability, customer satisfaction and cost efficiency,
communications protocols.
Additional members can be added to the Executive the company requires collaboration, innovation and
The plan establishes the PPL Executive Crisis Team,
Crisis Team as needed, depending on the situation. continuous improvement across every facet of the
which sets policy, directs crisis preparedness by the
organization.
The team maintains various crisis planning scenarios
company’s various business lines and operations,
and robust notification tools and procedures. In The Transformation Management Office combines
assesses and directs the provision of corporate-level
addition, it conducts periodic plan exercises, refining technology, operations and finance to ensure a unified
resources and coordinates activities with regional
protocols after each event. approach to achieving initiatives that are vital to our
company locations in the event of a major crisis.
transformational journey.
The standing members of the Executive Crisis Team
Transformation Management The office is led by the chief financial officer, the chief
are the president and chief executive officer; the chief
operating officer and chief information and digital
legal officer; the chief financial officer; the chief human In 2023, PPL launched the Transformation
officer. In addition, it is supported by the utility
resources officer; the chief information and digital Management Office to guide the company’s efforts
presidents and their teams, as well as subject matter
officer; the chief operating officer; the chief security to become the best utility in company in the U.S.
experts from across the company.
officer; the vice president-Public Affairs and
Sustainability; operating company presidents; the
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 57
Cybersecurity and grid protection
INTRODUCTION
The physical and cybersecurity of the electric grid and assessments to learn and improve our protections.
natural gas systems is critical to reliably meet the
SUSTAINABILITY • Routinely participating in industry-wide programs
nation’s energy needs and to preserve national
STRATEGY to further information sharing, intelligence
security.
gathering and unity of effort in responding to
PPL’s strategy for managing cyber-related risks is potential or actual attacks.
risk-based and, where appropriate, integrated within
ENERGY & • Corporate governance in the form of a Corporate
ENVIRONMENT PPL’s enterprise risk management processes.
Security Council that meets quarterly to review
PPL has also adopted and implemented the Institute
and understand risks and direct actions to
of Internal Auditors Three Lines Model to provide a
continually improve PPL’s security posture and
systematic approach to govern and manage
SOCIAL mitigate cyber risks.
cybersecurity risk management and controls. PPL’s
Our cybersecurity strategy is aligned with and
chief security officer, who reports directly to the chief
informed by the following:
technology and innovation officer, directs the overall
GOVERNANCE
strategy and program, to include governance • Electricity Information Sharing and Analysis
& MANAGEMENT
processes for the oversight of cybersecurity risk Center.
management. These governance processes include
• Cybersecurity Risk Information Sharing Program.
quarterly leadership council reviews of key initiatives,
APPENDIX • Electricity Sub-Sector Coordinating Council.
cyber risk metrics and potential threats.
• Edison Electric Institute’s cybersecurity and
Cybersecurity and the effectiveness of PPL’s
resiliency efforts.
cybersecurity strategy are integral and regular topics We reinforce a culture of security by conducting
of discussion at board meetings. • Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. annual security awareness training, maintaining a
progressive ethical phishing program to educate and
PPL’s cybersecurity strategy includes: • North American Electric Reliability Corporation.
test our employees’ ability to spot and report malicious
• Actively monitoring company systems. • Transportation Safety Administration Security
emails, and by conducting incident response
Directives for Gas Operations.
• Regularly reviewing and updating security exercises with senior leadership and their supporting
standards, and policies and procedures based • National Institute of Standards and Technology staffs to better prepare ourselves should PPL ever be
upon the threat landscape and industry best Cybersecurity Framework. impacted by a significant cyberattack.
practices.
• Department of Homeland Security Cybersecurity
• Conducting incident response and tabletop Infrastructure Security Agency.
exercises for cyber resiliency.
Our workforce serves as an essential line of defense
• Security awareness and training to improve user for the protection of our systems and assets.
behavior and security hygiene, including ethical
Maintaining a culture of security is one way to help us
phishing campaigns.
prepare for and be able to detect and respond to
• Leveraging industry-leading experts to perform risk cyberattacks.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 58
Data protection and privacy
INTRODUCTION
Our companies take privacy and protection of
customer information seriously and have rigorous
controls in place to protect customer information and
SUSTAINABILITY
regulate its proper use.
STRATEGY
• We take steps to limit the information collected
from customers to only what is necessary to
provide services requested.
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT • Only authorized employees and organizations
hired to provide services have access to customer
information, and access is limited to what is
SOCIAL needed for their roles.
• Information, including customer data, housed in
our systems is routinely monitored for security and
GOVERNANCE vulnerabilities.
& MANAGEMENT
• Employees and contractors are required to take
annual security awareness training (information
protection is one of many topics covered by the
APPENDIX
training), which includes guidelines for protecting
customer information.
• Contractors performing work on our companies’
behalf must confirm they understand and abide by
their obligations to protect PPL information. Physical resiliency delay, detect, deny, respond to and recover from risks
• Customers’ online account information is protected A reliable and secure power grid is built to withstand and threats to the organization and our assets.
by secure authentication features to prevent and recover quickly from disruptions. Crisis management plans are also critical to resiliency
unauthorized access. and timely restoration. Testing those plans regularly is
We have made — and continue to make — significant
• Customer information is never shared without investments to strengthen our security protections and essential. PPL conducts a variety of exercises and
permission, unless required by law. enhance grid reliability and resiliency. drills to help test our incident protocols and critical
functions and identify areas for improvement,
• We comply with all laws regarding the Continuous evaluation of risks and threats through
including NERC’s biennial GridEx that simulates both
safeguarding of the personally identifiable collaboration with industry partners as well as with
physical and cyber attack scenarios.
information of our customers. federal, state and local officials help develop the
Additionally, PPL invests in new power lines,
strategy deployed to protect our assets.
substations and smart technologies to continue to
Our implementation of “defense in depth” and
strengthen the resiliency of the power grid.
layered protection strategies helps PPL develop a
cost-effective, secure and robust approach to deter,
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 59
Supply chain management
INTRODUCTION
PPL’s supply chain organization negotiates and these standards to their own supply chains with We are focused on diversifying the suppliers within
secures contracts to procure materials, labor and respect to goods and services provided to us. our supply chain. To maximize opportunities for
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY services necessary to support the business and diverse businesses, PPL and its operating companies
Accordingly, PPL reviews the safety and
infrastructure investment. Our ongoing partnerships actively reach out to minority, woman, veteran,
environmental performance of its business partners
with diverse suppliers ensures we are able to get the disabled veteran, disabled and LGBTQIA+ owned
and incorporates compliance requirements in
wires, poles, fuel and countless products that help us businesses. We host annual supplier networking
ENERGY & purchase orders and contracts. The value PPL places
ENVIRONMENT keep the power flowing for our customers. on diversity carries over to the people from whom the events to attract business leaders who will help
expand the diversity of our supplier base and serve as
PPL’s operating companies require suppliers to company purchases goods and services.
active members of various development councils
observe our high standards of business ethics and
PPL is a member of the Sustainable Supply Chain
serving diverse business suppliers.
SOCIAL professional and personal integrity when bidding or
Alliance (SSCA), an organization of utilities and
providing materials or services to PPL.
suppliers working together to advance sustainability
The company’s enterprise-wide Supplier Code of best practices in utility supply chain activities and
GOVERNANCE Conduct, which applies to anyone supplying goods or supplier networks. We utilize SSCA’s sustainability
& MANAGEMENT services to PPL, includes guidelines on a variety of project supplier survey to gather data from our
topics including diversity, corruption, ethics and suppliers.
cybersecurity. We also expect our suppliers to extend
APPENDIX
2023 SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
$3.3 billion $1.2 billion $399 million 231
Total corporate spend Total corporate spend on Total corporate Number of diverse
on goods and services locally based suppliers spend on diverse suppliers business suppliers
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 60
Ethics and compliance
INTRODUCTION
To fulfill our obligation to shareowners and all others who have a stake in PPL’s business and the communities we serve, we (and our contractors) must adhere to high ethical
standards, work safely and responsibly, and comply with both the spirit and the letter of all laws and regulations that govern our business. We recognize that to do otherwise would
SUSTAINABILITY
be costly to our company — not just financially, but also in terms of the strong reputation built by generations of PPL employees.
STRATEGY
PPL has established a compliance and ethics program that is founded upon PPL’s Standards of Integrity. The Standards of Integrity, along with our Vision and Values, define the
way that we conduct our business. They apply in all situations, at all times, guiding the decisions we make and the actions we take.
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
AUDIT COMMITTEE, BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Provides high-level oversight of the compliance and ethics program, which applies to PPL and all of its subsidiaries.
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT
APPENDIX
VICE PRESIDENT-CORPORATE AUDIT AND CHIEF COMPLIANCE OFFICER
Has overall responsibility for PPL’s compliance and ethics program and chairs the Corporate Compliance Committee.
CORPORATE COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE
Serves as an integral part of PPL’s enterprise-wide compliance and ethics governance structure and a key component of the compliance and ethics program.
INVESTIGATION WORKING GROUP
COMPLIANCE WORKING GROUP
Reviews investigation reports of all significant investigations by PPL and its subsidiaries.
Identifies, evaluates and assesses existing and emerging
The group’s membership consists of key personnel representing the
compliance risks and potential issues with existing programs.
compliance, audit, human resources and legal functions.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 61
Working with integrity Reporting and handling of violations accessible on the internet. In addition to employees,
INTRODUCTION
suppliers, customers and other external parties can
PPL is committed to strong governance practices and Employees are expected to ask questions or raise
use the EthicsHelpline to report concerns.
high ethical standards. Directors and all PPL officers concerns about the application or interpretation of the
are always expected to act ethically and adhere to the Standards of Integrity. Guidelines are in place for promptly responding to
SUSTAINABILITY
policies set forth in the Standards of Integrity. Every allegations of misconduct and include notifying the
STRATEGY The company does not discriminate against or tolerate
member of the Board of Directors receives a copy of vice president and chief compliance officer of the
any form of retaliation toward employees who ask
the Standards of Integrity. It is the responsibility of allegations. Issues and trends are identified and
questions or raise concerns in good faith, and
each director to advise the corporate secretary of any reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of
provides an “EthicsHelpline” for confidential and, if
ENERGY &
actual or potential conflict of interest, and any Directors. Allegations are handled and reported to the
ENVIRONMENT desired, anonymous reporting of concerns. PPL’s
affiliation with public or privately held enterprises, Audit Committee each quarter, with the most serious
EthicsHelpline toll-free phone number and internet
including for-profit and nonprofit entities that may allegations being reported on an expedited basis to
site are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
create a potential conflict of interest to the company or the chair of the Audit Committee as soon as
The EthicsHelpline, which is managed by an external
SOCIAL
inconsistency with applicable laws, company policies reasonably practicable after initial intake discussions.
vendor to promote confidence in confidentiality, is also
or values.
Every employee is expected to read, understand and
GOVERNANCE
comply with the Standards of Integrity and associated
& MANAGEMENT
company policies. In addition, employees are
expected to report any compliance or ethics concerns
to their immediate supervisors or via another
APPENDIX
appropriate reporting mechanism, including
anonymous reporting mechanisms that are in place
and publicized to employees. PPL takes any instance
of noncompliance seriously. Failure to obey laws and
regulations or violations of company policies may
result in employee discipline to the extent permissible
under applicable law, up to and including termination.
Employees receive annual training on the Standards
of Integrity. As part of the training, every employee is
required to certify that he or she understands the
expectation to report misconduct and understands that
PPL will not tolerate any form of retaliation for any
report made in good faith. All training is tracked,
recorded and reported to executive leadership.
Targeted communications on key compliance and
ethics topics are also issued as needed.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 62
Public policy engagement
INTRODUCTION
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT
APPENDIX
Laws and policies enacted at the federal, state and issues arise. Additionally, on an annual basis, the
local levels can have a significant impact on PPL and board’s Governance Nominating and Sustainability
our customers, employees and shareowners. PPL Committee receives a report of corporate political
94.3
actively encourages public policy that furthers our contributions.
ability to provide energy safely, reliably, affordably and (out of 100)
Details regarding PPL’s approach to public policy
sustainably for our customers and communities, and engagement, including compliance, trade association Ranking as Trendsetter in Political
supports our growth and innovation in ways that Disclosure and Accountability
membership, political action committees and
by the CPA-Zicklin Index
benefit our company and our stakeholders. Our active
contributions to certain tax-exempt organizations are
participation in the public policy arena helps to ensure
available online on the company’s website.
that public officials are kept informed of key issues
The company’s transparent reporting and oversight
that affect the interests of our stakeholders.
has earned a trendsetter ranking by the CPA-Zicklin
PPL’s Public Affairs department is in regular
Index, which benchmarks the political disclosure and
communication with executive leadership and
accountability policies and practices of leading U.S.
provides an annual report to the board on key issues
public companies.
and advocacy positions, with periodic updates as key
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 63
LEGISLATIVE AND POLICY PRIORITIES
INTRODUCTION
PPL actively monitors and engages in a broad array of federal and state policy issues that could impact our customers, employees and shareowners.
SUSTAINABILITY Affordability Environmental regulations Permitting and Siting Reform
STRATEGY PPL advocates for federal resources like the Low PPL supports environmental rules that keep energy PPL supports policies to make the permitting and
Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), reliable and affordable for our customers and siting process more efficient while maintaining
a federal program that makes annual grants to states, communities throughout the clean energy transition. important environmental protections. These reforms
ENERGY & tribes and territories to operate home energy The policies we support will enable PPL to sustainably can lower costs and reduce timelines to complete the
ENVIRONMENT assistance programs. In addition to this direct bill manage its energy resource portfolio, have a realistic large-scale energy infrastructure projects necessary
assistance, PPL supports energy efficiency, pathway to implementation, and consider relevant for the clean energy transition, including the
weatherization, and other payment assistance technological, economic, legal and regulatory dynamics. construction of offshore wind, pipelines and electric
SOCIAL programs that promote options to reduce usage, transmission lines.
Innovation
educate customers, and lower customer costs.
In addition to directly investing in R&D initiatives, PPL Physical and cybersecurity
Clean energy advocates for robust support for federal R&D activities at To promote effective protection of the energy grid,
GOVERNANCE PPL engaged extensively with policymakers in the agencies like the Department of Energy, National Labs, PPL supports risk-based rules and requirements that
& MANAGEMENT
passage of clean energy tax credits to make the and the National Science Foundation. PPL actively balance security risk, operational efficiency and
energy transition more affordable for our customers partners with the federal government and research customer costs, while enabling new grid technologies.
and accelerate the commercialization of new organizations on next generation energy demonstration Also, given constant and rapidly-evolving physical and
APPENDIX zero-carbon technologies. PPL will continue to support projects. cybersecurity threats, PPL supports a government-
policies that achieve sustainable climate solutions and industry partnership approach to improve sector-wide
Natural gas
maintain affordability and reliability. resilience.
PPL supports the sustainable use of natural gas as a
Competitiveness lower carbon, flexible baseload generation resource, a Pipeline safety
PPL supports a competitive corporate tax code that critical enabler of greater use of renewable energy, and PPL supports clear and achievable rules that make it
promotes economic growth. This includes tax policies an affordable energy source for end-use customers. possible for pipeline operators to continue to safely
that recognize the special accounting and regulatory Appropriately regulated, natural gas can safely and own, operate and maintain natural gas facilities for the
requirements unique to utility companies. reliably meet community energy needs and enable benefit of our customers.
energy affordability and economic development.
Electrification Transmission
PPL advocates for policies that advance electrification PPL has engaged with FERC to advocate for efficient
efforts across the entire economy. interconnection processes, transmission planning and
expansion — local, regional and interregional — that
avoids undue cost burdens to customers. PPL also
supports policies that accommodate regional
differences and the important role of states. Above all,
PPL is committed to ensuring continued reliability of
the transmission system.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 64
APPENDIX
INTRODUCTION
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
65
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT
U.N. Sustainable Development Goals
66
APPENDIX
Voluntary Disclosure Index
80
Additional Resources
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 65
Alignment with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
INTRODUCTION
Our mission to provide safe, affordable, reliable, sustainable energy to our customers aligns with several of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
SUSTAINABILITY
Sustainable Development Goal Relevance
STRATEGY
We carefully manage the water we use while generating electricity and monitor the impact of
ENERGY &
Clean water and sanitation wastewater discharged into waterways. PPL supports programs that protect waterways and the
ENVIRONMENT
ecosystems that depend on them in the service areas where our utilities operate.
SOCIAL
We are focused on providing safe, affordable, reliable and
Affordable and clean energy
GOVERNANCE environmentally responsible energy solutions to our customers.
& MANAGEMENT
APPENDIX We are focused on cultivating success for our employees by fostering an inclusive,
respectful and diverse workplace that rewards performance, promotes professional development and
Decent work and economic growth
enables employees to achieve their full potential. We also work closely with local and state officials
to foster economic development that creates jobs throughout the communities we serve.
We are investing in tomorrow’s energy infrastructure by developing a more reliable, resilient
Industry, innovation and infrastructure
and efficient grid that fosters continued progress and enables a cleaner energy future.
We have developed a clean energy transition strategy that supports a net-zero economy and
Climate action
our decarbonization goals while keeping affordability, value and reliability at the core.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 66
Voluntary Disclosure Index
INTRODUCTION
PPL’s annual sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with the following voluntary frameworks and initiatives: the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Universal
Standards, including electric utility sector specific indicators, the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standard for electric and gas utilities and the Task Force for
SUSTAINABILITY
Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD), and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs). These disclosures are meant to assist our investors, customers,
STRATEGY
business partners and other stakeholders in obtaining standardized disclosure. Unless otherwise noted, this document covers all of PPL Corporation (NYSE: PPL) and its
subsidiaries, and all quantitative data covers the period from Jan. 1 to Dec. 31, 2023.
ENERGY & DISCLOSURE PPL’S RESPONSE GRI SASB TCFD
ENVIRONMENT
The organization and its reporting practices
Organizational details About PPL 2-1 IF-EU-000.A
Number of: (1) residential, (2) commercial and (3) industrial
Our companies
SOCIAL customers served
Performance data
IF-EU-000.B
Customers Total electricity delivered to: (1) residential, (2) commercial,
(3)industrial, (4) all other retail customers and (5) wholesale
GOVERNANCE
customers
& MANAGEMENT
IF-EU-000.C
Length of transmission and distribution lines
IF-EU-000.D a)Total electricity generated, percentage by
major energy source, percentage in regulated markets
APPENDIX
b) Total wholesale electricity purchased
IF-GU-000.A
Number of: (1) residential, (2) commercial and (3) industrial
customers served
IF-GU-000.B
Amount of natural gas delivered to (1) residential customers,
(2)commercial customers, (3) industrial customers and (4)
transferred to a third party
IF-GU-000.C
Length of natural gas transmission and distribution lines
Entities included in the Our companies 2-2
organization’s sustainability
reporting
Reporting period, frequency and PPL’s 2023 Corporate Sustainability Report is 2-3
contact point developed on an annual basis for calendar year 2023
and was published April 2024. Any questions regarding
the report can be directed to community@pplweb.com.
Restatements of information PPL had no significant restatements to report in 2023. 2-4
External Assurance External assurances for this report have not been 2-5
conducted.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 67
DISCLOSURE PPL’S RESPONSE GRI SASB TCFD
Activities and workers
INTRODUCTION
Activities, value chain, About PPL 2-6
and other business relationships
Our companies
Supply chain management
SUSTAINABILITY
Employees Our employees 2-7
STRATEGY
Workers who are not employees Contractor Safety 2-8
Governance
ENERGY & Governance structure and Corporate Governance Structure 2-9 Governance
ENVIRONMENT composition Describe management’s
role in assessing and
managing climate-
related risks and
SOCIAL opportunities
Nomination and selection of the 2024 Proxy Statement pages 27-28 2-10
highest governance body
GOVERNANCE Chair of highest governance 2024 Proxy Statement pages 20-21 2-11
& MANAGEMENT body
Role of the highest governance Governance 2-12 Governance
body in overseeing the The board’s oversight of
management of impacts climate-related risks and
APPENDIX
opportunities
Delegation of the responsibility Governance 2-13
for managing impacts
Role of the highest governance Governance 2-14 Governance
body in sustainability reporting The board’s oversight of
Sustainability governance
climate-related risks and
opportunities
Conflicts of interest PPL Corporation’s Independence Guidelines 2-15
Communication of critical Anyone wishing to make their concern known to PPL's 2-16
concerns board, its independent chair, any board member, or the
independent directors as a group, may do so by writing
to such person or persons in care of the Corporate
Secretary's Office at PPL Corporation, Two North Ninth
Street, Allentown, PA 18101.
Collective knowledge of the Board Composition 2-17
highest governance body
Evaluation of the performance of 2024 Proxy Statement pages 6-19 2-18
the highest governance body
Renumeration policies Responsible compensation 2-19
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 68
DISCLOSURE PPL’S RESPONSE GRI SASB TCFD
Process to determine 2024 Proxy Statement pages 26 2-20
INTRODUCTION remuneration
Annual total compensation ratio 2024 Proxy Statement pages 82 2-21
Strategy, policies and practices
SUSTAINABILITY
Statement on sustainable Our sustainability strategy 2-22
STRATEGY
development strategy
Policy commitments Legislative and policy priorities 2-23
Process to remediate negative Ethics and compliance 2-25
ENERGY & impacts
ENVIRONMENT
Mechanisms for seeking advice Ethics and compliance 2-26
and raising concerns
Compliance with laws and Ethics and compliance 2-27
SOCIAL regulations
Membership associations Public policy engagement 2-28
Stakeholder engagement
GOVERNANCE
Approach to stakeholder Stakeholder engagement 2-29
& MANAGEMENT
engagement
Energy equity, environmental justice and a
just transition
Collective bargaining Collective bargaining 2-30
APPENDIX
agreements
Disclosure on material topics Our sustainability priorities
Process to determine material Our sustainability priorities 3-1
topics
List of material topics Our sustainability priorities 3-2
Management of material topics Sustainability governance 3-3 Metrics and Targets
a.Disclose the metrics
used by the organization
to assess climate-
related risks and
opportunities in line with
its strategy and risk
management process.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 69
DISCLOSURE PPL’S RESPONSE GRI SASB TCFD
Economic performance
INTRODUCTION
Direct economic value 2023 Form 10-K 201-1
Financial implications and other Risks and opportunities 201-2 Strategy
risks and opportunities for the
a)Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the
SUSTAINABILITY organization’s activities due to
organization has identified over the short, medium, and long
STRATEGY climate change term
b)Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities
on the organization’s businesses, strategy and financial
planning
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT c)Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking
into consideration different climate-related scenarios,
including a 2°C or lower scenario
Risk Management
SOCIAL
a)Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and
assessing climate-related risks
b)Describe the organization’s processes for managing
GOVERNANCE
climate-related risks
& MANAGEMENT
c)Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and
managing climate-related risks are integrated into the
organization’s overall risk management
APPENDIX Coverage of the organization’s 2023 Form 10-K 201-3
defined benefit plan obligations
Market presence
Ratios of standard entry-level PPL’s companies seek to provide work hours, wages 202-1
wage by gender compared to and benefits in compliance with all applicable laws,
local minimum wage including regulations related to stable scheduling and
work hours.
Proportion of senior Hiring and promotion is based on merit, not whether a 202-2
management hired from the candidate is from a particular locality.
local community
Infrastructure investments and Grid modernization 203-1 IF-EU-420a.1
services supported Percentage of electric utility revenues from rate structures that
Research and development
(1)are decoupled and (2) contain a lost revenue adjustment
mechanism (RAM)
IF-GU-420a.1
Percentage of natural gas utility revenues from rate structures
that (1) are decoupled and (2) contain a lost revenue adjustment
mechanism (RAM)
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 70
DISCLOSURE PPL’S RESPONSE GRI SASB TCFD
Significant indirect economic Economic development 203-2
INTRODUCTION impacts
Customer assistance
Charitable giving
Proportion of spending on local Supply chain management 204-1
SUSTAINABILITY suppliers
STRATEGY
Professional integrity
Operations assessed for risks All business units are subject to anti-corruption risks 205-1
relate to corruption analysis.
ENERGY &
Communication and training on All employees receive regular anti-corruption training 205-2
ENVIRONMENT
anti-corruption policies and as well as training on a variety of important policies
procedures and procedures. PPL’s Standards of Integrity, which
highlights certain key policies and procedures, can be
accessed online at any time.
SOCIAL
Confirmed incidents of PPL does not publicly disclose this information. 205-3
corruption and actions taken
Total number of legal actions for PPL does not publicly disclose this information. 206-1
GOVERNANCE
anti-competitive behavior,
& MANAGEMENT
anti-trust and monopoly
practices and their outcomes.
Tax
APPENDIX
Approach to tax 207-1
Tax governance, control and risk 207-2
management Taxes are discussed throughout the 2023 Form 10-K.
See Note 6 beginning on page 116.
Stakeholder engagement and 207-3
management of concerns related
to tax
Environmental management
Materials used by weight or Fuel consumption 301-1
volume
Waste management
Water use and management
Recycled input material used We continue to investigate opportunities to incorporate 301-2
recycled fuels in our operations.
Energy consumption within the Energy consumption and output 302-1
organization
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 71
DISCLOSURE PPL’S RESPONSE GRI SASB TCFD
Energy consumption outside the Energy consumption and output 302-2
INTRODUCTION organization
Energy intensity Carbon intensity 302-3
Reduction of energy Energy efficiency 302-4 IF-EU-420a.3
SUSTAINABILITY consumption Customer electricity savings from efficiency measures, by
STRATEGY market
IF-GU-420a.2
Customer natural gas savings from efficiency measures, by
market
ENERGY &
Reductions in energy require- Energy efficiency 302-5
ENVIRONMENT
ments of products and services
Interactions with water as a Water use and management 303-1
shared resource
SOCIAL
Management of water Water use and management 303-2 IF-EU-140a.2
discharge-related impacts Number of incidents of noncompliance associated with water
Total Number and Volume of Significant Spills
quantity and/or quality permits, standards and regulations
GOVERNANCE
Water withdrawal Water use and management 303-3 IF-EU-140a.1
& MANAGEMENT
Water withdrawn, water consumed and percentage from
water-stressed areas
IF-EU-140a.3
APPENDIX Description of water management risks and discussion of
strategies and practices to mitigate those risks
Water discharge Water use and management 303-4
Water consumption Water use and management 303-5
Operational sites owned, leased, Biodiversity 304-1
managed in or adjacent to
protected areas and areas of
high biodiversity value outside
protected areas
Significant impacts of activities, Biodiversity 304-2
products and services on
biodiversity
Habitats protected or restored Biodiversity 304-3
IUCN Red List species and Biodiversity 304-4
national conservation lists
species with habitats in areas
affected by operations
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 72
DISCLOSURE PPL’S RESPONSE GRI SASB TCFD
Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) Net-zero goal-related emissions 305-1 IF-EU-110a.1 Metrics and Targets
INTRODUCTION emissions (Scope 1) a.Scope 1 emissions b)Disclose Scope 1,
Other COe Emissions
2 b.Percentage covered under emissions limiting regulations Scope 2, and, if
c.Percentage covered under emissions limiting regulations appropriate, Scope 3
greenhouse gas (GHG)
SUSTAINABILITY emissions, and the
STRATEGY related risks
Energy indirect greenhouse gas Net-zero goal-related emissions 305-2 IF-EU-110a.2 Metrics and Targets
(GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions associated with power b)Disclose Scope 1,
deliveries Scope 2, and, if
ENERGY &
appropriate, Scope 3
ENVIRONMENT
greenhouse gas (GHG)
emissions, and the
related risks
SOCIAL Other indirect greenhouse gas Net-zero goal-related emissions 305-3 Metrics and Targets b)
(GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Other COe Emissions Disclose Scope 1,
2
Scope 2, and, if
appropriate, Scope 3
GOVERNANCE greenhouse gas (GHG)
& MANAGEMENT emissions, and the
related risks
Greenhouse gas (GHG) Carbon intensity 305-4
APPENDIX emissions intensity
Reduction of greenhouse (GHG) Net-zero goal-related emissions 305-5 IF-EU-110a.3
emissions Discussion of emissions reduction strategies
Enabling clean energy resources
IF-EU-110a.4
Number of customers served in markets subject to renewable
portfolio standards (RPS) and fulfillment
Emissions of ozone-depleting This is not material to PPL. 305-6
substances (ODS)
NOx, SOx, and other significant Air emissions 305-7 IF-EU-120a.1
air emissions a)NOx and SO
2
b)Particulate Matter (PM10)
c)Lead (Pb)
d)Mercury (Hg)
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 73
DISCLOSURE PPL’S RESPONSE GRI SASB TCFD
Waste generation and significant Waste management 306-1
INTRODUCTION waste-related impacts
Management of significant Waste management 306-2 IF-EU-150a.1
waste-related impacts Amount of coal combustion residuals (CCR) generated,
percentage recycled
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY IF-EU-150a.2
Total number of coal combustion residual (CCR) impoundments,
broken down by hazard potential classification and structural
integrity assessment
ENERGY & Waste generated Waste management 306-3
ENVIRONMENT
Waste diverted from disposal Waste management 306-4
Waste directed to disposal Waste management 306-5
New suppliers that were Supplier Code of Conduct 308-1
SOCIAL
screened using environmental
criteria
Negative environmental impacts Supplier Code of Conduct 308-2
GOVERNANCE in the supply chain and actions
& MANAGEMENT taken
Social
New employee hires and Workforce planning 401-1
APPENDIX employee turnover
Benefits provided to full-time Benefits 401-2
employees that are not provided
to temporary or part-time
employees
Parental leave PPL offers family-friendly parental and caregiver leave, 401-3
including financial assistance for adoption and more
flexibility with sick time, allowing employees to tend to
family members or aging parents if the need arises.
Eligible employees can take up to six consecutive
weeks of paid leave following the birth or adoption of a
child. In 2023, 38 women and 138 men used parental
leave. A total of 171 employees retured to work,
resulting in a 97.2% retention rate.
Minimum notice periods Notice periods vary by collective bargaining 402-1
regarding operational changes agreement. We comply with applicable laws,
regulations and collective bargaining agreements.
Occupational health and safety Safety programs 403-1
management system
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 74
DISCLOSURE PPL’S RESPONSE GRI SASB TCFD
Hazard identification, risk Safety 403-2 IF-GU-540a.1
INTRODUCTION assessment, and incident Number of (1) reportable pipeline incidents, (2) Corrective Action
2022 EEI-AGA ESG/Sustainability Report
investigation Orders (CAO) and (3) Notices of Probable Violation (NOPV)
IF-GU-540a.2
Percentage of distribution pipeline that is (1) cast and/ or
SUSTAINABILITY
wrought iron and (2) unprotected steel
STRATEGY
IF-GU-540a.3
Percentage of natural gas (1) transmission and (2) distribution
pipelines inspected
ENERGY & IF-GU-540a.4
ENVIRONMENT Description of efforts to manage the integrity of natural gas
delivery infrastructure, including risks related to safety and
emissions
Occupational health services Safety 403-3
SOCIAL
Worker participation, Safety programs 403-4
consultation, and communication
on occupational health and
GOVERNANCE safety
& MANAGEMENT
Worker training on occupational Safety programs 403-5
health and safety
Promotion of worker health Safety 403-6
APPENDIX
Prevention and mitigation of Safety 403-7
occupational health and safety
impacts directly linked by
business relationships
Workers covered by an Safety 403-8
occupational health and safety
management system
Work-related injuries Safety 403-9 IF-EU-320a.1
a.Occupational safety statistics
Work-related ill health Safety 403- IF-EU-320a.1
10 a.Occupational safety statistics
Average hours of training per Training and development 404-1
year per employee
Programs for upgrading skills Training and development 404-2
and transition assistance
programs
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 75
DISCLOSURE PPL’S RESPONSE GRI SASB TCFD
Percentage of employees PPL’s expectations are that all eligible employees 404-3
INTRODUCTION receiving regular performance receive an evaluation of their skills and performance
and career development reviews on an annual basis. The company’s business units
have formal performance appraisal processes that
cover 100% of eligible active, full-time and part-time
SUSTAINABILITY employees.
STRATEGY
Diversity of governance bodies Board composition 405-1
and employees
Our employees
Operations and suppliers No risks to, or violations of, the right to freedom of 407-1
ENERGY & identified in which the right to association or the right to form or join a union,
ENVIRONMENT freedom of association and bargain collectively, or engage in union activities
collective bargaining may be at were identified. About 37% of PPL’s workforce is
risk represented by a labor union and the company’s
operating utilities collaborate with union leadership
SOCIAL to enhance workplace safety, meet the growing
expectations of our customers, and adapt to the
challenges of rapidly changing technologies.
Operations and suppliers at None. We comply with applicable laws, rules and 408-1
GOVERNANCE
significant risk for incidents of regulations wherever we operate.
& MANAGEMENT
child labor
Operations and suppliers at None. We comply with applicable laws, rules and 409-1
significant risk for incidents of regulations wherever we operate.
APPENDIX forced or compulsory labor
Security personnel trained in All domestic Corporate Security personnel complete 410-1
human rights policies or corporate Standards of Integrity training on an annual
procedures basis. Additionally, all domestic Corporate Security
personnel complete a training program on indicators
and response to workplace violence events at least
bi-annually. All contract security personnel working
domestically complete training programs on ethics and
conduct and cultural diversity administered by their
employer.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 76
DISCLOSURE PPL’S RESPONSE GRI SASB TCFD
Operations with local 100% of PPL’s operations have programs for local 413-1 IF-EU-240a.4
INTRODUCTION community engagement, impact community engagement. Discussion of impact of external factors on customer
assessments and development affordability of electricity, including the economic conditions of
Stakeholder engagement
programs the service territory
Customer assistance
IF-GU-240a.4
SUSTAINABILITY Community support Discussion of impact of external factors on customer
STRATEGY
Economic development affordability of natural gas, including the economic conditions of
the service territory
Energy equity, environmental justice and just transition
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT
New suppliers that were Supplier Code of Conduct 414-1
screened using social criteria
Negative social impacts in the Supplier Code of Conduct 414-2
SOCIAL
supply chain and actions taken
Political contributions Public Policy Engagement 415-1
Assessment of health and safety Safety 416-1
GOVERNANCE impacts of product and service
& MANAGEMENT categories
Incidents of non-compliance PPL does not publicly disclose this information. 416-2
concerning the health and safety
impacts of products and services
APPENDIX
Requirements for product and Electric and natural gas service cannot be labeled. 417-1
service information and labeling We provide regular and detailed safety information
to customers via bill inserts, public service
announcements, presentations, social media and
the company’s websites.
Incidents of non-compliance PPL does not publicly disclose this information. 417-3 IF-EU-550a.1
concerning marketing Number of incidents of noncompliance with physical security
communications and/or cybersecurity standards or regulations
Substantiated complaints PPL does not publicly disclose this information. 418-1
concerning breaches of
customer privacy and losses of
customer data
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 77
Electric Utilities Sector Disclosure
Description PPL’s response GRI SASB TCFD SDG
INTRODUCTION Installed capacity, broken down by primary energy Installed capacity EU1
source and regulatory regime
Net energy output broken down by primary energy Energy consumption and output EU2
source and regulatory regime
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY Number of residential, industrial, Customer experience EU3 IF-EU-240a.2
institutional and commercial accounts a) Typical monthly electric bill for
Average Customer Bills
residential customers for
500 kWh of electricity delivered
ENERGY & per month b) Typical monthly
ENVIRONMENT electric bill for residential
customers for 1,000 kWh of
electricity delivered per month
IF-GU-240a.1
SOCIAL Average retail natural gas rate for
c)residential customers
d)commercial customers
e)industrial customers
GOVERNANCE f)transportation services only
& MANAGEMENT
SASB: IF-GU-240a.2
Typical monthly gas bill for
residential customers for (1)
50 MMBtu and (2) 100 MMBtu of
APPENDIX
gas delivered per year
Length of above and underground transmission and About PPL EU4
distribution
Allocation of CO emissions allowances, or equivalent, None. EU5
2
broken down by carbon trading framework
Management approach to ensure short- and long-term PPL addresses availability and reliability in our G4-DMA Availability IF-EU-420a.2
electricity availability and reliability integrated resource plans that are submitted to & Reliability
regulatory agencies. All PPL operating companies use Percentage of electric load
smart grid technology across their networks. served by smart grid technology
Planned capacity against projected electricity demand Forecast demand for LG&E and KU is 6,172 MW, and EU10
over the long term, broken down by energy source and LG&E and KU generation capacity is currently 7,579
regulatory regime MW, providing a 22.8% reserve margin.
Demand-side management programs including Where applicable, PPL addresses planned capacity G4-DMA Demand
residential, commercial, institutional and industrial and projected demand in integrated resource plans that Side Management
programs are submitted to regulatory agencies.
Energy efficiency
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 78
Description PPL’s response GRI SASB TCFD SDG
Research and development activity and expenditure Drive digital innovation and R&D G4-DMA Research
INTRODUCTION aimed at providing reliable electricity and promoting & Development
sustainable development
Average generation efficiency of thermal plants by In 2023, the average generation efficiency for LG&E EU11
energy source and regulatory regime and KU was 9.8 (MMBtu/Net MWh).
SUSTAINABILITY
Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage PPL’s operating utilities use standard utility industry EU12
STRATEGY
of total energy practices to review and identify line losses that are
outside of industry norms and take necessary steps to
mediate those issues as they occur. In 2023, line loss
as a percentage of total energy was:
ENERGY &
5.18% for KU
ENVIRONMENT
3.49% for LG&E (electric)
1.12% for LG&E (gas)
5.60% for PPL Electric
8.00% for RIE (electric)
SOCIAL
3.80% for RIE (gas)
Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the Biodiversity EU13
biodiversity of the affected areas
GOVERNANCE Programs and processes to ensure the availability of a Workforce strategy G4-DMA Skilled
& MANAGEMENT skilled workforce Workforce
Percentage of employees eligible to retire in next 5 Workforce strategy EU15
and 10 years, broken down by job category and region
APPENDIX Days worked by contractor and subcontractor Contractor Safety EU17
employees involved in construction, operation and
maintenance activities
Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees PPL provides required health and safety-related EU18
who have undergone relevant health and safety training for 100% of the contractors performing physical
training work on our electric systems.
Collaborative approaches to managing watersheds and Water use and management G4-DMA Water
reservoirs for multiple uses
Approaches for pest and vegetation management Vegetation management G4-DMA Vegetation
along transmission and distribution corridors Management
Stakeholder participation in decision making Stakeholder engagement DMA Local
processes related to energy planning and infrastructure Communities
development
Number of people physically or economically displaced We avoid displacement of anyone to the extent feasible EU22
and compensation, broken down by type of product by careful planning during the siting process of major
projects. If displacement is unavoidable, we make fair
compensation for any property transactions.
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 79
Description PPL’s response GRI SASB TCFD SDG
Contingency planning measures, disaster/emergency Emergency preparedness DMA-Emergency
INTRODUCTION management plan and training programs, and Planning
recovery/restoration plans
Programs, including those in partnership with Customer assistance DMA-Customer IF-EU-240a.4
government, to improve or maintain access to Support Programs Discussion of impact of external
SUSTAINABILITY electricity and customer support services factors on customer affordability of
STRATEGY electricity, including the economic
conditions of the service territory
IF-GU-240a.4
Discussion of impact of external
ENERGY &
factors on customer affordability of
ENVIRONMENT
natural gas, including the economic
conditions of the service territory
Percentage of population unserved in licensed PPL’s utilities have an obligation to serve all that want EU26
SOCIAL distribution or service areas electrical service in their service territory.
Number of residential disconnections for non-payment, Residential disconnections for PPL’s electric utilities EU27 IF-EU-240a.3
broken down by duration of disconnection and by during 2023 totaled 138,548. The number of residential Number of residential customer
regulatory regime reconnections within 30 days was 118,732. electric disconnections for nonpay-
GOVERNANCE ment, percentage reconnected within
Residential disconnections for PPL’s gas utilities during
& MANAGEMENT 30 days
2023 totaled 7,024. The number of residential
reconnections within 30 days was 5,214. IF-GU-240a.3
Number of residential customer gas
disconnections for non-payment,
APPENDIX
percentage reconnected within
30 days
Power outage frequency Reliability and resiliency EU28 IF-EU-550a.2
Reliability a)System Average Interruption
Duration Index (SAIDI)
b)System Average Interruption
Frequency Index (SAIFI)
Average power outage duration Reliability and resiliency EU29 IF-EU-550a.2
Reliability a)System Average Interruption
Duration Index (SAIDI)
b)System Average Interruption
Frequency Index (SAIFI)
Average plant availability factor by energy source and LG&E and KU’s plant availability factor is 87.71%. The EU30
by regulatory regime unplanned outage rate for LG&E and KU plants in 2023
was 5.15%.
Practices to address language, cultural, low literacy Customer assistance DMA-Customer
and disability related to barriers to accessing and access
safely using electricity and customer support services
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 80
Additional resources
INTRODUCTION
Annual report
SUSTAINABILITY Climate Assessment Report
STRATEGY
Climate Assessment Report – Addendum
Diversity, equity and inclusion website
ENERGY & EEO-1 Report
ENVIRONMENT
Environmental Policy Statement
Form 10-K
Human Rights Statement
SOCIAL
Investor Relations website
Privacy Policy
GOVERNANCE
Proxy statement
& MANAGEMENT
Public Policy website
Standards of Integrity
APPENDIX
Supplier Code of Conduct
Sustainability website
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 81
Net-Zero Goal-Related Emissions (2010 Baseline)
2010 2023
INTRODUCTION
Scope 1: Gross MWh of Owned Generation (metric tonnes of COe ) 60,736,0861 25,085,753
2
Scope 1: Fleet Vehicles (metric tonnes of COe) 48,343 28,240
2
SUSTAINABILITY
Scope 1: Small Plant Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources (metric tonnes of COe) 2,515 2,384
STRATEGY 2
Scope 1: Plant Mobile Equipment (metric tonnes of COe) 4,893 5,373
2
Scope 1: Fugitive SF Emissions (metric tonnes of COe) 114,727 12,324
6 2
ENERGY &
Scope 1: Gas Used in Facilities (stationary fuel combustion) (metric tonnes of COe) 18,250 14,395
ENVIRONMENT 2
Scope 2: Electricity Use in Facilities (metric tonnes of COe)2 89,732 21,258
2
Scope 3: Electricity Purchased for End Use Customers - LG&E and KU (MWh) 1,906,442 666,724
SOCIAL
Scope 3: Electricity Purchased for End Use Customers - LG&E and KU (metric tonnes of COe) 1,597,157 592,165
2
Total Goal-Related Emissions (metric tonnes of COe) 62,577,296 25,761,892
2
GOVERNANCE 12010 Scope 1 Plant Emissions is the only data point that includes former PPL affiliate, PPL Energy Supply, LLC.
2Emissions for facilities served by LG&E and KU are included in scope 1 generation emissions.
& MANAGEMENT
APPENDIX
Other CO e Emissions
2
2023
Scope 1: Gas Operations (metric tonnes of COe) 143,380
2
Scope 3: Electricity Purchased for End Use Customers - PPL Electric and Rhode Island Energy (MWh) 14,243,683
Scope 3: Electricity Purchased for End Use Customers - PPL Electric and Rhode Island Energy (metric tonnes of COe) 4,968,618
2
Scope 3: Gas Purchased for End Use Customers - LG&E and Rhode Island Energy (MMCUFT) 1,889,034
Scope 3: Gas Purchased for End Use Customers - LG&E and Rhode Island Energy (metric tonnes of COe) 3,834,945
2
Scope 3: Employee Commuting (metric tonnes of COe) 10,870
2
Scope 3: Business Travel (metric tonnes of COe) 1,051
2
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 82
Carbon Intensity Installed Capacity1
2023 2023
INTRODUCTION
Operating Revenues (in millions) 8,312 Total Net Summer Rating at end of year (MW) 7,535
Revenue Carbon Intensity1 0.0031 Coal Total Net Summer Rating (MW) 4,715
SUSTAINABILITY
Gross Generation Carbon Intensity2 0.853 Natural Gas Net Summer Rating (MW) 2,716
STRATEGY
1Total CO 2e goal-related emissions divided by revenue. Renewable Net Summer Rating (MW) 104
2Total COe associated with gross owned generation divided by owned net generation.
2
Hydroelectric Net Summer Rating (MW) 96
ENERGY &
Solar Net Summer Rating2 (MW) 8
ENVIRONMENT
1As reported in 10-K year ending Dec. 31, 2023. Owned generation excludes purchased power.
Energy Consumption and Output
Includes 75% Trimble County Unit 1 & 2 ownership.
2Does not include additional 1.7 MW from LG&E and KU’s community Solar Share program.
2023
SOCIAL
Owned Gross Generation (MWh) 32,094,765
Owned Net Generation (MWh) 29,422,636
GOVERNANCE Total MMBtu Consumed at Plant 289,194,298
Air Emissions
& MANAGEMENT
Generation Efficiency Heat Rate (MMBtu/owned net generation) 9.8
2023
Small Plant Stationary Combustion Sources (liters) 1,197,989,910
Total NOx Emissions (metric tonnes) 12,940
APPENDIX
Plant Mobile Fuel Combustion Sources (liters) 2,068,174
Total NOx Emissions Intensity (metric tonnes/owned net generation) .00044
Facility Electricity Use (kWh) 58,339,071
Total SO Emissions (metric tonnes) 12,087
2
Facility Gas Use (kWh) 78,011,721
Total SO Emissions Intensity (metric tonnes/owned net generation) .00041
2
Fleet Vehicle Energy Use (liters) 11,444,268
Total HG Emissions (kg) 41
Hazardous Air Pollutants Intensity (kg/owned net MWh) .00000139
Particulate Matter (metric tonnes) 527
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 83
Total Water Withdrawal by Source
2023
INTRODUCTION Water Sources Affected by Withdrawal of Water
% Impact Waterbody Size Consumption Total Volume of Water Recycled
2023 Withdrawal 2023 Discharge1
Plant (water withdrawn compared Water Body (lake-megaliters or (megaliters/year) and Reused as a Percentage
(megaliters/year) (megaliters/year)
to waterbody size) river-megaliters/day) (withdrawal - discharge) of Total Water Withdrawal
SUSTAINABILITY
Herrington Lake
STRATEGY KU-Brown 13,563 0.011% 3,318 324,4052 10,245 24.46%
(created by Dix River Dam)
KU-Ghent 97,772 0.242% 101,690 Ohio River 110,8293 -3,9184 104.01%
LG&E-Cane Run 4,739 0.011% 1,419 Ohio River 119,8823 3,320 29.94%
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT LG&E-Mill Creek 208,102 0.476% 223,427 Ohio River 119,8823 -15,3254 107.36%
LG&E-Trimble County 55,247 0.137% 19,240 Ohio River 110,8293 36,007 34.82%
Totals 379,422 349,093 30,329 92.01%
SOCIAL
1These numbers were calculated from annual averages of the NPDES-KPDES reported values for the Discharge Monthly Reports (DMR) or using process-specific flow information. Flows include discharges from ash ponds, cooling tower blowdown
streams, once-through cooling flows and accumulated stormwaters within impoundments or collected/drainage process areas. These flows were returned to the same water bodies from which they were withdrawn; there are a number of other users
located downstream and upstream of plant locations.
2Volume of lake during low-flow conditions (10Q7).
GOVERNANCE
3Flow at relevant locations during 10Q7 low-flow conditions.
& MANAGEMENT 4Discharge exceeds withdrawal due to rainfall captured in metered impoundments.
APPENDIX
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 84
Coal Combustion Products1
2023
INTRODUCTION
CCP Production (million metric tonnes) 2.517
CCP Reuse 71.98%
SUSTAINABILITY
Owned Net Generation (MWh) 29,422,636
STRATEGY
CCP Intensity (million metric tonnes/owned) 0.086
1 Does not include trash and NonPCB used oil recycling.
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT
Total Weight of Waste by Type and Disposal Method
SOCIAL 2023
Hazardous Waste Generated (metric tonnes) 217.15
Non-Hazardous Waste Generated1 (metric tonnes) 40,489
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT Non-Hazardous Waste Diverted from Landfill (metric tonnes) 21,954
Universal Waste Generated (metric tonnes) 19.68
Universal Waste Recycled (metric tonnes) 19.68
APPENDIX
Non-Hazardous Waste Diverted (percentage) 54%
Universal Waste Diverted (percentage) 100%
1 Does not include trash and NonPCB used oil recycling.
Total Number and Volume of Significant Spills
Company Number of Spills Causes Gallons
LKE 2 Equipment failure 30.5
LKE 2 Weather event 40
PPL EU 1 Equipment failure 30
PPL EU 2 Weather event 26.5
PPL EU 1 Third-party damage 30
RIE 1 Weather event 20
Total 9 177
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 85
2023 Employee Safety
LG&E-KU PPL RIE PPL CORP (Overall)
INTRODUCTION
Total Hours Worked 5,709,917.5 4,926,163.0 2,422,782.0 13,058,862.5
Number of Lost-Day Cases 8 8 9 25
SUSTAINABILITY Lost-Time Incident Rate 0.28 0.32 0.74 0.38
STRATEGY
Recordable Incident Rate 1.02 1.10 2.56 1.33
Work-Related Employee Fatalities 0 0 0 0
ENERGY &
ENVIRONMENT
2023 Contractor Safety
SOCIAL
LG&E-KU PPL RIE TOTAL
Total Hours Worked 7,607,192.0 3,410,248.5 822,420.0 11,839,860.5
GOVERNANCE Number of lost-day cases 7 7 1 15
& MANAGEMENT
Lost-Time Incident Rate 0.18 0.41 0.24 0.25
Recordable Incident Rate 0.97 0.76 0.73 0.84
APPENDIX Work-related fatalities 2 0 0 2
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 86
Customers
LLGG&&EE--KKUU ((EElleeccttrriicc)) LLGG&&EE ((GGaass)) PPPPLL EEUU RRIIEE ((EElleeccttrriicc)) RRIIEE ((GGaass)) TTOOTTAALL
INTRODUCTION
RReessiiddeennttiiaall 885555,,441122 330077,,770044 11,,228899,,884444 445500,,995566 225522,,227711 33,,115566,,118877
CCoommmmeerrcciiaall 115500,,883366 2266,,992200 118877,,994477 6644,,220000 2244,,559922 445544,,449955
SUSTAINABILITY IInndduussttrriiaall 22,,225522 339988 33,,002233 11,,664400 775555 88,,006688
STRATEGY
MMuunniicciippaallss//WWhhoolleessaallee 33 33
GGaass TTrraannssppoorrtt 9911 9911
ENERGY &
TTOOTTAALL 11,,000088,,550033 333355,,111133 11,,448800,,881144 551166,,779966 227777,,661188 33,,661188,,884444
ENVIRONMENT
SOCIAL
Average Monthly Electric Bill1 Reliability
Operating Company Residential bill Commercial bill Industrial bill LG&E-KU PPL Electric RIE Total US AVG1
GOVERNANCE
Kentucky Utilities $119.50 $1,805.00 $35,406.00 SAIDI 73.70 91.47 52.77 78.84 131.1
& MANAGEMENT
Louisville Gas and Electric $120.39 $1,784.00 $35,856.00 SAIFI 0.70 0.64 0.67 0.67 1.09
PPL Electric Utilities $182.22 $1,895.00 $27,567.00 CAIDI 105.29 142.45 78.97 118.32 120.2
APPENDIX
Rhode Island Energy $253.49 $2,778.00 $91,783.00
SAIDI is the average outage duration (in minutes), excluding major events, per IEEE definition 1366.
1Average electric bill data is based on the following typical bill assumptions: SAIFI is the average number of interruptions per customer, excluding major events, per IEEE definition 1366.
Residential: 1,000 kWh per month usage. CAIDI represents the average time (in minutes) required to restore service after a sustained interruption
Commercial: 40-kW demand and 14,000 kWh per month usage. occurs, per IEEE definition 1366.
Industrial: 1,000-kW demand and 400,000 kWh per month usage.
1Based on 2022 data
Average Gas Rates ($/CCF) Average Yearly Gas Bill
Residential average Residential average
Operating Company Residential rate Commercial rate Industrial rate
Operating Company yearly bill at 50 MMBtu yearly bill at 100 MMBtu
Louisville Gas and Electric $1.69 $1.34 $0.85
Louisville Gas and Electric $868.66 $1,479.29
Rhode Island Energy $2.06 $1.31 $0.48
Rhode Island Energy $1,003.55 $2,007.09
PPL 2023 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 87
Business Resource Groups
Pennsylvania Business Resource Groups Rhode Island Business Resource Groups Kentucky Business Resource Groups
INTRODUCTION
• AABRG (African American BRG) • AABRG (African American BRG) • ENGAGE (Expanding Networks & Growth of African
• ACE BRG (Asian Connection Exchange) • POWER (Professional Opportunities for American Groups in Energy)
• CBRG (Christian BRG) Women in Energy Realized) • WINergy (Women in Energy)
SUSTAINABILITY
STRATEGY • Fuse BRG (LGBTQIA+) • WAVE (LGBTQIA+) • C.A.R.E. (Children, Adults, Relatives, & Elderly)
• LEAD (Latino Employee Alliance for Diversity) BRG • UNIDOS • PaW (Pride at Work)
• PPL Tomorrow BRG • VRG (Veterans Resource Group) • AFEP (Armed Forces Energy Partners)
ENERGY & • PPL Vets BRG • GLOBE (Global Leadership Organization for
ENVIRONMENT
• REACH (Rallying Employees Above Better Energy)
Challenging Histories) BRG • CNCT (Cultivation, Networking, Community,
• The POWER Network BRG & Talent)
SOCIAL
GOVERNANCE
& MANAGEMENT
APPENDIX
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS IN THIS CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
This Corporate Sustainability Report (“Report”) contains forward-looking statements regarding, among other things, the clean energy transition, our clean energy targets and
achievement of climate commitments by certain dates, and strategies or goals related to environmental, social, safety and governance performance. These statements, and all
others that reflect beliefs, plans, estimates, projections, goals, targets, expectations, strategy or any other forward-looking information, are “forward-looking statements” within the
meaning of the federal securities laws. PPL Corporation believes that the forward-looking statements in this Report reflect reasonable expectations and assumptions. However, it
is important to understand that forward-looking statements, and their underlying assumptions, are subject to a wide range of risks and uncertainties, both known and unknown.
