Corporate
Responsibility Report
OUR ESG PERFORMANCE IN 2023
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 2
Table of Contents
Introduction 3 Operating Sustainably 47
Message from Our CEO 4 Sustainability Goals 49
About Qualcomm 6 Resources Management 50
Purposeful Innovation 8 Operational Resilience 52
Our Corporate Responsibility Governance 9
Our Approach to Stakeholder Engagement 10
Our Goals 13 Progress 53
Our Awards and Recognitions 14
Progress On Our Goals 54
Environmental, Social and Governance 55
(ESG) Performance Summary
Digital Transformation 15
Future-Focused Research and 17
Development Appendix 66
Breakthrough Inventions 20
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 67
Equitable Access 24
Content Index
Sustainability Accounting Standards 72
Board (SASB) Index
Acting Responsibly 28
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 79
Disclosures (TCFD) Index
Workforce 30
Our Alignment with the United Nations (UN) 83
Business Integrity 37 Sustainable Development Goals
Ethical Governance 43 About This Report 84
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 3
Introduction
Message from Our CEO
About Qualcomm
Purposeful Innovation
Our Corporate Responsibility Governance
Our Approach to Stakeholder Engagement
Our Goals
Our Awards and Recognitions
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 4
Message from Our CEO
Qualcomm engineers human progress. We relentlessly “Together with our
innovate to enable intelligent computing everywhere. Our ecosystem partners,
solutions deliver powerful intelligence and connectivity we are creating
opportunities designed
across devices to make our lives better in new ways and
to drive innovation,
transform industries.
societal advancement
Throughout the year, we remained focused on executing our strategy, prioritizing our future growth
and sustainability.”
and setting the pace of innovation, while navigating the challenging macroeconomic environment.
Building on our nearly 40-year history of era-defining technology breakthroughs, our proven
technologies span across unrivaled connectivity, high-performance, low-power computing, and
leading edge artificial intelligence (AI). Together with our ecosystem partners, we are creating
opportunities designed to drive innovation, societal advancement and sustainability.
Empowering Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly
Qualcomm is playing a fundamental role in enabling industries to digitally transform leveraging We strive to make our technology broadly
our advanced technologies. As a new generation of always connected, smarter and more capable available in an increasingly digital world. In
devices scale at the edge, they will help enterprises drive sustainable growth and innovation, unlock collaboration with our ecosystem partners, we
operational efficiencies, increase productivity, enable new business models and foster greater are working to deliver impactful solutions at
opportunities for participation in the digital economy. scale to enrich lives, improve businesses and
enable communities to progress. Providing
The rapid development of generative artificial intelligence promises to accelerate this transformation
broad access to technology and programs that
and enable entirely new experiences and applications. Achieving this will require intelligent
strengthen economic and social development
computing everywhere – in the cloud and on devices. Qualcomm is the company bringing the
helps make quality education, entrepreneurial
capabilities of generative AI directly to smartphones, PCs, virtual and mixed reality devices, vehicles,
and employment opportunities, health care and
IoT and more. On-device intelligence will provide greater precision, personalization, reliability,
other services more attainable for underserved
efficiency and privacy.
communities globally.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 5
Our success is rooted in the hard work and dedication of our people We met our 2025 GHG emissions goal two years ahead of
worldwide. While economic and industry-wide challenges required schedule, reducing our Scope 1 and 2 by over 35 percent; we did
certain balancing actions, we remain committed to empowering this by switching to renewable energy and decommissioning one
our employees by providing support and resources to cultivate a of our electricity cogeneration plants at our headquarters in San
company culture that celebrates continued growth, creativity and Diego, as well as pursuing other purchase power agreements in
innovation. We continue to strive to be a workplace that reflects key markets.
the world in which we do business, and we know that our diverse
We are honored that our hard work and commitment to
workforce increases our global awareness, creates an authentic
environmental and social efforts continue to be acknowledged.
sense of belonging and accelerates our ability to innovate.
This year, we have been recognized on lists such as America’s
Having a diverse talent pipeline helps enable future innovation. Greenest Companies and the World’s Best Employers. Once
Last year, we announced that we had met our science, technology, again, we made Newsweek’s list of America’s Most Responsible
engineering and math (STEM) education goal of engaging 1.5 Companies, Fortune’s Change the World list and led our industry
million students and teachers across the world three years ahead at the top of The Best Corporate Citizen’s ranking. Additional
of schedule. This year, I am proud to share that we have met our awards can be found in the Our Awards and Recognitions section
2025 Qualcomm® Wireless Reach™ goal – one year early – to of this report.
bring technology to underserved communities around the world.
We are driving the world toward a more intelligently connected
Since 2006, our Wireless Reach program has directly and indirectly
world. We will continue to focus on purposeful innovation to help
supported over 27 million people.
enrich lives and shape a better future for all.
Operating Sustainably
Cristiano Amon
We believe that environmental sustainability is critical, and we
continue our efforts to reduce our environmental footprint. This year, Chief Executive Officer
the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) approved our corporate
GHG reduction targets as consistent with the latest climate science
and the most ambitious goal of the Paris Agreement.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 6
About Qualcomm
Qualcomm engineers human progress. We relentlessly manufacturing services such as wafer bump,
probe, assembly and the majority of our final test
innovate to help the world tackle some of its most
requirements. The primary foundry suppliers for
our various digital, analog/mixed-signal, RF and
important challenges.
power management (PM) integrated circuits
are Global Foundries, Samsung Electronics,
We unlock the possibilities of intelligent our integrated circuits are made. Therefore,
Semiconductor Manufacturing International
computing everywhere with our leading-edge we primarily rely on third parties to perform
Corporation (SMIC) and Taiwan Semiconductor
AI, high-performance, low-power computing and the manufacturing and assembly, and most
Manufacturing Company (TSMC). Our primary
unrivaled connectivity. Our solutions are helping of the testing, of our integrated circuits based
semiconductor assembly and test suppliers are
transform industries for the digital economy and primarily on our proprietary designs and test
Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Amkor
bringing new possibilities to the places where programs. Our suppliers also are responsible for
Technology, Siliconware Precision Industries and
we work and live. We’re particularly proud of the procurement of most of the raw materials
STATSChipPAC. The majority of our foundry and
how our Snapdragon® platforms are powering used in the production of our integrated circuits.
semiconductor assembly and test suppliers are
extraordinary experiences across devices and Integrated circuits are die cut from silicon wafers
located in the Asia-Pacific region.
vehicles we use every day. that have completed the package assembly
and test manufacturing processes. The
QCT primarily uses internal fabrication facilities
For more than 35 years, we’ve been making
semiconductor package supports the electrical
to manufacture certain RFFE modules and
the “impossible” possible. We are proud to be
contacts that connect the integrated circuit to
RF filter products, and our manufacturing
the technology partner of choice to many of
a circuit board. Die cut from silicon wafers are
operations consist of front-end and back-end
the world’s largest enterprises. Together with
the essential components of all of our integrated
processes. The front-end processes primarily
our ecosystem, we continue to create next-
circuits and a significant portion of the total
take place at manufacturing facilities located
generation opportunities to improve the ways
integrated circuit cost.
in Germany and Singapore and involve the
people experience the world.
imprinting of substrate wafers with the structure
We employ both turnkey and two-stage
and circuitry required for the products to
Our QCT1 Semiconductor manufacturing models to purchase our
function (also known as wafer fabrication).
integrated circuits. Under the turnkey model, our
Business Production Model
The back-end processes include the assembly,
foundry suppliers are responsible for delivering
packaging and test of RFFE modules and
QCT utilizes a fabless production model (other fully assembled and tested integrated circuits.
RF filter products and their preparation for
than for certain of our radio frequency front-end Under the two-stage manufacturing model,
distribution. Our back-end manufacturing
(RFFE) modules and RF filter products), which we purchase die in singular or wafer form
facilities are located in China and Singapore.
means that we do not own or operate foundries from semiconductor manufacturing foundries
for the production of silicon wafers from which and contract with separate third parties for
Snapdragon and Qualcomm branded products are products of Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.
1 Qualcomm CDMA Technologies 2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 7
Qualcomm business segments in Fiscal 2023 (FY23)
$30.4b $5.3b
QCT QTL2
QCT develops and supplies integrated QTL grants licenses or otherwise
circuits and system software based provides rights to use portions of our
on 3G/4G/5G and other technologies, intellectual property (IP) portfolio, which
including RFFE, for use in mobile devices, includes certain patent rights essential
automotive systems for connectivity, to and/or useful in the manufacture and
digital cockpit and advanced driver- sale of certain wireless products.
assistance system/autonomous driving
(ADAS/AD) and IoT including consumer
electronic devices, industrial devices and
edge networking products.
QSI3 Other
QSI makes strategic investments primarily Other includes revenues from non-
through our Qualcomm Ventures arm. reportable segments.
Investments are focused on expanding
or opening new opportunities for our
technologies as well as supporting the
design and introduction of new products
and services (or enhancing existing
products or services).
2 Qualcomm Technology Licensing
3 Qualcomm Strategic Investment 2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 8
Purposeful Innovation
At Qualcomm, purposeful innovation drives us to take on some
o
i sm
tf
r
pt ah
a
te
ec
gtw
is
co
o
r fcl od
i
ce’s
ut y
sb
.
i ag
W
rg eee
a
s
p
st
u
:
c rsh ua ell e pn ug rpe os,
s
u es fuin
l
g
in
t ne oc vh an to iolo ng ty
h
rt oo
u
p go hs ti hti rv ee ely
hroug
oh
n
s
g
F
Du t
i
u gr
ti
e
i
- tRF o& ao D
l
nc u s e d W o r k
R
f o r c
e
I
n t
B
u
s i
Empowering Digital Operating Sustainably kt nti n m a e A e gn e
T
W
i
i
fn
n
od
der
uiu
na
vb
s
dien
dt
al
r
ui
i
tes
e
ia
ov
s
lf
e
n,
l
o
i
ab
vte
lu
er
tc
s
sm
oh
i
.
n
n
tWe
hoa
s
eelo
s
t
aieg
ni dso
y
v
v,
e
c
an
c
na
no
tn
c
m
s
et omr mla
uu
en
tn
ns ioif
tt
no
i oe
sr fm
s
t
t
ha
h
an
et
d
ga lr oe
b al
W
p
n
c
e
me
mare
ao
nt iu
nd
ta
se
aru
si am
r
gc
i
l
oo
i
t nri
nt
nev
go
se
s
r
,
wm
o
ew
ou
d
aa
po
r
u
ti
tcr
en
c
ik
me
rt
ii
na
sn
ui.
gi
zg
sn
O
i
e
n
gcs
u
gr
aoa
er
nn
f eeee
dd
nnn,
i
eh
mh
vti
roie
o
gr
iuoa
nn
ysl
n
is
t mceh
m
a
o
y
ig
zn
e
n
aa
id
n
s
nsn
ut
gc
a
d
m(
o
l
G
n
e
pHs
f tf
G
ie oor
)
nrv
t
,e
s
e
l b
Br se a Inve
m
Epoweri Transfor
P Inu nr op vo as te iofu
nls p
o
n
sc
i
b
l
yt i
n
g
r i t y s s
vG
o
E
wireless ecosystem to improve how we work, as
e
re ht
live and, ultimately, thrive. waste throughout our operations and the t i uc
c
an aci
communities in which we work. qA n l
E
c
e
Acting Responsibly
Paired with the ingenuity
We invest in our people, strive to always behave
with integrity and implement governance and dedication of our people, S Operat i n g al
u
s W
p
i
pnt
r
rca e
oa
ln
c
vua id
t
s
dr ia e
c
i io
nr ecd
n
gsos
,
(
lm
f
D
et rh aEoma
dIm
)t i it
nt
u t
u
o
gep
p
d
a
dh
h
io et moo vld
l ed
ir
n
e lio
on
gsu
pg
p tr
m
o
o dC n
i
epo vs nrem oi tb
r
tsp pl ee ia
rct
oyn b
t,
g
y u
pe
r
s rv
aq
iia
v
mn ul ae iu
st
cs ye
y
ts s
oa
t.
n od
t
a
ch hpe aps
lr
le
o
e
a
nfo
c
gc
h
eu sts
o
a
a
a
nr
d
de
d
a
tr
os
e s
mg su aii
n
kd
g
ie
n
f
go
u
u
t tu
hr
r ee
Gs ot aa li sn a
b i l i t y
S u
M
s
R ae
nt
s
aa
o
gui en
r
mca
e
e n
b
t
l y
O p
Rer ea st ii lio en nce
impossible inevitable.
fostering an ethical culture.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 9
Our Corporate Responsibility Governance
Our governance structure is issues, reviews progress on our goals, discusses
risks and corresponding mitigation activities and
designed to facilitate
provides oversight of external reporting. The Board of Directors
accountability, transparency ESG Leadership Committee is also responsible
for ensuring that ESG continues to remain a
and the ongoing improvement
visible component of our business strategy.
of our programs. It is composed of executives from Finance,
Global Affairs, Human Resources (HR), Legal
ESG Leadership Committee
We’ve integrated corporate responsibility and other senior management representatives
throughout our business, from our daily are periodically invited for updates, discussions
operations to our executive leadership and our and engagement. The CSO, on behalf of
Board of Directors (Board). the Committee, reports to the Governance
Committee of the Board at least two times a year.
ESG Working Group
The Governance Committee of our Board
provides oversight on ESG matters not delegated Our ESG Working Group is a cross-functional
to other Board committees, including ESG committee made up of business and functional
policies, programs and initiatives. The HR and leads who are responsible for the execution and “The ESG Leadership Committee is also responsible
Compensation Committee of our Board provides coordination of activities, goals and key ESG
for ensuring that ESG continues to remain a visible
oversight on our human capital initiatives and our issue areas. It integrates directives from the
component of our business strategy.”
workforce DEI policies, programs and initiatives. ESG Leadership Committee into company-wide
The Audit Committee of our Board provides programs, measures progress on achieving
oversight of our ESG disclosure controls and our goals and reports accomplishments and with business development and ensure that sustainability reporting, policy and regulation
procedures, as well as the Company’s information challenges. Our ESG Working Group includes all areas of the Company are represented to and resource management, among others.
technology (IT) security/cybersecurity policies, risk managers and other subject matter experts support timely and proper delivery of our overall
mitigation and recovery plans. from functions across the Company, including ESG strategy and programming. Our ESG team, reporting to our Chief
Cybersecurity, DEI, Health and Safety, Human Sustainability Officer, coordinates the
Given the increased focus on ESG issues, in Rights, Investor Relations, Legal, Operations, The ESG issues overseen by the ESG Leadership governance structure and drives overall ESG
2023, we strengthened and further consolidated Supply Chain Management and STEM Education, Committee and ESG Working Group include strategy for the Company. The team looks at
our ESG committees and governance process. among others. In 2023, it was expanded climate change mitigation and adaptation, risks, materiality, regulation, peer benchmarking
The ESG Leadership Committee, chaired by to include subject matter experts from key STEM education, DEI, supply chain sustainability and stakeholder expectations to define plans
the Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), provides technology areas and manufacturing facilities. including forced labor risks, social impact and facilitate progress.
guidance on global corporate responsibility This change looks to create greater alignment programs, human rights, health and safety,
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 10
Our Approach to Stakeholder Engagement
Conversations with our key stakeholders are important to
Our stakeholders include our employees, investors, customers, suppliers, governments and
aligning our corporate responsibility strategy, priorities and communities where we operate, including civil society and non-governmental organizations (NGOs).
efforts with the current needs of our business and with the We are committed to transparency in our engagements with stakeholders to develop trusted and
constructive relationships. We continually seek ways to better communicate and obtain feedback on
expectations of the people, organizations and communities
a variety of topics.
that have an interest in our Company.
The following table provides some examples of our stakeholder engagement practices and
topics in 2023.
Stakeholder How We Engage Examples of Engagement in 2023
Communities • Corporate citizenship collaborations and programs • Opened our 23rd Qualcomm® Thinkabit Lab™ site in the United States (U.S.) in New Bedford, Massachusetts.
(including Civil Society • Qualcomm Foundation and philanthropic events, including employee Thinkabit Lab now operates in eight states.
and NGOs) volunteering • Sponsored the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History’s “Cellphone: Unseen Connections,” an
• Participation in conferences and forums interactive exhibit that tells the story of semiconductors. The exhibit focuses on the minerals, infrastructure
• Strategic engagement and consultation on specific issue areas and human ingenuity that power cellphones, as well as the positive global economic, social and environmental
• Neighbor relations officers at our three manufacturing facilities impacts of semiconductors.
• Corporate website and social media • Launched Alumno Sempre Conectado (“Always Connected Student”) in Brazil through Wireless Reach to equip
students and teachers with always connected personal computers (PCs), virtual reality (VR) experiences and
professional development.
• Supported the “XR Vision for Future” program in multiple regions in China to bring STEM education and VR
tools to rural teachers and students to help address the digital divide.
Customers • Business unit direct engagement and meetings • Executive presence at key industry events, such as IAA Mobility, embedded world Exhibition & Conference and
• Global regions and account teams’ direct engagement and meetings Mobile World Congress, among others.
• Participation in conferences, customer product launches and trade shows • Held individual meetings with customers to confirm that we are addressing their needs and challenges.
• Qualcomm® product launch events • Hosted our annual Snapdragon Summit, showcasing our newest technologies that define premium experiences
• Social media channels and performance across our Snapdragon platforms. More than 30 industry partners joined us to show their
support for Snapdragon and learn how our advancements bring digital experiences to life.
• Collaboration with customers for the development and testing of products that support the acceleration of
electrification and utilization of renewable resources and energy storage.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 11
Stakeholder How We Engage Examples of Engagement in 2023
Employees • Employee engagement surveys • Used employee surveys as a channel to get input from employees.
• Quarterly All Hands Meeting with executives, including live Q&A sessions • Provided employees training and learning opportunities and enabled channels for employee feedback through the
• HRHub portal Qualcomm Learning Network.
• Employee Networks • Supported the growth of our nine employee networks, promoting the professional growth of our employees
• Business Conduct Hotline and fostering inclusion and diversity at Qualcomm.
Governments • Meetings with elected officials, heads of state and relevant policy-influencers • Served on the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Information Security and Privacy Advisory
and Regulators • Leadership in trade associations and industry groups Board (ISPAB) to advise the U.S. government on cyber and data issues.
• Attendance and presentations at forums and conferences • In collaboration with the U.S. Telecommunications Training Institute (USTTI), we offered tuition-free training to highly
• Participation in U.S. government educational hearings technical officials from different countries.
• Joined the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Green Power Partnership. By choosing green power, Qualcomm
and other Green Power Partners are working to reduce air emissions.
• Responded to the U.S. Department of Transportation’s call to action to reduce roadway deaths and advance road
safety by joining the Allies in Action campaign.
Investors and • Annual Stockholder Meetings • Engaged in discussions with investors on our financial performance, business strategy and approach to ESG
Stockholders • One-on-one meetings on specific topics matters. Topics included AI, resource management, our net-zero commitment, GHG emissions and human capital
• Responding to surveys from ESG research and rating agencies management, among other areas.
• Quarterly earnings conference calls • Leveraged our Automotive Investor Day to further engage with investors on how the Snapdragon® Digital Chassis™
Solution is helping to drive the auto industry’s ongoing transition to a world of intelligent and connected vehicles.
• Presented to investors and other stakeholders at Mobile World Congress on a range of topics including the future of
5G, connecting everything, sustainability, satellites and on-device AI.
Suppliers • Supply chain team direct engagement through various means (meetings, • Conducted on-site audits of selected suppliers on their adherence to our Supplier Code of Conduct and other
email, etc.) corporate responsibility requirements, including product environmental governance and conflict minerals.
• Surveys • Maintained our Supplier Diversity Program, which promotes participation of small and diverse businesses when
• Webinars, workshops and trainings sourcing suppliers, including minority, disadvantaged, woman-owned, veteran-owned, disabled-owned, businesses
• Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) analysis tools situated in a HUBZone and other related socio-economic subsets.
• RBA Validated Assessment Program (VAP) audits • Held collaborative meetings with several of our primary semiconductor manufacturing suppliers in Taiwan to discuss
• Supplier Code of Conduct Qualcomm’s net-zero commitment, opportunities for deploying renewable energy and projects to
• Business Conduct Hotline realize GHG reductions.
In addition to meetings, perception surveys and Our corporate responsibility webpage provides overall performance. We can be reached at
other direct and indirect engagement practices, additional information on ESG matters Sustainability.ESG@qualcomm.com. We also
we have several online channels that provide and allows all external stakeholders to ask receive and respond to messages and feedback
opportunities for different stakeholders to direct questions of our team. We respond to through our social media channels. Follow
provide us with valuable and ongoing input about messages on a wide range of issues related @Qualcomm on: LinkedIn Instagram X
our corporate responsibility efforts. to our corporate responsibility strategy and
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 12
Stakeholder Engagement Through Materiality Assessments
Since 2013, we have regularly engaged third party experts to conduct ESG materiality assessments,
which identify and prioritize the corporate responsibility impacts, risks and opportunities that we
aim to address to help support our long-term business success. The findings help us prioritize the
ESG issues that are most important to our business and our key stakeholders. By identifying our
top priorities, we can then focus our resources, programs and reporting on these core topics. We
generally reevaluate our priorities every three years.
As part of the materiality assessment process, we systematically engage stakeholders through
interviews and surveys to capture a wide range of perspectives. Recognizing that stakeholder
priorities shift over time, we monitor our top issues for emerging developments and adjust reporting
and programmatic efforts accordingly.
Based on our latest materiality analysis (conducted in fiscal year 2021), we have identified the
following as our priority ESG topics:
Our use of the word “materiality”
ESG Priority Topics Corresponding Strategic Focus Areas
throughout this report encompasses our
whole value chain, both within and outside
Disaster preparedness and response Operating sustainably
the Company. It follows GRI standards’
Employee acquisition, retention and development Acting responsibly
definition of ESG materiality for corporate
responsibility reporting.
Employee diversity and inclusion Acting responsibly
Employee health and safety Acting responsibly It is not the same materiality relevant in
regulatory or other guidance used around
Ethical business practices and compliance Acting responsibly
the world, including but not limited to for U.S.
Government affairs Acting responsibly Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
purposes or as defined in the standards
Privacy and cybersecurity Acting responsibly
underlying the European Union (EU)’s
STEM education Empowering digital transformation Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive
(CSRD). Therefore, issues deemed material for
Technology as a solution Empowering digital transformation
the purposes of this report may not be deemed
Women in technology Acting responsibly and empowering digital
material for SEC or other reporting purposes.
transformation
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 13
Our Goals
2025 Goals
Enrich the lives of 27 million people4 Ensure 100 percent of our primary Reduce absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2
by continuing to bring technology to semiconductor manufacturing suppliers GHG emissions 30 percent, from a 2014
underserved communities around the are audited every two years for base year.5
world through Wireless Reach, measured conformance to our Supplier Code of
against a 2006 base year. Conduct, from a 2020 base year.
Reduce power consumption by Continue to inspire the next generation of
10 percent every year6 in our flagship inventors by engaging 1.5 million students
Snapdragon Mobile Platform products. and teachers across the globe in our
strategic STEM initiatives — our home-
grown Qualcomm Thinkabit Lab, our
collaboration with FIRST® and our STEM
community partnerships — from a 2020
base year.
2030 and 2040 Goals
Reduce absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 Reduce absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions Reach net-zero global GHG emissions
GHG emissions 50 percent by 2030, from 25 percent by 2030, from a 2020 base year.5 across the value chain
a 2020 base year.5 by 2040.
4 Defined as direct and indirect beneficiaries.
5 Global.
6 Given equivalent features. 2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 14
Our Awards and Recognition
In a time when our breakthrough technologies can be the foundation for life-changing products,
experiences and industries, we believe we have a significant opportunity to positively change the
world. We have a long-standing reputation for conducting business with integrity, providing a great
place to work, developing transformational solutions and much more. The awards and recognitions
we receive reflect our steadfast commitment to continue to advance purposeful innovation.
The following are select awards and recognitions that we have received during the last three years
(2021-2023):
• 3BL Media 100 Best Corporate Citizens: • Forbes, Best Employers for Women: 2022 • San Diego Business Journal, CFO of the Year List:
2023, 2022, 2021 2022, 2021
• Forbes, Global 2000: 2023, 2022, 2021
• Adweek CMO Awards: 2022 • San Diego Business Journal, Most Influential Women
• Forbes, Most Influential CMO: 2023, 2022
in Law: 2022
• Annual American Business Awards: 2022
• Forbes, World’s Best Employers: 2023, 2022, 2021
• San Diego Business Journal, Women of Influence
• Careers and the disABLED Top 50 Employers:
• Fortune, Change the World List: 2022
in Technology: 2022
2023, 2022
• Fortune, World’s Most Admired Companies: 2023,
• Sustainability Magazine Top 100 Women: 2023
• CEO World: The World’s Most Influential CEOs: 2022
2022, 2021
• The Climate Registry, Climate Registered™ Platinum
• CES Innovation Awards: 2023, 2022, 2021
• Glassdoor, Best Places to Work: 2022, 2021
in Greenhouse Gas Reporting: 2022, 2021
• Clarivate: Top 100 Global Innovators: 2022, 2021
• GSMA, Global Mobile (GLOMO) Awards,
• Time, Best Inventions: 2022, 2021
• CSR: Best Places to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality: 2022 Breakthrough Technology Award: 2022
• Time, World’s Best Companies: 2023
• Disability:IN, Best Place to Work for Disability • GTI Awards: 2022
• Top Tech Awards: 2022
Inclusion: 2023, 2022, 2021
• Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index:
• United Negro College Fund, Corporation of the Year: 2021
• Dow Jones Sustainability Index, North America: 2022, 2021
2023, 2022, 2021 • Women Engineer Magazine, Top 50 Employers:
• Investor’s Business Daily, Best ESG Companies: 2021
2023, 2021
• EPA’s Green Power Partnership Top 30 Tech &
• IoT Breakthrough Awards: 2022, 2021
Telecom Partners: 2023 • Women We Admire, The Top 50 Women Leaders of San
• Minority Engineer Magazine, Top 50 Employers 2023
Diego: 2023
• EPA’s Green Power Partnership Top Partner
• Newsweek, America’s Greatest Workplaces for
Ranking: 2023 • Working Mother & Avtar Best Companies for Women in
Parents and Families: 2023
India: 2023, 2022, 2021
• Fast Company, Most Innovative Companies: 2021
• Newsweek, America’s Greenest Companies: 2023
• Working Mother & Avtar Most Inclusive Companies
• Fast Company, World Changing Ideas: 2022, 2021
• Newsweek, America’s Most Responsible Index: 2023, 2022, 2021
• Forbes, America’s Best Employers for Diversity:
Companies: 2023, 2022, 2021
2023, 2022, 2021
• Newsweek, World’s Most Trustworthy
• Forbes, America’s Best-In-State Employers: 2023,
Companies: 2023
2022, 2021
• RippleMatch Campus Forward Award: 2023
• Forbes, Best Employers for New Grads: 2022, 2021
• San Diego Business Journal, CEO of the Year List:
2022, 2021
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 15
Digital
Transformation
Empowering Digital Transformation
Future-Focused Research and Development
Breakthrough Inventions
Equitable Access
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 16
Empowering Digital Transformation
2025 Goals
We are an invention company We believe
in good faith license
We bring
advanced wireless technology
negotiations and fair value for our patented to people and communities who need it most, Reduce power consumption
that solves fundamental
technologies. We believe this approach to facilitating new business models and unlocking
by 10 percent every year7
technology problems at the
licensing creates efficiency in the ecosystem and societal benefits that serve the greater good.
in our flagship Snapdragon
reflects the value and innovation that our research,
heart of everyday life.
developments and contributions provide. We The technology development at the foundation Mobile Platform products.
Our inventions have helped power the adoption collaborate across the ecosystem, which includes of our solutions is governed by our Technical
of smartphones, connecting billions of people manufacturers, operators, developers, system Business Review (TBR) process with oversight Enrich the lives of 27 million
to each other and the internet. We make our integrators, cloud providers, tool vendors, service by our Chief Technology Officer. The goal of the
people8 by continuing to bring
connected world — and future — possible by providers, governments and industry standards TBR process is to align long-term technology
pushing the boundaries of AI, VR, connectivity organizations, to enable a global environment to development with product (application-specific technology to underserved
and more. drive continued progress and growth. integrated circuit and software) roadmaps. The communities around the
output of the TBR results is guidance for the
We are a global leader in the We inspire the development of regionally development of industry-leading technology world through Wireless
development and commercialization of relevant use cases of advanced 4G and 5G roadmaps, which feed into the Company’s one Reach, measured against
foundational technologies for the wireless connectivity, AI at the network edge and IoT technology roadmap and span processing,
2006 base year.
industry. Our technologies and products are through deep-technology incubators and connectivity, visual and rendering technologies,
used across industries in applications ranging mentorship programs for early-stage startups in AI, security and system-level technologies
from mobile handsets to automotive to Internet many emerging regions, including India, Taiwan, needed for multiple product categories, industries Continue to foster the next
of Things (IoT) and more. Vietnam and across Africa. and applications (e.g., mobile, compute,
generation of innovators by
automotive, connected systems and networking).
We share our inventions broadly through our We invest heavily in research and inspiring 1.5 million students
licensing program — enabling wide ecosystem development (R&D), have a long history of driving and teachers across the globe
access to technologies at the forefront of innovation and have developed foundational
through our STEM initiatives,
innovation — and through the sale of our wireless technologies that help drive the continued
integrated circuit platforms and other products. evolution of the wireless industry. from a 2020 base year.
7 Given equivalent features.
8 Defined as direct and indirect beneficiaries.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 17
Future-Focused Research and Development
Engineering for Human Progress Starts at Qualcomm.
Investing in R&D The worldwide demand for wireless devices, We are already working on establishing
data services and applications require the technical foundation for 6G — the next-
We are one of the world’s leading wireless continuous innovation to support new services, generation mobile platform coming in 2030
technology innovators and have a long history increase network capacity, make use of different and beyond. 6G is expected to allow service
of investing heavily in R&D. We have developed frequency bands, allow for dense network providers to continue serving the ever-growing
foundational technologies, including CDMA deployments and improve user experiences. demand for data speed, while also opening
and orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing The wireless communications industry is new service categories powered by physical-
(OFDMA), and we are a driving force behind the also characterized by rapid technological digital convergence and devices powered with
development, launch and expansion of 5G and change, evolving industry standards, frequent ambient energy. While we are still quite a few
5G Advanced. Our technologies help drive the new product introductions and, with the use years away from commercial launches of the
continued evolution of the wireless industry. of 5G, the expansion into new industries or 6G platform, we are certain of one thing: 6G will
applications, such as automotive and IoT. bring technology leaps, new experiences, and
system-level solutions enabling feature-
use cases that we can barely imagine today.
Staying at the forefront of so much change rich, high-quality experiences in imaging,
requires a continuous effort to enhance Our fundamental research and comprehensive audio and vision intelligence. We are a
existing and develop new products and approach to AI helps enable us to be a leader primary contributor to the advancement of
technologies. For decades, our inventors in on-device AI solutions. The Qualcomm® AI video compression performance, including
have been solving complex, systems-level Engine, featured in our Snapdragon platforms contributions to the H.265/HEVC standard
problems and conducting pioneering research and many of our other products provides high- (deployed to support Ultra High Definition 4K
that is years ahead of the industry and often a performance on-device AI solutions at extremely and beyond video) and the next generation
decade in advance of commercialization. This low power to support complex use cases, while H.266/VVC standard, which are designed to
approach has been continuously recognized enhancing privacy and security. The Qualcomm® power the creation and consumption of richer,
“We are already working and we have received awards from the Institute AI Stack is a unified AI software portfolio immersive media experiences.
of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, the designed to help developers optimize and deploy
on establishing the
We have developed significant multimedia
White House, the European Patent Office and AI models quickly using our chipset solutions
technologies, including camera and imaging
technical foundation for many more. by supporting AI frameworks and runtimes,
technologies, vision intelligence technologies
developer libraries, system software and popular
6G — the next-generation
enabling use cases such as smart image
operating systems.
processing, augmented reality (AR)/VR and
mobile platform coming
We are also a leading innovator in video, audio robotics, visual augmentation and frameworks
in 2030 and beyond.”
and speech compression technologies and and audio frameworks. These last two allow for
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 18
and more than 35 years of innovation in chipsets, research fellowships and sponsor more than with an intensifying design talent pool, growing
software, services and integrated platform 70 academic conferences and academia supply chain and local manufacturing expertise.
solutions. We have R&D centers in several initiatives. In our engagements with academia, These include India, Taiwan and Vietnam, or
locations throughout the world but primarily in we share our expertise and our Qualcomm regions witnessing rapid adoption of digital
U.S., India, Europe and China. development platforms and tools across a technologies such as Africa. Harnessing
range of technologies to facilitate research and advanced cellular communication (4G and 5G)
The intellectual property (IP) developed and
encourage talent development. Collaborations and advanced computing technology (including
acquired through our R&D efforts has been
with academia this past year included hybrid AI), these startups have developed
incorporated into the most widely accepted
developing offline reinforcement learning on end-to-end IoT applications for regionally
and deployed cellular wireless communications
devices for vast applications of robotics and relevant products and services in healthcare,
technology standards, and we have licensed it to
autonomous vehicles. The common goal has smart cities, agricultural technology, smart
several hundred customers and key non-handset
been to develop improvements for devices to homes, automotive, advanced computing,
suppliers, such as automotive and IoT.
sense, perceive, localize and make real-time semiconductor design, mixed reality (XR),
decisions in real world environments. wearables, robotics and drones.
Just as we make long strides in our R&D efforts
to drive leading contributions to technologies
We also support regional innovation through In addition to tech mentorship, we provide the
powering the connected intelligent edge,
incubation and mentorship programs that startups training on the importance of securing
we make investments to drive growth in
cultivate promising startups in vital technology IP rights. Cumulatively, the startups we have
countries and industries. We help broader
areas. We offer engineering guidance and supported have filed more than 710 patent
technology ecosystems flourish by being
lab assistance for, business coaching and IP applications in regional and international patent
a trusted knowledge advisor in spectrum
trainings to help startups grow and prosper offices, including 412 patents filings from Indian
selection and 5G development, deployment
into successful technology businesses. organizations, 269 from Taiwan and 29 from
and commercialization, by supporting startups
Our programs — which take no equity in the Vietnam.
around the world, developing research
incubated startups — have a proven record of
human-machine interfaces, speech compression collaborations and offering technical and IP We also work with partners across the mobile
helping startups commercialize their products
innovations, spatial audio processing and rights training programs. ecosystem through our Qualcomm Academy,
and services, receive venture funding, file
coding enabling compression and rendering of an industry-leading virtual education platform.
patent applications and expand their business
immersive audio. Since our founding, we have supported In 2023, the academy supported more than
beyond their home countries. Our incubation
innovative academic research with a range of
25,000 training courses – such as teaching
and mentorship programs are complemented by
To enable the necessary continuous evolution, university programs. We help the academic
handset original equipment manufacturers
other Company programs that support startups
we have made significant, long-term investments community to develop new ideas and solutions
(OEMs) concepts that underpin 5G or
at different levels of their lifecycles.
in R&D — with nearly 22 percent of revenues in a broad range of technological research
explaining the technical benefits of millimeter
invested since 2006. Our investment already areas at leading universities around the world.
These Company-supported programs have wave technology. The courses are offered to
exceeds more than $85B — resulting in more Annually, we engage with more than 100
incubated or mentored over 226 startups since university students, industry professionals and
than 160,000 patents and patent applications research faculty, award more than 50 student
2016 in emerging regions, particularly those Qualcomm employees.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 19
Africa Innovation Platform
This past year we launched the Africa Innovation Platform, a suite of
mentorship, education and training programs created to support the
development of Africa’s emerging technology ecosystem. The platform
provides resources and support for local universities, small-to-medium
sized startups and grant participants, exposing them to Qualcomm
engineers and our state-of-the-art capabilities for mobile platforms and
technologies, including 4G, 5G, IoT, AI and machine learning.
We have engaged governments, trade associations and other key stakeholders across the continent, and we collaborated
with the African Telecommunications Union to launch the Africa Innovation Platform. This platform includes:
Aerial view of commercial business district, Lagos Island, Nigeria.
Qualcomm® Make in Africa Qualcomm Africa University Academy formed partnerships with companies
and universities in Nigeria, Cameroon, Ghana,
Startup Mentorship Program Relations Program
Rwanda, Zambia and Egypt, with the goal of
An equity-free mentorship program that has This program bolsters the research and
training engineers across the continent.
identified promising early-stage startups educational capabilities of select African
keen on applying advanced connectivity and universities, research labs and students Wireless Reach
processing technologies to innovative end- by providing them with learning platforms, Since 2007, our Wireless Reach initiative
to-end systems solutions. We also provide associated trainings and Qualcomm developer has invested in Africa, including a
these companies with business coaching, kits. The program also works with university collaboration with the International
access to engineering consultation for product faculty to develop courses and lab curricula. Telecommunication Union’s Development
development and guidance on protecting IP. Qualcomm Academy plans to expand its 5G Bureau. This collaboration focuses on building
University Training Program to students at select foundational digital skills for youth, with the
African universities. The students will be able aim of fostering the early stage of the talent
to receive 5G training and certification from pipeline to drive digital, inclusive economic
industry-leading engineers. In 2023, Qualcomm transformation across the continent.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 20
Breakthrough Inventions
Inventing technological breakthroughs that are taking on our new 5G base station chipset offers 20-50 Leading 5G Advanced
percent lower power consumption than the
some of the world’s biggest challenges.
existing deployed solution in the field today in Our innovations helped drive the 5G standards
various Frequency Range 1 (FR1) use cases. and the benefits that define 5G, including speed,
responsiveness, reliability and capacity. Our
We enable a world where everyone and We have a 2025 goal to reduce power
In addition to fostering power efficiency for products have helped accelerate the expansion
everything can be intelligently connected. As consumption by 10 percent every year9 in our
mobile devices, we are collaborating with of 5G, and our work behind the scenes has
one of the world’s leading wireless technology Snapdragon premium-tier smartphone chipset.
wireless network and service providers in enabled the growth of the broader 5G ecosystem.
innovators, we continue to push the boundaries This year, we reduced the days-of-use power
creating technologies targeting improved In addition to consumer applications, 5G
of what’s possible across devices and networks by 10 percent and the gaming use case power
power efficiency in communication networks. brought increased efficiency across industries,
to enable next-generation experiences and drive by more than 20 percent from Snapdragon 8
We are also working across many wireless enterprises and educational institutions.
digital transformation. Gen 2 in 2022 to Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 in 2023.
communications standard development
The efficiency and power-savings advances
We design platforms, chipsets, software, tools organizations to foster the adoption of energy With the first three releases (3GPP release 15,
in each processor functional block add up to
and services that help OEMs and developers efficient specifications targeting energy 16 and 17) of the 5G standards completed, the
considerable potential battery run time savings.
bring those technologies into products and efficiency in the network, device and entire process of connecting virtually everyone and
create experiences that change how we live We are leveraging our strong foundation in wireless ecosystem in an end-to-end fashion. everything that we envisioned is well underway.
and work. And we do this at scale, building building power-efficient smartphone devices Adopting such specifications would enable us The globally standardized technologies for the
technologically advanced, in-demand end into all of our product categories. Each of our to maximize the overall communication energy broad range of 5G devices and services are
products that support everything from low- to solutions for compute, AI, XR, automotive and efficiency without compromising network being deployed at a faster pace than in any
high-complexity devices — helping us serve network infrastructure has leading performance performance and user experience. previous generation.
virtually every industry at the connected for power consumption. For example, the hours-
intelligent edge. of-battery-life for our laptop chipset improved by
17 percent from Snapdragon 8Cx Gen 2 in 2022
Power Efficiency
to Snapdragon 8Cx Gen 3 in 2023. Similarly,
“Each of our solutions for compute, AI, XR,
power consumption in the Procyon AI model has
As each generation of device gets “smarter”
improved by more than 20 percent com-pared to
automotive and network infrastructure has
and supports higher performance with
prior generation, while performance improved by
richer features, more power consumption
more than 40 percent at the same time. In XR, leading performance for power consumption.”
is typically required. Mitigating this energy
our Snapdragon Gen 2 product improved power
challenge is a focus at our Company, and
by up to 50 percent compared to Snapdragon
commitment to power efficiency runs
Gen 1, while doubling the performance in the
deep in our Snapdragon Platforms.
same use case. In the network infrastructure,
9 Given equivalent features.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 21
We are now helping drive the technology
Leading the Future of AI
evolution towards 5G Advanced. This
second wave of 5G innovation will unleash
AI has the potential to improve lives, vehicles and IoT. On-device AI is also crucial to scale and meet
the full potential of 5G and establish the
enterprise and consumer needs globally.
technical foundation of what’s to come.
transform industries and drive economic
With 5G Advanced, we expect to see even
growth and innovation. We strive to create We are enabling intelligent computing everywhere. We have been
more innovation, including machine learning,
investing in AI research and development for more than 15 years. As
customized performance and varied deployment AI technologies that advance society.
an on-device AI leader, we are well positioned to scale hybrid AI with
and application scenarios, such as scalable
industry-leading hardware and software solutions for edge devices,
deployments of XR to power remote work,
We aim to act as a responsible steward of AI, considering the broader spanning across billions of phones, vehicles, XR headsets and glasses,
remote education and other economically
implications of our work and taking steps to mitigate potential harm. PCs, IoT and more. Our perpetual flywheel of innovation — due to our
transformative applications. 5G Advanced will
We also see AI technologies playing an essential role in enabling heavy investment in R&D, fundamental research and our full-stack on-
support new devices, services, spectrum and
efficiency and contributing to a more sustainable future. device AI optimization across AI applications, models, hardware and
deployments. We’re continuing to be a leader
software — keeps us at the forefront of on-device AI solutions.
the industry in 5G Advanced with our unique
Our vision for and work on AI are guided by our Responsible AI
expertise that spans connectivity, multimedia,
Principles, which include (1) Privacy and Security, (2) Robustness We are also enabling developers by focusing on ease of development
AI and computing technologies.
and Safety, (3) Fairness, (4) Accountability, (5) Transparency, and (6) and deployment across the billions of devices worldwide powered
Environmental Sustainability. by Qualcomm and Snapdragon platforms. Using the Qualcomm® AI
Enabling Digital
Stack, developers can create, optimize and deploy their AI applications
Transformations As generative AI adoption grows at record-setting speeds10 and
on our hardware, writing once and deploying across different
drives higher demand for compute,11 AI processing must be
products and industry segments using our chipset solutions. With our
Like the internet and electricity, 5G and 5G distributed between the cloud and devices for AI to scale and
technology leadership, global scale and ecosystem enablement, we
Advanced serve as a foundation to connect reach its full potential – just like traditional computing evolved
are making on-device AI a reality.
everything. This evolution is bringing a from mainframes and thin clients to today’s mix of cloud and
second wave of innovation to further support edge devices. Our on-device AI solutions are designed to enable enhanced privacy and
the development of a more resilient and
security, which is essential to a robust and trustworthy AI ecosystem.
equitable society. Building on our broad Distributing AI workloads among cloud and edge devices, known as
technology portfolio, we’re at the intersection hybrid AI, will allow generative AI developers and providers to take
of transformative trends that are creating new advantage of the compute capabilities available in edge devices
and diverse opportunities across industries. to reduce costs. On-device AI offers the additional benefits of
Our solutions improve efficiency, enable performance, personalization, privacy and security on a global scale.
enhanced capabilities, improve safety and This approach is applicable to virtually all generative AI applications
equity and much more. and device categories, including phones, laptops, XR headsets,
10 Threads Shoots Past One Million User Mark at Lightning Speeds, Statista, 07/07/2023
11 Generative AI drives an explosion in compute: The looming need for sustainable AI, siliconANGLE, 02/05/2023 2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 22
Reshaping the Automotive Industry
The Snapdragon® Digital Chassis™ is our features are making modern vehicles smarter
comprehensive set of cloud-connected than ever before. Yet, according to the World
automotive platforms for telematics and Health Organization (WHO), nearly 1.3 million
connectivity, computing and driver assistance people are killed and another 50 million are
features, including automated driving. It allows injured in vehicle crashes around the globe
automakers to deliver connected and intelligent every year.12 We believe that deploying cellular-
driving experiences that will help improve vehicle-to-everything technology (C-V2X) will
vehicle safety and which are customizable and be help the transportation industry reduce the
immersive with new technology features and risk of motor vehicle crashes and the resulting
digital services available on demand. injuries and deaths.
This year, we introduced a new concept vehicle A wireless technology that allows vehicles to
showcasing how the Snapdragon Digital communicate directly with each other (V2V),
Chassis solutions integrate technologies from with roadside infrastructure (V2I) and potentially
a diverse ecosystem of companies to deliver with pedestrians (V2P), C-V2X supports direct
driving experiences that are highly personalized information sharing designed to enhance
and intuitive, including enhanced safety, driver safety for road users. According to the National
assistance and immersive infotainment. The Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA),
Snapdragon Cockpit Platform, which is part safety applications supported by V2V and
of the comprehensive Snapdragon Digital V2I have the potential to eliminate or mitigate
The digital transformation of the automotive industry, coupled
Chassis portfolio, is an example. With support the severity of up to 80 percent of non-driver
with electrification, is bringing new levels of computing, for general-purpose operating systems, it can impaired multi-vehicle crashes.13
integrate data from occupants and external
intelligence and cloud connectivity to the vehicle. This is
surroundings to create immersive experiences “The Snapdragon Digital
driving new user experiences and will help improve safety designed to help enhance safety and
Chassis...allows automakers
convenience. As more vehicles connect to each
with driver assistance features and connectivity, as more
other and everything around them, consumers to deliver connected
vehicles gain the ability to evolve with over-the-air updates
can benefit from advanced driving experience
and intelligent driving
applications and the ability to make more
and become central hubs for digital services. Qualcomm is
informed travel decisions. experiences that will help
at the center of this transformation.
improve vehicle safety...”
Today’s cameras, sensors and driver assistance
12 United Nations to act for global road safety, World Health Organization, 06/22/2022
13 U.S. DOT Advances Deployment Of Connected Vehicle Technology To Prevent Hundreds Of Thousands Of Crashes, U.S. Department of Transportation, 12/13/2016 2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 23
C-V2X may play a critical role in safety because
it allows the vehicle to “see” more than a
human driver can see. Far more robust than
today’s sensors that help keep vehicles safe in
their immediate surroundings, this technology
connects vehicles, roadside infrastructure and
pedestrians outside of each other’s line-of-sight
and facilitates the sharing of safety and traffic
information. And with complementary 5G and
cloud connectivity, C-V2X also can extend safety
alerts to nearby vehicles and infrastructure.
This will help support new services that could
help further decrease road incidents and
improve trip planning, drive mode choices and
traffic efficiency. It supports new safety use
cases targeting vulnerable road users, such
as pedestrians and cyclists. By using network-
to-device communications, the location of
smartphones can be used to generate timely,
informational safety warnings for road users.
In 2023, we announced the extension of the
Connected driving solutions also provide an driving solutions may have a reduced burden sustainable future. Particularly in Europe,
features and benefits of the Snapdragon Digital
opportunity to help reduce environmental on the environment compared to conventional the study highlights how these types of
Chassis beyond cars, trucks and SUVs to a
impacts generated by traditional modes of vehicles. The study’s findings illustrate that technologies might aid in making significant
wide range of two-wheelers and new vehicle
travel. A recent study from the University of introducing just 20 percent of connected progress towards achieving the goals set by
classes. These new platforms leverage the latest
Kaiserslautern-Landau (RTPU) found that vehicles on European city roads can reduce GHG the EU’s Green Deal. They have the potential
technologies from the Snapdragon Cockpit and
connected mobility solutions can have a emissions by up to 18 percent. Some countries, to reshape the transportation landscape,
Automotive Connectivity Platforms and Cloud-
significant impact in reducing GHG emissions for example, Germany, even show potential revolutionize the automotive industry and
Connected Digital Services. For example, Lyft’s
and enhancing sustainability. Through trip emissions savings of up to 24 percent.14 foster a more harmonious relationship between
next-generation scooter is built with computer
optimization, dynamic routing based on real- mobility and the planet.
vision technology, powered by Qualcomm
This study underscores the transformative
time traffic data and other applications that
technologies, to help with sidewalk riding and
power of connected vehicles and the role they
help minimize congestion, prolonged idle
parking while also aiding in detecting obstacles.
can play in making progress towards a more
time or extended travel durations, connected
14 Accelerating Safe and Sustainable Transportation: Smart Cars Communicating with Smart Roads, University of Kaiserslautern (TUK) and German Centre for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI), 03/28/2023
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 24
Equitable Access
Bringing advanced wireless programs in Brazil, China, Italy, Spain, impact health outcomes. This program
Philippines, Portugal and Taiwan. Through the demonstrates the advantages of emerging 5G
technologies to people and
use of VR headsets, students have access to capabilities, such as improved data capabilities,
communities who need interactive and immersive learning content on a speeds, latency, reliability and increased
variety of educational topics to aid in the digital capacity in areas typically impacted by poor
it most.
transformation of the classroom. We are also connectivity.
supporting small-scale agricultural farms in
Expanding Connectivity
Phase I of the program highlighted the
India and China, sustainable ocean management
critical role of digital health literacy in
and fishing in Malaysia and a public safety using
Wireless Reach accelerates human progress and
underserved communities and introduced
C-V2X technology in the U.S.
social good through the adoption of wireless
health coaching to bridge the digital divide.
technology. Our programs are transforming lives
Through Wireless Reach, we enriched the lives The care team researched the feasibility
and strengthening communities. Our goal is to
of over 27 million people by continuing to bring of utilizing a 5G smartphone as a home
develop innovative and thoughtful solutions that
technologies to underserved communities health hub for hypertensive patients living in
enable individuals to reach their full potential and
around the world, exceeding our 2025 goal. multi-generational households. The phone
enhance the quality of life in the communities
served as a hotspot, enabling the connection
that we serve.
Here are some highlights of our healthcare
of Bluetooth-enabled health devices and
Vaccines are temperature-sensitive biological
programs from 2023:
facilitating secure telehealth interactions. Phase
Through Wireless Reach, we provide funding products, which may lose potency when not
II will enhance both capacity and digital health
to support programs that use Qualcomm- maintained properly. Last-mile immunization
Increasing Digital Health Literacy
coaching content among a broader group of
enabled technologies to improve people’s cold chain in remote, low-income settings
Through the Tech2Home Care Unit program clinical and non-clinical professionals. Phase
lives. Eligible programs must address a mainly relies on ice-based cool boxes, which
in the U.S., health professionals from George II will also explore the potential of AR headsets
widespread community need in a strategic area, may not be reliable. The Emvólio refrigerator, a
Washington University Medical Faculty for conducting personalized, virtual training
be aligned with government information and solution developed by Blackfrog Technologies,
Associates coach elderly patients with sessions via 5G connectivity.
communication technology goals in education, provides a reliable and efficient means to
hypertension to improve digital literacy and the
healthcare, environmental and/or other relevant preserve effectiveness, extend reach, enhance
use of health tools. The program incorporates Vaccinating Rural Communities
policy objectives, collaborate with strategic emergency response capabilities and improve
a 5G smartphone, telehealth platform and a
stakeholders and have measurable outcomes Immunization continues to make a positive management — leading to better outcomes
Bluetooth-enabled device for remote blood
with a viable plan to reach scalability and difference in both developed and developing even in the remotest regions. In 2019, Blackfrog
pressure monitoring.
program sustainability. economies, as demonstrated by the recent was the winner of the Qualcomm Design in
COVID-19 pandemic. While life-saving vaccines
Access to high-speed internet is a social India Challenge.
We have, for example, integrated VR headsets are available, challenges continue with delivery
determinant of health,15 and disparities across
and teacher training in several of our education in hard-to-reach areas.
neighborhoods in Washington, D.C. significantly
15 Broadband Internet Access Is a Social Determinant of Health!, American Public Health Association, 07/08/2020
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 25
Facilitating HIV Education HIV and their primary caregivers to overcome STEM Education
Great strides have been made in the fight against barriers that prevent children from receiving
HIV and AIDS globally. This is especially true in testing and treatment. Nearly 30,000 children STEM drives the breakthrough technologies and
South Africa, which has the world’s largest HIV and adolescents have participated in one-on- inventions we bring to life. As technology leaders
treatment program. However, due to social and one counselling or in a support group since the and a company of inventors, we are committed
structural barriers, children and adolescents are program launched in 2018. to developing a highly skilled and inclusive
still undertreated. workforce that stands ready to create innovative
The program also features the KidzAlive@Home
solutions that address the most pressing
Developed by Zoë-Life Innovative Solutions App, which works with children who are newly
challenges of our time.
and [partially] funded through a grant provided diagnosed with HIV and started on a treatment
by Qualcomm, the KidzAlive Mobilised plan or already undergoing treatment. This app A diverse pipeline of STEM professionals is
Project leverages the Talk Tool App to provide features reminders for the child to take their vital for our continued technological leadership.
healthcare workers with support to interact antiretroviral drugs and track their mood and As we look at some of the current workforce
with children and their caregivers. Healthcare physical well-being. Caregivers can set clinic challenges in the U.S. and beyond, we support
workers use the mobile app to engage children appointment reminders and access a daily initiatives that:
in the animated journey of a frog named summary of the child’s medication intake and
Emvólio is a portable, battery-powered, Sibusiso as he goes for HIV testing, learns his mood. A third platform offered by the program, • Help to bridge the STEM skills gap among
internet-connected refrigerator for the last-mile positive status and comes to understand the KidzAlive Caregiver Connect, leverages WhatsApp students globally.
transport of vaccines and other biologicals. It importance of adhering to his treatment. and Chatbot integration to support parents • Build STEM capacity among teachers and
can maintain any preset temperature for more
and caregivers by offering 24/7 access to HIV educators.
than 12 hours, even in extreme temperature The KidzAlive digital model has trained more
management information in multiple languages,
and humidity conditions. The 1.8-liter capacity than 400 healthcare workers to empower • Engage women and underrepresented
enabling caregivers to educate and engage with
enables it to carry 30-50 vials — enough for a children and adolescents living with or at risk for minorities (URM) in STEM fields.
their children effectively.
standard day-long immunization campaign into • Leverage our employees as STEM
a rural community. ambassadors in our communities.
In 2022, we exceeded our goal to engage 1.5
Health care professionals can continuously
million students and teachers across the globe
monitor the refrigerator units by tracking
by 2025, and we continued our engagement
location, temperature and battery conditions.
in 2023. We saw strong growth across several
initiatives, including our Thinkabit Lab sites and
The Emvólio refrigerators have been deployed
our collaborations with Million Girls Moonshot
across India and are now certified by the WHO.
and FIRST. Our STEM programs have reached
Nearly 1,000 refrigerators have been used to
more than 4.7 million students and more than
vaccinate more than 156,000 people for both
240,000 educators since 2020. This past
routine vaccinations and COVID-19 vaccination.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 26
year alone, we reached more than 2.3 million Million Girls Moonshot
students and teachers. Our workforce also The Million Girls Moonshot (The Moonshot)
gets involved, and this past year hundreds of engages and inspires millions of girls in STEM.
Qualcomm employees volunteered a total of To date the program has reached 2.75 million
11,080 hours throughout our global communities kids, including 1.4 million girls.
on STEM Education initiatives.
The Moonshot is the premier initiative of STEM
FIRST
Next, an organization making out-of-school
Our long-standing collaboration with FIRST STEM opportunities a reality for millions of
is one way that we are increasing access to young people to help them thrive. STEM Next’s
STEM education and developing our future goal is to inspire 20 million young people by
workforce. FIRST is the world’s leading youth- 2027 through its collective initiatives.
serving, nonprofit organization advancing STEM
education and engages students in grades With The Moonshot, we’re changing the narrative
PreK-12 in hands-on, mentor-based robotics on who can become an inventor. In order to help
programs. Since 2006, we have been supporting students see themselves as a valuable part of
thousands of teams globally helping all students the innovation ecosystem, we:
see that they have a place in STEM while helping
• Developed a series of videos reimagining
them develop confidence and self-esteem.
who can become an inventor. Three
This year, our support went beyond building
Qualcomm supported female inventors
robots to include:
— an experienced engineer, a young
entrepreneur and a student inventor — were
• Presenting Sponsor of the 2022-2023 season
all featured as part of the If/Then Collective
“Energize” theme, which challenged teams to
video series in which they shared their life
reimagine the future of sustainable energy,
inspirations, career triumphs and passion.
power their ideas forward and realize a
brighter future.
• C ollaborated on a segment for the CBS
show Mission Unstoppable hosted by
• Supporter of the More Than campaign, which
Miranda Cosgrove. The segment featured
aims to dismantle labels for young people
Qualcomm Technologies engineer Yun
and promote self-esteem through STEM.
Lin and Moonshot Flight Crew student
The campaign included a video series that
Mackenzie Hill as they explored invention,
highlighted the need to see young people as
patents, coding and mentor-ship.
“more than” how they are perceived.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 27
Thinkabit Lab 2023 program highlights:
• Experienced a 29 percent increase in
student participation from 2022.
• Added a new lab at the Global Learning
Charter Public School in New Bedford,
Massachusetts. The lab is housed in the
new Joan and Irwin Jacobs Center for
STEAM Education. All eighth graders will
participate in the Thinkabit Lab program,
while all sixth and seventh graders learn Qualcomm® Aqriti™ Program
coding, engineering and design skills that
Our Aqriti program has made big strides in
will prepare them for the program.
improving access and exposure to quality
STEM education at hundreds of schools in
• V ista Innovation and Design Academy
India, with a key focus on engaging young
(VIDA), a Thinkabit Lab site based in San
girls. In the last fiscal year, Aqriti has impacted
Diego, was honored with an Innovation
more than 59,000 children and more than 570
in Education award by the Classroom of
teachers across 314 schools in Hyderabad,
the Future Foundation. The award honors
Bangalore, Mumbai and Chennai.
programs that motivate students to learn
and increase student achievement. VIDA
Additional highlights of the Aqriti program include:
won for their “Design Lab Rotation of
Innovation,” which comprises four rotations • Provided additional afterschool academic
in sixth to eighth grades, one of which is sessions for more than 16,000 students to
the Thinkabit Lab program. help with learning loss due to the pandemic.
Thinkabit Lab
• Enhanced our online teacher resources • Awarded scholarships for 415 female
Thinkabit Lab is our home-grown STEM engagement program that introduces students to the
by creating a lesson plan for all activities, students to help pursue careers in STEM.
invention process through hands-on engineering activities. Thinkabit Lab works with students from
along with a suggested lesson flow, answer
diverse backgrounds to wire circuits like an electrical engineer, code like a computer scientist and • Equipped six STEM mobile lab vans with
keys and instructional tips that align with
build and design IoT-themed inventions that address a real-world problem. Students are also led science experiments and materials for
K-12 standards.
through a series of career exploration activities that provide insights into the types of jobs found at bimonthly lessons to teach science concepts.
technology companies like Qualcomm.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 28
Acting
Responsibly
Workforce
Business Integrity
Ethical Governance
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 29
Acting Responsibly
We are committed to operating ethically, holding ourselves and
those with whom we do business to high standards of integrity.
2025 Goal
All of our employees must follow The Qualcomm Way: Our Code
of Business Conduct (CoBC), creating a culture where employees
take pride in ethical behavior.
Ensure 100%
We believe
that varied backgrounds, experiences, perspectives and ideas enhance our ability to
innovate and execute on our goals. We provide opportunities for our employees to grow and develop in their
of our primary semiconductor
careers, supported by strong compensation, benefits, health and wellness offerings and programs that build
manufacturing suppliers are audited every
connections between our employees and their communities.
two years for conformance to the Supplier
We support
public policies that encourage innovation, foster the proliferation of mobile technology and
enable business-friendly environments. Code of Conduct, from a 2020 base year.
We endeavor
to manage data and privacy responsibly, striving to uphold the trust of our customers
and employees. We place a high priority on cybersecurity, not only in endeavoring to protect our employees,
customers and business collaborators but also our IP, operations and products. We evaluate our cyber-
risk profile through assessment of the cyber-threat landscape and the operation of our cyber vulnerability
management program. We are guided by the principle that for technology to fulfill its promise, it must work to
support robust, extensible security while not compromising user experience.
We work
for our products to be distinguished not only by their capabilities but also by the responsible
way in which we design and produce them. Assessing and monitoring our primary semiconductor
manufacturing suppliers for compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct allows us to minimize potential
harms and develop a more resilient supply chain.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 30
Workforce
Empowering and inspiring our people. Employee networks as
key DEI allies
DEI
To continue to build a strong internal
Our Company’s success is rooted in the hard work and dedication of our workforce. We’re a diverse
ecosystem, this past year we have put
group of employees from varied backgrounds, experiences, perspectives and ideas. We strive to be
significant focus on employee networks as
a workplace that reflects the world in which we do business. We use resources and solutions that
key allies within our DEI ecosystem. Employee
integrate DEI into our global business and culture so that everyone can be their best selves at work.
networks are open and voluntary employee-
Our diversity increases our global awareness, helps us create an authentic sense of belonging and
led groups that aim to provide a community of
accelerates our ability to innovate.
support and sense of belonging for employees
and help foster an inclusive workplace. We
Our DEI efforts have grown from initial grassroots employee-led initiatives to a consolidated program Black History month QBIG social
currently have nine global employee networks
with a global policy that has Board oversight. Operationally, it is led through leadership councils, an
commemorative months and the Company’s
with 38 chapters touching a third of our
ecosystem of allies and a team of dedicated staff. Our DEI Policy highlights our commitment to a
commitment to diversity. Qualcomm Black
workforce worldwide.
work environment that is inclusive, respectful and free of harassment, discrimination and retaliation.
Inclusion Group, for example, organized a
The policy also emphasizes our efforts to cultivate innovators who have varying backgrounds, ideas
month-long celebration to commemorate
Whether it be our group of employees who
and points of view.
Black History Month which, in 2023, focused
work to foster safe, inclusive, supportive and
on the theme of resilience. This employee
open work environments for all employees,
We have continued our effort to promote greater diversity, equity and inclusion throughout the
group works to build an environment that
regardless of sexual orientation, gender
Company through education, training and mentorship while continuing to engage with leaders,
drives employee development, professional
identity or gender expression, or our employee
managers and our nine employee networks. In 2023, we launched a DEI Advisory Council to provide
networking and community outreach among
network dedicated to creating a workplace
leadership, visibility and support for our DEI strategy and initiatives. This group serves as thought
the African American and Black community.
where people with disabilities thrive, all of our
partners to evolve and further embed DEI into Qualcomm’s people and business operations. The
Throughout the month, the group organized
employee networks are critical in bringing the
council is composed of a cross-functional group of leaders who serve for a tenure of two years. Our
different speakers and events to educate
Company’s DEI commitment to life. In 2023,
commitment to DEI includes promoting employee development, working to educate employees on
and raise awareness around the power
we improved governance standards and grew
how to enhance inclusion and building and sustaining collaborations with external organizations to
of diversity — whether in innovation and
chapters globally. This effort included building
provide resources and best practices to support our employees.
entrepreneurship, invention or patents.
out resources and providing the groups with
It spotlighted Black inventors within our
clear responsibilities and expectations through
Company and Black-owned businesses
employee network charters.
“We strive to be a workplace that reflects across our different communities, hosted
Employee networks support the organization authors for talks and recommended
the world in which we do business.”
of events and celebrations during key organizations for collaboration.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 31
Another important piece of the DEI ecosystem performance feedback to our employees. Our DEI Training Initiatives
within our Company is the Women’s Leadership open-door policy encourages employees to ask Every employee at our Company is responsible all employees feel empowered to reach
Council, made up of women in leadership questions or voice any concerns they may have for supporting an inclusive, respectful and their potential. The learning path includes
positions across the Company and who work regarding their performance assessment or their harassment-free, discrimination-free and resources and virtual learning to enhance
to enhance the experiences of senior women at compensation. In line with our transparency and retaliation-free work environment. We have our leaders’ knowledge of concepts, such as
Qualcomm. With the vision to support and lead open philosophy, we also organize interactive several initiatives and trainings to uphold belonging and psychological safety, allyship,
impactful strategies that promote the engagement panel discussions around the annual review these values. For example, we offer training inclusive communication and interrupting
and advancement of women leaders at our process to offer recommendations on how for new hires on DEI as part of the employee bias, while supporting them with the tools to
Company, the council was revitalized in 2023. This employees can advocate for themselves and to onboarding process and provide Company- continue to build high-performing diverse and
group’s priorities for 2023 and beyond include provide insights into how fairness and equity are wide access to a library of online and in- inclusive teams.
developing a pipeline for our Company through achieved throughout the process. Employees are person trainings on interpersonal topics, such
focused developmental efforts for leadership encouraged to join these discussions and actively as soliciting feedback, articulating your value, We also focus on empowering managers
talent, enlisting and enabling senior leaders to participate with questions and comments. reducing team burnout, becoming an ally at by providing training on topics such as
support women’s engagement and advancement work, building a diverse professional network unconscious bias and creating inclusive
and providing meaningful internal and external Diverse teams bring together individuals and more. teams to help positively influence decision-
networking opportunities to build community. with different backgrounds, experiences, and making and people management. These
worldviews. This diversity fuels innovation that To highlight our conviction that our varied concepts, which are woven into the foundation
DEI is also a key part of our internal processes, enables Qualcomm to engineer human progress. backgrounds, experiences and ideas are of our processes — including those related
including the annual employee review Qualcomm’s commitment to promoting a diverse, pivotal to innovating with purpose in 2023, to promotion and annual reviews — support
process. We train our managers on job-related equitable, and inclusive work environment we launched a DEI Learning Series. Available inclusive and equitable treatment amongst
performance assessment and bias avoidance, remains steadfast. We are proud of our culture for all employees, the learning series is employees at all levels. We offer dynamic
broadly gather feedback from managers and and work hard to promote equity in our people titled “Fostering an Inclusive Culture — What development programs tailored to employees’
co-workers for annual performance evaluations, practices. Where the data is collected, we will You Can Do!” and includes resources and job level and aspirations. This year, in
calibrate ratings across managers and provide continue to track the representation of women, virtual learning designed to enable everyone India and APAC we offered training around
underrepresented minorities, persons with across our workforce to be equipped with the unconscious bias to more than 250 managers.
disabilities, and covered veterans. essential tools to build an inclusive mindset, The goal was to create awareness, increase
recognize and challenge their own biases, be the number of allies within the Company and
Our global efforts continue to earn us prestigious
an ally and create a strong sense of belonging promote a more inclusive work environment.
external recognitions. We are regularly named
for colleagues around the world. Participating managers appreciated the
on many “best places to work” lists. Some
meaningful dialogues around existing beliefs
examples of such awards in 2023 include Forbes The inclusive leadership learning path for and stereotypes especially within diverse
Best Employers for Diversity, Top 50 Employers managers focuses on supporting their communities and learning about the role they
for Women and Minority Engineers by Readers’ understanding of the important role they can play to be bias disrupters.
Choice and Avtar & Seramount 100 Best play in fostering an inclusive work culture
Companies for Women in India. and sustaining an environment where
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 32
Collaborations with External — achieved for nine consecutive years — Qualcomm’s leading female engineers spoke
highlights our commitment to diversity and about all things on-device AI, large language
Organizations
recognizes our Company as a “Best Places models, responsible AI and more. We also
to Work for Disability Inclusion.” We have supported the WAI Awards which honors
Our work with organizations that champion
also established an engagement with Enna, excellence in women in AI.
DEI is vital to our success in providing additional
a specialist neurodiversity recruitment
resources, support and capacity-building to our
• We continued our collaboration with Athena,
consultancy, as part of our targeted efforts to
employees. Highlights in 2023 included
a premier women’s advocacy organization
hire from this talent pool.
the following:
that fast-tracks women in STEM through
• We repeated our sponsorship of and leadership development. Our sponsorship
• We advanced our support of DEI efforts
attendance at three key conferences — the supports their efforts to empower one million
across our communities worldwide. This
Grace Hopper Celebration, the Society of women in STEM by 2030. We also provided
year, we proudly sponsored the Taiwan Pride
Hispanic Professional Engineers’ National support for their unique leadership programs,
Parade in Taipei. We also, for the first time,
Convention and the National Society of designed to foster career advancement
participated in the Munich Pride Parade.
Black Engineers’ Annual Convention — where and personal development, in which our
This is in addition to our long-standing
we recruited diverse talent and provided employees participated as well.
support of San Diego Pride, where we had a
development opportunities to support
custom-designed float and more than 300
• We successfully underwent reaccreditation
the career growth of current employees.
participants, including employees, family
in the U.K. to continue in our third year as
Further, we sponsored two conferences
and friends. This type of involvement is
We are committed to our
an endorsed employer by WORK180. This
in Europe: Women of Silicon Roundabout,
an extension of our Company’s decades-
organization helps employers to do better
DEI efforts across our which is the United Kingdom’s (U.K.)
long support for the lesbian, gay, bisexual,
and empower women to expect better. They
largest tech conference for women, and
transgender, questioning/queer and others
communities worldwide.
only endorse employers who they believe
European Women in Tech. Together, these
(LGBTQ+) community across the globe.
are committed to making real progress and
And as a testimony to this two conferences support a community of
helping women thrive.
• We continued to be an Inclusion Works more than 4,500 women, underrepresented
continuous journey, we
Partner with Disability:IN, the leading technologists and allies.
• We participated in the U.S. Secretary of
proudly sponsored the nonprofit resource for business disability
Navy’s Tours with Industry Fellowship
• We initiated a collaboration with Women
inclusion worldwide. Our CEO signed
Taiwan Pride Parade in Taipei Program, which offers the service member
in AI (WAI), the first global community for
Disability:IN’s CEO Letter on Disability
a chance to learn from and with leading
women in the field of AI. It currently has
last year; the Taiwan Pride Inclusion, demonstrating our commitment
industry partners to improve leadership,
more than 8,000 members in more than 140
to taking action to build inclusive, accessible
Parade is the largest Pride management and communication skills. The
countries. To support their mission of closing
and equitable workplaces. In 2023, we
program provides valuable perspective to the
the gender gap in AI, we collaborated with
event in the APAC region. were proud to celebrate a score of 100 (out
civilian business world about the Navy.
WAI in the framework of their global learning
of 100) on Disability:IN’s annual Disability
– ST Liew, VP & President, QC Taiwan platform in the Metaverse where one of
Equality Index survey. This recognition
and Southeast Asia (SEA)
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 33
skills development, mentorship, tuition
Employee Engagement Compensation and Benefits
reimbursement and more.
Our Company’s success would not be possible
and Development
without our dedicated employees and our
We take great pride in our engineering culture
compensation and benefits programs are an
We strive to provide our and make sure our world-leading technical
important part of how we recognize and reward
employees have the freedom and flexibility
employees with a healthy
them for their contributions. These programs
to continuously develop and refine their
are designed to attract and retain talent and
and safe work environment.
expertise in various domains. Our Learning
to deliver on our commitment to equitable
Council exists to create alignment between
We offer professional
pay. Worldwide, we pay female employees
our talent development needs and business
100 cents on the dollar in the aggregate
development opportunities
critical strategies. Composed of executives
when compared to male employees, taking
from across engineering, HR and business
and cultivate a culture
into account rewards group, time in level,
units, the Learning Council creates a shared
that celebrates continued geographic area and job family.16 While we
vision for our Company’s competency needs
do not track race/ethnicity outside the U.S.,
growth and creativity. In and how to address them. Using the input and
in the U.S., we pay our non-white employees
recommendations of this group, our engineering
doing so, we believe that 100 cents on the dollar in the aggregate when
learning and development plan is refreshed
compared to our white employees, taking the
we foster an environment annually to guarantee close alignment with our
same factors into consideration.
Company’s short-term and long-term strategic
in which innovative problem
business objectives. In 2023, our engineers
Our compensation program includes the
solving and ideas propel attended more than 79,500 training hours on
following three core elements:
Employee Growth and Development many different topics, such as AI with machine
today’s most important
• Base pay provides non-variable pay based on We offer learning opportunities to enrich the learning, automotive safety standards, software
technological advancements. role and individual performance. employee experience. We care about our people engineering and wireless connectivity.
and support them to learn, grow and succeed
• Bonus provides an additional cash through best-in-class learning solutions that Our Talent and Engineering Development team
compensation opportunity based on also propel the business forward. Our ultimate validates the top development needs across
Company performance and individual goal is to cultivate a culture to build future-ready professional, leadership and technical domains
contributions. talent that is continuous, inclusive, scalable with the Learning Council and HR leaders.
and digitally enabled to drive a Qualcomm
• Stock-based awards allow for participation
technology-powered connected world. “In 2023, our engineers
in the long-term success of the Company.
Each year, in person and online, thousands
Grants are awarded to new hires and broadly attended more than
of our employees expand their knowledge
to employees in many roles each year, based
through engineering trainings, leadership and 79,500 training hours.”
on future potential, amongst other factors.
management development courses, professional
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
16 Based on base pay, annual bonus and stock-based awards granted in the Annual Review cycle completed in FY 2023 (covering work performed in FY 2022).
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 34
Make Connections
• Employee learning experience: Providing a across our multiple platforms. This led to the
Make new connections, build our
networks, and learn together. single place to go for all learning with the creation of a user-friendly and intuitive central
opportunity to create personalized learning access point for all learning opportunities across
Build a Learning Culture Give Recommendations paths and social learning, participate our Company in 2023.
Collectively build our breadth of Recommend ways to address the needs in events and forums and streamline
that would be best met by common
knowledgeabout Qualcomm. Go Learn is an opportunity to find resources,
learning solutions. mandatory trainings.
such as LinkedIn learning classes, books,
• E ngineering development strategies: webinars and live events, to grow technical and
Facilitating resource sharing across professional skills. With its business focus,
organizations and geographies while raising the directory allows for deepening of business
Raise Awareness Share New Ideas awareness around emerging needs and acumen, enhancing knowledge around our
Raise awareness of new initiatives Share our learning practices, addressing potential skills gaps. business processes, developing new functional
and learning opportunities. innovative learning solutions, tools,
and recommended external resources. expertise and obtaining a greater understanding
We’ve found that professional development
of marketing and communications.
Gain Insights needs voiced by employees show strong
Gain insights and inspiration alignment with the way managers rate The Learning Directory includes new learning
from what others are doing.
employees on skills and competencies evaluated paths, called QRated learning paths, which
during the annual review process. Individuals are recommended, curated and organized by
We also take into account inputs from employees to collectively build knowledge about
leading teams have expressed great interest Qualcomm employees. These are blended
development planning, engineering development Qualcomm and gain insights and inspiration
in developing their skills around motivating learning experiences incorporating a variety of
requests and feedback from our technology from what others within the Company are doing.
and retaining employees, influencing others, resources intended to provide unique and timely
leaders. This multi-channel approach helps Finally, it includes options to address the needs
coaching and mentoring. opportunities for employees to build critical
ensure that our development offerings are that would be best met via common learning
professional skills aligned to our Company’s
focused on high demand areas. solutions. It is a collaborative training community
The learning ecosystem at our Company
competencies. In 2023, there were a number
that goes beyond mere learning opportunities.
comprises many resources with separate access
of QRated learning paths offered around topics
The Qualcomm Learning Network, illustrated
points. The Qualcomm Learning Directory, called
such as creative thinking, decision-making,
above, is a global collaborative learning The Qualcomm Learning Network focuses on
Go Learn, endeavors to bring all these resources
mental agility and resilience, critical thinking
community for all employees, whether they have four specific areas for the Company:
together on one site to help learners find classes
and problem solving. There are other paths
technical engineering roles or not. Focused on
and on-demand learning more easily. Go Learn
in development focusing on generative AI,
• P eople management and leadership
what employees can do together, it provides a
is a one-stop-shop that makes it easy for
accessibility, everyday practices for new people
development: providing training content
host of training and learning opportunities while
employees to find learning opportunities that
managers and persuading with storytelling and
and learning material around foundational
ensuring there are channels for feedback. This
matter to them and supports the achievement of
data. To date, more than 2,500 employees have
management skills for all people managers
network looks to facilitate employees making
their professional and career goals. Our Talent
enrolled in the existing QRated learning paths.
and leaders across the Company.
new connections, building networks with other
and Engineering Development team work to
employees and promoting learning together.
identify existing challenges in finding resources
• Onboarding: Supporting new employees in
The network also provides opportunities for
their onboarding process.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 35
Employee Feedback and Engagement Health and Safety
We provide employees with frequent
opportunities to share their feedback on what it’s Success in our workplace health and safety
like for them to work at our Company. We hold programs is critical for our employees,
company-wide and business unit “All Hands” contractors and those with whom we do
meetings on a quarterly basis to give employees business. For our employees and contractors,
opportunities to hear directly from and ask providing a safe and healthy workplace is
questions of executive leadership. vital to attracting and retaining top talent for
the growth of our Company. For our external
We regularly conduct full census engagement stakeholders, we understand our obligations to
surveys as well as pulse surveys. These surveys maintain compliance with applicable legal and
provide employees with the opportunity to other requirements. We do this by incorporating
give feedback and enable management to industry best practices to meet expected health
assess employee engagement. Based on and safety criteria and to minimize adverse
results, programs are developed to address health and safety impacts in our operations and
opportunities for improvement. Leaders also activities. Our Environment, Health and Safety
receive a detailed report of the results for (EHS) Code of Practice is the framework of our
their organization within a few weeks after a EHS management system and builds on the
survey closes to help them understand their foundation of our CoBC and our EHS Policy.
organization’s strengths and opportunity areas. are formally certified by the internationally management reporting system, a centralized
Our EHS Code of Practice comprises a series
recognized ISO 45001 standard on global tool that is accessible to all employees.
of globally applicable business practices
occupational health and safety management We strongly encourage employees to report
and assurance processes associated with
and ISO 14001 standard for environmental incidents and near-misses, no matter how minor
“We regularly our operations and activities. It provides
management. Compliance with these they may seem.
the framework for consistent methods of
international standards is regularly audited and
conduct managing occupational health and safety, In 2023, the Singapore Workplace Safety
verified by external auditors annually.
protecting the environment, supporting and Health (WSH) Council recognized our
full census
community health and safety and compliance Using our EHS Code of Practice and continuous manufacturing facility in Singapore with the
with internal and external requirements and improvement principles, we look for ways to Workplace Safety and Health Performance
engagement
driving continuous improvements. learn from our experiences as well as industry Silver Award for implementation of our Incident
best practices, and we share those lessons e-Reporting Tool, which uses QR codes. Since
surveys as well
The EHS management system is structured
among our stakeholders to improve safety the program’s inception in 2020, employees
using the International Organization for
as pulse surveys.” performance and safety practices. have submitted nearly 500 reports to the site,
Standardization (ISO) 14001 and ISO 45001
which has helped to identify and reduce the
frameworks. Our three manufacturing facilities One way we do this is through our incident
recurrence of safety incidents.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 36
Each year, we evaluate and establish targets for reducing workplace injuries. We also track key
metrics to evaluate performance based on the nature of the injury. This year, our targets for the Lost
Time Incident Rate (LTIR) and Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) remained the same at <0.50 and
<0.60, respectively. We target zero fatalities. We publish our performance on these indicators annually
in the ESG Performance Summary.
As part of our annual compliance assurance process, we require health and safety self-assessments
of our laboratory sites using an internal scorecard. Engineering lab management and local EHS
engineers conduct periodic spot checks and inspections to assess compliance within the lab
environment. In addition, we require regular internal EHS gap assessments to assess the effective
implementation of our programs and training as well as periodic external third party audits to verify
compliance with country-specific regulatory requirements.
We have several governance channels that reinforce the importance of safety for our workforce.
These channels include:
• Monthly regional safety and compliance reviews of relevant topics, with targeted calls to action to
prevent incidents or negative trends.
• Periodic management reviews of our certified EHS management systems to manufacturing
facility senior leadership. These reviews reflect current safety performance trends, review lessons
learned from recent incidents, perform compliance evaluation and celebrate improvements.
• Workplace health and safety committees implement local safety management, safety culture
programs and performance initiatives. Committee membership consists of site leader(s)
and employee representatives from various areas and levels of the organization, covering
administration, operations and engineering.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 37
Business Integrity
A strong commitment to always operate ethically.
Integrity is one of our core values. As such, we strive to conduct business responsibly and expect the
same from those with whom we do business.
As we continue to expand our technologies into more types of devices and applications, such as
automotive and IoT, the Company’s support structures have correspondingly grown. This includes
the compliance function who coordinate compliance and risk-mitigation strategies that span various
disciplines and is supported by a dedicated cross-functional team of legal, technical, information
security and other specialists, including the Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, within the office of
the General Counsel.
Privacy and Data Protection
We endeavor to follow privacy and data training for new and existing employees. We compliance program and training activities: privacy within their businesses. In 2023, the
protection practices that support our employees, also host various privacy and data protection Company continued to perform cybersecurity
• Our Data Legal Stakeholder Meetings are
customers and other stakeholders and uphold awareness and training programs and resources and privacy assessments for select vendors
focused on customer and consumer privacy
the trust placed in us. Our Qualcomm Privacy for our employees through our internal “Data and key suppliers to help provide reasonable
and data-protection issues. Attendees
Policy provides information about how we Legal — Privacy” webpage. This includes a assurance they meet our security standards,
include stakeholders from departments
collect, use, process and transfer personal data. recognition program in which employees who which are informed by international
such as Engineering, Product Management,
have demonstrated responsible privacy and data cybersecurity frameworks with deliberate
We maintain a privacy and data protection IT, Marketing, Government Affairs, Public
protection practices can be nominated to receive customizations to address Qualcomm’s
awareness and training program. The awareness Relations, Product Security and Legal,
“privacy badges” displayed in their profiles in environment, among other inputs. These
and training sessions cover relevant internal among others.
the internal directory. In 2023, more than 9,200 assessments evaluated, among other items,
policies and procedures as well as topics
employees participated in at least one of our whether vendors and key suppliers maintain
• Our Internal Privacy Committee Meetings
such as lawful basis for processing data,
awareness or training sessions. appropriate security controls in line with the
are focused on employee privacy and data
transparency, privacy-by-design, data-subject
type of information being processed and
protection. Attendees include representatives
rights, data management, information security Our Data Legal Team routinely meets with two
commensurate with the risk.
from HR, IT, Payroll, Physical Security, Stock
and data transfers. We provide new employees internal cross-functional groups to educate
Administration and Legal, among others.
with privacy and data-protection awareness stakeholders on relevant current events, case We see value in ongoing external engagement
training as part of the new employee onboarding studies and changes in privacy and data- regarding new and emerging privacy issues.
We strive to work with business partners and
experience, as well as targeted role-based protection law and to coordinate the Company’s Our Company is a member or sponsor of
suppliers who prioritize data protection and
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 38
many organizations that work to help advance Assessment Exchange certification and ISO • Endeavor to monitor security risks in a
responsible privacy and data protection 27001:2013 certification, as required to diversify timely manner and respond to security
practices. These include the International into new industries and service offerings. These threats in accordance with their respective
Association of Privacy Professionals and certifications provide third party assessment severity and level of risk.
Cyber Information Sharing and Analysis of controls within the Company’s Information
We have a global team of internal experts
Centers. We also engage with subgroups of Security Management System (ISMS) related
dedicated to helping protect the Company
industry associations focused on privacy and to, among other items, protection of the
from cybersecurity threats. Key elements
security issues, such as the U.S. Chamber of confidentiality, availability and integrity of the
of our Cybersecurity Program — including
Commerce, Information Technology Industry information within its possession.
defending against key cybersecurity threats
Council, Digital Europe and 5GAA.
Our ISMS Policy specifies that we will take and risks — are overseen by our Vice President
Our participation and, in some cases, reasonable and technically feasible actions to: of Cybersecurity, the legal functions under the
leadership in these groups allows us to listen office of the General Counsel, including the
• M aintain an ISMS that supports
and advocate for privacy- and data-protection Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, and the
information security policies, standards,
standards applicable to our business and the supporting compliance and risk organization,
and procedures to meet business
semiconductor industry. For example, the which includes subject matter experts focused
requirements and address compliance with
Company sits on the NIST ISPAB to advise the on identifying and managing cybersecurity
relevant information security, privacy, and
U.S. government on security and privacy topics. threats and consequences where technically
regulatory specifications.
feasible and commensurate with risk. The
Cybersecurity
Cybersecurity Program is also supported by
• I dentify risks in protecting information
additional members of senior management and
We place a high priority on cybersecurity, not and endeavor to address these risks
the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors
only in endeavoring to protect our employees, by establishing appropriate and
through regular reporting and review.
customers and business partners, but also our acceptable controls.
intellectual property, operations and products.
We evaluate our cybersecurity risk profile
• Measure and maintain compliance with
through assessment of the cybersecurity threat
We maintain a cybersecurity program informed the ISMS Policy.
landscape and the operation of our vulnerability-
by international frameworks with deliberate
management program. We use the evaluation
• Solicit and address ISMS Policy user
customizations to address the Company’s
of our cybersecurity risk profile of known
feedback and recommendations to help
environment and business unit security
risks to determine our Cybersecurity Program
facilitate continuous improvement.
requirements (the Cybersecurity Program).
priorities. We work to track and measure these
Further, the Company has been working to gain
• Maintain an information security awareness priorities using an associated cybersecurity risk
cybersecurity-related certifications for relevant
program that helps users understand how register, which is updated as new relevant risk
portions of our business. During 2023, the
to use Qualcomm’s information assets information becomes available.
Company achieved Trusted Information Security
properly and securely.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 39
As a part of our Cybersecurity Program, we engaging with our suppliers to help them emerging technologies. The evolution toward technically feasible and commensurate with
implemented a set of policies, procedures and protect against cybersecurity threats. We connected edge not only raises the need for risk. We work to educate our developers on
administrative, physical and technical controls operate a supplier cybersecurity assurance strong security but also provides opportunity secure software design, implementation and
that seek to protect, defend and mitigate effects program, which is integrated with our for more security differentiations on a device. development lifecycle practices and have
to the Company from cybersecurity attacks. procurement processes and supported by the Our portfolio includes products for processors, implemented a range of security controls to
Our Cybersecurity Program is periodically relevant groups within the legal organization, modems, platforms, RF systems and connectivity, detect and address security vulnerabilities
reviewed for maturity and effectiveness by to assess and attempt to remediate potential as well as products based on the end-use across our products. In addition to coordinated
independent third party firms and is subject to cybersecurity risks across our supplier application. We offer a range of purpose-built, pre- disclosure practice with the security community,
internal audits. We conduct penetration tests community. We follow a third party risk packaged software, hardware and tools that can we operate a responsible disclosure program
to simulate attacks against our network to management process that includes the help our partners streamline their development for invited security researchers. This program
validate the efficacy of our security controls and evaluation of supplier’s security controls, processes while working to integrate security by is designed to improve the security of the
response capabilities. posture, maturity as well as the identification design and secure configuration. Snapdragon family of processors, 5G modems
and treatment of cybersecurity-related risks. and related technologies and software.
We provide recurring cybersecurity training We understand and endeavor to support efforts
Finally, we partner with our suppliers to help
and guidance for our employees to help them to deploy a diverse set of secure devices.
them improve their security posture, providing
better understand cybersecurity threats, our There is no “one size fits all” solution for
benefits to them and to the Company.
Company’s policies, actions and approach to security, and we are implementing multiple
managing this type of risk and how they can help Our Company did not experience any material solutions. For example, our CC EAL 4+ certified
increase the Company’s security posture. cybersecurity incidents in 2023. We annually Secure Processing Unit provides an execution
report the number of such incidents in the ESG environment for concise but security sensitive “We believe in
We maintain a cybersecurity incident response
Performance Summary of this report. use cases. On the other side, our Trusted Virtual
process supported by an internal team of developing our
Machine based secure execution environment
cybersecurity specialists and integrated with Product Security
offers a good balance between security
chipsets to support
business, legal and senior management. The
requirements and functional features.
We believe in developing our chipsets to support
internal team also engages with third party
robust, extensible
cybersecurity experts to assist as needed in robust, extensible security as an integral part We participate actively in industry-led global
the event of a cybersecurity incident. We test of the user experience. Our security-platform standards-development efforts and industry security as an
our processes through table-top exercises and solutions work to secure data and build defense in activities for cybersecurity. Our participation
integral part of the
penetration tests. The results of those activities depth on devices in both hardware and software. in these efforts allows us to advocate for
typically include a discussion of continuous security standards that pertain to our user experience.”
We work to provide robust security features to our
improvement opportunities and action items that business and industry.
customers. Our Secure Processor capability is
may be used to update policies and processes.
certified to the Common Criteria (CC) Evaluation We take security vulnerabilities in our products
Our supplier community is critical to Assurance Level (EAL) 4+. We work to support seriously, and we strive to address any security-
Qualcomm’s success, and we believe in secured development and deployment of related issues in a timely manner, where
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 40
Supply Chain Management relation to labor issues, health and safety, the VAP Audit Findings by Category
environment, ethics and management systems.
We work to have a sustainable supply chain
management program that emphasizes product The RBA Code of Conduct, which serves as our
11%
quality while minimizing risk and improving Supplier Code of Conduct, and The Qualcomm
overall sustainability. Our due diligence strategy Way: Our Code of Business Conduct, are the 2%
focuses on making appropriate supplier cornerstones of our commitment to the RBA and
selections, assessing for risk, conducting responsible supply chain management. 8% Labor
comprehensive onboarding and monitoring
adherence to our Supplier Code of Conduct. Understanding risks and enabling supply chain Ethics
sustainability is a key part of acting responsibly.
We want our products to be distinguished As part of our risk-based approach, we require 50% Environment
not only by their capabilities but also by the our primary semiconductor manufacturing
Health & Safety
responsible way in which we design and produce suppliers to complete the RBA Self-Assessment
them. Because we primarily employ a fabless Questionnaire (SAQ) annually. The SAQ is a
Management System
production model, we rely on suppliers to risk-assessment tool that enables companies
29%
perform the manufacturing of our integrated to evaluate specific supply chain risk in areas
circuit products. We regularly work with the such as labor, health and safety, environment
primary semiconductor foundries and assembly and ethics. The SAQ results from our suppliers
suppliers that manufacture our products to have indicated that 100 percent of our primary
assess risks and monitor conformance to our semiconductor manufacturing suppliers all have
Supplier Code of Conduct. low-risk manufacturing facilities according to the RBA VAP audits are conducted by our supply action plans and closure audits are put in place
SAQ ratings. chain management team and include RBA Lead to resolve non-compliance as part of the RBA
We expect our suppliers to uphold the
Auditor trained personnel who conduct on-site VAP audit process.
same corporate responsibility standards as Regularly assessing and monitoring suppliers
audits of selected suppliers for their adherence
ours, including respect for human rights, for compliance with the Supplier Code of We have a 2025 goal of ensuring 100 percent
to our Supplier Code of Conduct and other
responsible sourcing of minerals, reducing Conduct allows us to minimize potential harm to of our primary semiconductor manufacturing
corporate responsibility requirements, including
emissions and minimizing use of resources individuals, communities and the environment, suppliers are audited at least every two years.
product environmental governance and conflict
such as water and energy. as well as create more resilient supply chains. As of 2023, 88 percent of them are receiving
minerals. For more on our audit program, see
In addition to completing the SAQ, our direct biennial audits.
Human Rights.
As a Full Member of the RBA, we require
suppliers are subject to RBA VAP audits and/
suppliers to adopt either the RBA Code of
or customer managed audits. We also conduct Over the last two years, RBA VAP audits of
Conduct or a similar code. By leveraging
sustainability audits of selected non-primary our direct primary manufacturing suppliers
RBA tools and resources in our supply chain
manufacturing suppliers and suppliers that are discovered 62 non-compliance findings, of which
management program, we can focus on driving
new to our supply chain for conformance to our 19 were minor, 40 were major and three were
our suppliers to conform to high standards in
corporate responsibility requirements. priority instances of non-compliance. Corrective
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 41
Environmental Management in alongside them to, where possible, help them
the Supply Chain achieve their goals. To support continued
effectiveness, we’ve designed corrective action
Each of our primary semiconductor processes, including the potential removal of
manufacturing suppliers is required to have an deficient suppliers from our supply chain.
ISO 14001-certified environmental management
system, and in 2023, all such suppliers reported We also evaluate physical risks in our supply
meeting this requirement. We work with these chain. In 2023, we conducted our second
suppliers at multiple stages of design and climate scenario analysis (CSA) where we held
manufacturing to monitor their conformance interviews and modeled climate change related
to applicable environmental laws and help risks, inclusive of our value chain. More on our
adherence to various environmental initiatives. CSA can be found in our TCFD Index.
On an annual basis, we assess current and We believe in helping our suppliers build greater
future water risks at the global and local levels, knowledge of corporate responsibility issues,
using the World Resources Institute (WRI) such as human rights, responsible minerals
Aqueduct™ tool. The combination of the use of sourcing and selecting less harmful substances
this tool with internal Company knowledge and for manufacturing. We share our knowledge
guidance from external consultants has helped through on-site visits, business meetings, written
us to better understand physical water risks in communication and other efforts.
our operations, including our supply chain.
In 2023, for example, we worked with several
Annually, we survey our direct manufacturing of our primary semiconductor manufacturing
suppliers and receive water use and GHG suppliers in Taiwan to discuss Qualcomm’s net-
metrics that allow us to set benchmarks and zero commitment, opportunities for deploying
strategize future corporate responsibility renewable energy and projects to realize GHG
initiatives. These suppliers have shown emission reductions. Also, we completed our
effectiveness in many areas of corporate Taiwan Sustainability Collaboration Project that
responsibility, particularly in product aimed to help suppliers add renewable energy
environmental governance and resource capacity and which led suppliers to add up
management. Many of these suppliers have to 300 percent in additional funding for their
set targets for reducing water consumption renewable energy commitments.
and mitigating GHG emissions, and we work
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 42
Respect for Human Rights communities. HRIAs help us identify our salient RBA SAQ, which includes human rights risks,
human rights issues — those human rights at such as working hours, child labor, freedom
We are committed to promoting and respecting all potential risk of negative impact due to our of association and more. All our primary
Company activities or business relationships. semiconductor manufacturing suppliers comply
internationally recognized human rights and avoiding
with this requirement, and all have low-risk
Because we primarily rely on third parties to
complicity in any human rights abuse throughout our Company, manufacturing facilities according to the SAQ
perform the manufacturing, assembly and most
ratings. In addition, we encourage our primary
our operations and our business relationships, including our
of the testing of our semiconductor products,
semiconductor manufacturing suppliers to
we do not generally encounter issues with child
subsidiaries, partners, customers and supply chain. complete an RBA VAP audit.
labor, forced labor or human trafficking in our
direct operations. Indirect risks exist primarily During RBA VAP audits, third party auditors
Our efforts are informed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the eight Core Labor
in our supply chains and with local community conduct record reviews, manager interviews
Standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO), the UN Global Compact and the UN
members. Although we may not have direct and worker interviews for conformance to
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our Company’s respect for human rights is
control over or causal relationships with these all standards of the RBA Code of Conduct
enshrined in our CoBC and our Supplier Code of Conduct. Our approach is explained in further
risks, we are committed to raising awareness of covering labor, health and safety, environment,
detail in our Human Rights Statement.
our expectations and working toward mitigating ethics and management systems. For more
We closely monitor human rights-related legislative and regulatory developments globally, as well as any potential link or contribution to these risks. information on these audits, please see the
our internal activities and developments, with the goal of aligning our due diligence and governance RBA VAP guidance documents.
Due to our reliance on suppliers, our Company
practices. We regularly conduct formal, third party human rights impact assessments (HRIAs) of our
has taken specific steps to prevent human We are committed to providing remedies for
operations as a whole or at the country level. These assess potential risks across our operations
rights abuses in our supply chain through our individuals or communities where we have
and/or value chain, including risks related to employees, manufacturing facilities, supply chain and
engagement with the RBA. We have undertaken identified that our Company or third parties
a supply chain analysis to understand and acting on our behalf caused or contributed to
identify risks in order to have a resilient, adverse human rights impacts. As such, we have
responsible supply chain. Our efforts to prevent, a formal, third party operated grievance and
mitigate and remediate our human rights remedy mechanism — our Business Conduct
risks and impacts in our supply chain include Hotline. The hotline is a comprehensive and
annual assessments of suppliers’ operations confidential reporting tool available to anyone
in accordance with the RBA SAQ, engagement — external or internal — to raise concerns,
with suppliers to encourage conformance to ask questions or seek guidance anonymously
our expectations, risk-based onsite audits and (where permitted by law) and without retaliation.
participation in multi-stakeholder initiatives. In addition, stakeholders can submit concerns
via phone or email to other reporting channels
We require our primary semiconductor
such as HR, Legal and Compliance.
manufacturing suppliers to complete the
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 43
Ethical Governance
Doing business, The Qualcomm Way.
We believe that ethical conduct is a cultural imperative, and all employees are
responsible for following the CoBC. Our commitment to purposeful innovation,
passionate execution, collaborative community and unquestioned integrity
underlies everything we do. Through more than three decades of innovation, we
have continued to create technologies that revolutionize the way people live, work
and connect. But it’s how we make all this possible that defines us — that’s
The Qualcomm Way.
Compliance with global anti-corruption laws intermediaries by contractual obligations relating Ethical conduct and decision-making are
also continues to be a top priority for the to compliance with applicable anti-corruption expected of all employees and are core elements
Company. To this end, our Global Foreign laws and regulations. We also conduct risk- of our performance assessment framework for
Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and our Anti- based due diligence for contractors and service leaders. Team managers and senior leaders
Corruption Policy applies to the entire Company, providers who act as Qualcomm’s agents or are encouraged to create an environment
including all employees, agents, consultants intermediaries with external parties. where employees can feel free to raise ethical
and representatives, wherever they are located. questions or concerns. They are also reminded
Our corporate compliance program (Program)
It is our policy to obey all laws, including those to have purposeful conversations with their
— including policies, procedures, controls,
laws that regulate the Company’s conduct in organizations around the importance of ethical
risk assessments and training — is evaluated
the marketing and selling of Company products, conduct and decision-making, as we believe this
for efficacy by our Internal Audit function
services and technologies. is key to building trust as well as the long-term
periodically. We also commission a third party
success of the Company.
We strictly prohibit all bribes, corrupt payments, expert Program assessment from time to time
kickbacks and other forms of improper to help the Program mature in line with the Training, education and employee outreach
influence involving government officials or risks of our business. We use the findings and are essential to reinforce an ethical culture.
private individuals. We obtain that commitment recommendations from these assessments In addition to mandatory Program and ethics
of our third party contractors and service to stay apprised of best practices and pursue training during the onboarding process
providers who may act as Qualcomm agents or continuous improvements. for employees and temporary workers, we
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 44
require the completion of a policy training and our Anti-Corruption policy and our Conflict- the importance of exemplifying Company Compliance, and we strive to respond promptly
certification process every 1-2 years covering of-Interest policy. Topics covered through values, connecting with the Compliance team, and as appropriate.
our CoBC and Anti-Corruption policies as well this repository include conflict situations and recognizing compliance champions and being
Ethics concerns are reviewed and investigated
as the FCPA. These training requirements are reporting, anti-corruption compliance related familiar with the Company’s Program. It exists
by a centralized cross-functional team
mandatory for all our regular and temporary to event sponsorships, managing third parties to highlight that compliance is everyone’s
composed of experienced Internal Audit, Risk
employees. In 2023, we issued company- and introductory training on compliance basics, responsibility. With the onsite return of most
and Compliance and Legal personnel. This team
wide mandatory training on our CoBC to help among others. employees in 2023, we saw record engagement
also reviews and approves case determinations
employees recognize and understand how and participation since the inception of
Beyond mandatory Company-wide training, and remedial action plans for substantiated
we build integrity into everything we do as a the Program. This year, this celebration of
employees who have externally facing roles incidents. Business Conduct Hotline data can be
Company. Adhering to these policies is critical compliance and integrity included more live and
periodically complete supplemental Anti- found in our ESG Performance Summary.
to maintaining our long-standing reputation for onsite employee engagement events.
Corruption and Compliance training. In 2023, we
conducting business with the utmost integrity.
Through resources like the Open-Door
offered a total of 29 sessions that were attended We continued to consolidate and formalize
Portal, an internal webpage, employees have
To support our workforce’s education and by more than 2,500 employees in externally facing our Ethics Liaison program with the goal of
access to additional information and learning
knowledge of our policies and provide easily business functions (Business Development, reinforcing and promoting a positive ethical
opportunities regarding our speak-up culture.
accessible on-demand information whenever Government Affairs, Marketing, Sales and culture in our operations across the globe.
We regularly update the resources in the portal
and wherever it is needed, in 2023, we Ventures) and assurance partners (Finance, HR The Ethics Liaison program is composed of
to present concerns that were investigated
introduced a micro-learning library covering Talent Acquisition, Legal and Procurement). 18 representatives from various functions,
to conclusion. The cases represent a small
commonly asked questions. It includes business units and offices around the world
To gauge ethical culture and comfort in raising subset of the total internal ethics investigations
instructional short videos related to the FCPA, who provide timely updates to the corporate
legal or ethical concerns, we include ethics- that are conducted and are chosen because
compliance team on local business operations
related questions in employee engagement we believe they will be the most helpful to
or emerging risks. They also serve as trusted
surveys. The survey results are analyzed to employees in learning about the types of
peers to whom employees can reach out in
identify opportunities for additional outreach, challenges or perceptions that can arise when
their local office for guidance, decision support,
to better understand employee perceptions of we do not align our conduct with Qualcomm’s
and the application of compliance-related
Company culture and to raise awareness of the values. The goal is to inform and educate our
policies and program requirements.
systems in place to investigate concerns and community while also serving as examples
remediate risks. In the 2023 pulse survey, 81 Our open-door culture is designed to empower of how our Company addresses concerns
percent of employees highlighted that they can employees and other stakeholders to voice any diligently and appropriately.
freely raise ethical concerns without negative concerns they may have about our Company,
consequences. This represents a 5 percent without fear of retaliation. Concerns may be
increase from the previous year. submitted anonymously (where permitted by
law) through our Business Conduct Hotline,
We celebrated “We Compliance” Week for the
via phone or via email to other reporting
fifth consecutive year. This initiative showcases
groups, such as Management, HR, Legal and
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 45
Public Policy and Regulation
We have been a committed partner to countries around Key public policy topics • T axation: We support policies that
incentivize innovation and enable American
the world for more than 30 years, supporting policies that
• 5G: 5G is a unified connectivity fabric that we technology companies to compete in today’s
encourage innovation, foster the advancement of technology believe will continue to transform industries, global marketplace.
create jobs and usher in an estimated $13.1
and enable business-friendly environments globally. With
trillion in global sales activity in 2035.17 • Environmental Sustainability: Our
each new generation of wireless connectivity, we strive to To achieve these benefits, we believe technologies, our business model and our
governments must continue to adopt policies role as a driver of technology transformation
create shared success in collaboration with lawmakers
that support a comprehensive 5G rollout plan. can support communities, governments and
and regulators and to create new opportunities for local other stakeholders in a transition towards a
• Invention and IP: Invention, innovation more sustainable future.
industries and communities.
and protection of IP are core drivers of
economic growth and competitiveness. Our public policy position on climate change and
Without robust patent systems and strong environmental sustainability, published in 2023,
We implement our public policy approach around four key principles:
global protection of IP, innovation would be can be found on our public policy webpage.
significantly weakened. We believe that environmental sustainability
• Participation: We engage in policy discussions with governments, organizations and industries
is a societal imperative. The conservation and
around the world to advocate for policies that promote innovation and protect and foster new
• Spectrum: The benefits of wireless protection of natural resources and global
ideas in connectivity. We are committed to helping policymakers at all levels understand our
connectivity depend on the availability of ecosystems yields significant social and
business model and role as an ecosystem enabler.
adequate and appropriate radio spectrum. environmental benefits for present and future
• Responsible Governance: We abide by all applicable laws and regulations regarding political We believe in freeing new spectrum in a generations. These benefits require collective
contributions and expenditures, and our contributions are subject to the approval of our responsible way to meet the demands of action and leadership from corporate citizens.
consumers and businesses.
senior management with oversight by the Governance Committee of our Board of Directors.
Our Global Tax Strategy highlights our
• T ransparency: We publicly disclose to the Federal Elections Commission all political • Privacy: We believe that cultivating consumer commitment to being a responsible and
contributions made by our Company and our Political Action Committee, and we abide by trust through a foundation of security transparent corporate citizen. Our approach
all legal obligations of the FCPA and similar legislation around the world. and privacy practices helps drive broader to tax is consistent with our CoBC and Code
adoption and more personalized wireless
• Policy Guides: We carefully monitor and evaluate developments that affect the world technology offerings.
“We are committed to helping
of connectivity. Our key public policy topics are 5G, invention and IP, spectrum, privacy,
• Immigration: Highly skilled talent, especially policymakers at all levels
immigration and taxation. Our general positions are outlined below and published on our
in the areas of math, engineering and the
public policy website. understand our business
sciences, is vital to the success of our
model and role as an
Company and to the future of technological
innovation around the world. ecosystem enabler.”
17 The 5G Economy in a Post-Covid-19 Era, IHS Markit (2020)
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 46
of Ethics and is premised on complying with Fostering a more accessible patent ecosystem for all
applicable tax laws, maximizing stockholder
value and delivering transparent tax reporting
and disclosures. We also seek to pay the Our belief that the U.S. patent system should reflect the diversity of At Qualcomm, we leveraged our diversity-oriented employee
requisite taxes on profits generated from the this country is stronger than ever. We know that diversifying who resources, including providing a new inventors’ workshop series
activities performed in each jurisdiction. is inventing and patenting can create more jobs, boost the national entitled “Cultivating Innovation.” These workshops were a
economy, close wage and wealth gaps and enable the U.S. to collaboration between our IP Department, Government Affairs
Implementing our business strategy requires remain a global leader in innovation. We are actively working within and employee networks, with the goal of increasing diversity in
specialized engineering and other talent, as our our Company and externally to create equitable opportunities for all. innovation within the Company. We provided 16 events, including
revenues are highly dependent on technological a workshop on TIPA, as part of that series. More than 90 percent
and product innovations. To attract top talent, we Last year, we announced, in collaboration with Invent Together, of participants agreed that course material addressing systemic
must be able to hire top engineers, regardless of the launch of The Inventor’s Patent Academy (TIPA). TIPA is a free barriers to patenting and patent law content was useful and
their country of origin. Beyond fierce competition mobile-friendly course that guides inventors through the process of relevant. Given the positive feedback and our large engineering
for talent across our industry and with our protecting their inventions through patenting. The e-learning course population, we are exploring ways to offer the course more broadly
competitors, existing immigration laws make it readies innovators to apply for their own patents, offering actionable within the Company.
more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly advice for overcoming obstacles and navigating the system. It
skilled foreign nationals, making the pool of also shares real-life stories of inventors and how they surmounted We are thankful for the help in our recruiting from Invent Together
available talent even smaller. challenges and brought their ideas to life. It gives inventors a solid partner organizations like AnitaB.org, the Society of Women
understanding of patent law and the patent filing process. Engineers and the Native American Intellectual Property Enterprise
We engage in public policy efforts to support Council. We are equally grateful that the USPTO has linked to the TIPA
regulations that are aligned to today’s economic Since its launch, TIPA has already reached close to 1,400 program on its website, featuring it as a learning resource for the
reality. Our Government Affairs team participates students. Two-third of those students responded to an optional USPTO’s new First-Time Filer Expedited Examination Pilot Program.
in diverse advocacy efforts that contribute to survey to help TIPA better understand the profile and satisfaction
immigration laws that support our Company’s of participants. Around three quarters of survey respondents This past year, we also implemented updates and improvements in
ability to develop leading-edge technologies highlighted being from historically URM and over 40 percent were the content of the online course. For example, we incorporated user
specifically and our innovation-based global women, 70 percent of whom were women of color. The United feedback and now provide an enhanced smartphone experience,
economy in general. Our advocacy efforts, as States Patent and Trademark Office’s (USPTO’s) First-Time Filer updated voice-narration, learning capsules, improved accessibility
they relate to immigration laws and recruiting Expedited Examination Pilot Program is using TIPA as a learning and additional inventor resources including information on the
a global workforce, are generally implemented resource. Students come from all sectors of the economy, including patent pro-bono program. The enhancements and updates to TIPA
through collaborations with trade associations government, higher education, startups and accelerators and will further our Company’s commitment to enabling the accessibility
and diverse coalitions of employers. For more private corporations. Nearly a quarter are individual inventors. We of the inventing and patenting process for all. We firmly believe that
information on our approach to managing a are proud of this strong start and intend to continue outreach to our empowering inventors with robust patent rights enables them to
diverse highly skilled workforce, please see target audiences as we acquire more students. transform the world for the benefit of all.
our SASB Index.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 47
Operating
Sustainably
Sustainability Goals
Resource Management
Operational Resilience
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 48
Our Approach to Operating Sustainably
We work to be a positive force in protecting the environment by continually
looking for ways to develop our ESG programs. We take actions that conserve
water, lower emissions, minimize energy consumption and strive to reduce
the impact of our waste disposal practices. We believe that environmental
sustainability is extremely important, with significant social and economic
benefits that require collective action and leadership from our Company and
other corporate citizens.
Our operations are designed to provide and maintain safe, healthy and productive working conditions that meet relevant and applicable
requirements. We strive to conserve natural resources and improve our resilience and our environmental, health and safety performance.
2025 Goal 2030 Goals 2040 Goal
(SBTi Validated) (SBTi Validated)
Reduce absolute Scope 1 Reduce absolute Scope 1 Reach net-zero global GHG
and Scope 2 GHG emissions and Scope 2 GHG emissions emissions across our
30 percent from a 2014 value chain.
50 percent from a 2020
base year.18
base year.18
Reduce absolute Scope 3
GHG emissions 25 percent
from a 2020 base year.18
18 Global.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 49
Sustainability Goals
The best breakthroughs are sustainable.
Addressing the Climate Challenge
We are committed to achieving net-zero GHG emissions across our value chain by 2040. As of • Utilizing renewable energy in our top calculations, and we are developing a strategy
2023, our corporate GHG reduction targets have been approved by the SBTi. The steps we have operational footprint regions via long-term to engage a larger portion of our supply chain
taken reflect our belief in the urgency of action to limit global temperature rise to 1.5°C and power purchase agreements (PPAs). to gather more accurate and actionable data.
our commitment to emission cuts aligned with the latest climate science. We act in a manner
• L imiting emissions in our operations through We have also continued our implementation
consistent with the notion that climate change is a serious environmental, social and economic
the replacement of high global warming of internal carbon pricing across our three
issue that calls for immediate and concerted action among all sectors of society.
potential gases in our manufacturing manufacturing facilities. This carbon price
processes, to the extent feasible. creates an assumed cost per ton of carbon
emissions with an annual rate increase
In line with our commitments, in 2023, we
• Reducing natural gas usage at our San
per year, with the objective of changing
conducted our second CSA, including a
Diego headquarters in California.
our internal behavior toward low carbon
quantitative analysis of climate-related physical
innovation. Our efforts have earned us several
risks, a quantitative analysis of climate-related • Working with key suppliers to develop
recognitions, such as being included in the
transition risks and opportunities and a collaborative initiatives to facilitate
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s
qualitative analysis of climate-related transition emissions reductions.
Green Power Partnership Top 30 Tech &
risks and opportunities. These analyses were
Telecom ranking, as well as achieving Climate
used to estimate potential financial impacts We have continued our progress on this
Registered™ Platinum status from The Climate
on our Company, our key suppliers and strategy over the last year, including the
Registry for setting GHG reduction goals,
customers and our value chain. The timeframes additional procurement of renewable energy.
obtaining verification of our GHG emissions
considered included the short term (present- In 2023 we achieved our 2025 GHG emissions
and reporting on our annual progress.
day), medium term (2030) and long term (2040). goal- two years ahead of schedule. We’ve
We identified several potential impacts and reduced our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG
opportunities to monitor over the time periods emissions by over 35 percent compared to
assessed. For more information, please see a 2014 baseline.
our TCFD Index.
We are also continuing our efforts that are
Our strategy to achieve our environmental helping us advance towards our 2040 net-zero
commitments includes several key actions: target. For Scope 3, we continue to refine our
methodology to move away from spend-based
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 50
Resources Management
Minimizing water, waste and energy use
Energy
As renewable energy becomes more accessible Bangalore sites, we’ve renewed contracts for
and the global electricity grid becomes more wind, solar and hydro energy supplies, including
resilient, it is essential that we shift our environmental attributes to enable us to claim
strategy-driven efforts towards more climate renewable energy at those sites. In Hyderabad
conscious behaviors. Notably, our goal and at our manufacturing locations in Wuxi,
of reducing direct operational emissions China and Munich, Germany, we continue to
is primarily driven by our commitment to procure the necessary market instruments to
increasingly procure renewable energy and enable us to claim renewable energy that keeps
move away from carbon-based fuel use globally us on track to meet our goals.
in our facilities and manufacturing sites.
We have also implemented 15 energy saving
We procure renewable energy through long-term projects across our manufacturing facilities in
commitments. At our headquarters in San Diego, 2023. The projects include energy efficiency
California, we continue to procure additional improvement, equipment operation optimization
renewable energy as we decommission18 and adoption of new technologies resulting
our natural gas cogeneration plants. We in more than 3,000 MWh of energy savings
decommissioned the first of three electricity per year. At our San Diego headquarters, for
cogeneration plants and entered into a long- example, we have just invested more than
term PPA to replace the cogenerated electricity $2 million in upgrades to our on-site solar
with renewable energy purchases. This year, our infrastructure, and in Wuxi, we added on-site
solar PPA in Bangalore, India, contributed to our solar capacity resulting in energy savings of
emissions reductions by about 17,500 tCO e. more than 400 MWh per year.
2
For our new leases in Noida and Bangalore,
India, we negotiated long-term supplies of wind
and solar energy. On a yearly basis, we continue
to procure market instruments and negotiate
agreements that reflect our commitment
to utilizing renewable energy. For several
18 Our cogeneration plants remain available for use as backup power if needed.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 51
Water (non-potable) processes, thus reducing the types of waste, including general solid waste, We continue our efforts to minimize the
need for tanker-imported water deliveries while hazardous and regulated waste and e-waste, impacts of hazardous waste by using less toxic
As water sources around the world become also avoiding pollution that the diesel trucks including network infrastructure equipment. material, where possible, and reducing the
increasingly stressed, we are acutely aware of create. These improvements help reduce our Our approach to waste management involves amount generated. Our disposition approach
the need to treat water as the precious resource dependency on potable water and increase reuse and recycling programs to help us is recycling or reuse, followed by physical
it is. We prioritize assessing our water footprint resiliency in our operations. decrease the amount of waste we send to treatment or disposal in an appropriate landfill,
and conserving water, particularly in California landfills. It also comprises the development as a last resort.
At our manufacturing facilities, we conduct
and in our manufacturing facilities, so that we of initiatives to reduce our overall waste
act responsibly in areas that are perennially water audits to assess usage and share best footprint and the promotion of less toxic, more We strive to prioritize our waste mitigation
impacted by water challenges. practices between our locations. Additionally, durable, reusable and recycled materials in efforts to reduce the number of materials going
we have an internal price for water that makes our operations. A variety of our business units to landfills. To support this effort, we revamped
In our facilities, we make our greatest gains in the real cost of water usage and water treatment lead our waste recycling and management our internal waste data collection system to
water conservation by using reclaimed water transparent and evident. This facilitates a strong programs. They include: increase data availability and accuracy. We also
instead of potable water for irrigation and our motivation to develop cost-effective and water- retrained our data providers and supporting
cooling plant systems, whenever possible. efficient processes. • R eal Estate and Facilities (QREF): Our QREF vendors to follow our waste data collection
During our new office construction efforts at and site support teams manage general processes and practices. By taking these
At our Singapore manufacturing facility, we
our Bangalore sites, for example, our Facilities solid waste at our sites, as well as manage actions, we will have better visibility of our total
implemented numerous water savings projects.
Engineering team developed an innovative surplus office furniture. The team works waste generated and be in a position to identify
For example, we installed an innovative water-
solution to permanently recapture non-potable with service providers to measure waste and waste diversion solutions, as well as improve
saving technology known as Local Scrubber
water sources including rainwater and pump it implement programs to encourage waste our waste management activities.
Drain (LSRD). This was a collaborative effort with
into the building’s raw water tanks for industrial reduction, recycling and composting.
Singapore’s Public Utility Board to support the
government’s water conservation initiative. It has • EHS: Our EHS group manages hazardous
resulted in more than 200,000 cumulative cubic and other regulated waste generated by
meters (m3) of additional annual water savings various business operations. EHS also
“Our approach to waste
and an overall improvement of the plant water provides guidance to various business
management involves reuse
recovery rate from 24 percent to 50.5 percent. units regarding the recycling of batteries
and e-waste and the management of other and recycling programs to
Waste
regulated wastes.
help us decrease the amount
Through our Environmental Program • IT: Our IT group works with several qualified of waste we send to landfills.”
Management Standard, we focus on
e-waste recyclers to manage electronics
identifying activities, services and processes
recycling. The team is also active in
that generate waste and strive to reduce the
donating computer equipment to local
impact of our waste disposal practices on the
charities and schools.
environment. Our operations generate various
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 52
Operational Resilience
Maintaining and safeguarding our operations
We have established a vision and holistic Our Operational Resilience team utilizes a
approach to operational resilience based on threat risk assessment process to identify
leading industry standards. Our program is and evaluate risks on a regional basis that
Our Operational Resilience function orchestrates the
designed to provide agile decision-making may affect the Company’s resilience. The
in the face of potential threats, disasters threat risk assessment process ranks more
Company’s emergency operations, business resilience, IT
and during an event. Disasters include local than 30 environmental, operational and
incident response and IT service resilience disciplines. The
incidents such as building fires, regional man-made risks based on the likelihood and
physical incidents such as earthquakes or impact of an occurrence. We consult with
proper adoption of these resilience disciplines enhances our
hurricanes/typhoons, technology disruptions resilience leads based on the potential size
capability to mitigate, prepare for, respond to and recover
and national incidents such as pandemic and scope of specific impacts. This process is
from operational disruptions. illnesses and events that occur due to climate completed annually, with the results presented
change. Our approach is driven by Enterprise to executive sponsors. A roadmap is then
Risk Management (ERM) assessments, developed by the operational resilience team
Company strategy, and regulatory and and presented to the Governance Committee of
stakeholder requirements. the Board of Directors.
Our ERM program is integral to executing our Operational Resilience leverages this data
strategic objectives. The program is driven when determining the potential impacts
by the ERM Operating Committee, which from operational disruptions and documents
includes approximately 20 members in senior recovery requirements, and devises strategies
leadership positions across various functional to enable the Company to continue critical
areas, including Engineering, Finance, HR, business operations in the event of disaster.
IT, Legal, Marketing and Supply Chain. On Operational Resilience evaluates the
an annual basis, this committee compiles, effectiveness of plans, assessments and risks
evaluates and tiers enterprise risks, including identified with training and simulations. The
climate change-related risks, before developing overall program is aligned with ISO 22301, an
associated mitigation plans. Oversight international standard for business continuity
is provided by both the ERM Executive management systems.
Committee and the Board, and mitigation
plans are reviewed by the executive leadership
bi-annually for continued relevance.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 53
Progress
Progress on Our Goals
ESG Performance Summary
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 54
Progress on our Goals
Goal 2023 Progress
Enrich the lives of 27 million people19 by continuing to bring technology to underserved Since 2006, we have enriched the lives of more than 27 million people.
communities around the world through Wireless Reach by 2025, measured against a 2006
base year.
Ensure 100 percent of our primary semiconductor manufacturing suppliers are audited every As of 2023, 88 percent of our primary semiconductor manufacturing suppliers have
two years for conformance to the Supplier Code of Conduct by 2025. received audits for conformance to the Supplier Code of Conduct.
Continue to inspire the next generation of inventors by engaging 1.5 million students and While we achieved our goal in 2022, we have continued our efforts in STEM around the
teachers across the globe in our strategic STEM initiatives — our home-grown Thinkabit Lab, world. Since 2020, we’ve reached over 4.7 million students and teachers across the globe.
our collaboration with FIRST and our STEM community partnerships — by 2025.
Reduce power consumption 10 percent every year20 in our flagship Snapdragon Mobile Year over year, we reduced power consumption by at least 10 percent20 in our flagship
Platform products by 2025. Snapdragon Mobile Platform products when averaged across all use cases.
Reduce absolute Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions 30 percent from our global operations, In 2023 we achieved our 2025 GHG emissions goal- two years ahead of schedule. We’ve
compared to a 2014 baseline, by 2025.21 reduced our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by over 35 percent compared to a 2014
baseline. We are also continuing our efforts that are helping us advance towards our 2040
Reduce absolute Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions 50 percent, compared to a 2020 base
net-zero target.
year, by 2030.21
Reduce absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions 25 percent, compared to a 2020 base year,
by 2030.21
Reach net-zero global GHG emissions across our value chain by 2040.
19 Defined as direct and indirect beneficiaries.
20 Given equivalent features.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
21 Global.
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 55
ESG Performance Summary
NR in a given year, indicates that this metric was not reported. Sums may not equal totals due to rounding.
Our Company Units 2023 2022 2021
Revenues by Reportable Total Dollars (in millions) 35,820 44,200 33,566
Segment (in millions)
QCT (Qualcomm CDMA Technologies) Dollars (in millions) 30,382 37,677 27,019
QTL (Qualcomm Technology Licensing) Dollars (in millions) 5,306 6,358 6,320
QSI (Qualcomm Strategic Initiatives) Dollars (in millions) 28 31 45
Other22 Dollars (in millions) 104 134 182
Total Consolidated Total23 Dollars (in millions) 35,820 44,200 33,566
Revenues by Country23
(in millions) China (including Hong Kong) Dollars (in millions) 22,382 28,119 22,512
Vietnam Dollars (in millions) 4,551 6,063 3,114
South Korea Dollars (in millions) 3,272 3,164 2,368
United States Dollars (in millions) 1,259 1,482 1,406
Other Foreign Dollars (in millions) 4,356 5,372 4,166
Total Capitalization Stockholders’ equity Dollars (in millions) 21,581 18,013 9,950
Investment in R&D Revenue invested in R&D since 2006 % 21.9 NR NR
Investment in R&D since 2006 Dollars (in millions) 85,303 NR NR
22 Certain revenues (and reduction to revenues) were not allocated to our segments in our management reports because they were not considered in evaluating segment results.
23 We report revenues from external customers by country based on the location to which our products or services are delivered, which for QCT is generally the country in which
our customers manufacture their products, and for licensing revenues, the invoiced addresses of our licensees. As a result, the revenues by country presented herein are not
necessarily indicative of either the country in which the devices containing our products and/or intellectual property are ultimately sold to consumers or the country in which
the companies that sell the devices are headquartered. For example, China revenues could include revenues related to shipments of integrated circuits for a company that is
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
headquartered in South Korea but that manufactures devices in China, which devices are then sold to consumers in Europe and/or the United States.
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 56
Our Products and Suppliers Units 2023 2022 2021
Privacy and Security Certified information privacy professionals # of 10 11 10
Privacy training hours # of 2,143 2,377 1,463
Targeted employees trained in privacy24 # of 9,227 14,011 3,180
Employees trained in cybersecurity # of 8,623 43,509 41,329
Requests for customer information received from government or law enforcement agencies25 # of 0 1 0
Complaints (breaches of customer privacy) received from outside parties and substantiated by
# of 0 0 0
Qualcomm26
Complaints from regulatory bodies27 # of 0 0 0
Information security breaches involving customers’ personally identifiable information28 # of 0 0 0
Information security breaches or other cybersecurity incidents29 # of 0 0 0
Amount of fines/penalties paid in relation to information security breaches or other cybersecurity incident Dollars 0 0 0
Primary Semiconductor Suppliers who complete RBA SAQ31 % 100 100 100
Manufacturing Suppliers
(Suppliers)30 Suppliers with all low-risk manufacturing facilities per RBA SAQ32 % 100 100 100
Suppliers who have completed an RBA VAP Audit in the last two years % 88 88 78
Suppliers who have completed an RBA VAP audit in the last two years, total non-conformances found # of 62 50 52
Priority non-conformances # of 3 2 2
Major non-conformances # of 40 27 32
Minor non-conformances # of 19 21 18
Suppliers who have completed an RBA VAP audit in the last two years and have achieved silver, gold or
% 100 100 100
platinum on one or more audits33
Suppliers who provided GHG data34 % 100 100 100
Suppliers who provided water use data34 % 100 100 100
24 Includes new employee privacy awareness training, targeted training for employees who process personal data as a significant part of 29 Limited to instances requiring disclosure in Company SEC filings.
their role, and legally required privacy training. 30 T he primary foundry suppliers and primary semiconductor assembly and test suppliers that are listed in the Company’s Annual Report
25 Limited to formal subpoenas, court orders, or similar obligatory document or information demands regarding end-user consumer on Form 10-K for the corresponding year.
personal information issued by governmental or law enforcement. 31 R esponsible Business Alliance (RBA) Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ).
26 Customer privacy is defined as end-user consumers of a Qualcomm technology. 32 V alidated Assessment Program (VAP).
27 Refers to formal legal proceedings initiated by regulatory bodies pertaining to privacy and/or data protection compliance related to 33 T hrough verified closure of nonconformances identified in RBA VAP audits.
end-user consumers of Qualcomm technology.
34 P revious calendar year data. 2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
28 L imited to instances involving end-user consumers of Qualcomm technology and requiring disclosure in Company SEC filings.
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 57
Our Products and Suppliers (cont.) Units 2023 2022 2021
Primary Semiconductor
Manufacturing Suppliers Suppliers who have an ISO 14001 Certification35 % 100 100 100
(Suppliers)30
Conflict Free Minerals36 RMAP-Conformant processing facilities37 # of 213 237 241
RMAP-Conformant processing facilities37 % 89 97 98
Supplier Diversity Diverse suppliers registered38 # of 1,019 929 627
Spending on U.S. government subcontract work directed at diverse businesses38 % 36 36 23
Our Environment Units 2023 2022 2021
Energy and Air Quality39 Electricity avoided as a result of energy saving initiatives Megawatt hours 67,573 76,118 61,408
Emissions avoided as a result of energy saving initiatives Tons 26,570 27,517 19,032
GHG Emissions40 CO2e per gross square foot of facilities space (Scope 1 & 2) CO e metric tons 0.0152 0.0169 0.0224
2
Total Scope 1 - Direct GHG emissions by weight41 CO e metric tons 80,589 104,850 106,659
2
Carbon dioxide (CO2) CO e metric tons 62,993 NR NR
2
Methane (CH4) CO e metric tons 143 NR NR
2
Nitrous oxide (N2O) CO e metric tons 903 NR NR
2
Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) CO e metric tons 3,186 NR NR
2
Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) CO e metric tons 1,837 NR NR
2
Sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) CO e metric tons 5,311 NR NR
2
Nitrogen trifluoride (NF3) CO e metric tons 6,217 NR NR
2
Total Scope 2 - Indirect GHG emissions by weight42 CO e metric tons 157,293 160,417 171,932
2
Carbon dioxide (CO2) CO e metric tons 156,290 NR NR
2
Methane (CH4) CO e metric tons 330 NR NR
2
Nitrous oxide (N2O) CO e metric tons 673 NR NR
2
35 International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 is the international standard for environmental management systems (EMS). 40 GHG emissions data are calculated using the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
36 Amount represents prior-year calendar year data as of January 31, 2023. 41 Total Scope 1 – Direct GHG emissions by weight.
37 Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP). 42 Total Scope 2 – Indirect GHG emissions by weight, market based: emissions factors where available and purchased International
38 U.S. only. Renewable Energy Certificates (I-RECs)
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
39 Annual avoided emissions of COe due to cumulative investments made for energy and water efficiency for global facilities.
2
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 58
Our Environment (Cont.) Units 2023 2022 2021
GHG Emissions40 Total Scope 3 - Other indirect GHG emissions by weight43 CO e metric tons 5,070,086 6,394,094 3,745,914
2
(Cont.)
Purchased goods and services44 CO e metric tons 3,796,564 4,699,435 2,045,638
2
Capital goods CO e metric tons 83,228 184,637 362,780
2
Fuel- and energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) CO e metric tons 82,068 75,894 68,769
2
Upstream transportation and distribution CO e metric tons 22,650 40,727 34,316
2
Waste generated in operations CO e metric tons 2,365 1,172 1,253
2
Business travel CO e metric tons 24,770 19,385 3,829
2
Employee commuting CO e metric tons 30,074 17,914 27,028
2
Upstream leased assets CO e metric tons NA NA NA
2
Downstream transportation and distribution CO e metric tons 66 111 124
2
Processing of sold products CO e metric tons NA NA NA
2
Use of sold products CO e metric tons 1,025,305 1,350,477 1,196,868
2
End-of-life treatment of sold products CO e metric tons 2,994 4,343 5,309
2
Downstream leased assets CO e metric tons NA NA NA
2
Franchises CO e metric tons NA NA NA
2
Investments CO e metric tons NA NA NA
2
Direct Energy Natural gas (Facilities) MMBtu 1,056,000 1,208,224 1,276,002
Consumption by Primary
Energy Source Jet Fuel (aviation related) Gallons 576,763 572,859 197,741
Vehicle gasoline (shuttle/test vehicles) Gallons 40,641 38,336 29,204
Diesel fuel (cars/trucks) Gallons 3,557 2,762 5,278
Diesel fuel (generators) Gallons 80,086 59,335 48,251
Propane vehicles (truck) Gallons 0 0 0
Liquid petroleum gas (LPG) Gallons 13,883 5,624 8,116
43 In 2022, we revised 2021 data in accordance with our GHG base year emissions recalculation policy.
44 Supplier emissions data represent previous calendar year. 2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 59
Our Environment (Cont.) Units 2023 2022 2021
Direct Energy Renewable energy: onsite generation (owned) Megawatt hours 572 116 253
Consumption by Primary
Energy Source (Cont.) Carbon offsets (purchased) CO e metric tons 0 0 0
2
Indirect Energy Non-renewable electricity (purchased) Megawatt hours 252,727 298,797 343,263
Consumption by Primary
Energy Source Renewable energy: Power Purchase Agreements (purchased) Megawatt hours 226,681 182,152 55,006
Renewable energy: International Renewable Energy Certificates (purchased) Megawatt hours 84,860 81,971 98,208
Indirect heating (purchased for leased sites) Megawatt hours 28,667 44,735 31,348
Significant Air NOx Metric tons 37.2 19.17 18.02
Emissions45
SOx Metric tons 6.65 9.29 6.27
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Metric tons 2.19 2.74 1.90
Waste Management46 Total non-hazardous waste generated47 Metric tons 6,632 2,720 2,435
Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal Metric tons 3,342 NR NR
Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal- recycled/reused Metric tons 2,968 1,394 1,207
Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal- composted Metric tons 374 NR NR
Non-hazardous waste directed to disposal Metric tons 3,290 NR NR
Non-hazardous waste directed at disposal- incinerated with energy recovery Metric tons 1,087 NR NR
Non-hazardous waste directed at disposal- incinerated without energy recovery Metric tons 0 NR NR
Non-hazardous waste directed at disposal- landfilled Metric tons 2,052 1,327 1,228
Non-hazardous waste directed at disposal- other Metric tons 152 NR NR
Total hazardous waste generated Metric tons 860 1,116 1,024
Hazardous waste diverted from disposal Metric tons 532 NR NR
Hazardous waste diverted from disposal- recycled/reused Metric tons 532 717 516
Hazardous waste diverted from disposal- other Metric tons 0 NR NR
Hazardous waste directed to disposal Metric tons 329 NR NR
45 A ll NOx, SOx and VOC data includes manufacturing sites. In 2023, we changed the unit for reporting significant air quality emissions 47 T he increase in non-hazardous waste reflects expansion of scope of waste reported from our smaller offices using a Full Time
from tons (U.S.) to metric tons. As such, for consistency purposes, we have converted past fiscal years’ data. In 2023, we also Employee (FTE) equivalent calculation.
improved our data collection processes to increase transparency around our significant air quality emissions performance
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
46 I n 2023, we improved our reporting to increase our transparency around our waste management performance.
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 60
Our Environment (Cont.) Units 2023 2022 2021
Waste Management46 Hazardous waste directed to disposal Metric tons 329 NR NR
(Cont.)
Hazardous waste directed to disposal- incinerated with energy recovery Metric tons 184 NR NR
Hazardous waste directed to disposal- incinerated without energy recovery Metric tons 3 NR NR
Hazardous waste directed to disposal- landfilled Metric tons 142 NR NR
Hazardous waste directed to disposal- other Metric tons 0.5 NR NR
Global operational waste- overall diversion rate % 52 NR NR
Global operational waste- landfill diversion rate % 71 NR NR
E-Waste Collection E-waste collection Pounds of waste 271,739 299,160 366,548
Water Management Total water withdrawals Million gallons 503 698 773
Potable water withdrawals- water utilities Million gallons 398 600 667
Reclaimed water withdrawals- water utilities Million gallons 105 98 106
Water consumed Million gallons 142 156 152
Water discharged Million gallons 361 542 621
Ultrapure water usage Million gallons 0 0 0
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
46 I n 2023, we improved our reporting to increase our transparency around our waste management performance.
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 61
Our Workforce Units 2023 2022 2021
Worforce Total Employees # of 50,257 50,755 45,575
Regular employees % 93 92 91
Temporary employees % 7 8 9
Employees by region- U.S. % 31 33 34
Employees outside the U.S. by region- Americas48 % 2 1 1
Employees outside the U.S. by region- APAC49 % 21 21 22
Employees outside the U.S. by region- EMEA50 % 11 10 9
Employees outside the U.S. by region- India % 36 35 34
Employees that are foreign nationals51 % 21 22 21
Turnover and Employee Employee involuntary turnover rate52 % of total 4.2 1.2 1.3
Engagement
Employee voluntary turnover rate % of total 4.4 9.1 6.8
Employees responding to employee survey53 % of total 43 55 47
Employees that state they are comfortable voicing their ideas and opinions, even if they are different
% of total 85 83 NR
from others54
Employees that would recommend Qualcomm as a great place to work55 % of total 83 82 90
Employees who are confident in the future of Qualcomm55 % of total 86 91 91
Hiring and Recruitment Open positions filled with internal candidates56 % 15 13 NR
Business Conduct Total business hotline cases # 119 115 122
Hotline
Business hotline cases- identified # 40 38 47
Business hotline cases- anonymous # 79 77 75
48 C ountries included in Americas: Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, and Mexico. 52 I n response to the need to adjust to market conditions and industry-wide challenges, 54 Based on employee survey results. In 2023, we revised the employee survey question
we made the difficult decision to reduce our workforce in 2023. We took steps to associated to this metric. In 2022, the question focused on employees stating that their
49 Countries included in APAC: Australia, China (PRC), Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan,
ensure impacted employees were provided severance packages and other support team had a climate in which diverse perspectives were valued.
Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam.
as they searched for new roles. The above involuntary turnover numbers reflect those
55 Based on employee survey results.
50 Countries included in EMEA: Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, workforce reduction efforts and include people who voluntarily participated in the
Greece, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Netherlands, Romania, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, reductions-in-force. 56 Percentages based on total new hires in 2023 (excluding interns and acquisition hires).
Switzerland, Ukraine, and United Kingdom.
53 2023 survey was a PULSE survey covering a random sample of 33% of the organization.
51 U.S. only. 2022 and 2021 surveys covered all employees (full census).
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 62
Our Workforce Units 2023 2022 2021
Diversity, Equity and Nationalities represented58 # of 120 122 117
Inclusion57
Languages spoken58 # of 95 95 92
Women on the Board of Directors % of total 33 33 29
Women-overall59 % of total 22.9 23.0 22.6
Leadership60 % of total 11.3 11.5 11.0
Manager and above % of total 17.9 18.0 17.3
Management in revenue generating functions61 % of total 13.2 14.0 13.1
Technical % of total 18.1 18.0 17.3
Junior management62 % of total 20.2 20.4 19.6
American Indian or Alaskan Native- overall % of total 0.2 0.2 0.2
Manager and above % of total 0.2 0.2 0.2
Technical % of total 0.1 0.1 0.1
Asian—overall % of total 62.3 60.9 61.7
Manager and above % of total 53.5 51.6 51.1
Technical % of total 67.5 66.3 67.2
Black or African American- overall % of total 1.5 1.5 1.5
Manager and above % of total 1.1 1.2 1.3
Technical % of total 1.3 1.3 1.3
57 Unless otherwise indicated, inclusion and diversity data are for U.S. only and regular employees. 61 G lobal. Regular employees. Management in revenue generating roles is defined as individuals at the manager and above level and
employees with direct reports in QCT and QTL.
58 Global. Self-identified.
62 Global. Regular employees. Junior management is defined as individuals at the manager level and employees with direct reports below
59 Global. Regular employees.
principal roles.
60 Global. Regular employees. Leadership is defined as individuals at the principal and above level.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 63
Our Workforce Units 2023 2022 2021
Diversity, Equity and Hispanic or Latino- overall % of total 5.3 5.2 4.8
Inclusion57 (Cont.)
Manager and above % of total 4.3 4.2 4.0
Technical % of total 4.2 4.1 3.6
Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander- overall % of total 0.3 0.3 0.2
Manager and above % of total 0.2 0.2 0.2
Technical % of total 0.2 0.2 0.2
Two or more groups- overall % of total 2.1 2.1 2.1
Manager and above % of total 1.7 1.7 1.5
Technical % of total 1.6 1.6 1.6
People with disabilities % of total 3.2 1.9 2.6
Veterans % of total 2.1 2.2 2.1
57 Unless otherwise indicated, inclusion and diversity data are for U.S. only and regular employees. 2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 64
Our Workforce Units 2023 2022 2021
Employee Training and Training course enrollments
Development
Classroom training course enrollments # of 42,905 43,817 97,452
Classroom training course enrollments- instructor led sessions # of 1,201 1,305 1,401
Classroom training course enrollments- online course # of 20,757 17,760 16,965
Average training and development hours per full time employee Hours 15.6 14 18
Average amount spent per full time employee on training and development Dollars 129 197 210
Training hours by employee group
Individual contributor Hours/Employee 17.4 15 18
Management Hours/Employee 8.5 10 17
Executive Hours/Employee 4.1 6 10
Employees receiving training by training type
Employees receiving training in mandatory programs % of total 100 100 100
Employees receiving training in non-mandatory programs % of total 70 81 83
Workplace Safety Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) Per 200,000 hours worked 0.01 0.01 0.02
Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) Per 200,000 hours worked 0.11 0.10 0.12
Work-related fatalities # of 0 0 0
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 65
Our Community Units 2023 2022 2021
Corporate Citizenship Employees participating in employee grant programs # of 2,765 2,977 3,099
Nonprofit organizations helped by employee grant programs # of 1,593 1,548 1,711
Annual corporate citizenship contributions--- total63 Dollars 40,522,931 38,897,417 39,110,391
Annual charitable giving64 % of annual corporate citizenship contributions 33 47 44
Community investments65 % of annual corporate citizenship contributions 61 47 52
Commercial initiatives66 % of annual corporate citizenship contributions 6 6 4
Wireless Reach Stakeholders67 # of 757 712 699
Active projects68 # of 37 35 35
Total projects since 200667 # of 144 137 132
Countries # of 73 73 49
Beneficiaries (direct and indirect)67 # of 27,020,283 26,518,364 24,335,693
STEM Education Student beneficiaries69 # of 2,177,576 1,765,284 561,063
Teacher beneficiaries69 # of 132,710 97,399 12,817
Thinkabit Lab collaborators # of 23 24 22
STEM community partnerships # of 15 16 20
Volunteer hours in Qualcomm STEM education activities70 # of 11,102 6,964 2,204
Employees involved in Qualcomm STEM education activities70 # of 395 168 110
63 T otal contributions from Qualcomm and the Qualcomm Foundation.
64 Refers to one-off or occasional support to good causes in response to the needs and appeals of charitable and community organizations, requests from
employees or in reaction to external events such as emergency relief situations. These are often thought of as traditional philanthropy or grant-making.
65 R efers to long-term strategic involvement in, and partnership with, community organizations to address a limited range of social issues chosen by the
Company to protect its long-term corporate interests and enhance its reputation.
66 Refers to business-related activities in the community, usually undertaken by commercial departments to directly support the success of the Company,
promoting its corporate and brand identities and other policies, in partnership with charities and community-based organizations.
67 C umulative data since 2006.
68 Programs that are currently using Wireless Reach funds.
69 Includes beneficiaries from all STEM education programs coordinated with the involvement of the corporate responsibility team.
70 I n 2023, we expanded our reporting of volunteer numbers and volunteer hours to be inclusive of all STEM education programs that engage Qualcomm
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
employees and have the involvement of the corporate responsibility team. In 2022 and 2021, data represented full year FIRST volunteer hours and numbers.
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 66
Appendix
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
Content Index
Sustainability Accounting Standards
Board (SASB) Index
Task Force on Climate-related
Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index
Our Alignment with the United Nations
(UN) Sustainable Development Goals
About This Report
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 67
GRI Content Index
Statement of use Qualcomm has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period September 26, 2022 through September 24, 2023 with
reference to the GRI Standards.
GRI 1 used GRI 1: Foundation 2021
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
GRI 2: General 2-1 Organizational details FY23 Annual Report on Form 10-K
Disclosures 2021
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting About This Report
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point About This Report
2-4 Restatements of information About This Report
2-5 External assurance About This Report
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships FY23 Annual Report on Form 10-K
2-7 Employees ESG Performance Summary
2-8 Workers who are not employees ESG Performance Summary
2-9 Governance structure and composition 2024 Proxy Statement
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body 2024 Proxy Statement
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body 2024 Proxy Statement
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of impacts Our Corporate Responsibility Governance
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Our Corporate Responsibility Governance
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting Our Corporate Responsibility Governance
2-15 Conflicts of interest 2024 Proxy Statement
2-16 Communication of critical concerns FY23 Annual Report on Form 10-K
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body 2024 Proxy Statement
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 68
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
GRI 2: General 2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body 2024 Proxy Statement
Disclosures 2021
2-19 Remuneration policies 2024 Proxy Statement
2-20 Process to determine remuneration 2024 Proxy Statement
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio 2024 Proxy Statement
FY23 Annual Report on Form 10-K
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy
Purposeful Innovation
Acting Responsibly
2-23 Policy commitments
Operating Sustainably
Acting Responsibly
2-24 Embedding policy commitments
Operating Sustainably
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts Ethical Governance
Ethical Governance
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns
Human Rights
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations FY23 Annual Report on Form 10-K
2-28 Membership associations Qualcomm Memberships and Industry Affiliations
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement
None of our U.S. employees are covered by collective bargaining
agreements. Outside the U.S., less than 50% of our employees are
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements
covered by collective bargaining agreements.
Human Rights Statement
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 69
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
GRI 3: Material 3-1 Process to determine material topics Stakeholder Engagement
Topics 2021 TCFD Index: Risk Management
3-2 List of material topics Disaster preparedness and response; Employee acquisition,
retention and development; Employee diversity and inclusion;
Employee health and safety; Ethical business practices and
compliance; Government Affairs; Privacy and cybersecurity; STEM
education; Technology as a solution; Women in technology
3-3 Management of material topics TCFD Index: Risk Management
Empowering Digital Transformation
Acting Responsibly
Operating Sustainably
Qualcomm Material Topic: Technology as a solution
GRI 203: Indirect 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Breakthrough Inventions
Economic Impacts Future-focused Research and Development
2016
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Breakthrough Inventions
Future-focused Research and Development
Equitable Access
Qualcomm Material Topic: Ethical business practices and compliance
GRI 205: Anti- 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption At least annually, we evaluate our Company for risks related to
corruption 2016 corruption. We also assess additional risk areas on a case-by-
case basis.
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Ethical Governance
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken None
Qualcomm Material Topic: STEM Education
Qualcomm Material Topic: Disaster preparedness and response
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 70
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
Qualcomm Material Topic: Employee acquisition, retention and development; Employee diversity and inclusion; Employee health and safety; Women in technology
GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover ESG Performance Summary
Employment 2016
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or Compensation and Benefits
part-time employees Qualcomm Employee Benefit Programs
401-3 Parental leave Qualcomm Employee Benefit Programs
GRI 403: 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Health and Safety
Occupational
Health and Safety 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Health and Safety
2018
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Health and Safety
403-6 Promotion of worker health Health and Safety
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system Health and Safety
403-9 Work-related injuries Health and Safety
ESG Performance Summary
GRI 404: Training 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee ESG Performance Summary
and Education
2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Employee Engagement and Development
404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Employee Engagement and Development
GRI 405: Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 2024 Proxy Statement
and Equal ESG Performance Summary
Opportunity 2016
405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
GRI 406: Non- 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Qualcomm has never been found by a court to have unlawfully
discrimination discriminated against any of our employees.
2016
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 71
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
GRI 407: Freedom 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining Qualcomm is unaware of any operations in which the right to
of Association may be at risk exercise freedom of association and/or collective bargaining are at
and Collective significant risk.
Bargaining 2016
GRI 408: Child 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor Qualcomm is unaware of any operations in which there is a
Labor 2016 significant risk for incidents of child labor.
GRI 409: Forced or 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Qualcomm is unaware of any operations in which there is a
Compulsory Labor significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor.
2016
GRI 410: Security 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures 100% of security personnel are trained in the organization’s
Practices 2016 policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are
relevant to operations.
Qualcomm Material Topic: Government affairs
GRI 415: Public 415-1 Political contributions Political Contributions and Expenditures Policy
Policy 2016 Disclosures Under Political Contributions and Expenditures Policy
Qualcomm Material Topic: Privacy and Cybersecurity
GRI 418: Customer 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data We did not receive any substantiated complaints regarding
Privacy 2016 breaches of customer privacy or data in 2023 or in the three
years prior.
ESG Performance summary
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 72
SASB Index
SASB
Topic Metric Response
Code
GHG Emissions TC-SC- (1) Gross global Scope 1 emissions and (1) Total gross Scope 1 emissions for Qualcomm globally is 80,589 tCO e.
2
110a.1
(2) amount of total emissions from (2) Total emissions from perfluorinated compounds are 13,364 tCO e.
2
perfluorinated compounds
Metric tons (t) CO e
2
GHG Emissions TC-SC- (1) Discussion of long-term and short-term (1) Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions
110a.2 strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions,
Our QCT semiconductor business utilizes a fabless production model (other than for our RF front-end modules and RF filter products).
(2) emissions reduction targets and This means that we do not own or operate foundries for the production of silicon wafers from which our integrated circuits are made.
Because we are primarily fabless, our Scope 2 emissions are more significant than our Scope 1 emissions. Thus, our GHG goals
(3) an analysis of performance against represent a Company-wide absolute target related to both Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
those targets
We believe that climate change is a serious environmental, social and economic threat that calls for immediate and concerted action
Discussion & analysis among all sectors of society. This is why in 2021, we expanded our commitment to reducing operational GHG emissions across our value
chain and ensured our new targets were aligned to the latest climate science by committing to and joining the SBTi:
• To reduce absolute Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions 50 percent by 2030, compared to a 2020 base year
• To reduce absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions 25 percent by 2030, compared to a 2020 base year
• To reach net-zero global GHG emissions across our value chain by 2040
As of 2023, our corporate GHG emission reduction targets have been approved by the SBTi. The steps we have taken reflect our
belief in the urgency of action to limit global temperature rise to 1.5°C and our commitment to emission cuts aligned with the latest
climate science.
Our strategy to achieve our environmental commitments includes several key actions:
• Transitioning to utilizing renewable energy in our top operational footprint regions via long-term PPAs.
• L imiting carbon in our operations through the replacement of high global warming potential gases in our manufacturing processes, to
the extent feasible.
• Reducing natural gas usage at our San Diego, CA headquarters.
• Working with key suppliers to develop collaborative initiatives to facilitate emissions reductions
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 73
SASB
Topic Metric Response
Code
GHG Emissions (2) emissions reduction targets
(Cont.)
Type: Absolute Target
Target coverage: Company-wide Scope(s): 1+2 (market-based)
Targeted reduction from base year (%): 30 percent
Timelines: Base year: 2014; Start year: 2015; Target year: 2025
% of target achieved: XX percent
Base year emissions covered by target (metric tons CO2 e): 368,547 tCO e
2
Scope 1: 121,977 tCO e
2
Scope 2 market-based: 246,550 tCO e
2
Target status: Underway
(3) an analysis of performance against those targets
We have continued our progress on this strategy over the last year, including additional procurement of renewable energy. In 2023 we
achieved our 2025 GHG emissions goal- two years ahead of schedule. We’ve reduced our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by over
35 percent compared to a 2014 baseline. We are also continuing our efforts that are helping us advance towards our 2040 net-zero
target. For Scope 3, we continue to refine our methodology to move away from spend-based calculations, and we are developing a
strategy to engage a large portion of our supply chain to gather more accurate and actional data.
We have also continued our implementation of an internal carbon price across our three manufacturing facilities. This carbon price
creates an assumed cost per ton of carbon emissions with an annual rate increase per year, with the objective of changing our internal
behavior toward low carbon innovation.
For more information on Qualcomm’s environmental responsibility efforts, please see: https://www.qualcomm.com/company/
corporate-responsibility/responsible-business/sustainable-product-design/environment
Energy TC-SC- (1) Total energy consumed, For our manufacturing sites,
Management in 130a.1
Manufacturing (2) percentage grid electricity and (1) Total energy consumed is 668,348 GJ; this includes
(3) percentage renewable (2) 86 percent of grid electricity and
Gigajoules (GJ), Percentage (%) (3) 44 percent from renewable energy sources
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 74
SASB
Topic Metric Response
Code
Water TC-SC- (1) Total water withdrawn and (1) Total water withdrawn is 1,019,848 m3,
Management in 140a.1
Manufacturing (2) Total water consumed, percent of each in (2) Total water consumed is 240,513 m3.
regions with High or Extremely High Baseline None of our manufacturing sites are in regions declared as High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress Areas according to the WRI.
Water Stress
Thousand cubic meters (m3), Percentage (%)
Waste TC-SC- (1) Amount of hazardous waste from For our manufacturing sites,
Management in 150a.1 manufacturing and
Manufacturing (1) Total hazardous waste is 591.66 metric tons.
(2) percentage recycled (2) 45.5 percent recycled.
Metric tons (t), Percentage
Employee TC-SC- 1) Description of efforts to assess, monitor Employee Health and Safety
Health & Safety 320a.1. and reduce exposure of employees to human
health hazards (1) Workplace health and safety is one of Qualcomm’s highest priorities. We integrate EHS principles and practices into our everyday
operations, as we strive to have a safe and healthy workplace for our employees, contractors, visitors and communities.
Our EHS Policy highlights our commitment to proactively manage workplace health and safety risks while continually improving
our established management system. We maintain compliance with applicable legal and other requirements, regularly monitor
and improve our EHS performance, mitigate hazards and risks and incorporate industry best practices. The policy also provides a
framework for setting and reviewing EHS objectives.
Our EHS governance framework and global EHS management system, which are overseen at the highest levels of the Company,
enable us to effectively manage risk, support regulatory compliance and address the health and safety needs of our employees and
contractors. Starting with our policy as the foundation, our EHS management system (code of practice) comprises a series of globally
applicable Core Principles, Standards and assurance processes that are structured using the ISO 14001 and ISO 45001 frameworks.
Our EHS Code of Practice serves as a guide for developing a broad range of programs for the protection of workers and the
environment into our day-to-day business management systems. It provides the framework to establish an overall strategy and an
organizational structure for managing our Company’s EHS program.
We require all of our worldwide offices, labs and manufacturing sites to apply the EHS Code of Practice to help avoid, mitigate and
manage health and safety risks. The EHS Code of Practice is periodically reviewed and updated to maintain alignment with industry
best practice and enable continuous improvement.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 75
SASB
Topic Metric Response
Code
Employee Our sites are required to conduct self-assessments as part of our annual compliance assurance process. Lab management and local
Health & Safety EHS engineers conduct more frequent spot checks and inspections to assess compliance. In addition, we require regular internal EHS
(Cont.) audits to verify the effective implementation of our EHS programs. We also require periodic external audits to verify the compliance
status of country-specific regulatory requirements.
We conduct risk assessments for all workplaces and production sites that use hazardous substances to produce wafers, such as in our
manufacturing facilities, to mitigate and control risks from these substances or manufacturing activities. Any applicable threshold of
dangerous substances is regularly monitored. This applies to workstations of our employees as well as emissions to our environment.
In addition, we are continuously checking possibilities and options for substitution of hazardous substances with materials of lower
risk characteristics. Regardless, any new substances undergo extensive review and approval processes before application can begin.
For more information on Qualcomm’s EHS Code of Practice: https://www.qualcomm.com/company/corporate-responsibility/
responsible-business/sustainable-product-design/environment/health-and-safety
Product Responsibility
We address the sustainability of our products through the Company’s Environmental Management System and various hazardous
substance elimination programs. We strive to apply the “precautionary principle.” We take preventative measures regarding certain
chemicals, even if science has not indicated clear environmental or health hazards. Our own requirements are often more stringent
than applicable law.
We have been proactive in removing lead from our products since 1999. We introduced lead-free flip-chips in 2010. Since then, we have
been incorporating a lead-free design into our integrated circuits whenever technically and economically feasible. Regulations do not
prohibit the use of all brominated and chlorinated compounds in our products. Nevertheless, we’ve been proactive in eliminating them
because of the potential hazards they may pose.
For more information on our efforts to design products in a sustainable and responsible manner, please see our Sustainable Product
Design webpage: https://www.qualcomm.com/company/corporate-responsibility/responsible-business/sustainable-product-design
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 76
SASB
Topic Metric Response
Code
Employee TC-SC- (1) Total amount of monetary losses as a result (1) $0 in FY2023
Health & Safety 320a.2 of legal proceedings associated with employee
health and safety violations
Dollars ($)
Recruiting TC-SC- (1) Percentage of employees that are foreign (1) 21 percent of employees in the U.S. are foreign nationals.
& Managing 330a.1 nationals and
Global and (2) Employees in the US: 31 percent
Skilled (2) percentage of employees that are located
Workforce offshore Employees outside of the US by region -
Americas: 2 percent
Percentage APAC: 21 percent
EMEA: 11 percent
India: 36 percent
Implementing our business strategy requires specialized engineering and other talent, as our revenues are highly dependent on
technological and product innovations. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to innovate, which includes our ability
to identify, attract, retain and motivate qualified employees. Highly skilled talent, especially in the areas of STEM, is important to the
success of our industry and to the future of technological innovation around the world. Thus, the market for employees in our industry
is extremely competitive. Finding top engineering talent is important to our Company’s success. More than two-thirds of our employees
are engineers. Beyond fierce competition for talent across our industry and with our competitors, existing immigration laws make it
more difficult for us to recruit and retain highly skilled foreign nationals, making the pool of available talent even smaller. If we are
unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our business may be harmed. Additionally, increased competition to recruit highly
skilled and talented individuals can increase costs.
We address this risk by supporting existing and future employees through a dedicated team of talent acquisition specialists, including
immigration specialists. We also have experts in immigration law across our legal team and outside counsel that support our
Company’s hiring and recruitment efforts.
We have been a committed partner to countries around the world for more than 30 years, supporting policies that encourage innovation,
foster the proliferation of mobile technology and enable business-friendly environments globally. We engage in public policy efforts
to support regulations that are aligned to today’s economic reality. Our Government Affairs team participates in diverse advocacy
efforts that contribute to immigration laws that support our Company’s ability to develop leading-edge technologies specifically and our
innovation-based, global economy in general. Our advocacy efforts, as they relate to immigration laws and recruiting a global workforce,
are generally implemented through collaborations with trade associations and diverse coalitions of employers.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 77
SASB
Topic Metric Response
Code
Recruiting For more information on our public policy efforts around immigration, please visit Qualcomm’s public policy webpage: https://www.
& Managing qualcomm.com/company/corporate-responsibility/responsible-business/public-policy
Global and
Skilled For more information on risk factors related to retaining and attracting talent, please visit our latest 10-K: QCOM 09.24.23 FY 2023 10-K
Workforce (qualcomm.com)
(Cont.)
Product TC-SC- (1) Percentage of products by revenue that (1) Products representing 3.7% percent of our revenues contain IEC 62474 declarable substances.
Lifecycle and 410a.1 contain IEC 62474 declarable substances
Management For more information on our efforts to design products in a sustainable and responsible manner, please see our Sustainable Product
Percentage Design webpage: https://www.qualcomm.com/company/corporate-responsibility/responsible-business/sustainable-product-design
Qualcomm products are products of Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. (a subsidiary of Qualcomm Incorporated) and/or its subsidiaries.
Product TC-SC- (1) Processor energy efficiency at a system- We do not disclose single percentages for these product categories as defined by this metric. Due to the numerous and diverse types
Lifecycle and 410a.2 level for servers, of products in our portfolio, as well as the continued release of new products, we believe it is more relevant to report on our efforts
Management around product efficiency in performance and discuss our sustainable product design efforts.
(2) processor energy efficiency at a system-
level for desktops and For more information on our efforts to design products in a sustainable and responsible manner, please see our Sustainable Product
Design webpage: https://www.qualcomm.com/company/corporate-responsibility/responsible-business/sustainable-product-design
(3) processor energy efficiency at a system-
level for laptops For more information on Qualcomm® Quick Charge™ technology, which allows charging of smartphones and devices up to 10 degrees
C cooler, up to 4X faster, and up to 70 percent more efficiently than with previous solutions, please see our Quick Charge 5 webpage:
https://www.qualcomm.com/products/features/quick-charge
For more information on our AI related products and power efficiency as a primary area of AI research and development, please see
our AI website: https://www.qualcomm.com/invention/artificial-intelligence
For more information on our Company’s efforts around 5G IoT, please see our 5G IoT webpage: https://www.qualcomm.com/
invention/5g/internet-of-things
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 78
SASB
Topic Metric Response
Code
Materials TS-SC- (1) Description of the management of risks We are aware of concerns that minerals mined in conflict areas in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries
Sourcing 440a.1 associated with the use of critical materials may be making their way into the electronics industry supply chain and may be fueling human rights violations and environmental
degradation in the DRC region. We strive to provide DRC conflict free products. We support industry-wide efforts to drive transparency
in the supply chain. As part of our commitment to sourcing excellence, we’re working to ensure that the minerals in our products were
not mined in ways that contribute to human rights violations in the DRC region. We require our suppliers to obtain materials from
environmentally and socially responsible sources, including conflict free sources within the DRC and adjoining countries.
Our Conflict Free Minerals policy communicates the expectation that our direct suppliers obtain materials from environmentally
and socially responsible sources, including conflict free sources within the “covered countries”. Our due diligence measures have
been designed to conform, in all material respects, to the framework provided by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development Guidance.
For more information about our conflict free mineral efforts, including more details on our due diligence process as well as measures
we performed for the reporting period to exercise due diligence on the source and chain of custody of our necessary conflict minerals
that may have originated in the “covered Countries”, please see our conflict free minerals webpage: https://www.qualcomm.com/
company/corporate-responsibility/acting-responsibly/sustainable-product-design/conflict-free-minerals
IP Protection TS-SC- (1) Total amount of monetary losses as a result Information related to litigation and legal proceedings is disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our Quarterly Reports on
and 520a.1 of legal proceedings associated with anti- Form 10-Q. This documentation is publicly available through our Investor Relations website and on SEC.gov.
Competitive competitive behavior regulations
Behavior FY23 10-K Annual Report: QCOM 09.24.23 FY 2023 10-K (qualcomm.com)
Investors Relations Website 10-Q Forms: https://investor.qualcomm.com/financial-information/sec-filings?form_type=10-Q&year=
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 79
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Index
TCFD Recommendation Qualcomm Disclosure Disclosure Source
Governance: Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities
a) Describe the board’s oversight of The Governance Committee of our Board provides oversight on ESG matters not delegated to other Board committees, including 2023 CDP Climate Survey
climate-related risks and opportunities ESG policies, programs and initiatives. The HR and Compensation Committee of our Board provides oversight on our human capital Questions C1.1a and C1.1b
initiatives and our workforce diversity, equity and inclusion policies, programs and initiatives. The Audit Committee of our Board
provides oversight of our ESG disclosure controls and procedures as well as the Company’s IT security/cybersecurity policies, risk
mitigation and recovery plans.
Given the increased focus on ESG issues, in 2023, we strengthened and further consolidated our ESG committees and governance
process. The ESG Leadership Committee provides guidance on global corporate responsibility issues, reviews progress on our goals,
discusses risks and corresponding mitigation tactics and provides oversight of external reporting. The ESG Leadership Committee
also focuses on ensuring that ESG continues to remain a central and visible component of our business strategy. It is composed of
executives from Finance, Global Affairs, HR and Legal. Other senior management representatives are periodically invited for updates,
discussions and engagement. Our ESG Leadership Committee now reports out to the Governance Committee of the Board at least
two times a year.
b) Describe management’s role in The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). The CFO provides overarching guidance on ESG 2023 CDP Climate Survey
assessing and managing climate- matters, including climate-related issues, holds the highest management-level position on the ESG Leadership Committee and is part of Questions C1.2
related risks and opportunities. Qualcomm’s Executive team.
Strategy: Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate‐related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy and financial planning.
a) Describe the climate-related risks Qualcomm defines short-, medium- and long-term time horizons as follows: 2023 CDP Climate Survey
and opportunities the organization has Short-term: 0 – 5 years Questions C2.1a, C2.3, C2.3b, C2.4,
identified over the short, medium and Medium-term: 5 – 10 years C2.4b
long term. Long-term: 10 – 20 years
b) Describe the impact of climate- Climate-related Risks Impact:
related risks and opportunities on the To date, we have not identified any material climate-related risks with the potential to have a substantive financial or strategic impact on
organization’s businesses, strategy and our business. We plan to continue to monitor for climate-related risks on a regular basis.
financial planning.
Climate-related Opportunities:
To date, we have not identified any inherent climate-related opportunities with the potential to have a substantive financial or strategic
impact on our business. We plan to continue to monitor for climate-related opportunities on a regular basis.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 80
TCFD Recommendation Qualcomm Disclosure Disclosure Source
c) Describe the potential impact In 2023, we performed a quantitative CSA of climate-related physical risks. We also performed a qualitative and quantitative analysis Information on our CSA can
of different scenarios, including a of climate-related transition risks and opportunities. These analyses were used to estimate potential financial impacts to our also be found on our Corporate
2⁰C scenario, on the organization’s Company, our key suppliers and customers. The timeframes considered included the short term (present-day), medium term (2030) Responsibility Website
businesses, strategy and financial and long term (2040).
planning.
Physical risk assessment:
Our quantitative physical risk assessment focused on 25 representative Qualcomm facilities and suppliers’ facilities. For each facility,
projected modelled average annual losses (MAAL) associated with climate change-related hazards were calculated for each decade
from the 2020s to the 2090s. We used the Representative Concentration Pathway (RCP) scenarios RCP4.5 and RCP8.5 to evaluate our
facilities’ exposure to climate change risks under a range of potential futures.
Findings showed that under both scenarios, all 25 Qualcomm facilities and suppliers’ facilities are projected to be exposed to some
financial impacts in the medium- and long-term. Overall, projected MAAL to the evaluated facilities were larger under the RCP8.5
scenario than the RCP4.5 scenario, and in both scenarios, climate change impacts generally increased in severity progressing from the
2030s to later time horizons.
The resilience assessment revealed that most of our facilities have an understanding of climate-related hazards and have a high-risk
tolerance and adaptive capacity to these hazards.
Transition risk and opportunity assessment:
For the transition risk and opportunities assessment, two scenarios, Stated Policy (STEPS) and Net-Zero Emissions by 2050 (NZE) from
the International Energy Agency’s World Economic Outlook 2022, were selected to assess the potential climate-related transition risks
and opportunities to our business and our value chain operations.
We then analysed the potential impact of these climate-related transition risks and opportunities on our business strategy and
operations considering both quantitative and qualitative factors.
Our transition opportunities are projected to be most significant under the rapid and smooth transition of the NZE Scenario, increasing
from the present through 2040.
For climate-related risks, a high-emissions scenario (STEPS) is projected to pose higher financial costs for us due to higher energy
costs and a higher CO2 abatement cost compared to the NZE Scenario.
Conclusion:
We have concluded that the climate-related risks identified in our 2023 CSA are not material. The internal qualitative and quantitative
factors we review to determine materiality are reviewed annually.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 81
TCFD Recommendation Qualcomm Disclosure Disclosure Source
Risk Management: Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses and manages climate-related risks.
a) Describe the organization’s process To determine which risks and/or opportunities could have a substantive financial or strategic impact, potential risks are classified 2023 CDP Climate Survey
for identifying and assessing climate- either as Company-level, when evaluated during the materiality assessment process, or asset-level, when evaluated through CSA or Questions C2.2, C2.2a
related risks. Qualcomm’s Business Resilience Program.
b) Describe the organization’s Company-level risks: We regularly conduct ESG materiality assessments. ESG materiality is determined by combining a risk’s scores on
processes for managing climate- a variety of business and environmental indices according to a proprietary weighting formula. A risk is considered to be material in part
related risks. if it has a significant impact in any of these categories, and the magnitude of sustainability risks is considered with equal weight as the
risk’s importance to business success.
c) Describe how processes for
identifying, assessing and managing Asset-level risks: We conduct CSA to evaluate the projected financial materiality of climate-related physical and transition risks in
climate-related risks are integrated the regions where Qualcomm works. This process is completed on a recurring basis and the outputs are presented to Qualcomm’s
into the organization’s overall risk ESG Leadership Committee and ESG Working Group for consideration in our business strategy. Additionally, our Company’s Business
management. Resilience Program utilizes a threat risk assessment process to identify and evaluate risks on a regional basis that may affect
the Company’s resiliency. The threat risk assessment process ranks environmental, operational and man-made risks (including
climate-related risks) considering on the likelihood and impact of an occurrence. Consultation with resilience leads is completed
based on the potential size and scope of specific impacts. This process is similarly completed on a recurring basis, and the outputs
are presented to the business resilience management teams. Qualcomm considers risks from this assessment within its detailed
resilience planning framework.
We are mindful of the impacts that the global electronics supply chain can bring to society and the environment. Thus, we see making
appropriate supplier selections, assessing our suppliers for risks (e.g., through CSA), and monitoring their adherence to our Supplier
Code of Conduct as integral parts of achieving a sustainable supply chain. We assess our semiconductor manufacturing suppliers
annually using the RBA SAQ. Suppliers receive RBA VAP audits and successfully remedy findings identified during these assessments.
Note: The definition and use of “materiality” above is not the same materiality relevant in regulatory or other guidance used around
the world, including but not limited for SEC purposes or as defined in the standards underlying EU’s CSRD. Therefore, issues deemed
material for the purposes of this report may not be deemed material for SEC or other reporting purposes.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 82
TCFD Recommendation Qualcomm Disclosure Disclosure Source
Metrics and Targets: Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities.
a) Disclose the metrics used by the CO2e Metric Tons 2023 CO2e Metric Tons 2022 CO2e Metric Tons 2021* Our climate-related metrics and
organization to assess climate- targets can be found on our
related risks and opportunities in line Total Scope 1 – Direct GHG 80,589 104,850 106,659 Corporate Responsibility Website
with its strategy and risk-management Emissions by weight (includes and in our latest Corporate
process. purchased carbon offsets). Responsibility Report.
b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if Total Scope 2 — Indirect GHG 157,293 160,417 171,932
appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas Emissions by Weight (market-
(GHG) emissions and the related risks. based: emission factors where
available and purchased
c) Describe the targets used by the International renewable Energy
organization to manage climate- Certificates and Emission
related risks and opportunities and Reduction Credits)
performance against targets.
Total Scope 3 — Other Indirect GHG 5,070,086 6,394,094 3,745,914
Emissions by Weight
* In 2021, we expanded our reporting of Scope 3 emissions to include all relevant sources: purchased goods and services, capital
goods, fuel and energy related activities, upstream and downstream transportation and distribution, waste generated in operations,
business travel, employee commuting, use of sold products and end of life treatment of sold products.
We continually look for ways to reduce our GHG emissions. Our GHG reduction goals are as follows:
1. To reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 30 percent by 2025 from a 2014 base year
2. To reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 50 percent by 2030 from 2020 base year
3. To reduce absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions 25 percent by 2030 from a 2020 base year
4. To reach net-zero GHG emissions across our value chain by 2040
In 2023, we achieved our 2025 GHG emissions goal- two years ahead of schedule. We’ve reduced our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG
emissions by over 35 percent compared to a 2014 baseline. We are also continuing our efforts that are helping us advance towards
our 2040 net-zero target.
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 83
Our Alignment with the UN
Sustainable Development Goals
Our 2030 Vision is our roadmap to inform big-picture thinking on corporate
responsibility issues that are most important to our Company and will
help us identify where we can collaborate with key stakeholders to create
sustainability solutions.
Our 2030 Vision
Develop transformative Employ a workforce that Be recognized as a global Maintain adherence to our Ensure that respect for Ensure sustainable and Actively engage stakeholders
mobile technologies that are more closely reflects the leader in business conduct supplier code of conduct in human rights is integrated transparent management of in our corporate responsibility
widely adopted in support of demographics of the and ethics. our extended supply chain. into all key business decisions. our climate and water impacts programs.
a sustainable world. communities in which across our value chain.
we do business.
1No 4Quality 5Gender 10 Reduced 7Affordable and 12 Responsible 8Decent Work and 12 Responsible 8Decent Work and 16 Peace, Justice 6Clean Water 12 Responsible 16 Peace, Justice 17 Partnerships
Poverty Education Equality Inequalities Clean Energy Consumption Economic Growth Consumption Economic Growth and Strong and Sanitation Consumption and Strong for the Goals
and Production and Production Institutions and Production Institutions
6Clean Water 8Decent Work and 16 Peace, Justice 16 Peace, Justice
and Sanitation Economic Growth and Strong and Strong
Institutions Institutions
9Industry Innovation 11Sustainable Cities
and Infrastructure and Communities
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
Introduction Digital Transformation Acting Responsibly Operating Sustainably Progress Appendix 84
About This Report
Forward-Looking Statements
This report contains forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws. Forward-looking
Since our founding in 1985, Qualcomm has been committed to bettering
statements are any statements other than statements of
the communities where we live and work. We have been producing an historical fact. These statements are often indicated by
words or phrases such as “anticipate,” “expect,” “estimate,”
annual corporate responsibility report since 2006.
“seek,” “plan,” “believe,” “could,” “intend,” “will” and similar
words or phrases. Forward-looking statements represent our
current judgement about possible future events. In making
Boundary and Scope encompassed our whole value chain, based solely on publicly available materials these statements, we rely upon assumptions and analysis
both within and outside the Company, but and has not been prepared, compiled,
based on our experience and perception of historical trends,
This report covers our 2023 fiscal year: it is not the same materiality relevant in independently verified or assured by
current conditions and expected future developments as
September 26, 2022 to September 24, 2023. regulatory or other guidance used around Qualcomm. While such information is
well as other factors we consider appropriate under the
In some instances, data is collected and the world, including but not limited to believed to be accurate and the sources
circumstances. We believe these judgments are reasonable,
reported on a calendar rather than a fiscal for SEC purposes or as defined in the from which it has been obtained are
but these statements are not guarantees of any future
year basis. Such exceptions, as well as any standards underlying the EU’s CSRD. believed to be reliable, Qualcomm does not
events, outcomes or financial results and involve risks and
other exceptions to the reporting period, Therefore, issues deemed material for accept any responsibility for the content of
uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially
are noted within the report. Financial data the purposes of this report may not such information and does not guarantee
from those contained in the forward-looking statements.
is reported in U.S. dollars. The information be deemed material for SEC or other the accuracy, adequacy or completeness of
While we believe that our assumptions are reasonable, we
and data in this report includes Qualcomm reporting purposes. any such third party information.
caution that it is very difficult to predict the impact of known
Incorporated and its consolidated
factors, and it is impossible for us to anticipate all factors
Our energy, air quality and GHG emissions Additional information about our operations
subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated.
that could affect our actual results. Accordingly, we caution
data have been third party verified. The and financial statements is available in our
you not to place undue reliance on these statements. Material
Disclosure and report as a whole has not been externally Annual Report on Form 10-K.
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
assured. Non-financial information is
Assurance
from our expectations are summarized and disclosed under
Additional information about corporate
subject to measurement uncertainties
the “Risk Factors” section of our most recently filed period
responsibility at Qualcomm is available at
This report has been prepared with reference resulting from limitations inherent in the
reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q and subsequent filings.
https://www.qualcomm.com/company/
to the GRI, SASB and TCFD standards. nature and methods used for determining
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they
corporate-responsibility
such data. The selection of different but
are made, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly
The content of this report was developed acceptable measurement techniques can
or otherwise revise any forward-looking statements, whether
using the GRI’s “principles for defining result in materially different measurements.
as a result of new information, future events or other factors
report content”: materiality, completeness,
that affect the subject of these statements, except where we
stakeholder inclusiveness and sustainability Information concerning external initiatives,
are expressly required to do so by law.
context. Our use of the materiality principle partnerships or strategic programs is
2023 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report
We welcome your comments and
feedback at:
Sustainability.ESG@qualcomm.com
© 2023-2024 Qualcomm Incorporated. All Rights Reserved.
Qualcomm, Snapdragon, Wireless Reach, Thinkabit Lab, Aqriti, Digital
Chassis and Quick Charge are trademarks or registered trademarks
of Qualcomm Incorporated. Other products and brand names may be
trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.
References in this presentation to “Qualcomm” may mean Qualcomm
Incorporated, Qualcomm Technologies, Inc., and/or other subsidiaries or
business units within the Qualcomm corporate structure, as applicable.
Qualcomm Incorporated includes our licensing business, QTL and the vast
majority of our patent portfolio. Qualcomm Technologies, Inc., a subsidiary
of Qualcomm Incorporated, operates, along with its subsidiaries,
substantially all of our engineering, research and development functions
and substantially all of our products and services businesses, including
our QCT semiconductor business.
