Care
At Our
Core
2023 Corporate
Responsibility Report
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Table of
3 9 19
contents
Introduction Employee and Equity and
community engagement health access
26 32 36
Governance Environmental Appendix
and ethics sustainability
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
A letter from our
Chairman, CEO and President
The Quest Way guides our Corporate Responsibility We introduced our mobile phlebotomy service, Quest
strategy and progress toward our Environmental, Mobile™, and nearly doubled the number of tests available on
Social, and Governance (ESG) priorities and goals. our consumer-initiated testing platform, questhealth.com.
We look forward to sharing these achievements
A healthier world starts with a healthier Quest, and a
and demonstrating how we continue to improve our
healthier Quest starts with the health of each of our
processes and capabilities surrounding this work.
~48,000 colleagues. That’s why we relaunched our
In 2023, we focused on generating growth, operating more employee health program, HealthyQuest, in 2023 with
efficiently, and developing new solutions to meet the needs a renewed commitment to our colleagues’ well-being.
of our primary customers. Quest remains a leading provider Through our Blueprint for Wellness® offering, ~37,000
of advanced diagnostics, with testing services at the Quest employees and their spouses or domestic
forefront of disease prevention, diagnosis, and monitoring. partners received a personalized, comprehensive
I’m pleased to share our 2023 Quest Diagnostics We expanded our portfolio with an emphasis on early health report based on a lab panel, biometrics, and an
Corporate Responsibility Report. detection. Our acquisition of Haystack Oncology will allow online questionnaire. To further support our employees
us to better detect residual or recurring cancers in early in making healthier lifestyle choices, we created a
The theme of this year’s report is “Care at Our Core,” which
stages and improve treatment outcomes. We also added HealthyQuest Employee Business Network with more
builds on our Purpose of working together to create a
to our Alzheimer’s test portfolio, providing individuals with than 1,000 colleagues already participating.
healthier world, one life at time.
insight into hereditary genetic risk and early detection of
2023 was a remarkable year. I am humbled to lead such
Whether it’s our clinical franchises innovating to expand disease risk with a simple blood test.
a dedicated team and look forward to our continued
our disease-state testing portfolio, our professional
Expanding access to our diagnostic solutions and accomplishments together.
lab services business helping hospitals operate more
reducing health disparities in underserved communities
efficiently, our phlebotomists fostering a positive In good health,
continued as imperatives for Quest in 2023. Through our
experience in our patient service centers (PSCs), or
Quest for Health Equity (Q4HE) initiative, we, along with
our many other touchpoints across the healthcare
the Quest Diagnostics Foundation, collaborated with local
experience, we work together every day as a team to
stakeholders on community-led efforts with 55 active
care for our patients, customers, and one another. I am
programs across the country. We also made important
proud of the critical role we play in healthcare and how
refinements to our patient financial assistance programs, Jim Davis
our workforce is the engine that advances innovative
decreasing the cost of testing for qualified patients. Chairman, CEO and President
contributions to the field.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 3
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Who we are
Quest Diagnostics works across the healthcare ecosystem to create a healthier world, one life
at a time. We provide diagnostic insights that empower patients, physicians, and organizations
to take action to improve health outcomes. Derived from one of the world’s largest databases of
de-identifiable clinical lab results, our diagnostic insights reveal new avenues to identify and treat
disease, inspire healthy behaviors, and improve healthcare management.
Leveraging our extensive scale and reach, we serve annually approximately 1 in 3 adults and half the
physicians and hospitals in the US. Quest conducts business throughout the US in our PSCs, offices,
laboratories, and other facilities in Finland, Puerto Rico, and Mexico.
Awards and honors
DISABILITY:IN HUMAN RIGHTS FORTUNE® NEWSWEEK®
• Best Places to Work for Disability CAMPAIGN FOUNDATION • World’s Most Admired • America's Greatest
Inclusion – 2023 Disability • 2023-2024 Corporate Equality Index Companies 2023 Workplaces 2023
Equality Index® • America's Most Innovative • Most Trustworthy Companies
Companies 2023 in America 2023
• America’s Greatest Workplaces
FORBES® TIME® AND STATISTA® for Parents and Families 2023
• America’s Best Employers by State 2023 • World's Best Companies 2023
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 4
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
The Quest Way
We operate our business according to a clear set
of principles we call The Quest Way, which consists
of our Purpose, Strategy, and Culture. The Quest
Way is our approach to how we work together to
achieve our goals as a company. It also informs
our Corporate Responsibility strategy and guides
our efforts to improve the health and well-being
of our workforce, patients and consumers, and the
communities we serve.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 5
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Purpose: Why we exist Strategy: How we grow Culture: How we work
Working together to create a healthier world, WE WILL GROW BY THE 5Cs
one life at a time. • Collaborating with healthcare providers and partners Customer first: Every decision we make starts
to leverage our broad access with a patient or customer in mind. The quality
• Offering an industry-leading menu of tests and of our work is vital because the answers we
other services deliver are a matter of life.
• Leveraging our data assets and services to improve
Care: We are in the healthcare business, with
population health and enable value-based care
care at the core of everything we do. We do the
• Continuously improving our quality and efficiency
right thing with empathy, integrity, and respect
by embracing innovative technologies, including
to show each patient, customer, and colleague
automation and AI
they matter.
WHO WE SERVE
Collaboration: Creating a healthier world
• Physicians, including those associated with
is a monumental task. We work as a team,
Accountable Care Organizations and Federally
internally across departments and externally
Qualified Health Centers
throughout the healthcare ecosystem and in
• Hospitals and hospital systems
the communities where we live and work.
• Patients and consumers
• Health plans
Continuous improvement: Delivering superior
• Employers
quality requires intention and innovation. We
• Emerging retail healthcare providers
commit to being better today than yesterday
• Government agencies
and even better tomorrow.
• Pharmaceutical companies
• Other commercial clinical laboratories Curiosity: We are constant learners. To do
our jobs, we must be relentlessly curious,
because that is what it takes to move
healthcare forward.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 6
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
2023 highlights
Consumer Clinical Community Thought
reach innovation impact leadership
~206M Developed 42 new tests $16M+ 73
test requisitions processed in corporate giving and Quest peer-reviewed
Acquired Haystack for Health Equity (Q4HE) grants publications
~550,000 Oncology to better identify
patients tested daily early-stage residual or 55 115
recurring cancer
active Q4HE programs across national conference
Access to ~90% the US presentations
Expanded our Quest AD-Detect®
of US insured lives
portfolio by introducing the
950,000+ ~1,200
ApoE Isoform test and
~2,000 donated or discounted global patents held
AD Detect Beta-Amyloid
test requisitions
patient service centers (PSCs) 42/40 ratio tests for a
400+
more robust Alzheimer’s risk
>73,000 30,000+ global patents pending
assessment
employee volunteer hours
courier stops daily
Collaborated with the Centers
$300,000+
19
for Disease Control
in employee donations
aircraft transporting
and Prevention to better
matched**
specimens across the US
understand hepatitis C burden
in the US
~7,400
patient access points
~23,000
field providers*
*Includes phlebotomists, paramedics, nurses, and other health and wellness professionals.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 7
** Included in the $16M+ in corporate giving and Q4HE grants.
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Our corporate responsibility priorities and
ESG goals
In 2023, Quest continued to focus on our Corporate Responsibility strategy and our ESG goals that are most pertinent to our business. Our leadership—including our executive
leadership team, senior leaders, and other key operational staff—drive progress toward this strategy and these goals. This includes consistent tracking, updating goals and timeframes
as necessary, and ongoing engagement with stakeholders. These stakeholders include patients and consumers, employees, B2B customers, investors and shareholders, suppliers,
communities, government agencies, and policymakers.
Strategic pillars Priority topics and goals
Attract, engage, and retain talent
Employee and community engagement
• Strengthen the employee experience through inclusion, engagement, career growth, and development*
We aspire to maintain an inclusive environment where employees feel
• Increase diversity of leadership through a variety of development and retention initiatives and talent
safe, valued, and challenged to grow, and to support diverse groups and
acquisition strategies*
communities through strategic philanthropy and volunteerism.
• Improve employee health outcomes through a focus on culture, prevention, and programs*
Patient- and consumer-centered care
• Improve the experience for patients throughout all touchpoints, particularly in our PSCs, including for
Equity and health access non–English-speaking patients
We are addressing healthcare inequities across the nation through donated • Introduce innovations to better meet the needs of specific patient populations
and discounted tests, access to resources, and grants for nonprofit programs
and community organizations. Access and affordability
• Increase access to diagnostic tests for people who may be unable to afford basic healthcare services*
• Support organizations addressing disparities in healthcare through our Q4HE initiative
Environmental sustainability
• Expand our electric vehicle pilot project to include 3 additional lab locations by 2025
Environmental sustainability • Transition 50% of our vehicle fleet to electric or hybrid engines by 2026*
We are focused on enhancing the environmental sustainability of our • Reduce or eliminate shipped medical waste from at least 4 of our laboratory locations by installing on-site
operations and protecting the communities where we live and operate. treatment technology by 2025
• Implement a waste-to-energy strategy to divert waste from several of our laboratory locations from landfills by 2025
• Secure ISO 14001 certification for 3 additional lab locations by 2026
Governance and ethics
Supply chain management
We are committed to strong and ethical governance, responsible business
• Expand ESG risk assessments of key suppliers that comprise the majority of our total spend
practices, and strict adherence to applicable laws, regulations, and standards.
• Grow our spend with small and diverse suppliers in the US to $500 million by 2026*
We actively engage with our stakeholders to gain feedback.
* These goals have been updated or are under review for adjustment.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 8
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Employee and
community
engagement
Creating a healthier world, one life at a time, starts
with building a healthier workforce, one employee at a
Attract, engage, and retain talent
time. Our people power our individualized patient care,
2025 goals 2023 progress
innovations in clinical testing and research, and impact
in the communities in which we operate. • Achieved Employee Engagement Index Score above industry average
Strengthen the employee • Improved frontline retention by 11%
experience through • Saw our highest rate of engagement since 2019 in our employee
We strive to foster a culture where everyone can do engagement, inclusion, career education assistance program, MyQuest for Education
growth, and development • Welcomed ~2,000 new members to Employee Business
their best work. We invest in our employees’ physical,
Networks (EBN)
mental, and financial well-being; long-term career
• Increased participation in professional development programs
growth; and sense of belonging and shared purpose. Increase diversity of and implemented process improvements
leadership through a variety • Launched working group to develop strategies to expand and
Through offering comprehensive benefits, tailored
of development and retention enhance our search and selection processes
development programs, and robust support networks, initiatives and talent • Launched the Everyday Equity Council to contribute to the
acquisition strategies inclusivity and accessibility of Quest products and services
we’re continuously improving our workplace for all
• Established the Inclusion Mentor Circles program
Quest employees.
• Launched HealthyQuest EBN with 1,000+ members
Improve employee health • Reached ~79% participation in Blueprint for Wellness program
outcomes through a focus among employees and their spouses or domestic partners enrolled
on culture, prevention, in a Quest medical plan
and programs • ~21% of all eligible Quest employees engaged with Spring Health,
a benefit providing mental health support
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 9
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Developing and retaining talent
Our employees don’t just hold jobs—they build careers. In 2023, we continued
to focus on the hire-to-retire journey for our workforce. Learning and
development programs, education assistance, and opportunities to improve
our organizational culture make Quest a place to grow and advance.
MY QUEST FOR EDUCATION
Education provides a foundation for our employees to build the careers they want, and we’re
supporting them in pursuing their goals. Through our education assistance program, My Quest
for Education, we offer up to $5,250 annually in reimbursement for career-related learning,
courses, and degrees and up to $8,000 a year to pursue a business-critical degree such as
medical laboratory science. Some programs offer eligible employees the opportunity to obtain
a degree at little to no out-of-pocket cost.
In 2023, we redesigned the program to improve access and ease of use, leading to over
1,000 employees enrolling—our highest rate of engagement over the last 5 years. My Quest
for Education also allows us to more readily promote from within as employees build the skills
that match their career interests while meeting the talent needs of the organization. From 2019
through 2023, ~64% of participants in My Quest for Education have made at least 1 career move
within our organization, and ~50% have received at least 1 promotion.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 10
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Supporting our employees’ career journeys
From their first days of onboarding to leading at the executive level, we invest in our people.
New Frontline Supervisors Mid-level Executive
hires employees and managers leaders leadership
90-Day Employee Patient Services Group Stay Interviews: Retention and LeadingQuest for Business Financial Acumen for
Experience Pilot: Lead Role Development: trust-building touchpoint for Impact: Leadership Business Leaders: Program
Comprehensive toolset Program built specifically people leaders. In 2023, Quest training specific to the focused on honing financial
for managers, including for frontline group leads trained 600 people leaders in needs of director-level skillsets for new and future
enhanced support for new to develop peer-to-peer conducting Stay Interviews leaders, focused on general managers. To
hires, to onboard employees leadership skills and and held 6,000 conversations. emotional intelligence, date, over 11% of our senior
over a 90-day period. Our serve as a resource This is in addition to communication, cross- leadership team have
pilot with Frontline Logistics and role model for their 1,500 people leaders trained functional relationships, participated.
resulted in a 13% reduction colleagues. Piloted in and 13,000 interviews strategic thinking, and
in voluntary turnover in 2023, with an expansion conducted in 2022. inclusion. Launched Executive Coaching:
year 1. planned in 2024. in 2023, 35 leaders Coaching is used to hone
LeadingQuest Supervisor and have participated. leadership skills and
Manager Core: Year-long improve effectiveness
program for supervisors Elevate: High-potential for executive leaders
and managers to build program for future to assimilate into new or
critical capabilities and executives that includes expanded roles. The program
skills, including emotional classroom learning, team- is tailored to the individual’s
intelligence, cross-functional based project work, and needs and development
relationships, inclusive executive sponsorship. priorities based on
leadership, and leading Piloted in 2023, 24 high- 360-degree feedback.
change. In 2023, more than potential leaders
500 new supervisors and have participated.
managers participated in this
training—with approximately
1,250 active frontline leaders
developed since 2020.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 11
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
HOW WE WORK
Our 5Cs—Customer first, Care, Collaboration, Continuous improvement, and Curiosity—exemplify our culture
and are increasingly woven into our leadership development, peer recognition, and performance assessment
practices. We frame employee accomplishments and opportunities for growth using the 5Cs and, starting in
2024, will use them to inform employee goals and objectives.
LISTENING TO OUR EMPLOYEES
One of the ways we implement our 5Cs is by listening to our employees and acting on their feedback. We
conduct regular pulse surveys that allow us to capture employee sentiment in real time. We’ve also set up an
automated reminder system for managers to examine their results and collaboratively put an action plan in
place with their team. These pulse surveys allow us to measure our Employee Engagement Index Score, which
was above the healthcare industry average in 2023. We have exceeded the healthcare industry benchmark
since launching our Employee Insights survey in 2020. In 2024, we will expand our listening strategy to include
a new culture survey. This additional enterprise-wide assessment will help us continue to refine how we
implement The Quest Way and our 5Cs across the organization.
The impact of the 5Cs extends beyond our team.
Read more about how the 5Cs set Quest apart in the
experience and care we provide for our patients.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 12
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Inclusion and diversity
The communities we serve at Quest are diverse in background, abilities, experiences, and cultures.
We strive to build a workforce that reflects that diversity and supports all employees in achieving
their goals and growing at Quest. In 2023, we continued to embed Inclusion & Diversity (I&D) into
our organizational culture, processes, and leadership and development opportunities.
EMPLOYEE BUSINESS NETWORKS We launched our Everyday Equity Council, which is comprised
Our EBNs are a key part of our I&D strategy and help cultivate of EBN leaders and exists as a standing focus group for Quest
a culture of belonging. In 2023, membership in our EBNs grew employees to raise equity-related ideas, concerns, and questions.
by ~30%, with 2,000 new members and the launch of 4 new Whether they’re developing a process or preparing to release
chapters, 3 in Mexico and 1 in Puerto Rico. By the end of the year, a product or service, employees can use the Council as a
our 11 EBNs had ~8,000 active members comprising ~16% of our sounding board to determine whether their effort is inclusive
workforce. To provide additional structure and support for our and accessible. The Council can advise on Americans with
EBNs, we also invested in leadership development, streamlined Disabilities Act (ADA) compliance, for example, or review training
membership processes, and revamped programming to better or development materials for culturally sensitive language.
align with employee interests.
In 2023, we worked to create a common understanding of
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND gender identity and sexual orientation across our workforce.
PROCESS IMPROVEMENTS As employees voluntarily self-identify at Quest, we’ve expanded
In 2023, Quest enacted several process improvements to better how we define gender and sexual orientation to better reflect
reflect our company values and further integrate I&D across our our workforce composition. We introduced training to provide
operations and consumer services. every Quest employee with the same baseline knowledge
of what gender identity means—with 93% of employees
completing the training. Additionally, we added an option for
chosen names to be added to several internal platforms. We
remain committed to creating a workplace where all employees
feel supported to show up as their authentic selves.
Quest also spearheaded a working group to evolve our search,
selection, and hiring practices. The group will leverage metrics
and insights to inform process enhancements, assess strategies
to attract diverse talent, and implement practices with the goal of
increasing the diversity of candidate slates and interview panels.
To further support this initiative, training programs for recruiters
and hiring managers are being developed to advance skills in
competency-based search and selection best practices.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 13
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
PROGRAMMING
We continued to incorporate I&D into our leadership and talent development efforts throughout 2023.
In collaboration with McKinsey’s Connected Leader Academy, employees have an opportunity to participate
in various programs based on leadership level. In addition to enhancing core business understanding and
leadership strategies, participants are provided with a robust network of peers and experts with whom they
may share cultural backgrounds and experiences. Over 350 employees participated in 2023, an increase
from 58 employees in 2022.
We also launched our Inclusion Mentor Circles program, where leaders connect with frontline supervisors
to share their expertise and hone the inclusive leadership skills needed to ascend at Quest. This new
initiative is in addition to MentorQuest, a learning and development program designed to strengthen
diversity in the leadership pipeline.
Aligning a diverse Board with a
diverse workforce
We commemorated heritage months throughout the year
with our EBNs and took the opportunity to hear directly from
our Board of Directors. In celebration of Asian American
and Pacific Islander Heritage Month in May, Board Director
Tracey Doi spoke at an event hosted by our Pan-Asian Leaders
EBN. Ms Doi served as CFO of Toyota North America for
20 years and has deep expertise in finance, strategic
planning, and enterprise risk.
In honor of Hispanic Heritage Month, our Hispanic/Latino
EBN hosted an engaging talk with Dr Luis Diaz. Dr Diaz, a
leader in advanced oncology research, joined the Quest
Board in May 2023, and is head of the division of Solid Tumor
Oncology at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 14
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Employee well-being
We conducted a comprehensive benefits survey to better understand what our
employees are looking for and determine how we can better meet their needs.
In 2023, we implemented new initiatives and enhanced existing ones to address
the physical and financial well-being topics our employees identified.
Fertility and family-building Salary-tiered medical Employee Relief Fund Financial wellness tools
benefits plan contributions
As of January 2024, we offer fertility and As healthcare costs continue to rise, We continued to refine our Employee Quest employees can now access
family-building benefits in collaboration we reevaluated the way we collect Relief Fund to better support our unlimited, confidential, personal
with Kindbody for employees enrolled in employee contributions toward employees facing a personal crisis financial coaching through FinFit at
qualified, Quest-sponsored medical plans. Quest medical plans. We introduced or a federally declared emergency. no cost. Financial coaches can guide
Employees and their spouses or domestic salary-tiered contributions, allowing Quest employees contribute to the employees through a range of topics
partners can receive up to $10,000 in employees who earn less to pay less. Fund, with Quest matching their from credit scores to budgeting.
lifetime benefits for treatments and donations dollar for dollar. Together, Employees can receive loans or credit
services that include in vitro fertilization Quest and employees raised over through FinFit to cover emergency
and intrauterine insemination. $200,000 by the end of 2023. expenses and set up easy repayment
via their paychecks. We also provide
ongoing financial education workshops.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 15
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
HEALTHYQUEST
Our people are the backbone of everything we do at Quest. When our people thrive, our company does,
too. In 2023, we relaunched our HealthyQuest program to offer holistic support for our employees’
well-being. We developed a new framework—How I… Work, Eat, Feel, and Move—to meet employees
where they are on their health journey, and to make healthy choices more approachable and accessible.
To support the HealthyQuest framework, we focus on 3 key areas: culture, prevention, and programs.
Culture
Our HealthyQuest EBN launched in May of 2023 with a mission to encourage, educate, and empower
employees’ physical and mental well-being. Over 1,000 employees have joined this community thus
far. Additional structure and leadership are provided by a Steering Committee of engaged C-suite
leaders and directors, a Health and Wellness Advisory Council of medical experts, and HealthyQuest
Ambassadors who deploy initiatives across the enterprise. Together, these teams are fostering peer-
to-peer encouragement, creating medically sound programming and activities, and building a wellness
infrastructure to support a health-centric company culture.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 16
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Prevention Programs
Every day, we help our customers improve their health by We invest in programs that address our employees’ need for
providing them with high-quality diagnostic testing insights. support across all aspects of well-being. In 2023, we continued
Through our prevention pillar, we do the same for our employees to work with Spring Health to provide all employees and their
and their families. Our cornerstone program is our Blueprint for dependents enrolled in a Quest-sponsored medical plan with high-
Wellness screening. This enables employees and their spouses quality, affordable mental health support. Employees can receive
or domestic partners to receive an annual, personalized health up to 6 therapy sessions per year at no cost, as well as coaching
report based on comprehensive lab panels, biometrics, and and medication management based on their needs. In 2023, ~21%
online questionnaire. The report identifies health risks for of eligible Quest employees took advantage of this benefit.
participants and provides a multi-year view of their metrics.
In addition to these services, we hosted our first “Go Well” wellness
In 2023, ~37,000 Quest employees and their spouses or domestic challenge in 2023. Over the 6-week period, over 7,000 employees
partners participated in Blueprint for Wellness, representing logged healthy actions like taking a walk, getting 7 to 9 hours of sleep,
a ~79% participation rate among those enrolled in a Quest- journaling, and more. The initiative helped employees feel prepared
sponsored medical plan. We held on-site events, offered home prior to participating in our Blueprint for Wellness screening.
test kits, and facilitated testing at our patient service centers
To support qualified employees and their spouses or domestic
to meet our employees and their spouses or domestic partners
partners in acting on Blueprint for Wellness insights, we also offer
where they are. We also provided 3 months of no-cost virtual
personalized weight management and type 2 diabetes coaching
telemedicine support through Quest Virtual Care following the
through Pack Health®, our personalized health management
screening so participants could speak with a physician about
affiliate acquired in 2022.
any risks identified in their report.
Blueprint for Wellness has been life-changing for many Quest
employees. Whether the report helped them uncover a health
Blueprint for Wellness not only
issue they were unaware of or motivated them to make changes to
help prevent something more serious, they now have a roadmap added healthy years to my life,
toward a healthier life.
but to my daughters’ and mother’s
Another annual prevention initiative we offer to our employees lives, who are also carriers of this gene.”
and their spouse or domestic partner who are 45 years and older
- G INA, A QUEST EMPLOYEE WHOSE BLUEPRINT FOR WELLNESS
is a no-cost InSure® ONE™ test that can lead to early colorectal
TESTING REVEALED A HEREDITARY CONDITION
cancer detection. When physicians catch colorectal cancer in
the early stages, patients have a 5-year survival rate of over
90%.* In 2023, ~27% of eligible employees participated in InSure®
ONE™ testing.
* Altekruse SF, Kosary CL, Krapcho M, et al (eds). SEER 18 2010–2016, All Races, Both Sexes by SEER Summary Stage 2000.
Accessed July 31, 2020. https://seer.cancer.gov/statfacts/html/colorect.html
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 17
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Community engagement 2023 highlights
Quest’s Corporate Giving Program captures the passion and commitment
of our workforce to make meaningful contributions to the communities
where we live and operate through a combination of financial support,
donated and discounted services, and volunteer time.
$16M+ 950,000+
EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERISM
contributed through donated or discounted
Quest supported our employees in volunteering with a range of community initiatives,
corporate giving and
organizations, and events throughout 2023. Highlights included a host of EBN activities during test requisitions
Volunteer Week, supporting Quest for Health Equity (Q4HE) grantees, and having the largest Quest for Health
provided, at a cost
corporate team at the New York City Juneteenth 5K Run/Walk/Roll.
Equity grants
to Quest of $18M+
In 2023, we held our fourth annual Season of Giving campaign where Quest double-matched
donations to eligible organizations (up to the annual cap of $2,500 per employee), with over
$200,000 collectively donated. In addition, we hosted holiday drives supporting local organizations.
Employees provided thousands of meals for individuals through regional food banks and collected
hundreds of toys for children in need.
$300,000+ 30,000+
in employee donations to hours volunteered
hundreds of nonprofits* by Quest employees
* Included in the $16M+ in corporate giving
and Q4HE grants.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 18
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Equity and
Patient- and consumer-centered care
health access
2025 goals 2023 progress
• Introduced new training for patient service
representatives (PSRs) on hospitality and
Improve the experience for patients throughout
accessibility, with more than 90% of PSRs
Quest’s services have the power to transform lives. all touchpoints, particularly in our patient
completing accessibility training
service centers (PSCs), including for non–
We know that in the right hands, and with the right • Improved digital experience around
English-speaking patients
appointments, results, and check-in
context, the diagnostic insights we provide can give
for patients
patients the knowledge and support they need to
• Partnered with states to support gender
improve their health and well-being. identity in patient registration
Introduce innovations to better meet the
• Developed and launched new solutions
needs of specific patient populations
to advance early disease detection and
Through expanding the menu of tests we offer, best-fit treatment
providing patients with mobile collection options,
and supporting local organizations addressing health
Access and affordability
disparities, we’re strengthening Quest’s leadership
2025 goals 2023 progress
in patient-centered, equitable healthcare.
• Streamlined Patient Financial Assistance
(PFA) program to cap costs and extend the
Increase access to diagnostic tests for
enrollment time period for people with income
people who may be unable to afford basic
of less than 200% of the federal poverty level
healthcare services
• Provided 950,000+ discounted/donated test
requisitions at a cost to Quest of $18M+
• Supported 55 active Q4HE programs across
Support organizations addressing disparities
the US
in healthcare through our Quest for Health
• Built 2 coalitions of community organizations
Equity (Q4HE) initiative
in Baltimore, one of our priority markets
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 19
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Creating a patient-centered experience
We provide each of our patients with high-quality, individualized care, whether they come
to Quest for regular monitoring or once-a-year testing.
We’ve evolved our customer-first approach through listening to our patients’ feedback and adjusting our service
offerings where possible. In 2023, we took key steps to improve the patient experience through updating
technology on our website and in PSCs and incorporating health equity and accessibility in our services, products,
and communications.
Improving training on patient care
New training and development programs for our PSRs in 2023 focused on:
Our front-of-house training helps PSRs learn how to act as facilitators, providing additional check-in
Experience
support and waiting room management in our PSCs at the busiest times of day.
Our Everyday Excellence Hospitality training provides patient-centric education to support
Hospitality
phlebotomists’ communication skills in creating a welcoming environment for patients.
Our Managing Every Patient’s Needs training equips PSRs with the skills to better recognize the needs of
Accessibility patients with impairments, disabilities, or limited English proficiency. More than 90% of PSRs completed
this training in 2023.
The appointment was for my father-in-law who is almost 92 and legally blind. The lab tech
guided him back to his office, helped him into the chair, then assisted him in getting his jacket off.
After blood was drawn, the tech said it was an honor to draw the blood of someone who has seen
so much history and who has experienced so much life. It was such a simple statement, but my father-in-law
beamed with pride when he left. Thank you for not seeing him as a frail old man and for making his day!”
- FEEDBACK FROM A QUEST POST-VISIT SURVEY, WHICH WE SEND TO ALL PATIENTS WHO RECEIVE TESTING AT OUR PSCs
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 20
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
CREATING A STREAMLINED, EQUITABLE PATIENT EXPERIENCE INNOVATING TO PROVIDE BEST-IN-CLASS TESTING
Within our PSCs and digital platforms, we made changes in 2023 to Our commitment to continuous improvement fueled our work to innovate
meet more patients’ needs. We’ve made the check-in process at PSCs and expand testing offerings tailored to specific patient populations
as seamless as possible with self-serve kiosks that provide wait-time to better detect disease and related risk factors. These include:
estimates for walk-in and standby patients and offer more than 30 language
• Apolipoprotein (ApoE) Isoform Test: The ApoE Isoform test assesses a
options. Through MyQuest®, our online results portal, patients can now
patient’s ApoE status, which can have implications on a patient’s genetic
access test results as soon as they are available, rather than waiting for
risk for developing Alzheimer’s disease. This test can be ordered along
their physician to share them.
with other tests in the AD-Detect portfolio such as the AD Detect
Our commitment to health equity includes how our patients access care Beta-Amyloid 42/40 ratio test for a more robust risk assessment.
and interact with our PSRs and PSCs. In 2023, we worked with state health
• MRD Testing: In June 2023, Quest acquired Haystack Oncology, a
authorities to update our ordering and scheduling systems to properly
company focused on minimal residual disease (MRD) testing to aid in
capture gender identity. Patients who are interested in doing so are now
the early, accurate detection of residual or recurring cancer. Through
able to share how they identify in advance of an appointment so PSRs can
the acquisition, we will incorporate MRD testing into our blood-based
properly address them during their visit.
clinical lab services for solid tumor cancers, helping to improve early
detection and inform treatment.
• Novel Psychoactive Substances Panel (NPS): Our NPS tests for
88 compounds and focuses on detecting synthetic or “designer” drugs,
fentanyl analogues, and other illicit additives. The panel includes testing
for xylazine—a sedative rapidly worsening America’s overdose crisis—
along with fentanyl.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 21
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Increasing access to care and affordability
We continued to grow access to and affordability of our leading diagnostic services over the past
year. In 2023, we expanded utilization of our financial assistance program, widened availability of our
services through new collaborations, and deepened our work with Q4HE.
BROADENING AND SIMPLIFYING USE OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE SCALING ACCESS TO CARE
Quest has long offered a Patient Financial Assistance program (PFA) for individuals who Quest works with nonprofits, government agencies, companies, and healthcare providers
cannot readily afford diagnostic services. To make accessing this support as easy as to reach new populations, refine testing capabilities, and address healthcare gaps. Our
possible, we updated the enrollment process in 2023. Once approved and enrolled, patients industry and cross sector collaborations play a key role in our efforts to scale diagnostic
remain in the program for a full year without submitting any additional documentation. insights and improve population health.
We also capped the maximum amount enrolled patients will pay for testing. Patients
2023 initiatives
earning less than the federal poverty level will continue to not pay for testing, whereas
individuals earning up to 2 times the poverty level will pay no more than $100 per bill.
This new cap provides maximum price certainty for lower-income patients, regardless CDC and Quest entered a multi-year engagement to provide
of testing performed. We expanded a supplemental PFA program for high-cost testing, laboratory testing and data analytics services to support hepatitis C
primarily in genetics and oncology. Individuals earning less than 2 to 4 times the federal public health strategy and treatment.
poverty level can access this program for support in covering the costs of these tests.
In addition to PFA, we tailor solutions for uninsured or underinsured patients based on Sarepta Therapeutics and Quest developed and were granted
individual circumstances and may adjust some or all laboratory charges for patients who Breakthrough Device Designation from the US Food and Drug
cannot afford to pay for testing. We also work with Federally Qualified Health Centers, Administration for a test to help identify patients eligible for treatment
federally funded nonprofit health clinics that serve medically underserved areas and for certain individuals with Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
populations, to provide testing and operational support. In 2023, we saw an increase of
over 25% in patients accessing these services, including PFA.
National Kidney Foundation-American Society of Nephrology and
Quest built upon their work to transition to race-free eGFR equation
testing with the launch of our Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) Value-Based
Care Program to help bridge gaps in CKD management.
Ohio Association of Community Health Centers and Quest are working
together to help identify risk factors for women’s cardiometabolic
health associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 22
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Through the Quest Cardiometabolic Center of Excellence, we worked to improve how healthcare
providers assess and treat cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk in women. CVD remains the leading cause
of death in women—taking the lives of over 310,000 in the US in 2021.* We launched a Women and
CVD Risk Assessment campaign in 2023 to help healthcare providers focus on early identification of
cardiovascular risk factors for women.
Our Health Trends® reports continue to provide insights into critical
healthcare issues. Explore our 2023 publications.
Empowering patients with direct-to-
consumer and in-home testing
Quest’s consumer-initiated testing offers convenience for
patients who may not want to wait or pay for a doctor’s
appointment or have chronic conditions that require
ongoing monitoring. In 2023, we increased to approximately
33 million registered users, and we added 45 new test options
on questhealth.com, nearly doubling what was previously
available. New additions included a tuberculosis blood test
and menopause panels.
Patients can also access testing from the comfort of their own
homes with Quest Mobile. In 2023, more than 7,000 patients
took advantage of this service. Through these offerings, we’re
empowering Quest patients to access the care that best fits
their needs and lifestyles.
* https://www.cdc.gov/healthequity/features/heartdisease/index.html
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 23
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
QUEST FOR HEALTH EQUITY Q4HE’s impact to date
We launched Q4HE in 2020, as the COVID-19 pandemic exposed inequities
in the healthcare system that had long existed. Q4HE focuses on improving
access to testing and diagnostic services for underresourced communities.
Our approach to health equity
Communities often know where the gaps in their healthcare services exist but lack the financial
support or access to care to fill them.
Q4HE takes an intentional, comprehensive approach to working in local communities. This $38M 70+
process starts with a deep analysis of the healthcare organizations and services that already
exist in regions and cities. We conduct interviews with stakeholders and review reports like granted initiatives
needs assessments and community improvement plans. Then, Q4HE seeks out the best-suited
collaborators to take action and supports the formation of coalitions of community-based
organizations. This coalition-building goes beyond grant funding to leverage organizations’
collective expertise and familiarity to develop best-fit programs for specific populations.
In 2023, Q4HE supported 2 community-based coalitions in Baltimore, Y of Druid Hill and
Baltimore Connect. This built on Q4HE’s 2022 efforts to develop coalitions in Houston. In
2024, Q4HE also plans to bring its third community-based coalition together in Chicago after
undergoing an extensive deep-dive analysis into what needs exist and which organizations are 30 $1M+
best suited to address them. Looking ahead, Q4HE plans to engage with grantees and other
stakeholders to embed health equity knowledge, data, and expertise into our core services.
states—plus testing donated
Washington DC and
Puerto Rico—reached
We’re often told that the experience is different because we’re not providing funds
and walking away. We’re doing much more by way of being at the table with the
applicant, providing funds, and maintaining and sustaining the relationship with
our grantees to be a part of the larger solution for reducing health disparities.”
- M ICHAEL FLOYD
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, Q4HE
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 24
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Focusing on community-led funding strategically matched community members with
Q4HE’s grant funding strategy focuses on enabling healthcare workers and disease management
the expertise and work of local organizations to resources in Atlanta, Detroit, Newark, New York City,
meet the needs of the populations they serve. Q4HE and Washington DC.
maintains relationships with grantees and goes
• Experience Camps, a no-cost, 1-week program
beyond one-time donations to build sustainable,
for children and teens who have experienced the
productive relationships. Grantees in 2023 included:
death of a parent, sibling, or primary caregiver.
• American Heart Association (AHA) Scholar Program, Q4HE supported Experience Camps in opening its
an initiative to provide undergraduate students first site in Maryland in summer 2023 as part of
pursuing science, technology, engineering, and its strategy to respond to rising demand for grief
mathematics (STEM) degrees at Historically Black support for children of color. This new site leveraged
Colleges and Universities and Hispanic-Serving ethnographic research to better ensure diversity
Institutions with academic and career mentorship. In in camper and camp volunteer recruitment. In total,
2023, Quest extended internships to 11 AHA scholars. 71 campers attended the inaugural camp, and people
of color comprised 45% of volunteers. A majority of access to diagnostic testing. In 2023, 13 clinics
• Choose Healthy Life (CHL), a nonprofit dedicated to
participants shared that the camp helped them learn participated in establishing Person-Centered
equipping Black churches with essential resources,
new ways to cope with their grief and that they hope Primary Care Measures for data collection; 4 clinics
training, and support to tackle health disparities in
to return. implemented telehealth services; community-based
underserved communities. In 2023, CHL collaborated
organizations in Connecticut launched a chronic
with Quest-funded Health Navigators and CHL • Americares, a health-focused relief and development
disease management and wellness program; and
pastors to work with individuals who could most organization, received Q4HE support for the
over 5,000 people received no-cost testing at 10 no-
benefit from Quest's comprehensive Blueprint creation of health equity clinical metrics, telehealth
cost and charitable clinics across 8 states.
for Wellness screening program. This initiative services, disease management education, and
My favorite part about working with Choose Healthy Life is interacting
with their partnering communities who are so welcoming and grateful
for the healthcare resources being provided. It was obvious to observe,
simply by stepping into these sacred places of worship, that they are all
a close-knit and supportive community striving to help one another.”
- JENNIFER MARTZ, A GENOMIC COUNSELOR AT QUEST, AND VOLUNTEER AT A CHOOSE HEALTHY LIFE
BLUEPRINT FOR WELLNESS TESTING EVENT IN DETROIT
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 25
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Governance
and ethics
For more than 56 years, Quest has been a leading
provider of diagnostic information services with
over 70 billion data points based on de-identified
patient results. Robust corporate governance has
been crucial to our success.
Our Board of Directors and Executive Leadership guide
Governance and ethics
our high standards of business ethics and integrity,
including in our supply chain. The Board oversees 2025/2026 goals 2023 progress
our ESG and critical business priorities by establishing
governance structures that create accountability, affirm Expand ESG risk assessments of key suppliers Over 53% of suppliers based on annual spend
that comprise the majority of our total spend successfully completed their assessments
leadership commitment to these issues, and help us
deliver best-in-class care to our patients.
Grow our spend with small and diverse Quest purchased $343 million in goods and
suppliers in the US to $500 million by 2026 services from small and diverse US businesses
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 26
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Governance
Quest’s corporate governance structure
helps us maintain high-integrity operating
standards in everything we do. James E. Davis Rob Carter Luis A. Diaz, Jr, MD
Chairman, CEO Director Director
and President
Our executive leadership team adopts and executes policies
Member, Audit & Finance Member, Cybersecurity and Quality
and procedures that promote ethical, transparent, and Member, Executive Committee and Cybersecurity Committees & Compliance Committees
purposeful business practices. Our Board of Directors
oversees our executive leadership team and receives regular,
quarterly updates on progress toward our identified priorities
and objectives, including our ESG goals.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS*
The expertise of our Board of Directors helps us operate
with the ambition and excellence our customers,
Tracey C. Doi Vicky B. Gregg Wright L. Lassiter, III Timothy L. Main
employees, shareholders, and other stakeholders expect.
Director Director Director Director
Member, Audit & Finance Chair, Quality & Member, Audit & Finance Chair, Cybersecurity
and Quality & Compliance Compliance Committee and Quality & Compliance Committee
Of Quest’s Board members,
Committees Member, Compensation & Committees Member, Audit & Finance
Leadership Development and Governance Committees
50% and Governance Committees
are women and/or
represent a diverse race/ethnicity
9
members are independent
Denise M. Morrison Gary M. Pfeiffer Timothy M. Ring
Director Director Director
Chair, Compensation & Leadership Chair, Audit & Finance Committee Chair, Executive and
Learn more about our Board of Directors Development Committee Member, Compensation & Governance Committees
and their experience. Member, Cybersecurity and Leadership Development, Executive, Member, Compensation & Leadership
Governance Committees and Governance Committees Development Committee
* This content reflects Board composition and committees as of
report publish date.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 27
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board regularly reviews information regarding our business and industry through
6 committees.
• Audit & Finance: Monitors the quality and integrity of Quest’s financial statements and
related disclosures and advises with regard to certain financing transactions and other
significant financial policies and actions. Oversees compliance with securities and
accounting laws and regulations, the internal audit function, audits by the independent
registered public accounting firm, and enterprise risk management.
• Compensation & Leadership Development: Reviews and approves corporate goals and
objectives relevant to the compensation of the CEO and evaluates the performance of
the CEO in light of those goals. Oversees the implementation of the total compensation
package for Quest’s executive leadership team and reviews the long-term incentive and
equity compensation plans for employees, supports the Board in succession planning
for Quest’s CEO and senior management, and oversees talent management and
leadership development.
• Cybersecurity: Oversees Quest’s cybersecurity policies, plans, programs and practices,
and risks related to cybersecurity and data security. Reviews compliance with related
legal and regulatory requirements.
• Executive: May act for the Board, except with respect to certain major corporate
matters such as mergers, the appointment of directors to fill vacancies, removal of
the CEO, amendment of Quest’s certificate of incorporation or by-laws, declaration CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE
of dividends, and matters delegated to other Board committees.
Our ESG Council consists of cross-functional leaders across the organization who are
dedicated to supporting our evolving approach to ESG. The Council meets quarterly to
• Governance: Identifies and recommends Board director nominees for election, assists
drive integration of ESG initiatives, align them with business priorities and company
the Board in the oversight of ESG matters, and monitors developments in corporate
purpose, provide insights on emerging topics, contribute to disclosure strategy and
governance. Oversees the Board and Board committees’ annual self-evaluation
oversight, and keep our Board informed about our progress on ESG goals.
processes and engagement efforts with stockholders and other key stakeholders.
To further support this effort, in 2023 we formed internal committees to strengthen
• Quality & Compliance: Reviews Quest’s compliance program and department, medical
governance and rigor of our annual reporting. These committees provide oversight and
quality assurance programs and performance, and government affairs program.
guidance around our voluntary disclosures including our environmental footprint. We
Monitors legal matters and compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, as well
also expanded our investment in limited assurance in 2023, working with a third-party
as significant investigations as they relate to possible violations of the law or medical
provider to verify several categories within our Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions data.
quality complaints.
We believe such independent corroboration enhances the credibility and transparency
Review our full committee charters in our 2024 Proxy Statement. of our environmental reporting.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 28
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT
Our Code of Ethics (the Code) is an important part of our commitment to integrity and Quest’s ERM program is designed to promote a culture of
sets out the principles and policies that apply to our employees, directors, executives, risk awareness throughout our key business operations and
vendors, contractors, and business partners. A note from our CEO, Jim Davis, opens support functions, and is overseen by our Board of Directors and
the Code, reinforcing our focus on fostering a culture of compliance across all levels of managerially driven by our executive leadership team. The program
our workforce. Employees have a duty to speak up and flag issues by either reporting is integrated into our governance, performance management, and
them directly to their supervisor or compliance staff or using CHEQline, our anonymous internal control frameworks and entails a formal and continuous
hotline and online reporting portal managed by a third-party vendor. We then open an risk assessment process. This process enables management to
investigation into these concerns and track them through to closure. identify, evaluate, mitigate, and manage identified and emerging
risks that are influenced by both internal and external conditions
To help instill our culture of compliance, we conduct annual training for all employees and
that could significantly impact business strategy and performance.
provide specific training for new hires, who must complete the online modules within 30 days
of start date. In 2023, over 95% of Quest employees completed their compliance training.
For additional details, visit our ERM page.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 29
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Supply chain management
Quest works with our largest
Creating a healthier world requires collaboration, both across our internal team and with
suppliers to minimize waste
our global suppliers. Our suppliers allow us to provide the high-quality care and testing
through initiatives like
that our patients rely on. That’s why we hold them to the same standards of ethics and
streamlining shipments
integrity that we adhere to. We also look for opportunities to improve sustainability in
and reducing packaging.
our supply chain and support more diverse businesses.
SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT MANAGING SUPPLY CHAIN RISKS • Corrective action and supplier improvement plans:
We expect our suppliers to uphold our commitments Our focus on Corporate Responsibility includes assessing Once our risk assessment process is complete, we
to ethics, safety, quality, and respect for human rights. and examining any potential ESG and/or financial work with suppliers to identify any necessary corrective
Suppliers are required to read and adhere to our Supplier risk involved in doing business with our suppliers. Our actions. We’ve had a corrective action program in place
Code of Conduct as a condition of doing business with framework for risk assessment and any necessary for over 13 years, and are working to expand this program
Quest. They must train their employees in our Code of corrective action includes: to cover ESG-related corrective actions in 2024.
Conduct, self-monitor, and demonstrate their compliance.
• Understanding suppliers’ ESG journeys: We recognize SUPPLIER DIVERSITY
If a supplier fails to follow the standards established
that each of our suppliers is on their own ESG journey. Quest is committed to doing business with small and
within our Code of Conduct, their relationship with Quest
To gain an understanding of what they are doing, we diverse US suppliers, as classified by the US Small
may be terminated.
ask them to complete an ESG self-assessment. In Business Administration. Over the last 5 years, we’ve spent
Our commitment to human rights 2023, 53% of our suppliers (based on annual spend) over $1.7 billion on goods and services from small and
We uphold our commitment to human rights by operating successfully completed their self-assessment, which diverse US businesses—including $343 million in 2023.
in a way that treats all people with respect and dignity. included questions related to governance, as well as We are on track to reach our goal of $500 million by 2026.
We embrace diversity across our workforce and strive for environmental and social/labor policies. This marks an In addition, we are a corporate member of the National
a work environment that promotes varied opinions and uptick from 40% of Quest suppliers (based on annual Minority Supplier Development Council and its affiliated
equal opportunities. We also respect our employees’ rights spend) completing this assessment in 2022. Health Care Industry Group, which helps us broaden the
to freedom of association, consistent with applicable base of suppliers we work with and stay up to date on
• Evaluating new suppliers for financial risk: When going
federal, state, and local laws. We hold our suppliers to the best practices.
through the procurement process for new suppliers,
same high standards.
we complete a thorough assessment of any financial
risks. While this has long been a part of our procurement
protocol, in 2023 we streamlined financial and ESG
risk assessment and began analyzing suppliers using
Review our full approach in our Supply
a scorecard that accounts for both—helping us gain
Chain Transparency Document and
insight into interconnected material risks. Supplier Diversity Policy.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 30
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Safeguarding our patients’ data
Quest safeguards the privacy and security of our patients’ health
information through policies, procedures, and by developing solutions
to tackle emerging data security threats.
DATA PRIVACY Quest maintains a comprehensive cybersecurity program
We have a mature and effective privacy program that developed to align with best-practice frameworks,
includes detailed privacy policies and procedures, applicable laws and regulations, and our contractual
training, auditing, and ongoing privacy awareness obligations. We’ve designed the enterprise-wide program
reminders. Our comprehensive program addresses a to secure our facilities and information systems and
broad range of privacy subjects including protected safeguard data throughout its lifecycle, including
health information disclosures, key privacy safeguards, data provided to third parties performing services on
and minimum necessary access to patient health our behalf. Our cybersecurity program incorporates
third-party breaches. We assess the security posture of
information. These policies are available to employees on standards, processes, and controls over a number of
our vendors and partners with whom we interface, or who
our intranet site. All employees undergo annual training domains, including, but not limited to, governance,
store, process, host, or transmit confidential patient and
on the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability IT risk management, access controls, facility and
employee data or other confidential information.
Act (HIPAA). For both new and existing employees, we data protection, IT systems and data transmission
may provide more specialized privacy training based on security, threat intelligence and incident response, Our cybersecurity program is based on multiple
an employee’s job function. In addition, the Company supply chain risk management, disaster recovery, and security frameworks, including, but not limited to,
continues to review new regulations and state laws and vulnerability management. the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s
implements required controls as needed. NIST 800 Special Publication Information Security
Our cybersecurity risk management program monitors
standard, MITRE 40 ATT&CK Framework, the Payment
CYBERSECURITY our systems and networks for threats, breaches,
Card Industry Data Security Standard, the System and
The strength and resilience of our cybersecurity and intrusions, and other vulnerabilities; assesses the
Organization Controls for Service Organizations 2, and
data privacy programs are critical in maintaining security of our company-wide software, applications
International Organization for Standardization (ISO)
the trust of our patients, customers, employees, and systems; conducts security audits and threat
9001:2015 and ISO 15189.
shareholders, and other stakeholders. Securing our assessments; responds to cybersecurity incidents;
business, customer, patient and employee data, and and facilitates training for our employees. We’ve also Our cybersecurity program is continuously evolving
our information technology (IT) systems is an important convened an IT Risk Council, with enterprise-wide to adapt to emerging threats, strengthen our security
part of our overall risk management framework. representation, which receives quarterly and ad hoc posture, and ensure the resilience of our services.
Quest’s cybersecurity program is overseen by the Chief updates on our cybersecurity efforts. Recognizing the Our Board of Directors oversees our cybersecurity via
Information Security Officer who reports to our Chief interconnected nature of the healthcare industry, we the Cybersecurity, Quality & Compliance, and Audit &
Information and Digital Officer. prioritize supply chain security to mitigate the risks of Finance Committees.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 31
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Environmental
sustainability
A supplement with our 2023 environmental footprint data and limited
assurance report will be published on our corporate site at a later date.
Caring for the environment is an important part of our Purpose
to help create a healthier world. To provide the comprehensive Environmental sustainability
and compassionate care our patients rely on, we’ve invested in
2025/2026 goals 2023 progress
ways to operate more efficiently, while being attentive to how
Electric charging capabilities installed at
our operations impact the environment. Expand our electric vehicle pilot project to 3 additional locations (bringing Quest to a total of
include 3 additional lab locations by 2025 4 locations—Clifton NJ, Marlborough MA, Tampa FL,
and Atlanta GA)
We work cross-functionally across the enterprise to strengthen
the foundational elements of our sustainability strategy and Transition 50% of our vehicle fleet to electric Transitioned ~2% of vehicle fleet to electric or
or hybrid engines by 2026 hybrid engines
drive progress toward our goals.
Reduce or eliminate shipped medical waste from Successfully eliminated shipped medical waste
at least 4 of our laboratory locations by installing from 2 of our California laboratories by installing
on-site treatment technology by 2025 on-site treatment technology
Implement a waste-to-energy strategy to divert Improved “reduce, reuse, and recycling” efforts
waste from several of our laboratory locations and successfully implemented waste-to-energy
from landfills by 2025 for non-recyclables at 4 of our California labs
Secure International Organization for
Secured ISO 14001 certification for 2 additional
Standardization (ISO) 14001 certification for
lab locations (Chantilly VA and Cleveland HeartLab)
3 additional lab locations by 2026
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 32
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Minimizing our environmental impact
Our work to minimize our environmental impact starts within our walls. We have taken and continue
to take steps to lower our carbon footprint by improving the energy efficiency of operations in our
facilities as well as our logistics and transportation footprint. In addition, we have implemented
programs to reduce the waste we generate.
ASSESSING OUR RENEWABLE ENERGY USE SUPPORTING ELECTRIC VEHICLE TRANSITION
In 2023, we purchased over 40 million kilowatt hours of In 2023, we built electric vehicle charging stations at labs in
electricity generated from renewable energy sources. We Marlborough MA, Tampa FL, and Atlanta GA. This is in addition
are exploring energy-generation and purchase options that to the charging stations we already have in place at our
are best suited to our facilities while helping us reduce our flagship lab in Clifton NJ.
emissions. We began investigating renewable energy credits,
We’re also working toward our goal of transitioning to alternative
physical and virtual power purchase agreements, and on-site
fuel vehicles. As of 2023, electric or hybrid vehicles account
generation to determine if they might make sense for Quest
for ~2% of our fleet. Due to various factors such as supply
in the future. This work is giving us insight into where these
chain challenges, our ability to source alternative fuel vehicles
tactics can contribute to an overall emissions reduction
has been slower than planned. While we remain committed to
strategy and target facility- and region-specific projects.
evaluating the best path forward to progress this conversion,
We also continued to conserve and optimize energy usage at our goal of reaching 50% by 2026 is under review and
our facilities using enterprise-wide operational best practices subsequently may be updated.
we developed in 2022. These practices have been implemented
In 2023, we continued to optimize courier routes—reducing our
at more than 20 sites across the US.
fleet miles driven by approximately 2.6 million miles, gasoline
consumption by approximately 96,000 gallons, and carbon
dioxide (CO2) emissions by approximately 845 metric tons.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 33
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
REDUCING AND ELIMINATING WASTE
We have a multi-pronged approach to reduce waste generated and minimize waste to
landfill. Quest implemented new programs to reduce waste generation, reuse materials
where possible, and maximize recycling efforts. Where materials cannot be reasonably
reused or recycled, a waste-to-energy strategy has been implemented instead of landfill.
By the end of 2023, we installed on-site medical waste treatment technology at our 2 major
hub laboratories in California. Through this technology, recycling efforts, and the use of
waste-to-energy, in 2023 we eliminated infectious waste outputs from these labs and
diverted over 3,500 tons of medical and municipal waste from landfill. This effort generated
over 1 million kilowatt-hours of electricity, and avoided over 6,900 tons of CO2-equivalent
greenhouse gases. We continue to assess and explore innovations in waste management to
reduce our environmental impact.
We approach reducing our environmental footprint
with the same diligence and discipline with which we
handle our specimens. I am proud of the foundation
we have built thus far, and look forward to our continued
sustainability work.”
Reducing packaging and emissions
- N ICK MILILLO
SENIOR NATIONAL DIRECTOR, ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, SAFETY & SUSTAINABILITY
In 2022, we launched a box optimization project,
leveraging an innovative software solution to
decrease the number of boxes we ship with collection
supplies. In 2023, the program yielded an 11%
reduction in boxes (which equates to 84,000 boxes, or
23 tons of cardboard). This program also cut down the
number of trips needed to transport these shipments,
further reducing our emissions.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 34
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
STRENGTHENING OUR WAYS OF WORKING
As we progress along our sustainability journey, we are investing in the internal systems and capabilities
needed to set us up for success, including through enhanced coordination and collaboration. In 2023,
we developed a cross-functional approach to oversight of our environmental sustainability disclosure
and reporting, including committees specifically focused on data collection, calculation, and assurance.
In addition, to improve the quality of our Scope 3 reporting, we worked to secure third-party limited
assurance regarding some of that Scope 3 data (specifically categories 1, 4, and 5). We plan to use this
data along with our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions to better understand our environmental impact.
STANDARDIZING FACILITY ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE
In 2023, we continued to focus on obtaining ISO 14001 certifications for our lab facilities. ISO 14001 is an
internationally recognized management system that leverages leadership involvement and employee
engagement to:
• Help organizations ensure compliance with regulatory standards
• Improve their environmental performance
• Provide a competitive advantage and gain the trust of stakeholders
• Achieve strategic goals by incorporating environmental issues into business management
This certification demonstrates Quest’s commitment to environmental management and regulatory
Exploring the links between
compliance. In 2023, we achieved ISO 14001 certifications for our Cleveland HeartLab and laboratory
facility in Chantilly VA—this is in addition to our lab in San Juan Capistrano which received certification environmental and human health
in 2022, bringing our total certified facilities to 3.
Quest is exploring the impact environmental changes
have on human health and well-being. In 2023, we
launched an Environmental Health Impact Committee
to address intertwined environmental and health issues.
The Committee meets to discuss how Quest solutions
can help address the health impacts of climate change,
and to leverage insights from Quest's diagnostic testing
to inform conversation and policy around climate
change and public health.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 35
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Appendix
37 38 41
About Workforce SASB Index
this report demographics
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 36
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
About this report
Our annual Corporate Responsibility Report focuses on environmental, social, and statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts and can be identified
governance (ESG) topics. by the use of words such as “may,” “believe,” “will,” “expect,” “project,” “estimate,”
“anticipate,” “plan,” “aim,” “endeavor,” or “continue.” These forward-looking statements
Unless indicated otherwise, data in this Report are as of December 31, 2023 or cover
are based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to a number of risks
the period from January 1, 2023 to December 31, 2023. In some instances, we provide
and uncertainties that could cause our plans and expectations, including actual results,
information relating to a date in 2024 to provide more up-to-date information to our
to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ from
stakeholders. When we use the terms “Quest,” “Quest Diagnostics,” “company,” “we,”
those set forth in the forward-looking statements due to a variety of reasons, including,
“us,” or “our” in this Report, we are referring to Quest Diagnostics Incorporated and its
but not limited to: adverse results from pending or future government investigations,
subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, unless we state, or the context implies, otherwise.
lawsuits, or private actions; the competitive environment; the complexity of billing,
The Report does not include companies in which Quest Diagnostics has an investment.
reimbursement, and revenue recognition for clinical laboratory testing; changes in
The Quest Diagnostics Foundation is a separate, nonprofit entity.
government regulations; changing relationships with customers, payers, suppliers, or
strategic partners; changes in developing standards and certifications; the cost and
This Report is an important source of Quest Diagnostics annual voluntary
availability of renewable energy, carbon offset and carbon removal projects, energy
ESG disclosures. For additional and complementary ESG information about Quest
attribute certificates, and green buildings; the availability and cost of alternatives to
Diagnostics, please refer to the disclosures on the Quest Diagnostics Corporate
current technologies, power and transportation sources, and waste treatment and
Responsibility website and in our periodic reports and proxy statements filed with the
recycling systems; and changes in economic or business conditions and the company’s
US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which also are available on our investor
ability to grow, improve its financial performance, and execute on its strategies. A further
relations webpages.
description of these and other risks and uncertainties can be found in the company’s
Our Report includes reporting aligned with the Sustainability Accounting Standards most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any of the company’s subsequently
Board (SASB) standards (sometimes referred to as the SASB Index). As we navigate filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, including those
the evolving space of ESG frameworks, standards, and guidelines, we have prioritized discussed in the “Business,” “Risk Factors,” “Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future
disclosures that allow us to communicate with our stakeholders most effectively. We Results,” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
will continue to evaluate the available frameworks, standards, and guidelines and, in the of Operations” sections of those reports. You are cautioned not to unduly rely on such
future, our ESG disclosures may evolve. The material topics discussed in this Report and forward-looking statements when evaluating the information presented in this Report,
in our Materiality Assessment process are different than the definition of materiality which speak only as of the date on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to
applicable to our reports and other filings with the SEC as set forth under the securities update or revise any forward-looking statements.
or other laws of the United States or other jurisdictions or as may be applicable to our
WE VALUE YOUR FEEDBACK.
consolidated financial statements. The inclusion of information in this Report should
We welcome feedback and questions about this report and encourage you to share any
not be construed as a characterization by us that the information is material under the
queries or comments with us at CorpResponsibility@questdiagnostics.com.
securities laws or material as it relates to our consolidated financial statements. This
Report includes forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include all
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 37
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Workforce demographics
Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO)-1 data
MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE TOTAL
HISP HISP WHITE BLACK NHOPI ASIAN NAT AM 2+ RACE WHITE BLACK NHOPI ASIAN NAT AM 2+ RACE A-N
JOB CATEGORIES A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O
Executive/Senior Level
24 14 371 13 1 65 1 6 264 25 1 46 0 10 841
Officials and Managers (1.1)
First/Mid Level Officials
62 73 526 41 3 91 5 15 801 91 3 98 2 13 1,824
and Managers (1.2)
Professionals (2) 142 247 900 129 5 241 4 31 1,542 415 7 355 10 60 4,088
Technicians (3) 290 624 1,073 320 25 739 7 53 2,836 781 12 1,540 21 104 8,425
Sales Workers (4) 40 79 276 36 5 14 1 3 460 44 0 23 0 8 989
Administrative Support
168 410 414 151 5 67 4 15 1,435 855 10 183 10 62 3,789
Workers (5)
Craft Workers (6) 1 0 22 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 23
Operatives (7) 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 4
Laborers and Helpers (8) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Service Workers (9) 1,232 3,737 2,900 1,311 46 829 23 114 8,850 5,709 84 1,466 132 377 26,810
Total Employees (10) 1,959 5,184 6,485 2,001 90 2,046 45 237 16,189 7,920 117 3,711 175 634 46,793
* Analysis Data as of 12/31/2023.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 38
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Workforce demographics
Select workforce breakdown by gender
ALL MANAGEMENT SENIOR MANAGEMENT JUNIOR MANAGEMENT REVENUE-GENERATING MANAGEMENT ALL STEM** ROLES
Male Male Male
Female 39.2% Female Male Female 28.5% Female Male Female 28.2%
60.8% 43.4% 56.6% 71.5% 50.8% 49.2% 71.8%
** Science, Technology, Engineering,
Total workforce breakdown by race and ethnicity
and Mathematics (STEM).
AMERICAN BLACK/AFRICAN HISPANIC/ PACIFIC 2 OR ALL PEOPLE
GROUP ASIAN WHITE
INDIAN AMERICAN LATINO ISLANDER MORE* OF COLOR
All Management 0.5% 12% 12.6% 9.4% 0.4% 2.0% 36.9% 63.1%
Senior Management 0.1% 13.7% 5.1% 4.8% 0.3% 1.9% 25.9% 74.1%
Junior Management 0.7% 12.3% 21.6% 13.6% 0.5% 2.2% 50.9% 49.1%
Revenue Generating Management 0.9% 3.8% 8.9% 5.5% 0.4% 1.3% 20.8% 79.2%
All STEM Roles 0.4% 22.2% 15.9% 12.4% 0.5% 2.1% 53.5% 46.5%
All Roles 0.5% 13.7% 23.7% 17.2% 0.5% 2.1% 57.7% 42.3%
* Other people of color/2 or more races.
• Data reflect our US employee population; approximately 98% of Quest’s employee population is US-based
• Data exclude employees who did not elect to disclose their race/ethnicity/gender
• Senior management includes individuals who plan, direct, and formulate policies, set strategy, and provide the overall direction of the company
• Junior management refers to front-line managers and supervisors; these individuals are responsible for directing and executing the daily operational
objectives of the company
• Revenue-generating functions refer to management roles in departments such as sales, or that contribute directly to the output of products or services
• STEM functions require the knowledge of STEM concepts in their daily responsibilities
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 39
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
Workforce demographics
Total workforce by age group
Above 70
*20s
2.5%
60s
14.9%
14.2%
50s 22.6% 22.7% 30s
23.1%
40s
* Includes employees <20.
New hire breakdown by race and gender
AMERICAN BLACK/AFRICAN HISPANIC/ PACIFIC 2 OR ALL PEOPLE
DEMOGRAPHICS ASIAN WHITE TOTAL
INDIAN AMERICAN LATINO ISLANDER MORE** OF COLOR
Female 0.60% 5.70% 27.50% 15.60% 0.30% 1.30% 51.00% 26.40% 77.40%
Male 0.10% 2.90% 5.70% 4.80% 0.10% 0.40% 14.00% 8.60% 22.60%
** Other people of color/2 or more races.
• Data reflect our US employee population; approximately 98% of Quest’s employee population is US-based
• Data exclude employees who did not elect to disclose their race/ethnicity/gender
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 40
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
SASB
This report contains disclosures in accordance with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Health Care Delivery industry standard, as well as accounting metrics from the Medical
Equipment and Supplies and Health Care Distributors Industry standards that we determined to be material to our business. The report reflects data and information from the January 1, 2023, to
December 31, 2023, reporting period.
Health Care Delivery Industry Standard Metrics
TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC CODE RESPONSE
Energy Management (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity, HC-DY-130a.1 Quest Diagnostics will provide data for the reporting period
(3) percentage renewable in a supplemental report on our corporate site.
Waste Management Total amount of medical waste: percentage (a) incinerated, HC-DY-150a.1 Quest Diagnostics will provide data for the reporting period
(b) recycled or treated and (c) landfilled in a supplemental report on our corporate site.
Total amount of: (1) hazardous and (2) non-hazardous HC-DY-150a.2 In 2023, Quest did not produce pharmaceutical waste.
pharmaceutical waste, percentage (a) incinerated, (b) recycled or
treated and (c) landfilled
Patient Privacy & Electronic Description of policies and practices to secure customers’ HC-DY-230a.2 See Data privacy and Cybersecurity sections in the 2023 Corporate
Health Records personal health data records and other personal data Responsibility Report, page 31.
See Privacy Notice here.
(1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage involving (a) personal HC-DY-230a.3 No cybersecurity incident during the year ended December 31, 2023,
data only and (b) personal health data, (3) number of customers resulted in an interruption of our operations, known losses of critical
affected in each category, (a) personal data only and (b) personal data, or otherwise had a material impact on our strategy. For more
health data information, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in the company’s 2023 Annual
Report on Form 10K. Form 10-K.
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings HC-DY-230a.4 If and when public disclosure criteria are met, monetary losses as a
associated with data security and privacy result of legal proceedings associated with data security and privacy
are included in “Item 3. Legal Proceeding” in the company’s 2023
Annual Report on Form 10-K, see page 42, and reference to Note 19
Commitments and Contingencies, Certain Legal Matters, Other Legal
Matters, F-41-F-43.
Access for Low-Income Patients Discussion of strategy to manage the mix of patient HC-DY-240a.1 Quest Diagnostics is committed to providing service to all patients,
insurance status including those who have commercial or government insurance,
are uninsured or may be unable to afford basic healthcare services.
Through our Patient Assistance Programs, we tailor solutions based
on individual circumstances.
See Equity and Health Access section in the 2023 Corporate
Responsibility Report, pages 19–25.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 41
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC CODE RESPONSE
Quality of Care & Patient Satisfaction Number of serious reportable events HC-DY-250a.2 Not applicable—Quest Diagnostics does not operate hospitals.
Hospital-acquired condition rates per hospital HC-DY-250a.3 Not applicable—Quest Diagnostics does not operate hospitals.
Number of (1) unplanned and (2) total readmissions per hospital HC-DY-250a.6 Not applicable—Quest Diagnostics does not operate hospitals.
Management of Description of policies and practices to manage the number of HC-DY-260a.1 Not applicable—Quest Diagnostics does not issue prescriptions for
Controlled Substances prescriptions issued for controlled substances controlled substances.
Pricing and Billing Transparency Description of policies or initiatives to ensure that patients are HC-DY-270a.1 Quest Diagnostics aims to be as transparent as possible about the
adequately informed about price before undergoing a procedure pricing of its services. Pricing is publicly available online for all tests
(currently approximately 98) offered by QuestHealth™, our consumer-
facing offering that enables individuals to select and purchase laboratory
and point-of-care tests from Quest Diagnostics. Many patients who use
Quest Diagnostics patient service centers for testing can take advantage
of our Real Time Estimation initiative to understand the cost of their lab
tests before they are tested (not available for all patients).
Discussion of how pricing information for services is made HC-DY-270a.2 See response to HC-DY-270a.1.
publicly available
Number of the entity’s 25 most common services for which HC-DY-270a.3 The tests (currently approximately 98) offered by QuestHealth™—our
pricing information is publicly available, percentage of total consumer-facing offering that enables individuals to select and purchase
services performed (by volume) that these represent laboratory testing and point-of-care tests from Quest Diagnostics—
represents less than 5% by volume of our total services.
Workforce Health & Safety Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) for (a) direct employees HC-DY-320a.1 Company-wide TRIR Rate (Employees): 2.6
and (b) contract employees
Company-wide TRIR Rate (Contract): 2.3
Employee Recruitment, (1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover rate for: (a) physicians, HC-DY-330a.1 Voluntary Turnover Rate
Development & Retention (b) non-physician health care practitioners, and Physicians: 9.9%
(c) all other employees Non-physician healthcare practitioners: Not applicable
All other employees: 22%
Involuntary Turnover Rate
Physicians: 1.0%
Non-physician healthcare practitioners: Not applicable
All other employees: 6.9%
Description of talent recruitment and retention efforts for HC-DY-330a.2 See Employee and Community Engagement section in the 2023
health care practitioners Corporate Responsibility Report, pages 9–18.
See Working at Quest Diagnostics.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 42
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC CODE RESPONSE
Climate Change Impacts on Description of policies and practices to address: (1) the physical HC-DY-450a.1 Quest Diagnostics maintains a business continuity program to prepare
Human Health & Infrastructure risks because of an increased frequency and intensity of extreme for and respond to a variety of risks to our physical infrastructure and
weather events, (2) changes in the morbidity and mortality rates assets presented by extreme weather events and natural disasters,
of illnesses and diseases associated with climate change and whether as a result of climate change or otherwise. The program covers
(3) emergency preparedness and response our critical US facilities, including laboratory operations and offices,
and remediation of power interruptions and availability of water.
Each year Quest conducts a threat assessment. This is a formal process
designed to identify, evaluate, and quantify a range of uncontrollable
external threats (like severe weather) to each critical business site and
considers the potential impact should any of those threats materialize.
The threat assessment, together with an annual update of its business
impact analysis, enables recovery strategies and business continuity
plans to be strengthened. A facility weakness assessment is included
in the overall analysis of vulnerabilities and reported separately.
The effectiveness of the business continuity program is evaluated
by management in connection with the company’s Enterprise Risk
Management program, and updates are provided to the company’s
Board of Directors on an annual basis.
Beyond the impact of severe weather, Quest has launched an
Environmental Health Impact Committee that is tasked with exploring
the impacts of climate change on human health. See Environmental
Sustainability section of 2023 Corporate Responsibility report,
pages 32–35. Herein, management is beginning to develop policies and
practices to address the risks and opportunities presented by changes
in the prevalence, geographic location, and severity of diseases that may
be impacted by climate change (eg, changing patient testing capacity
needs or disease profiles that require new testing).
Fraud & Unnecessary Procedures Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings HC-DY-510a.1 If and when public disclosure criteria are met, monetary losses as a
associated with medical fraud result of legal proceedings under the False Claims Act are included in
“Item 3. Legal Proceeding” in the company’s 2023 Annual Report on
Form 10-K, see page 42, and reference to Note 19 Commitments and
Contingencies, Certain Legal Matters, Other Legal Matters, F-41-F-43.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 43
Introduction Employee and community engagement Equity and health access Governance and ethics Environmental sustainability Appendix
ACTIVITY METRIC CODE RESPONSE
Number of (1) facilities and (2) beds, by type HC-DY-000.A Not applicable—Quest Diagnostics does not operate hospitals.
Number of (1) inpatient admissions and (2) outpatient visits HC-DY-000.B Not applicable—Quest Diagnostics does not operate hospitals.
Additional Accounting Metrics from the Medical Equipment and Supplies and Health Care Distributors Industry Standards
TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC CODE RESPONSE
Medical Equipment and Supplies Description of code of ethics governing interactions with HC-BP-510a.2 Quest Diagnostics maintains a Code of Ethics applicable to all
Industry Standard> Business Ethics health care professionals employees. The Code applies to all employee activity, including
interactions with healthcare professionals.
Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings HC-BP-510a.1 If and when public disclosure criteria are met, monetary losses as a
associated with bribery or corruption result of legal proceedings associated with bribery and corruption
are included in “Item 3. Legal Proceeding” in the company’s 2023
Annual Report on Form 10-K, see page 42, and reference to Note 19
Commitments and Contingencies, Certain Legal Matters, Other Legal
Matters, F-41-F-43.
Medical Equipment and Supplies Total amount of monetary losses because of legal proceedings HC-BP-270a.1 If and when public disclosure criteria are met, monetary losses as a
Industry Standard> Ethical Marketing associated with false marketing claims result of legal proceedings associated with false marketing claims
are included in “Item 3. Legal Proceeding” in the company’s 2023
Annual Report on Form 10-K, see page 42, and reference to Note 19
Commitments and Contingencies, Certain Legal Matters, Other Legal
Matters, F-41-F-43.
Health Care Distributors Description of efforts to minimize conflicts of interest and HC-BP-510a.1 Quest Diagnostics maintains a Code of Ethics applicable to all employees
Industry Standard unethical business practices and all employee activity. Quest Diagnostics also maintains a Conflicts
of Interest Policy applicable to all employees. The Policy applies to all
employee activity that may cause or create the appearance of a conflict
of interest.
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS | 2023 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 44
Corporate Headquarters
Quest Diagnostics
500 Plaza Drive
Secaucus, NJ 07094
QuestDiagnostics.com
Quest®, Quest Diagnostics®, any associated logos, and all associated Quest Diagnostics registered or unregistered trademarks are the property of Quest Diagnostics.
All third-party marks—® and ™—are the property of their respective owners. © 2024 Quest Diagnostics Incorporated. All rights reserved. 5/2024
