Southwest Airlines®
One Report
2023
Table of Contents
3 Citizenship 42 Planet 88 Governance
4 F rom our President & CEO 43 Planet Goals 89 F oundational Five & 2023 Focus Areas
5 2 023: A Year in Review 46 Carbon 91 Ethics
6 Purpose, Vision, & The Southwest Way 52 Circularity 92 G overnance & Oversight of Environmental,
Social, and Governance (ESG)
7 2023 Awards 55 Collaboration
94 Board Composition
8 Reporting Scope 58 C limate Risks & Impacts
96 R isk & Crisis Management
9 C orporate Citizenship Goals 66 Compliance
97 Cybersecurity
10 M anagement Approach to Key Topics 67 Planet Data Table
98 Data Privacy
99 S upply Chain Responsibility
12 People 69 Performance
100 S upply Chain Disruption
13 E mployee Retention & Recruitment 70 Financial Performance
100 P ublic Policy, Regulation, & Transparency
14 E mployee Compensation, Benefits, & Health 73 10-Year Summary
101 Political Contributions
16 E mployee Training, Education, & 77 Fleet Management
101 M arketing & Ethical Branding
Career Development
78 Safety
102 Governance Data Table
19 E mployee Experience, Culture, & Engagement
81 Operational Performance
22 S outhwest Employee Snapshot 2023
82 Customer Satisfaction
103 Frameworks & Resources
23 F reedom of Association &
84 N etwork & Growth
Collective Bargaining
104 G lobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index
86 I ndirect Economic Impact
24 D iversity, Equity, & Inclusion
113 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
87 Performance Data Table
29 H uman Rights & Anti-Trafficking (SASB) Index
30 Community Outreach 115 T ask Force on Climate-Related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD)
35 People Data Table
116 U nited Nations Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs)
118 Glossary
122 Endnotes
On the Cover: Vanessa R., a Crew Hotel and Transportation Supervisor, and her Team in Network Operations Control provide internal Hospitality to Southwest Crew Members
by securing hotel and transportation accommodations to support our operation.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 3
Citizensh i p
At Southwest Airlines®, we put our Hearts into doing the right thing by our People and with respect to our planet—all supported by an
unwavering focus on driving performance which is enabled by strong corporate governance. Our Citizenship efforts begin with our
Purpose to connect People to what’s important in their lives through friendly, reliable, and low-cost air travel, and our Vision of being
the world’s most loved, most efficient, and most profitable airline. Since 2009, we’ve highlighted our corporate Citizenship initiatives in
the Southwest Airlines One Report, integrating financial, corporate social responsibility (CSR), and environmental, social, and corporate
governance (ESG) reporting into one comprehensive document.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 4
From our President & CEO
Since we first took flight in 1971, Southwest Airlines has been strategy, Nonstop to Net Zero; the launch of various Customer
a Company driven by a commitment to be a good global citizen. Experience improvements, like upgraded WiFi fleet-wide,
Our dedication to do the right thing by our People, through digital bag tracking, larger bins, in-seat power, and free same
our performance, and with respect for our planet, consistently day standby; making it easier for Customers to achieve Tier
guides our corporate Citizenship efforts. Through it all, we’ve Status; and how we continued to create an environment of
always been passionate about making a difference in our Belonging while investing in our People—through increased
communities and respecting our resources—and 2023 was salaries, tools, and resources, and through improved
no exception. development and retention-focused programs.
Our transparent approach to ESG reporting provides us an The 2023 One Report celebrates our Purpose to connect People
opportunity to highlight our success and identify areas of to what's important in their lives through friendly, reliable, and
improvement as we look to the future. With that, it’s an honor low-cost air travel, and our Vision of being the world's most
to welcome you to the Southwest Airlines One Report and loved, most efficient, and most profitable airline.
provide a look back at our progress and accomplishments
in 2023. I’m extremely proud of the work we accomplished last year and
how we advanced our corporate Citizenship efforts—continuing
Southwest made incredible strides last year, even amidst some our commitment to be a good global citizen. Welcome to the
serious challenges. We were able to get—and stay—fully staffed, 2023 Southwest Airlines One Report!
fly our full fleet, and restore our network. Yes, we faced some
big challenges at the end of 2022, but we refused to let one
bad week in December 2022 define us, and we improved our
operational performance across nearly all operational and
Customer metrics in 2023. While we still have work to do,
especially in the area of hitting our financial targets, we ended
2023 a better Company than in 2022.
Bob Jordan
Throughout the One Report, you’ll see firsthand how the
President & Chief Executive Officer
success of Southwest is built on our unwavering dedication
to our Employees, Customers, Shareholders, suppliers, and
communities. This includes our enhanced sustainability
2023: A Year in Review Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 5
2023: A Year in Review
New record of
Recycled more than
Blended SAF
880,000 lbs
1 3 7
Signed a 20-year agreement to purchase up to
of material from retired aircraft
680 million
gallons
revenue
Million+
of neat sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) Passengers
Option 1
from USA BioEnergy, LLC carried
Record operating
revenues of
Launched
3 new operational
Nonstop to
$26.1B
environmental
NET ZERO
sustainability goals
by 20501
7
Employee 79,519
44,905 99%
Resource Groups
external Customer completion
(ERGs) launched
commendations factor
total Employees
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 6
Purpose, Vision, &
The Southwest Way
At Southwest Airlines, our Purpose, Vision, and The Southwest Way (Company Promise,
Employee Promise, and Values) guide our everyday actions and long-term business decisions.
They come to life through our legendary Hospitality, Customer Service, and Employee
Experience, which supports our world-famous Culture promoted and preserved by our
Employees. Living The Southwest Way unites us, giving us a Purpose for today and a Vision for
tomorrow. We’re a Company that takes care of our People, our communities, and respects our
planet. Living out our Values helps us make progress every day.
Values
Me We Southwest
Our Purpose How l Show Up How We Treat Each Other How Southwest Succeeds
Connect People to what's important in their lives through friendly, reliable, and low-cost air travel.
Pride Teamwork
Have a strong work ethic Practice civility Don’t make the easy hard
Our Vision
Take initiative Embrace Team over self Keep costs low
Be accountable Be inclusive Stay agile
Integrity Honesty Discipline
Company Promise
Act like an owner Speak up Be safe
Southwest will provide a stable work environment with equal opportunity for learning and personal growth. Employees will be provided the same
Choose to do right Be transparent Be focused
concern, respect, and caring attitude within the organization that they are expected to share externally with every Southwest Customer.
Be courageous Tell the truth Be reliable
Employee Promise
Humility Service with LUV Excellence
I will demonstrate my Warrior Spirit by striving to be my best and never giving up.
Don’t take yourself too seriously Practice Hospitality Get results
I will show my Servant's Heart by delivering Legendary Customer Service and treating others with respect.
Keep perspective Live by The Golden Rule Win the right way
I will express my Fun-LUVing Attitude by not taking myself too seriously and embracing my Southwest Family. Don’t be a jerk Don’t be rude Kick tail
2023 Awards
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 7
2023
Corporate Equality Index
Awards Highest Customer Satisfaction
2023 2023-2024
among Economy/Basic Economy Carriers
Equality 100 Award:
Military Friendly
in North America – 2023
Leaders in LGBTQ+ Workplace
Company
Inclusion Recipient
America’s Most
2023
Responsible
Ranked #23
Customer Experience
Money Magazine
Companies list
on the 2023 Fortune World’s
All-Stars list
Best Places to Travel
Most Admired Companies™ list
© 2023 Fortune Media IP Limited All rights reserved. Used under license.
as one of
2023
Best Places America’s Greatest
Sustainability,
to Work Workplaces
Environmental Achievement,
list in 2023 for the 14th America’s Most
for Diversity 2023
and Leadership (“SEAL”)
consecutive year
Innovative Companies
Business Awards winner
2023 Awards
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 8
Reporting Scope
The 2023 Southwest Airlines One Report is a snapshot of our Company’s ESG efforts
that fall under our People, Planet, Performance, and Governance initiatives. To evaluate
the most relevant items for inclusion throughout the report, we conducted a key topics
A glossary of key terms is included as a guide
assessment in 2022. Our key topics assessment is similar to what other companies may
describe as a “materiality assessment,” which is not to be confused with materiality
for frequently used words and terminology
for financial reporting purposes. Our key topic assessment helped us to identify and
prioritize the areas Stakeholders consider most significant for Southwest. The results of with specialized meanings (e.g., circularity).
this assessment can be found in the Key Topics Assessment section.
Endnotes are also provided in specific cases
The One Report includes our management approach to key topics, highlights for the
where additional context is warranted.
past calendar year, relevant data tables, and disclosures in reference to the Global
Reporting Initiative (GRI), informed by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD) and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), and
aligned to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The One Report
reflects the period of January 1 to December 31, 2023 (unless otherwise noted).
The One Report covers only those business activities for which Southwest generally has We invite you to read more about our 2023 Citizenship activities and how we’re
complete control or ownership. This report doesn’t include facilities primarily controlled aligning our efforts with our Heart for People, respect for the planet, and dedication to
by others, such as airport terminal space, or outsourced or subcontracted facilities. exceptional performance on the following pages.
“At Southwest, we seek to lead with Heart as we support our People, care for the planet, deliver strong performance,
and demonstrate sound governance. Our work toward being a good global citizen is driven by our desire to have
a positive impact on the topics that are most relevant to our Employees, Investors, Customers, Communities, and
Stakeholders. We are proud of our progress and are excited about continuing our journey of advanced reporting.”
Katie Coldwell
Managing Director, Corporate Citizenship
Corporate Citizenship Goals
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 9
Corporate Citizenship Goals
Southwest’s corporate • Live our Southwest Way Values: Measured by pipelines, while maintaining our hiring standards and Our new goals include:
day-to-day recognition sent fostering an inclusive environment for all Employees to
• Electrifying 50% of eligible ground support equipment
Citizenship efforts align with grow and develop.
• Build on our legendary Hospitality: Measured by (GSE) systemwide by 20302
Ontime Trip Net Promoter Score (TNPS)
• Saving 50 million incremental gallons of jet fuel by 2025,
Our DEI goals include:
our Vision to be the world’s
• Be consistently reliable and operate with excellence: with a goal of saving 1.1 billion cumulative gallons of jet
• Hiring and development practices: Evolving hiring and
Measured by ontime performance (OTP) fuel by 20353
most loved, most efficient, development practices to support broadening our talent
• Restore our network and fly the full fleet: Measured by • Reducing single-use plastics from inflight service by 50%
pipelines, including posting all new, open Leadership
available seat miles (ASMs) flown by weight by 2025 and eliminate single-use plastics from
and most profitable positions (Vice Presidents (VPs) and below)
inflight service where feasible by 20304
• Produce strong financial results and improve our
• Senior Leadership diversity: Measuring progress toward
low-cost advantage: Measured by return on invested Our existing goals include:
airline. We seek to care for
increasing diversity in Senior Leadership (as compared to
capital (ROIC)
• Achieving net zero carbon emissions by 20501
July 2020)
People, extend our Heart
• Reducing carbon emissions intensity by 50% by 2035 in
• Senior Management Committee (SMC) diversity:
2023 Management Short-Term Incentive Scorecard for
alignment with the goals of the Paris Agreement, with an
Doubling the percentage of racial diversity and
for the planet, and deliver Executive Officers interim target of 25% reduction by 20301
increasing gender diversity within our SMC by 2025 (as
In addition to our Company goals for all Employees, in
compared to July 2020) • Replacing 10% of total jet fuel consumption with SAF
strong operational and 2023, a portion of the compensation for Executive Officers,
by 2030
• Community partners: Engaging a breadth of community
as well as noncontract Leaders and professional level
partners to leverage the Company’s relationships as we • Reducing energy utilization index at the Company's
financial performance. positions, was tied to the Company's performance with
source diverse talent Dallas corporate Headquarters by 50% by 20355
respect to select metrics and targets. For these Employees,
our 2023 Management Short-Term Incentive Scorecard
took into account, among other things, the Company’s The Southwest Board of Directors committed to increasing Additional information about Nonstop to Net Zero, our
Specific Company goals for all Employees help Southwest major initiatives, which included increasing operational its diverse representation by 2025 (as compared to 2020). strategic pillars, and progress toward our sustainability goals
can be found in the Planet section.
achieve our Company objectives and advance our resiliency and a focus on ESG initiatives such as DEI training
corporate Citizenship work. Additionally, we set strategic and Environmental Sustainability. Please see Southwest's Additional information on our progress toward these goals
goals in the areas of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) Proxy Statement for the Company’s 2024 Annual Meeting can be found in the Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion section.
and Environmental Sustainability to advance our corporate of Shareholders for additional information on the details of Performance Goals
Citizenship efforts in the specific areas of People and Planet. this scorecard and other compensation information.
Planet Goals
Our Leadership Team sets specific long-term annual
Company Goals financial goals to generate consistent profitability and
People Goals We launched our updated sustainability strategy, Nonstop enhance Shareholder value, with a particular focus on
The 2023 Company Goals Incentive Program is designed to Net Zero, as we work toward our goal of net zero carbon generating returns on invested capital in excess of our
to recognize our Employees throughout the year for In 2020, Southwest Leadership established specific DEI emissions by 2050.1 The launch included the introduction of weighted average cost of capital.
their continuous efforts toward achieving our Company goals to foster a spirit of Belonging and inclusion and help our strategic pillars of carbon, circularity, and collaboration
goals. Leveraging the five focus areas for 2023 from our Leadership Teams better reflect the communities we to guide our ongoing strategy and help us achieve our
Bob’s Blueprint for Success, we set goals to support serve. These goals are intended to create more diverse, near- and long-term goals. In addition to our existing goals,
these objectives. equitable, and inclusive job opportunities and Candidate we introduced new goals to complement our work.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 10
Management Approach to Key Topics
Our approach to identifying and assessing key topics is informed by
the GRI guidelines, which call for a systematic process for engaging
Key Topics Assessment
Stakeholders and prioritizing feedback, including:
We recognize the importance of identifying ESG impacts current and potential environmental, economic, and social
that are significant to our business and the environments impacts. In addition to external impacts, we also evaluated
1. Evaluating relevant CSR and ESG topics
we operate in. Through regular key topics assessments, the internal impacts of key ESG topics on our business and
we continue to build on our understanding of how how they may influence financial performance and how we 2. Identifying internal and external Stakeholders
our business efforts within the areas of People, Planet, effectively operate in the future.
3. Assessing the organization's impacts
Performance, and Governance impact Southwest as a
Company, as well as the world around us. Throughout the assessment, we engaged key Stakeholders
4. Evaluating the influence on the Stakeholder groups
and conducted peer benchmarking. Insights gathered
5. Prioritizing topics
We completed our most recent key topic assessment with through Stakeholder interviews and desktop research
a third-party consultant in the fall of 2022. We used the enabled Southwest to assess each topic based on the
GRI Universal Standards (2021) to evaluate our business’s significance of its internal and external impacts.
Stakeholder Engagement
We engage our various stakeholder groups on ESG matters in a number of ways
Non-Governmental Airports & ESG Rating
Employees Customers Suppliers Investors Regulators Communities
Organizations (NGOs) Government Organizations
• Employee surveys • Customer surveys • Supplier Diversity Research and publications from • Employees and Leaders • Engagement with internal We take regulatory • Employee volunteerism Additionally, we reviewed
• Our Company intranet, • Social media listening Commitment the following NGOs help inform from Governmental participants in Investor compliance seriously, • Charitable contributions multiple sustainability
SWALife • Customer focus groups • Online supplier portal our citizenship approach: Affairs, Airport Affairs, Relations Department including with respect to and donations reporting standards,
• Other internal • Customer call centers • Engagement with internal and Network Planning who have regular standards and requirements • Nonprofit partnerships frameworks, and results from
• c Wo em em klyu n mic ea st si ao gn e c sh fa ron mne ls • Customer emails p pa rort cic ui rp ea mn ets n i tn p t rh oe c ess • C Ao ltem rm nae tir vc eia Fl uA ev li sa t Ii no in ti ative D coe np va er rtm sae tin ot ns s h wav ite h regular c Ino vn ev se tors ra stions with established by: • C Teo arp mo rate Responsibility i fin rd me sp te on id ne fon rt mES oG u r re rs ee pa orc rth in g
(CAAFI) airport authorities and • Investor-focused • Department of efforts, including:
our CEO • ESG-focused questions in • Hiring events, Historically
• Rocky Mountain Institute elected officials standards such as SASB Defense (DOD)
• Network of Culture supplier Request for Black Colleges and
(RMI) • We develop public policy • Department of • CDP (formerly Carbon
Ambassadors Proposals (RFPs) Universities (HBCUs),
• Aviation Climate Taskforce positions intended to Transportation (DOT) Disclosure Project)
• Cross-functional • Supplier Code of Conduct ¡Lánzate!/Take Off! Travel
• Airlines for America (A4A) benefit our Employees, • Environmental Protection • S&P Global Corporate
Employee Working • Engagement with external Award Program, disaster
Groups participants in the • Boston College Center for Customers, and Agency (EPA) relief organizations, Sustainability Assessment
• Culture & procurement process Corporate Citizenship communities • Federal Aviation Medical Transportation • Human Rights Campaign
Communications (suppliers) • World Economic Forum’s Administration (FAA) Grant Program (MTGP), • Institutional Shareholder
Clean Skies for Tomorrow • Securities and Exchange Adopt-A-Pilot, and Services (ISS)
Department
Coalition Commission (SEC) Repurpose with Purpose • JUST Capital
• Diversity, Equity, &
• Airport Cooperative • Transportation Security • Sustainalytics
Inclusion Department
Research Program (ACRP) Administration (TSA) • EcoVadis
• People, Learning, &
Development • Fair360
Department • World Benchmarking
Alliance
• Morgan Stanley Capital
International (MSCI) ESG
Ratings
• Transition Pathway
Initiative (TPI)
ESG Key Topics
The key topics matrix prioritizes our
key topics for ESG reporting and
management. Topics which rank
“high” or “substantial” on each axis
are considered high priority for our
business. Topics ranking “moderate”
or “low” are not considered high
priority, but remain a focus for our
business as we think about our
approach to management of ESG and
our larger business strategy.
Our 2022 key topics assessment was
critical in helping Southwest identify
focus areas for our ESG strategy and
reporting. For Southwest, Safety,
ethics, and financial performance
are foundational to our business
and necessitate management at
the highest level and transparent
reporting regardless of internal or
external factors.
In this report, we share how our
key topics are managed, who is
responsible for the highest level of
oversight, and the actions we take to
Low Moderate High Substantial
mitigate potential negative impacts
and promote the continuation of our
positive impacts.
ymonoce
&
,tnemnorivne
,yteicos
no
tcapmI
laitnatsbuS
hgiH
etaredoM
woL
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 11
ESG Key Topics Matrix
The matrix reflects the results of our key topics assessment as we evaluated actual and potential impact,
both internally to Southwest’s business and externally on society, the environment, & the economy
Foundational Topics: Safety, Ethics, Financial Performance
• Climate Risks & Impacts • Fuel, Energy, & GHG Emissions
• Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion
• Risk & Crisis Management
• Cybersecurity
• Data Privacy
• Waste • Indirect Economic Impact • Employee Retention & Recruitment
• Supply Chain Responsibility • Supply Chain Disruption • Fleet Management
• Human Rights & Anti-Trafficking • Environmental Compliance • Network & Growth
• Community Outreach • Public Policy, Regulation,
& Transparency
• Board Composition
• Facilities Energy Use • Employee Training, Education, • Operational Performance
• Water Management & Career Development • Customer Satisfaction
• Board Oversight of ESG • Employee Compensation,
• Freedom of Association Benefits, & Health
& Collective Bargaining • Employee Experience, Culture,
& Engagement
• Marketing & Ethical Branding • Political Contributions
Impact on Southwest
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 12
Peo pl e
Looking back on 2023, we’re inspired by all the great things we can achieve when we lead with Heart and put People first. Throughout the
year, we continued our focus on Employee wellbeing, introducing new enhancements to our comprehensive Total Rewards package. We
supported Employees on their journey to achieve their full potential through expanded learning and professional development programs,
and strengthened our Culture of Belonging through progress on our DEI goals. And in support of our communities, we continued to invest in
partnerships and programs that drive economic, social, and environmental impact.
2023 Highlights 11
Company contributed
$941 M
• Launched seven ERGs to deliver value to our Employees
by organizing programs and events that align with what
new ratified agreements for
is important to them, including their identity, Culture,
workgroups with collective bargaining
personal Values, and career growth to 401(k) and ProfitSharing Plans
agreements (CBAs) since October 2022
• Introduced Southwest Learning Summit, an all-virtual
development opportunity featuring Employees, Leaders,
and external experts sharing career and development
15,283 19%
insights and best practices
• Expanded our work with Repurpose with Purpose partners:
Unshattered, Magpies & Peacocks, EcoRise, Scraplanta,
New Hires unique Employees volunteering
and Wearsos
People Section Framework Disclosures Key Topics
Employee Retention Employee Employee Training, Employee
SDGs GRI
& Recruitment Compensation, Education, & Career Experience, Culture,
Benefits, & Health Development & Engagement
201-3 401-1 403-5 404-2 405-2 409-1
203-1 401-2 403-6 404-3 407-1 413-1 Freedom of Association Diversity, Equity, Human Rights & Community
& Collective Bargaining & Inclusion Anti-Trafficking Outreach
203-2 401-3 404-1 405-1 408-1
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 13
Employee Retention & Recruitment Since its inception, Southwest Summer Camp has attracted At Southwest, we believe in
participants throughout our network, with many former
empowering Employees to
campers becoming proud Employees of Southwest.
create their own careers that
Broadening our outreach in 2023, we launched virtual The Southwest Hiring Experience: We strive to provide
quarterly job sessions. Aimed at high school students, all Southwest Candidates with an exceptional hiring fit the goals and lifestyle
parents, and educators, these sessions bring insights experience. All Southwest job postings below the VP level
Attracting and retaining top they want.
about Southwest career opportunities to classrooms now display starting pay ranges, wage rates, and benefits
talent is critical to our continued
nationwide. We also celebrated our first cadets being hired information. Pay transparency includes specific wage
success. We focus on growing the as First Officers from the Southwest Airlines Destination scale steps for positions under CBAs and salary ranges for
Our Career Mobility Team helps Southwest Employees
225° Program (D225), which guides aspiring professional Noncontract positions. This initiative, which exceeds legal
Southwest Family with individuals proactively prepare for internal career opportunities
aviators to Southwest via defined training and flight requirements in most of our hiring locations, aims to foster
who share our Company Values— through services like individual career advising sessions,
experience pathways. a transparent and equitable hiring process.
interview preparation resources, and virtual information
offering them a competitive Total
sessions. Career Mobility has grown consistently since its
Rewards package, comprehensive Supporting our continued commitment to DEI, many of our We’re constantly refining our hiring and employment
inception in 2020. In 2023, nearly 6,000 appointments
on-the-job training, and the recruitment initiatives focus on reaching underrepresented screening processes to facilitate the swift and efficient
were booked, with interview preparation being the most
groups. In 2023, we hired the first student from our onboarding of New Hires. These refinements include
resources they need to succeed. popular service. We also expanded our virtual event
work-study partnership with Paul Quinn College, a automating portions of our hiring process, conducting
presence to raise Employee awareness about various career
Historically Black College and University (HBCU) in Dallas, informational sessions and webinars for potential
opportunities within Southwest. Most internal opportunities
Texas. We also hosted eight summer Interns in our Campus Candidates, and offering virtual interview options.
are posted for seven days, allowing Employees to explore
Reach Neurodiversity Program, a college internship
and apply for roles that interest them, further supporting
program designed for neurodivergent individuals with In 2022, we updated our processes to require diverse
their career goals.
autism spectrum disorder. Of the eight Interns, four Candidate slates for all new open Leadership positions,
Recruitment accepted full-time Associate-level roles in our Technology ranging from Supervisor to VP. We perform quarterly
To enhance the Candidate Experience, we provide clear
Department through our Direct College Hire Program, audits on our Candidate slates to evaluate adherence to
and detailed information about open roles. We’ve created
which is open to individuals of all educational backgrounds, this commitment.
Our Talent Acquisition Teams dedicate themselves to “Day in the Life” videos, added specific landing pages to
and three accepted return internships for 2024.
building strong talent pipelines that inspire individuals from our Southwest Careers website, and hosted virtual pre-
all backgrounds to pursue meaningful careers at Southwest hire information sessions to provide a holistic overview
Employee Referral Program: Southwest Employees are Retention
Airlines. Several recruitment initiatives contribute to our of various job responsibilities. These efforts are designed
an invaluable resource for recruiting individuals who share
robust talent pipeline, including outreach and hiring events, to give Candidates and pre-hires a comprehensive
our Company Values and enrich our Culture. We continue
an Employee referral program, and working toward a more Southwest’s compensation strategy rewards hard-working understanding of potential roles and align expectations
to invest in our Employee Referral Incentive Program,
efficient and transparent hiring experience. Employees and boosts our market competitiveness. from the outset.
rewarding Employees for quality referrals that lead to
By increasing our starting hourly rates, all hourly
successful hires who remain with Southwest for at least
Events, Outreach, & Pipelines: Throughout 2023, Employees covered by CBAs earn at least $17 per hour, We closely monitor metrics like applicant-to-hire ratios,
six months.
Southwest Employees attended or sponsored more a change that reflects our commitment to current and time to hire, Candidate pipeline strength, New Hire
than 500 hiring and outreach events across 66 cities. prospective members of the Southwest Family. As part turnover, retention rates, and progress toward our DEI
Events ranged from career fairs to elementary school Southwest Summer Camp: This program offers of our comprehensive Total Rewards package, we also goals. Starting in 2023, we began tracking Candidate
visits and focused on current talent pools and building high-school-aged dependents of Southwest Employees cover parking costs for Employees at Stations or Bases. sentiment during the hiring process. We provide regular
future pipelines. Key 2023 events and outreach included insight into the diverse careers at Southwest Airlines We’re continuously working to improve our offerings to Stakeholder engagement across the organization,
Experimental Aircraft Association (EAA) AirVenture, Women through hands-on activities, departmental interactions, reward Employees and positively impact recruitment and involving both our People Department and internal
in Aviation International (WAI), and the Organization of and tours of facilities like the Leadership Education Aircrew retention efforts. Hiring Leaders in the decision-making process for future
Black Aerospace Professionals (OBAP). Development (LEAD) Center and maintenance hangar. recruitment and retention initiatives.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 14
Employee Compensation, Benefits, & Health
voluntary insurance benefits and health support services, set forth by the Company, or as specified in CBAs Regular communications are provided to our Employees
2023 Spotlight
to safeguard our Employees and their families. In 2023, we with specific workgroups. Employees meeting these to make them aware of and give them access to these
enhanced our health care offerings to include high-quality requirements, as defined, may use accrued unused sick resources throughout the year. From healthy living and
• Invested more than $1.7 billion in Employee orthopedic care and surgery, hypertension management, time to pay for medical and dental premiums (or pay them financial education sessions with retirement plan advisors
and access to top experts for rare and complex cancer in cash) from the age of retirement until age 65. All to mental health webinars, we offer a diverse range of tools
benefits, excluding Company contributions
treatments, with minimal or no cost for our Employees and post-retirement medical and dental benefits are and resources to help our Employees thrive.
to 401(k) and ProfitSharing Plans
their covered family members. Starting in 2024, we also unfunded, and Southwest pays benefits as they become
began providing immediate medical, prescription drug, due. Estimated future post-retirement benefit payments
• Invested $10 million to realign Noncontract
and dental coverage for New Hires, along with expanded expected to be paid are $15 million in 2024, $18 million in
Employee wages with changing market rates
fertility benefits to better support our Employees’ families. 2025, $19 million in 2026, $20 million in 2027, $21 million
in 2028, and $127 million for the next five years thereafter.
• Starting in 2024, we began providing
Southwest provides a comprehensive retirement program
immediate medical, prescription drug, and
to support our Employees’ long-term financial wellbeing.
dental coverage for New Hires, along with
This includes a 401(k) plan with a generous Company Employee Benefits
expanded fertility benefits to better support contribution of up to 9.3% of eligible earnings (Pilots
our Employees’ families received a 15% non-elective contribution in 2023),
complemented by a ProfitSharing Plan. In 2024, the
nature of Southwest’s 9.3% contribution will vary based
on Employee role. It could either be a dollar-for-dollar
We believe in supporting our Employees’ wellbeing in all
match up to the IRS limit or a mix of a contribution match
aspects of their lives. That’s why we offer a comprehensive
along with a non-elective contribution. Company match Health coverage Company-provided insurance Disability coverage
compensation and benefits package, enhanced by a
contributions are subject to limits specified by the Board of
wide variety of programs and resources targeted at our Including medical, mental, Life insurance and accidental death Short-term disability for Noncontract
Directors, the Internal Revenue Code, and applicable U.S.
prescription drug, dental, and and dismemberment insurance as Employees and Employees whose
Employees’ physical, mental, and financial health. An
Treasury regulations.
vision as well as an Employee well as optional life and other CBA provides, loss of license disability
effective total rewards package is essential to attracting and
Assistance Program. voluntary benefits. for Pilots, and conventional long-term
retaining great People who can deliver Southwest’s unique
In addition, Southwest may contribute a percentage of disability for all other Employees.
brand promise to our Customers.
its eligible pre-tax profits, as defined in the ProfitSharing
Plan, on an annual basis to the Southwest Airlines Co.
ProfitSharing Plan—a defined contribution plan. No
Benefits
Employee contributions to the ProfitSharing Plan are
allowed. The amount associated with Southwest’s
Post-retirement medical
Our substantial investment of more than $1.7 billion defined contribution plans expensed in 2023, reflected Financial benefits Paid time off
and dental coverage
in Employee benefits in 2023 (excluding Company as a component of salaries, wages, and benefits,
Including retirement savings Including vacations, personal time, Employees meeting service and
contributions to the 401(k) and ProfitSharing Plans) was$941 million.
through a 401(k) plan that includes sick time, disability, holidays, and age requirements (or the
underscores our commitment to the welfare of our People.
generous Company contribution, for Noncontract Employees and requirements specified in CBAs
For qualified Retirees, we also provide post-retirement
an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, other Employees whose CBA for specific workgroups) from the
We offer comprehensive health benefits, including benefits in the form of medical and dental coverage.
and a ProfitSharing Plan. provides, paid parental leave. age of retirement until age 65.
medical, prescription drug, dental, vision, and various Employees must meet service and age requirements as
To maintain competitive Noncontract salaries in line A stable and well-paid workforce can positively impact local
with the external market, we engage in multiple external economies in the communities where our Employees live
compensation surveys. Survey insights help guide the and work. Famous for our Employee-first corporate Culture,
refinement of our compensation structure. Additionally, Southwest maintains an unprecedented record of no
we regularly assess our Employees' salaries by calculating a involuntary furloughs or layoffs in its history. Additionally,
Salary Competitiveness Ratio every quarter. These valuable Southwest acknowledges the impact and importance of
insights help us keep our compensation practices aligned Employee wellbeing and is taking steps to enhance our
with market trends. Employee benefits in order to improve the health and
wellbeing of our workforce.
Employee compensation and benefits have a direct impact
on Southwest's current and future Employees and can also
impact external factors such as economic participation.
To that end, Southwest strives to offer fair and market-
competitive pay for all Employees. Our compensation
strategy recognizes and rewards performance, and Average Salary by Paygrade and Gender
positions Southwest to successfully retain our People.
Salary assessment by gender indicates very close parity within the organization between male and female salaries by grade level
We put processes in place to routinely evaluate all
compensation decisions for Noncontract Employees using
five basic principles:
• Market data sourced from reputable third-party surveys
• Internal equity, which evaluates pay relative to the pay of
other Employees performing similar work
• Position history of the individual Employee
• Performance of the Employee in their role
• Budget availability
Applying these basic principles reduces the risk of
compensation decision bias for our Employees not already
covered by CBAs.
As of December 31, 2023, approximately 83% of our total
Employee population is covered under CBAs that prescribe
compensation for all qualified Employees based generally
on seniority, which helps to eliminate any potential gender
(or other protected class) bias in compensation. For
Employees not covered by a CBA, the Average Salary by
Paygrade and Gender chart indicates a very close salary
parity between males and females within the organization.
22G 32G 42G 52G 62G 72G 82G 92G 03G 13G 23G 33G 43G 53G 63G 73G 83G 93G 04G 14G 24G 34G 44G 54G 64G 74G 84G 94G 05G 15G 25G 35G 45G 55G 65G 75G 85G 06G 16G 26G 36G 46G 76G 86G 96G 07G 17G
$500,000
$450,000
$400,000
$350,000
$300,000
$250,000
$200,000
$150,000
$100,000
$50,000
$
Employee Paygrades
Female Male
yralaS
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 15
Compensation By reviewing our Noncontract male and female salaries
by grade level, we can closely approximate a pay equity
comparison at the job level and determine the correlation
Our Compensation Philosophy states that,
of similar pay for similar work. The Average Salary by
“Our People are our single
Paygrade and Gender chart represents salaries for all
Noncontract Employees, with the exception of our Named
greatest strength and
Executive Officers, whose salaries are disclosed in the
Proxy Statement and determined by the Board of Directors.
most enduring long-term
Certain paygrades may have very few or only one Employee
within the grade level. We regularly review gender salary
competitive advantage.”
equity as part of our annual compensation evaluation.
In addition to internal comparisons, we regularly review
Noncontract Employee compensation through quarterly
reports, an annual merit cycle, and independent surveys.
These efforts help our pay rates remain competitive with
the external market. In 2023, we invested a total of $10
million to realign Noncontract Employee wages with
changing market rates, while also reaching agreement
on competitive wages for Employees in five different
workgroups represented by CBAs.
When comparing our Noncontract average Employee
salaries by gender to the external market salary midpoints
by gender, the results are similar, with variations between
the male and female ratios of less than 0.2% to the market
average. For both male and female Employees, average
salaries are slightly higher than the external
market midpoints.
Our benchmarking approach is thoughtfully tailored for
each workgroup, focusing on the total rewards offered
by competing employers. For Employees covered by a
CBA, we primarily compare rewards with those in the
airline industry. However, we also consider comparisons
with employers in warehousing, hospitality, call center
operations, and other sectors. In contrast, rewards for
Noncontract Employees are benchmarked against a diverse
group of employers, typically within the Fortune 500. This
includes companies in technology, finance, professional
services, and the airline industry.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 16
Employee Training, Education, & Operational Employee Training Hours
Career Development
2023 Spotlight and best practices. Each session focuses on a different
Company Value designed for Employees to understand
Flight Attendants
the importance of their roles at Southwest and how
• Launched the Southwest Learning they can bring their best selves to their Teams. This new 876,878
Customer and Source of
Summit, an all-virtual development event development opportunity provides accessible education
Pilots
Support Representatives
moments and inspires lifelong learning for Southwest
to inspire lifelong learning for any
1,187,013
Employees. Throughout 2023, nearly 4,000 Southwest 177,114
Southwest Employee
Employees attended a Learning Summit event.
• Expanded development opportunities for
Employees to continue their growth and
• Creating a Workplace of Belonging & Wellbeing
prepare Southwest for the future Training: In 2023, we launched the "Creating a
4.1M+
Workplace of Belonging & Wellbeing" training program
• Received the Don Clifton Strengths-Based to deepen Employees' understanding of Belonging
Ground Operations Technical Operations
Culture Award from Gallup and equip them with effective stress management
(Maintenance)
techniques. The program comprises mandatory courses 1,537,085
365,307
for Noncontract Employees that promote an inclusive Total training hours
and respectful work environment and guide Employees
At Southwest, we’re dedicated to inspiring our Employees
on how to help create a welcoming Culture for all.
to realize their full potential. From New Hires to seasoned
Several courses provide practical tools for managing
Leaders, we want our People to achieve their professional
stress and fostering wellbeing, as well as tips on excelling
goals through comprehensive and continuous learning and
in high-pressure scenarios. We assess participation and
personal growth. Our many development-focused teams,
engagement levels to gauge the program's effectiveness.
including Southwest Airlines University (SWAU), Talent
We've also introduced more development opportunities
& Leadership Development (T&LD), Flight Operations
for Leaders, including programming focused on
Training, Technical Operations Training, and other
inclusive Leadership.
departments are all passionate about cultivating talent.
2023 brought more highlights, including our Don Clifton
Recognizing the evolving needs of our workforce and
Strengths-Based Culture Award, which celebrates our
responding to Employee feedback for more learning
continued commitment to becoming the first Strengths-
and development opportunities, we continually update,
based airline. As of December 2023, all Noncontract
enhance, and introduce meaningful training and programs.
Employees received access to the Strengths assessment
Some of the 2023 highlights include:
and associated learning. We’re introducing Strengths to all
• Southwest Learning Summit: Our new all-virtual
Operational Leaders and Employees in some operational
development event features Employees, Leaders, and
workgroups in 2024, with access available for all Employees
external experts sharing career and development insights
planned for the end of 2025.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 17
Continuous Development February
Kick-Off
Our training and development approach evolves with management, UX design, digital marketing, and more. Alignment
Southwest Employees throughout their careers. The In 2023, we issued licenses to nearly 500 users, with 489 Conversation
journey begins on day one during onboarding. Southwest learners logging more than 3,832 total learning hours
New Hires undergo a thorough training program at and an average of 8.4 hours per learner. Based on this
our Corporate Campus in Dallas, Texas which includes early momentum, we expect even stronger participation
January
a celebratory welcome, an all-day onboarding class, in 2024.
End-of-Year 1:1
and extensive information on our Company Culture and 1st Quarter
benefits. Operational Employees receive additional training Expectation with
• Southwest Mentorship Program: In 2022, we Leader
focused on Safety and operational proficiency before Discussion
introduced a Companywide mentorship program, which
progressing to training aimed at upskilling.
offers a connection with another Employee and an
opportunity to work toward shared goals. The program
Beyond onboarding, we’re proud to offer various optional
emphasizes the value of mutual learning and relationship
learning opportunities for Employees to further their
building. Any Southwest Employee with at least six
Annual Performance
personal development throughout their careers. With
months of Southwest service can participate in the six-
different modalities, including classroom instruction, Management Cycle for 1:1
month formal mentorship to learn new skills and explore 1:1
2nd Quarter
distance learning, on-the-job training, mentoring, and 4th Quarter with
different areas of the business. Each pairing receives with Noncontract Employees
Leader
Leader
blended learning, Employees can shape their careers to fit
a comprehensive mentorship guidebook, access to a
their individual goals and lifestyles.
wealth of internal and external resources, and dedicated
support from the Mentorship Program Team to foster
• Southwest Learning Center: Created in 2020, meaningful connections. Since 2022, the program
this resource aims to meet the growing demand successfully paired 1,668 Employees.
1:1
for development tools. We encourage both new
with
and tenured Employees to take charge of their Leader July
• Performance Management: Noncontract Employees
professional and personal development by exploring Mid-Year
at Southwest engage in regular one-on-one meetings
the Center’s offerings. These offerings are quick (1:1s) with their Leader to support their professional 3rd Quarter Check-in
learning opportunities, including documents, videos,
development. These meetings are essential for
podcasts, and computer-based training. We updated the
Employees to receive feedback and discuss their
Southwest Learning Center to provide Employees with a
performance, development, and career aspirations.
clean, simple catalog of virtual training opportunities for Leadership Development • Leadership Conference: The Leadership Conference
Leaders are equipped with resources and monthly topics
required training and optional curriculum. aims to inspire and develop Southwest Leaders through
to keep 1:1s productive and focused on the Employee's
dynamic, engaging content. This annual two-day hybrid
growth. Performance check-ins for eligible Employees We’re committed to cultivating the next generation of
event includes Leadership Summit and Operations
• Google Career Certificates Program: We launched take place mid-year to review progress and year-end Southwest Leaders through various training programs.
Assembly sessions for Supervisors and above. The 2023
the Google Career Certificates program in 2023 for our to celebrate achievements and set priorities for the These programs are tailored to new and seasoned
Leadership Conference brought together hundreds of
operational Employees. Google Career Certificates are following year. Check-ins evaluate the Employee's Leaders, equipping them with the tools and skills needed
Southwest Leaders from more than 40 departments,
flexible, online training programs that enable participants behavior, performance, and development in alignment to lead effective Teams. Each training initiative focuses
furthering our commitment to shaping a Culture of
to upskill around high-demand, job-ready skills. Courses with our Company Values, competencies, and specific on enhancing Leadership competencies, including DEI,
learning and development.
range from data analytics and cybersecurity to project role priorities. business acumen, and other critical Leadership skills.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 18
• 360° Leadership Development Feedback Program: New initiatives like the Southwest Learning Summit reflect our dedication to fostering a Culture of continuous learning and
“Our investment in
In 2023, Managing Directors and Directors participated growth. As we continue to expand our career development efforts, we empower our Employees to achieve their full potential
in the Southwest 360° Leadership Development and better position Southwest for long-term success.
Leadership and Employee
Feedback Program. This program assists Leaders in
identifying and enhancing their strengths, recognizing
development programs
areas for improvement, increasing self-awareness, and
establishing specific development goals. Leaders in
continues to be a game-
the program completed a Leader 360° survey, received
a personalized feedback report analyzing Southwest
changer for engagement
Competencies for Leaders, and participated in a
one-on-one coaching session with a certified and retention efforts.
Gallup coach.
I'm proud of our work
• High Impact Development Portfolio: The High Impact
delivering on our Company
Development programs—High Impact Leader I and High
Impact Leader II—accelerate the development of our
Promise to provide a
high-performing Leaders by combining educational,
experiential, and reflective learning experiences with
stable work environment
virtual, in-person, and self-paced learning. These
programs are exclusively for Leaders with direct reports. with equal opportunity
The 2023 inaugural cohort of the High Impact Leader
I Program for Supervisors, Team Leaders, Assistant for learning and personal
Managers, and Managers included 45 Leaders who
growth by democratizing
represented a range of backgrounds and departments
within Southwest. Each participant contributed unique
learning, nurturing
perspectives and essential skills for leading Southwest
Airlines into the future. Since the programs began in
individual talent, and
2022, 116 Leaders graduated from High Impact I and II.
preparing Southwest for
future growth.”
Since 2022,
116 Leaders
have graduated
Kristi Owens
from High
Vice President, Talent
& Leadership Development
Impact programs.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 19
Employee Experience, Culture, & Engagement
We believe our Culture sets us apart from the competition. We drive participation through a consistent, year-round Employees to hear from Leadership, connect with Recognition
Our nine Company Values, which describe how we show up program cadence. each other, and celebrate accomplishments. And
as individuals, how we treat each other, and how we work throughout 2023, we continued to make the most of
Recognition is a long-standing part of the Southwest
together for the success of Southwest, are cornerstones Southwest Leadership takes an active role in supporting our these opportunities. Events included Southwest Rallies
Culture and we continue to invest in our recognition
of Southwest’s Culture. As a Company, we make a promise Company Culture. Clear goals and guidelines are set for our (our version of town halls, which have in-person and virtual
platform and programs. The Southwest Airlines Gratitude
to our Employees to provide a stable work environment SMC around conducting location visits, keeping Leadership options), annual Spirit Parties, recognition events such as
(SWAG) platform gives Employees the opportunity
with equal opportunity for learning and personal growth. focused on engaging with and listening to Frontline our Heroes of the Heart and President’s Award recipient
to recognize and thank one another and earn SWAG
Employees are provided the same concern, respect, Employees. Each year, SMC members who don't lead celebrations, and our Service Anniversary party—
Points that they can redeem for merchandise, gift cards,
and caring attitude within the organization that they Frontline workgroups, including all VP-level Leaders and a yearly celebration for Employees celebrating milestone
experiences, charitable contributions, and even Rapid
are expected to share with every Southwest Customer. above, are assigned to specific Southwest Stations. They’re anniversaries. We also continued long-standing traditions
Rewards® Points. These points can be earned through
Our Values, combined with our Company Promise and expected to make a designated number of annual visits such as our Halloween festivities and our annual
various Company programs, including:
Employee Promise, define The Southwest Way. or touchpoints with these Stations and provide feedback Chili Cookoff.
• Company Goals Incentive: At a Company level, we
on Employee morale and any follow-up actions needed.
designed a new 2023 Company Goals Incentive program,
Our award-winning Culture is about much more than The completion of these visits and the feedback gathered We continuously strive to improve our event experiences
establishing a metric and target for each of our five
making Southwest a great place to work. It’s a big part are reported monthly to the CEO, serving as a measure of and make them accessible and enjoyable for all. In 2023, we
Company goals for the year. Each quarter, we rewarded
of what drives our success as a Company. And because accountability for this engagement program. began adding an engagement dimension to our post-event
Employees with SWAG Points for progress toward
Culture is that important, we make it a strategic priority. satisfaction surveys. New questions seek to understand how
these goals.
Reinvigorating our winning Culture is the first of our Southwest has a rich history of investing in Employee Employees feel celebrated or appreciated after attending a
Foundational Five, a set of strategic priorities designed programs and events that create opportunities for Company event.
to help guide all the great work we’ll do through 2026. • Peer-to-Peer Programs: We have a strong peer-to-peer
Additionally, we designated Live our Southwest Way Values recognition program that enables Employees to send a
as one of five focus areas for 2023. Living our Southwest Kick Tail™ (thank you) to their Cohearts as well as various
Way Values means focusing on the “we” before “me.” We nomination programs for special SWAG Point-based
win when we support each other, serve others, and work awards, including our Spotlight Awards, Winning Spirit
together as a Team. Award, and President’s Award.
• Leader-driven Program: To reinforce the importance
Culture & Employee Engagement of Leader-to-Employee recognition, in 2023,
we reintroduced physical On the Spot cards to
complement our electronic On the Spot awards.
Culture Ambassadors are one of the many ways we invest
All People Leaders can give On the Spot awards of
in and strengthen Culture across the organization. Culture
SWAG Points to Employees who are going above and
Ambassadors are Southwest Employees in every location
beyond expectations.
that lead and champion Culture efforts at the local level.
They’re supported with dedicated training, supplies, and
internal digital platforms for idea and resource sharing. Within most of these recognition programs, the sender
We also provide each workgroup with their own annual selects the Value the recipient demonstrated, further
appreciation and meal budgets to recognize Employees for reinforcing our Company Values outlined in The
their hard work during times like peak seasons and holidays. Southwest Way.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 20
Improving the Moments that Matter Discover the Different Ways Feedback is Heard at Southwest
The Employee Experience Team at Southwest manages a dynamic and comprehensive strategy to actively engage with
At Southwest, every voice matters. Feedback is vital to help Southwest Leadership better understand
Employees and better understand their Southwest journey. This includes conducting biannual Companywide surveys that cover
and improve the Employee experience at Southwest Airlines.
a range of topics such as Teamwork, Belonging, resilience, career development, and even the impact of current events. These
insights are used to generate an Employee Engagement score, derived from five key engagement factors, and an Employee
• Companywide Employee Survey: In the spring and fall, Southwest opens the Companywide
Wellbeing score that assesses six aspects of wellbeing. Together with focus groups that provide deeper qualitative insights, these
Employee Survey to understand Employee engagement, overall sentiment, and
scores offer a comprehensive view of Employee sentiment and progress.
improvement opportunities
At the end of each year, these insights are used to develop department-level action plans, which are shared with Employees.
• Voice of Employee Panel: Open to all Employees, the Voice of Employee Panel uses short surveys
Additionally, we leverage different attributes of our Employees to review results, which allows for a more personalized
to gather feedback, input, and suggestions on a variety of topics for the Company and
representation of how our Employees are doing. Examples of these attributes are generation, tenure, department, and location.
working Teams
• Employee Focus Groups: Employee focus groups obtain feedback directly from Frontline
Employees via in-person or virtual guided discussions to more deeply understand moments that
matter, identify key pain points, and gain frontline expertise on projects in progress
• Operational Department Channels: Driven through each department’s specified channel,
Employees can voice concerns about day-to-day operational issues, submit reports, and provide
feedback to help identify and resolve issues as they arise
• SMC Cares: All members of our SMC adopt Southwest locations over a two-year term to connect
with Employees and Leadership
• Frontline Forums: Operational workgroups run forums to enable their Frontline Employees to
share expertise, discuss concerns, and develop potential solutions [e.g. President’s Council, Flight
Attendant Strategic Team (FAST), Customer Support & Services (CS&S) Advisory Board, Tech Ops
Council, Ground Operations Advisory Team]
• Company Sponsored Events: Company events such as Rally, Spirit Party, Chili Cookoff, and
Halloween provide opportunities for Employees to connect to our unique Culture and share
feedback directly with Leaders
• Employee Town Halls: Led by department and Company Leaders, these forums allow Employees
to hear directly from Leaders and participate in question and answer sessions
• Company Social Networks: Social networks such as All Company Viva Engage and SWA Culture
Facebook enable Employees to share their voice and engage with Cohearts
• Journey Moment Survey: Launched in 2023, these surveys offer Employees real-time feedback
opportunities at significant points in their journey with Southwest, such as onboarding
and offboarding
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 21
We’re dedicated to improving the Employee experience by Council, Diversity Council, and Culture Ambassadors, Development organization to improve the Employee
investing in the moments that matter along the Employee which are primarily composed of Frontline Employees. Experience locally. We conducted a listening tour that
journey. In 2023, we expanded our data collection efforts to When possible, we involve them early in the design of new included observation, job shadowing, and focus groups
include Journey Moment surveys. The effectiveness of each Employee-focused programs to help meet the needs of our to understand the opportunities to make the experience
moment is assessed using Employee Journey scorecards. diverse and widespread Employee population. better at specific locations. From there, we partnered with
Scorecards draw on many data sources, including Employee Teams to identify a series of projects aimed at making the
surveys and focus groups as well as other People data, Our focus on key moments continues to yield results. day-to-day Employee experience stronger.
relevant operational metrics, and benchmarking studies. Recent improvements to New Hire Onboarding are a
To further this effort, we identified specific Executives as great example for 2023. Building on our work in 2022,
More informally, we maintain and monitor an internal-only
Journey Moment “owners,” responsible for turning this the Onboarding Experience Team mapped the New Hire
Facebook group called SWACulture. The group started
enhanced data and visibility into actionable Employee experience from offer accepted through the end of the
as a way to help connect Employees and promote the
experience improvements. first year of employment. This helped guide improvement
Southwest Culture. As this channel has grown, it’s become
initiatives for 2023, including the continuation of our
a meaningful source of real-time sentiment and hot topics
We also launched another important channel in 2023 to WingMate program that pairs New Hires with a more
raised by our Employees. We incorporate SWACulture
capture Employee feedback called the Voice of Employee tenured Southwest Employee, as well as the launch of a
page metrics and posts with the highest engagement
Panel. Open to any Employee regardless of role or tenure, New Hire email campaign that provides more information
(both positive and negative sentiment) into our internal
ad hoc surveys pulse Employees on hot topics and capture relevant at specific times throughout their first year
communications measurement scorecard on a weekly
their input on focus areas. We follow each survey with an of employment.
basis for our executives. At the end of 2023, we had 22,679
email update about the results and what the responsible
Employees and Retirees on the site, with more than half of
Teams are doing with the feedback. We also actively Similarly, in 2023, we partnered with our Ground
those members active at any given time.
engage with Employee forums, such as our President’s Operations Department and People, Learning, &
“Since Southwest’s first flights more than 52 years ago, our People have been
our competitive advantage. Part of caring for our Employees is listening to their
feedback, and we conduct two Companywide surveys annually. Employees also
share feedback via department channels, participating in focus groups and
panels, and through other forums. We believe strongly that if we listen, and take
great care of our Employees, they will deliver outstanding Southwest Hospitality
to our Customers.”
Whitney Eichinger
Senior Vice President & Chief Communications Officer
Southwest Employee Snapshot 2023
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 22
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 23
Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining
2023 Spotlight At Southwest, we respect the legal rights of our Employees, The RLA requires an airline and the union to negotiate and
including the right to free association and collective to “exert every reasonable effort” to reach an agreement.
bargaining. Approximately 83% of our workforce is In the event the parties are unable to reach an agreement,
• Ratified new agreements with five represented by labor unions (as of December 31, 2023). either one or both parties may request the National “Our Labor Relations Team
workgroups in 2023—our Facilities The Railway Labor Act (RLA) establishes the right of our Mediation Board’s (NMB’s) mediation services. During
at Southwest Airlines is
Employees to organize and bargain collectively. Our this time, there is a long process that must be followed
Maintenance Technicians, Dispatchers,
approach to collective bargaining focuses on negotiating before the parties could be released from mediation and committed to negotiating in
Meteorologists, Mechanics and Related
agreements that achieve positive outcomes for our People consider “self-help,” which could include strikes by labor or
Employees, and Material Specialists
good faith with our Union
and Southwest. implementation of management’s proposals. Historically,
Southwest has always reached an agreement with its unions
• Since October 2022, Southwest ratified partners to reward Employees
The RLA governs Airlines' CBAs. Under the RLA, a CBA after going through mediation with the NMB, and 99% of all
agreements with 11 of 12 workgroups
does not expire, but instead becomes amendable on a mediation cases brought before the NMB since 1980 have and support our business.”
certain date. In 2023, we continued traditional negotiations resulted in an agreement.
and remain committed to reaching agreements with our
In 2023, we ratified new agreements with five workgroups— union partners in a timely manner. Senior Leadership, Our Annual Report on Form 10-K contains more
Adam Carlisle
our Facilities Maintenance Technicians, Dispatchers, including our Chief Operating Officer, regularly receive information on the various unions representing our
Meteorologists, Mechanics and Related Employees, and updates on progress made in negotiations by our Labor Employees. Southwest reviews its approach to collective Vice President, Labor Relations
Material Specialists. Additionally, in 2024, we ratified new Relations Department and Legal Team, and implementation bargaining on an ongoing basis, and as outlined in the
agreements with our Pilots, our Flight Attendants, and our schedules are put in place for changes when a new Annual Report on Form 10-K, CBAs are reviewed and
Ramp, Ops, Provisioning, and Cargo Employees. agreement is reached. renegotiated periodically.
Collective Bargaining Agreements Timeline
Since October 2022, 11 union-represented workgroups have ratified new agreements, covering more than 41,000 Southwest Employees
Negotiations Open
OCT 2022 DEC 2022 DEC 2022 JAN 2023 FEB 2023 APR 2023 JULY 2023 OCT 2023 JAN 2024 MAR 2024 APR 2024 APR 2024
Appearance Customer Service Flight Facilities Dispatchers Meteorologists Mechanics and Material Pilots Ramp, Ops, Flight Flight Simulator
Technicians Employees Instructors Maintenance Related Employees Specialists Provo, Cargo Attendants Technicians
Technicians
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 24
Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion
2023 Spotlight People Goals
• Launched Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) to spark Goal Actions Taken
engagement among our Employees within dimensions
of diversity or identity, focusing on connection, Hiring & Development
community, and career
Evolving hiring and development practices
Created Inclusive Hiring training for all Hiring Managers
• Introduced “Creating a Workplace of Belonging”
to support broadening our talent pipelines, including posting all
training to equip Employees with the necessary tools to new open Leadership positions (VPs and below) and Created a Pipeline and Programs Team within Talent Acquisition to focus on partnerships
across the country to aid in diversifying our talent pipeline
create a workplace Culture that is welcoming to all diverse Candidate slates
requiring for each role
• Encouraged participation in our Self-ID initiative by
SMC (Executive) Diversity
inviting Employees to voluntarily validate or share
personal information, giving us a more detailed view of
our workforce Our requirements for posting all new, open VP positions and requiring a diverse Candidate
Doubling racial diversity
the percentage of and
slate is part of our overall Talent and succession planning activities, which includes a focus
increasing gender diversity on building a diverse bench for our SMC
in our SMC
The DEI Department helps foster a Culture of Belonging based upon the by 2025 as compared to July 2020 Since 2020, we increased the racial diversity of our SMC Members by four percentage points
principles of equity and inclusivity for all Employees. We are committed
to a workplace where all Employees are valued for their individuality,
Senior Leadership Diversity
respected for their unique backgrounds and skills, and appreciated for
their contributions to our overall success.
Published our second annual DEI Report in May 2023 highlighting our efforts in People,
Culture, community, and supply chain and shared diverse demographics at each level of
We reflect our commitment to DEI in the practices and Teams that turn
increasing diversity in the organization
that commitment into innovation and positive change, including evolving Measuring progress in
our recruitment and development practices, creating robust community Senior Leadership as compared to July 2020 Among Senior Leadership, racial diversity increased from 15% to 18% and gender diversity
partnerships, and increasing diversity among Leadership. increased from 33% to 39%
Required a diverse Candidate slate for all open and new Senior Leadership positions
The People Goals table outlines the DEI goals we set in 2020 and the
actions we’ve taken toward achieving them. Our DEI goals are aimed
Community Partners
at strengthening our Culture and continuing to represent the diverse
communities we serve.
With more than 400 community partners, we're working to grow these relationships across
community partners
Engaging a breadth of the country and we work with our partners to help grow our Candidate pipelines
to leverage the Company’s relationships in sourcing
The Board of Directors committed to increasing diverse representation on
diverse talent In 2023, we participated in over 250 DEI-focused hiring and outreach events, engaging with
the Board by 2025 (as compared to 2020). For additional information on this
over 50,000 individuals throughout the country
commitment, please refer to Board Composition in the Governance section.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 25
The DEI Department focuses on four strategic areas to help and is led by Employees. They are open to all Employees
us identify opportunities, move our DEI efforts forward, and who support their missions. Corresponding with our
ERG Mission Statements
meet our goals. These focus areas include: cultural, heritage, and pride months, our seven ERGs
“Serving as the Executive
include Able@SWA, Black Excellence Advancing
• Culture and Values
Together@SWA (B.E.A.T.), Corazón@SWA, Military@SWA, Sponsor of B.E.A.T., I am
Ensuring an equitable and inclusive
• Talent
Out & Proud@SWA, Resilient Asian & Pacific Islander Able
Culture where Employees with disabilities
honored to champion the
• Brand, Reputation, and Social Topics @SWA®
Descendants@SWA (R.A.P.I.D.), and Women@SWA. These can participate fully and meaningfully
professional development
• Communication and Reporting groups embody our commitment to diversity and inclusion,
helping us realize our full potential by supporting
of Black Employees
our Employees.
Creating an inclusive environment by
through dedicated career
Culture and Values celebrating Black Culture and experiences,
B.E.A.T.
We also launched our ERG Community Grants program,
education, impactful @SWA® ensuring Members feel appreciated, seen
which further bolsters the impact of our ERGs in the and cared for
Our approach to DEI is deeply rooted in who we are and
mentorship, and community-
communities we serve, fosters teamwork and collaboration
what we stand for as a Company. We’re a Company of
within the ERG membership, and allows ERGs to allocate
focused initiatives. I take
People from diverse Cultures, backgrounds, experiences,
funds for investment in the nonprofit organizations who Fostering our Hispanic/Latino/a/x
and viewpoints. And we recognize, respect, and value those
pride in supporting this
are addressing the pressing issues that impact our diverse community and promoting diversity
Corazón
differences. We firmly believe that a Culture that embraces
communities. Each ERG was provided a grant budget of @SWA® through professional development and
transformative program to
and leverages diversity fosters competitive advantages
community service
$2,500 to award to one to two nonprofits of their choice. In
in Teamwork and innovation that drive our success. Each
positively impact not only
total, eight deserving nonprofit organizations received ERG
Employee contributes their unique talents, creativity, and
Community Grants totaling $17,500. Black Employees, but also
individuality, making Southwest the incredible Company
Providing a community of support and
it is today. contributing to the growth of camaraderie by connecting military
Military
@SWA® veterans and their Cohearts with
Southwest Airlines.”
We invest in a number of important initiatives that bring knowledgeable resources
our inclusive Culture and Values to life. In recent years,
we launched our “Every. Single. One. Of. Us.” Campaign, a
Advancing our Culture of inclusivity for
narrative that underlines our commitment to DEI and every Tony Roach
the LGBTQ+ community and their allies by
Employee's importance in our Company. We also reinstated Out & Proud
@SWA® empowering Cohearts to be their
Senior Vice President &
our Diversity Council and published our first DEI Report
authentic selves
in 2022, which provides a transparent account of our DEI Chief Customer Officer Executive
journey. The 2023 DEI Report is available for download Sponsor of B.E.A.T.@SWA
at SouthwestOneReport.com.
Building a community where Employees
can identify with and celebrate Asian &
R.A.P.I.D.
Through resources, events, recognition, and celebrations @SWA® Pacific Islanders' Culture and develop
of Culture, heritage, and pride, we continue to provide our professionally
Employees with educational tools and opportunities to
celebrate their unique identities. In addition to our ERGs, our Employee-led Groups (ELGs)
began in 2021 to create communities based on similar Creating a space for women to express
their diverse perspectives, encourage
2023 marked the official launch of our ERGs. ERGs are interests amongst Employees. ELGs are an Employee- Women
@SWA® professional development, build
Company-sponsored and are organized around specific driven, inclusive, and organic way to build connectedness
leadership skills, and mentor Cohearts
dimensions of diversity or identity. Aligned with our and enhance a sense of Belonging. We have more than 19
Southwest Values, each ERG has two Executive Sponsors ELGs based on topics that are important to our Employees.
Throughout 2023, we took great pride in celebrating Talent
various cultural, heritage, and pride months. These
commemorations honor the diversity of our Employees
Southwest is committed to cultivating an inclusive
and the communities we serve. We celebrated occasions
environment and a Culture of Belonging throughout the
such as Black History Month, Women's History Month,
talent lifecycle. This includes inclusive recruiting and
Asian American & Pacific Islander Heritage Month, LGBTQ+
hiring efforts and supporting current Employees with the
Pride Month, Hispanic Heritage Month, National Disability
right resources and training, all the way to Leadership
Employment Awareness Month, and Veterans Day.
development and succession planning.
Our annual Inclusion Summit is focused on making
The DEI Department formed an Executive Steering Group
authentic connections and fostering inclusion in
to support, among other things, the strategic direction of
the workplace. The theme for 2023 was “Authentic
our DEI-focused talent initiatives. Recent strides include
Conversations,” focused on having meaningful, inclusive
evolving Southwest’s talent acquisition processes by
dialogue that Employees can leverage in both their
requiring diverse Candidate slates for new, open Leadership
personal and professional lives. Our Inclusion Summit
positions (VPs and below), as well as inclusion hiring
encourages Employees to step outside of their comfort
training for all hiring Leaders. We continue to work with our
zone and get to know someone whose background,
community partners in developing diverse and inclusive
experiences, and story may differ from their own—
talent pipelines and expanding recruiting efforts.
recognizing this is the best path to fostering a Culture
of inclusivity.
We provide DEI training and educational resources to all
Employees, with a strong emphasis on training for those Senior Management Committee Executive Diversity
Our commitment to DEI supports our Company Values.
in Leadership roles. In 2022, we introduced mandatory
We offer resources for Employees to report instances where Since 2020, we've seen an increase in the racial diversity of our SMC from 10% to 14%
Inclusive Leadership training for all Leaders. More than
others may not align with these Values. Discrimination,
6,000 Leaders and Employees completed our ‘Building
bullying, retaliation, or harassment contradicts our
a Diverse and Inclusive Workforce’ training, focused
DEI mission and Vision, violates our policies, and is
on recognizing and addressing unconscious bias in
20%
not tolerated.
the workplace and promoting an inclusive recruiting
process. A key focus for 2023 was fostering an environment
of Belonging. We launched a comprehensive training
15%
program for all Employees titled “Creating a Workplace of
Belonging.” This training, consisting of several courses and
a resource guide, defines Belonging and its role in driving
our shared success. 10%
In 2023, we built on our momentum by introducing
quarterly resources, including learning guides, conversation
5%
guides, activities, and fireside chats. These tools not only
increase DEI acumen across the organization but also
offer foundational knowledge for Employees seeking to
0%
understand the significance of DEI at Southwest. Topics 2020* 2021^ 2022` 2023ˆ
covered include dimensions of diversity, personal bias,
and authentic conversations.
%01 %11 %21 %41
Racial Diversity
Goal 20%
35%
30%
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0%
2020* 2021^ 2022` 2023ˆ
*as of 7/31/2020 ^as of 12/31/2021 `as of 12/31/2022 ˆas of 12/31/2023 *as of 7/31/2020 ^as of 12/31/2021 `as of 12/31/2022 ˆas of 12/31/2023
%82 %13 %52 %42
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 26
Gender Diversity
Goal 29%
We have more
than 19 ELGs based
on topics that
are important to
our Employees.
Percent Racially Diverse Goal Percent Female Goal
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 27
Brand, Reputation, and Social Topics Our "Celebrate with Service" initiative further exemplifies Communication and Reporting
our dedication to social and economic progress by
spotlighting community partners and encouraging our
Over the years, our many efforts to foster a Culture of Effective communication and reporting are important
Employees to support causes that resonate with them.
Belonging have helped weave DEI into the fabric of parts of our DEI journey. These elements not only foster
Through these and other initiatives, we aim to champion
Southwest’s brand and reputation. Through a variety transparency but also help guide our strategic decisions
DEI within Southwest Airlines, while setting a standard
of initiatives—from crafting our DEI narrative, "Every. and actions.
Single. One. Of. Us.", to the formation of our Social Topics for corporate responsibility and community engagement
Committee, our commitment to supplier diversity, and that reflects our Core Values and enhances our brand and
Our DEI Department, with oversight from our Executive
our community partnerships—we not only enhance ESG reputation in the eyes of all our Stakeholders.
Steering Group, drives communication efforts to build
ratings, rankings, and awards but also strengthen our DEI
a shared language and understanding around DEI.
brand internally with our Employees and externally with our Established in 2015, Southwest’s Social Topics Committee
This involves championing both informal and formal
Customers, communities, and partners. is a cross-functional executive forum that reviews and
conversations to deepen perspectives on our DEI Vision.
proposes responses to current social topics and evaluates
Regular updates and open dialogues help us lead strong
By partnering with nonprofit organizations that focus on areas to take proactive actions.
communication efforts, where all voices within Southwest
DEI in historically underrepresented groups, including
are heard and valued. This approach enables us to track and
HBCUs and Hispanic-serving institutions, we strive to attract Like many other companies, we’re on a journey. We
assess our progress while maintaining consistent reporting
outstanding Candidates and demonstrate our commitment recognize there’s always more we can do to make our
to our Board of Directors and Executive Leaders.
to inclusivity. Hiring events such as the WIA and the work environment even better and even more accepting.
Organization of OBAP, along with hosting tour days for
In order to reach our goals and aspirations, we must allow
Understanding and monitoring our progress toward our DEI
programs like the OBAP Aerospace Career Education (ACE)
for vulnerability, engage in courageous conversations, and
goals is crucial. We prioritize listening to our Stakeholders—
Academy, exemplify our proactive approach. These efforts
listen to our Employees, Customers, and communities.
Employees, Customers, communities, and Shareholders.
are not just about recruitment; they're about building bridges
Their feedback is instrumental in identifying our strengths
and fostering an environment where everyone, regardless of
and opportunities for growth.
their background, feels they belong and can thrive.
To this end, we employ various methods to track our effectiveness:
• Employee Surveys: Conducted biannually, these surveys provide insight into the overall Employee experience and perceptions of DEI at Southwest
• Voice of Employee Panel: This panel, open to all Employees who opt in, offers a platform for frequent feedback through brief monthly surveys. The insights gained here inform
initiatives like the Self-ID campaign and allow us to fine-tune our approach to DEI
• Completion of DEI Training and Education: Tracking the completion rates of our DEI training programs helps us know that our Employees are equipped with the knowledge
and skills to contribute to an inclusive workplace
• Evaluation of DEI Events: We regularly assess the impact of our DEI events, such as quarterly Town Halls and the Inclusion Summit, to gauge their effectiveness and gather
Employee feedback
• Retention, Recruiting, and Promotion Metrics: These metrics provide a clear picture of our progress in creating a diverse and inclusive workplace
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 28
Self-Identification Stakeholder Engagement
“Inclusion has always been
Engaging with our Stakeholders is a key component of our DEI strategy. Our Diversity Council and DEI Executive Steering Group play a
Recognizing that having more robust
at the Heart of Southwest.
crucial role in this process. Additionally, our Customer Accessibility Advisory Committee works closely with the disability community to
information about our workforce
shape policies and procedures to strengthen inclusivity in all aspects of our service.
helps us to better facilitate dialogue We recognize that all
around initiatives that create a sense
Our Stations actively participate in acknowledging cultural, heritage, and pride months, allowing our Customers to engage with our DEI backgrounds, experiences,
of Belonging, in 2023, we launched
efforts. This engagement extends to our ERGs and includes public events like the Inclusion Summit, fostering a sense of community and
a voluntary Self-ID campaign for
shared commitment to DEI. and perspectives can make
Employees to validate or share their
an incredible impact on
personal information. Encouraging
As we advance in our DEI journey, we continually use Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to measure the success of our efforts. These KPIs
Employees to voluntarily share include Employee surveys, Self-ID data, completion rates of DEI training, and metrics related to retention, recruiting, and promotion. This
our Company. An inclusive
dimensions of diversity including data-driven approach keeps us aligned with our DEI objectives and enables us to make informed decisions for the future.
disability status, military status, military work Culture is all about
spouse status, and sexual orientation can
fostering a sense of
help us:
Belonging. That is done by
• Learn more about our People
building relationships and
• Support Southwest Employees with
engaging with one another.
more effective programs
It’s the stories we share, the
• Measure the success of our
DEI initiatives perspectives we provide, and
• Make data-driven decisions that help the encouragement we offer.
create a sense of Belonging
We are committed to being a
• Inform the types of nonprofit
place where Employees feel
organizations we partner with
around volunteer initiatives and welcomed and encouraged to
other programs
bring their best selves
to work.”
All members of our SMC, along with
more than 30% of Southwest Employees
hired since the program’s inception,
Juan Suarez
participated in the Self-ID campaign.
We’re committed to exploring further
Vice President, Diversity, Equity,
strategies to drive additional
& Inclusion
Employee participation.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 29
The Southwest Airlines Combating Trafficking in Persons
Human Rights & Anti-Trafficking
Compliance Plan describes (1) prohibited trafficking
activities, (2) the Company’s programs, policies, and Changing Lives Through
partnerships aimed at combating human trafficking, (3) the
Business: Empowering Human
Company’s mechanisms for reporting suspected human
2023 Spotlights In 2023, 71% of Southwest Employees completed human
Trafficking Survivors
trafficking, (4) recruitment and housing requirements, and
rights training. Classes included “Combating Human
(5) requirements applicable to subcontractors and agents.
Trafficking Through Awareness and Action,” “It’s a Matter
• Collaborated with the Southwest Network Through annual communication and special events like Every survivor of human trafficking should
of Respect,” and “A Safety Story: Teaming up Against
Operations Control (NOC) Ground Human Trafficking.” We encourage all Employees to January’s Human Trafficking Prevention Month, we work have the tools and community to rebuild
to keep all Employees informed about our role in their lives. Since 2012, Jacksonville, Florida
Operations Team to provide extra support bring any questions or concerns regarding harassment,
anti-trafficking throughout the year. nonprofit Rethreaded has been providing a
sexual harassment, discrimination, or retaliation to their
for more than 44 trafficking victims on their
safe, supportive work environment where
Leaders or to the Employee Relations Team. Inquiries are
journey to restoration
human trafficking survivors earn money
reviewed and addressed by the Employee Relations Team Externally, we actively partner with a number of
while learning new skills and experiencing
promptly, impartially, and discreetly under Southwest organizations dedicated to combating human trafficking
• Added Rescue America as a partner in our
healing through community. Women begin
Airlines Policy Concerning Harassment, Sexual Harassment, including New Friends New Life, Polaris, Rescue America,
Points for a Purpose program
to rethread their lives with this critical
Discrimination, & Retaliation. and United Against Human Trafficking. We support these
support, and according to Rethreaded, 85%
organizations in a variety of ways including donations,
• Supported Human Trafficking Prevention of women who come to Rethreaded never
participation in programs and events, and our Points for a
Month in January with the creation of return to trafficking.
Purpose Program. We collaborated with the NOC Ground
Anti-Trafficking
a dedicated Human Trafficking
Operations Team to provide extra support for trafficking
Rethreaded joined Southwest Airlines’
awareness channel to our inflight
victims, including special assistance for those traveling
As part of our commitment to human rights, we put a Repurpose with Purpose program in
entertainment programming
without identification. Throughout 2023, we aided more
2017. Through capacity building grants,
strong organizational emphasis on combating human
than 44 victims in their travel journey.
Rethreaded developed, designed, and
trafficking. Our combating trafficking and victim recovery
produced a line of leather accessories made
efforts are multifaceted, involving both internal and external
Southwest is committed to doing the right thing to protect
Through our Repurpose with Purpose program, we also from upcycled Southwest aircraft seat leather.
strategies to help address this global issue. Southwest
and promote human rights in every aspect of our business
support Rethreaded, an organization dedicated to providing Support from Southwest has also allowed
takes steps to recognize and respond to human trafficking
as outlined in the Company’s Human Rights Policy. We
a safe, supportive work environment where human Rethreaded to scale its operations and create
activities that may occur within our Company, in our supply
implement policies and procedures that support and
a new revenue stream through its Corporate
trafficking survivors earn money while learning skills and
chain, on our aircraft, and in the airports we serve.
respect the protection of human rights within our sphere
Gifts of Hope Program. Rethreaded is also
experiencing healing through community.
of influence. By complying with applicable laws and
a community leader, raising awareness of
Internally, our Employees are deeply passionate about
establishing and upholding appropriate policies, we seek to the impact of human trafficking by hosting
During the January 2023 Human Trafficking Prevention
supporting our combating trafficking and victim recovery
help guard against any potential human rights abuse. groups to participate in the “Reclaim the
month, we added a dedicated channel to our inflight
efforts. We integrate trafficking awareness into our learning
Light Volunteer Experience,” educating
entertainment portal with content focused on raising
curriculum, with mandatory training for certain workgroups
Our approach to human rights is consistent with people on the availability of resources and
trafficking awareness.
and optional training for others. Our Ops Strategy &
international standards, and we support and align with U.N. trauma-informed care. In 2023, Southwest
Delivery Team leads our efforts to help our training keep
Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights, the Employees from our Jacksonville Station
International Bill of Human Rights (Universal Declaration pace as human trafficking evolves around the world. Southwest supports human rights as an employer, participated in the training and spent their
of Human Rights and the International Covenants on a business partner, and a global citizen. We seek to serve volunteer time deconstructing Southwest
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and International Our Human Rights Policy Statement outlines our stance the interests of our Employees, Customers, Shareholders, seats, which went into the production
Covenants on Civil & Political Rights), and the International on labor issues, including human trafficking and forced and other Stakeholders, all while fostering a creative and process to make new Rethreaded products.
Labor Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental labor, and we expect suppliers to comply with applicable innovative workforce, and giving back to the communities
Principles and Rights at Work. laws, including those regarding child and/or forced labor. we serve.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 30
impact and community resilience. The Foundation's Recognizing the urgent need for flexible travel, we offered Alongside focused outreach efforts like disaster relief,
Community
mission is to effect meaningful change by investing in additional accommodations for our Customers traveling Southwest invests in flagship annual programs to help
transformational programs and initiatives that promote to, from, or through Kahului (Maui), allowing them to make sure we’re taking care of our communities
Outreach
equity, prosperity, and sustainability. The Foundation rebook with no fare differences. With the help of our strong year round.
presence in the Hawaiian Islands and relationships with
creates a permanent trust where corporate charitable
local organizations, we donated more than $500,000 in
donations can be preserved and invested for future use.
• Employees Catastrophic Assistance Charity: Since
cash and air travel toward emergency response efforts,
its founding in 1990, this independent 501(c)(3)
2023 Spotlight
transporting more than $8,000 worth of goods using
Southwest employs a strategic approach to manage and
organization offers a beacon of hope to Southwest
Southwest Cargo.
measure the effectiveness of our community outreach
Employees facing catastrophic events in their lives.
efforts. The Local Outreach Coordination Executive
• Contributed more than $18 million in Funded through Employee payroll deductions, private
Our collaboration with Hawaii law enforcement and
Steering Committee meets monthly to review and align our
total corporate giving to nonprofits and local firefighting agencies included cycling in volunteer donations, honorariums, and fundraisers, the Charity
initiatives and resources with our Company objectives and
distributed more than $16 million to assist and support
civic organizations firefighters to support continuous relief efforts. We
the needs of local communities. A dedicated Social Topics
provided flights to volunteers from University of Hawaii our Southwest Family since its inception.
Committee also meets regularly to discuss pressing social
athletics, nonprofit organizations, and 150 different vendors
• Donated more than $500,000 in in-kind
issues like DEI, human trafficking awareness, and mental • Medical Transportation Grant Program: MTGP has
bringing in critical supplies. In total, we provided more
and monetary donations to support Maui
health and wellbeing. These proactive discussions help been a cornerstone of our community outreach efforts
than 500 complimentary round trip flights to support relief
wildfire relief efforts
guide our engagement strategies and maximize our impact since 2007. The program provides vital transportation
efforts. Additionally, we operated an emergency airlift
in the communities we serve. to relocate more than 130 cats and dogs in Maui animal assistance to patients requiring specialized medical care,
• Pledged $290,000 over four years to the
along with their families. We’ve provided more than
shelters to Portland, Oregon.
17 awardees of The Southwest Airlines® We review our partnerships and contributions quarterly $42 million in free transportation to 117 nonprofit
Founders and The Southwest Airlines® and evaluate their effectiveness through impact reports Our Hearts remain with the Maui communities affected hospitals and medical organizations across 28 states,
and ongoing dialogues with key partners and Stakeholders. by the wildfires and we continue to engage in the island’s supporting more than 100,000 patients and caregivers
Community Scholarships
Impact metrics, ranging from program outcomes long-term recovery. over the past 16 years.
• Provided transportation to 80 nonprofit and impact stories, to fundraising amounts and event
sponsorships help us track the tangible difference we
hospitals and medical organizations
make in each community. Budgets and partnerships are
through the MTGP
adjusted as needed to keep our community engagement
efforts aligned with evolving community needs and
We focus on three principles to advance our Corporate
Southwest’s goals.
Responsibility efforts: loving People, building resilience,
and living responsibly. We bring these principles to life by
supporting partnerships and programs that drive economic,
Loving People: Taking Care of People because
social, and environmental impact. Southwest cultivates
We’re More than an Airline
relationships with more than 400 national, state, and local
organizations across the country. Whether it’s doing our
part in disaster response, providing access to education We want to be there when our communities need us most.
and career development, or promoting environmental As the second-largest air carrier in Hawaii, operating more
sustainability, we help the communities where our than 90 daily flights that touch the Hawaiian Islands, we
Customers and Employees live and work thrive. put our Hearts in Action after the Maui wildfires. We rapidly
increased our service across the Pacific and within the state
Many of our community outreach initiatives are funded by to transport People, pets, and critical supplies. This involved
The Southwest Airlines Foundation. This corporate-advised introducing a $19 inter-island fare and reducing our pet
fund serves as an extension of our commitment to social fare to $1 to facilitate evacuations.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 31
Building Resilience: Empowering to eligible dependents of Southwest Airlines Employees,
supporting their pursuit of higher education.
Communities to Thrive
Our scholarship programs, workforce development • The Southwest Airlines® Community Scholarship
initiatives, and other outreach programs are designed (previously the Southwest Airlines Scholarship): Introduced
to build resilient communities by supporting individuals in 2021, this scholarship is geared toward building a
seeking personal and professional growth. Southwest’s diverse talent pipeline and inspiring future generations
scholarship programs provide opportunities for students to consider careers within the airline industry. It offers
across the United States to pursue their educational dreams, financial support to students nationwide, encouraging
particularly in the aviation industry. In 2023, Southwest exploration of various roles in aviation.
pledged $290,000 over four years to 17 awardees, who also
received two round trip tickets to stay connected with their
Our 2023 scholarship recipients represent a diverse
loved ones during their educational journey.
group of ambitious students from universities nationwide,
including the University of Tennessee, Tuskegee University,
• The Southwest Airlines® Founders Scholarship and Harvard College. Most awardees are just beginning
(previously the Herbert D. Kelleher and Rollin W. King their college adventures and have their eyes on an aviation
Scholarship): This scholarship, now in its 41st year, is a career, working toward degrees ranging from aerospace
tribute to our founders. It provides financial assistance engineering to aviation business administration.
Educating Students from Coast to Coast
Recipients of the Southwest Airlines Founders Scholarship and the Southwest Airlines Community
Scholarship are pursuing educational opportunities throughout the country
Portland, OR Cambridge, MA
Amherst, MA
Queens, NY
Amherst, NY
Moraga, CA
Baltimore, MD
Las Vegas, NV Elizabeth City, NC
Stillwater, OK Johnson City, TN
Kennesaw, GA
Macon, GA
Tuskegee, AL
Waco, TX
Daytona Beach, FL
17
Total Scholarship Recipients*
*One recipient remains undecided.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 32
Beyond scholarships, we collaborate with nonprofits and Southwest. It trains and empowers future Pilots through
educational institutions on several workforce development four different pathways to gain aviation experience,
initiatives designed to introduce students to the wide array including Cadet, Military, University, and Employee
of career opportunities in the aviation industry. routes, and has more than 450 participants.
• Southwest Internship Opportunities: Through paid
• Adopt-A-Pilot® Program (AAP): Celebrating its 25th
internships in various departments, students gain
Anniversary in 2023, this program inspired thousands
valuable experience and exposure to Southwest’s
of fifth-grade students nationwide to explore careers
unique Culture, further supporting their educational and
in aviation. Southwest Pilots connect with classrooms,
professional development.
providing mentorship and engaging students in STEM-
focused activities and experiments. This program not
• ¡Lánzate!/Take Off! Travel Award Program:
only educates but also ignites a passion for aviation in
In partnership with the Hispanic Association of Colleges
young minds.
and Universities, this program supports students
• D225° Pilot Pathways Program: Launched in 2019, this pursuing higher education far from home by providing
program trains aspiring Pilots for potential careers at airline tickets, reducing the financial burden of travel.
Destination 225° Pilot Pathways
Training future Pilots to fly The Southwest Way through four pathways
Cadet Pathway University Pathway Military Pathway Employee Pathway
Trains new or private Pilots with the For individuals interested in pursuing Allows experienced, passionate, and Designed for Southwest Employees
skills needed to become a Southwest a four-year degree that will lead them well-trained aviators to learn how to who have some flight experience
First Officer in as little as four years. toward a career as a Southwest Pilot. fly The Southwest Way. This pathway (private Pilot’s license or higher) and
There's no typical Candidate or Students at our partner universities bridges the gap for Pilots with provide them the training needed
background for the pathway, and all work on their degree and flight time fixed-wing turbine experience to achieve their goal of flying
are welcome to apply. while receiving guidance and a direct interested in launching their civilian for Southwest.
path to becoming a Southwest flying career.
First Officer in as little as two years
after graduation.
439 205 7 259 163 5 8 7 4 22 7 2
Active New New First Active New New First Active New New First Active New New First
Participants Participants Officers Participants Participants Officers Participants Participants Officers Participants Participants Officers
Destination 225° Pilot Pathways
Training future Pilots to fly The Southwest Way through four pathways
Cadet Pathway University Pathway Military Pathway Employee Pathway
Trains new or private Pilots with the For individuals interested in pursuing Allows experienced, passionate, and Designed for Southwest Employees
skills needed to become a Southwest a four-year degree that will lead them well-trained aviators to learn how to who have some flight experience
First Officer in as little as four years. toward a career as a Southwest Pilot. fly The Southwest Way. This pathway (private Pilot’s license or higher) and
There's no typical Candidate or Students at our partner universities bridges the gap for Pilots with provide them the training needed
background for the pathway, and all work on their degree and flight time fixed-wing turbine experience to achieve their goal of flying
are welcome to apply. while receiving guidance and a direct interested in launching their civilian for Southwest.
path to becoming a Southwest flying career.
First Officer in as little as two years
after graduation.
439 205 7 259 163 5 8 7 4 22 7 2
Active New New First Active New New First Active New New First Active New New First
Participants Participants Officers Participants Participants Officers Participants Participants Officers Participants Participants Officers
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 33
Additional community initiatives include:
• Human Trafficking Awareness: We support organizations combating human trafficking, contributing to the rescue, recovery, and
restoration of survivors.
• DEI: Southwest has supported diverse nonprofit organizations for more than two decades, accelerating social and economic
advancement in diverse communities across the country.
Through these efforts, Southwest Airlines aims to build community resilience by empowering individuals through education, career
development, and supportive community initiatives. We look to create lasting, positive change that helps communities thrive.
Living Responsibly: Building Sustainable Communities
Repurpose with Purpose embodies our commitment to living responsibly. This award-winning initiative upcycles items such
as aircraft seat leather and transforms them into new products. Through Repurpose with Purpose, Southwest partners with
organizations worldwide to reimagine thousands of pounds of materials annually, helping keep them out of landfills. Repurpose
with Purpose is more than just an environmental sustainability program; it represents our dedication to positively impacting the
communities we serve.
In 2023, we continued to expand the reach of Repurpose with Purpose by enhancing our work with our partners, including:
• Unshattered: Our collaboration with Unshattered, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit social enterprise, aligns with our sustainability goals
and social impact Vision. In 2023, we supported Unshattered's mission to end the addiction relapse cycle through economic
independence and sustained sobriety by donating used leather from Southwest aircraft. Unshattered’s Possibilities Take Flight
collection features upcycled travel bags handcrafted by women in recovery, with all proceeds supporting their journey toward
healing and growth beyond addiction.
• Magpies & Peacocks: Our partnership with this Houston-based nonprofit design house that plays a crucial role in disrupting the
fashion industry's waste cycle transformed leather from our aircraft seats into their Take Flight Collection—a chic, wearable fashion
line. This collaboration reimagines post-consumer textiles and fosters creativity and sustainability education within the community.
• EcoRise and Scraplanta: EcoRise is a nonprofit organization that mobilizes a new generation of leaders to design healthy, just, and
thriving communities for all. Our collaboration supports their National Student Innovation Fund, which provides grants for student
designed sustainability projects and expands our Repurpose with Purpose Goes to School program to Atlanta, GA and Austin, TX.
This initiative connects used aircraft seat leather to classrooms, providing students with hands-on experiences in sustainability and
creative reuse, nurturing environmental literacy and sustainable practices at a young age.
• Wearsos: Wearsos—where fashion meets purpose—is a social enterprise on a mission to inspire change and create a better
future. Wearsos is dedicated to transforming lives through upcycling and providing employment opportunities for marginalized
individuals. Championing women's empowerment and education, Wearsos is creating impact within communities in Costa Rica.
Using donated aircraft seat leather from Southwest, the Wearsos Collection of bags and accessories is handcrafted by artisans in
the heart of Turrialba, Costa Rica.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 34
Impact of Southwest Volunteers
Southwest Employees create community wherever they are by putting their Hearts in action through
volunteerism and giving back. Southwest offers incentives to encourage Employees to log their volunteer
hours, as well as a matching program where nonprofits earn tickets in-kind for Employee volunteer efforts.
Orange County/
Orlando, FL
Santa Ana, CA
• Volunteer Ambassadors: Every year, hundreds of Southwest Employees go beyond their normal roles
4,239
6,596
and responsibilities to serve as Volunteer Ambassadors. Through volunteer engagements such as
supporting traveling Make-A-Wish® families, serving dinner at Ronald McDonald Houses® across the
country, or supporting Earth Month, our Volunteer Ambassadors play a key role in championing the
causes that matter most to our communities, Employees, and Company.
Phoenix, AZ Sacramento, CA
• Heart In Action Month: We run a dedicated campaign in November to elevate awareness of our impact
9,323 5,609
programs, motivate Employees to volunteer, and recognize Employee volunteers. In 2023, our Heart in
Action Month included a Meals on Wheels Blitz day where more than 300 Southwest volunteers covered
140 meal delivery routes around the Dallas community.
• Tickets for Time: To honor and appreciate our Employee volunteers who give their time and talents to
501(c)(3) nonprofits and schools, Southwest donates one round trip ticket (up to six tickets per calendar
year) for every 40 hours that Employees volunteer with that organization.
Houston, TX Dallas, TX
11,895 49,729
• Mile High United Way's 135th Anniversary: Over the holidays in Denver, Southwest volunteers 2023 Employee
assembled 135 bikes as gifts for Mile High United Way’s Children's Holiday Party. More than 170 Volunteer Hours
Southwest Employees and friends from 31 Southwest locations and 19 workgroups put their Heart in
Top 10 Locations
Action on this project to support the Colorado community.
Denver, CO
Oakland, CA
10,658
4,380
Atlanta, GA Chicago, IL
6,501 7,658
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 35
People Data Table
Total Employees by Category and Race/Ethnicity as of December 31, 2023
Not Disclosed American Indian or Asian Black or African Hispanic or Latino Native Hawaiian or Two or More Races White Total
Alaska Native American Other Pacific Islander
# % # % # % # % # % # % # % # % # %
Pilots 146 1.3% 65 0.6% 204 1.8% 164 1.4% 488 4.3% 20 0.2% 200 1.7% 10,142 88.7% 11,429 100%
Flight Attendants 126 0.5% 157 0.7% 620 3.0% 3,558 17.0% 2,923 13.9% 143 0.7% 689 3.3% 12,770 60.9% 20,986 100%
Dispatchers, Meteorologists, Simulator
9 1.0% 4 0.5% 38 4.5% 37 4.4% 71 8.4% 1 0.1% 9 1.0% 679 80.1% 848 100%
Technicians, and Flight Training Instructors
Ground Operations 226 1.0% 162 0.6% 1,171 4.7% 7,536 30.2% 5,576 22.3% 1,355 5.4% 1,014 4.1% 7,923 31.7% 24,963 100%
Technical Operations (Maintenance) 26 0.6% 29 0.8% 186 4.9% 428 11.2% 707 18.6% 29 0.8% 76 2.0% 2,329 61.1% 3,810 100%
Customer and Source of Support
23 0.6% 28 0.8% 60 1.7% 1,157 33.4% 1,004 29.0% 53 1.5% 131 3.8% 1,012 29.2% 3,468 100%
Representatives
Total Employees Under Collective
556 0.9% 445 0.7% 2,279 3.5% 12,880 19.7% 10,769 16.4% 1,601 2.4% 2,119 3.2% 34,855 53.2% 65,504 100%
Bargaining Agreement
Noncontract Employees6
Executives 2 2.8% 0 —% 0 —% 3 4.3% 7 10.0% 0 —% 0 —% 58 82.9% 70 100%
Other Leaders 51 0.9% 31 0.5% 278 4.4% 1,241 19.8% 961 15.3% 166 2.6% 235 3.7% 3,313 52.8% 6,276 100%
Individual Contributors 105 1.3% 42 0.5% 1,025 13.4% 1,064 13.9% 1,013 13.2% 24 0.3% 242 3.2% 4,154 54.2% 7,669 100%
Total Noncontract Employees 158 1.1% 73 0.5% 1,303 9.3% 2,308 16.5% 1,981 14.1% 190 1.4% 477 3.4% 7,525 53.7% 14,015 100%
Total Employees 714 0.8% 518 0.7% 3,582 4.5% 15,188 19.1% 12,750 16.0% 1,791 2.3% 2,596 3.3% 42,380 53.3% 79,519 100%
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 36
Total Employees by Category and Gender as of December 31, 2023
Female Male Total
# % # % # %
Pilots 522 4.6% 10,907 95.4% 11,429 100%
Flight Attendants 16,261 77.5% 4,725 22.5% 20,986 100%
Dispatchers, Meteorologists, Simulator Technicians,
119 14.0% 729 86.0% 848 100%
and Flight Training Instructors
Ground Operations 8,828 35.4% 16,135 64.6% 24,963 100%
Technical Operations (Maintenance) 182 4.8% 3,628 95.2% 3,810 100%
Customer and Source of Support Representatives 2,994 86.3% 474 13.7% 3,468 100%
Total Employees Under Collective Bargaining Agreement 28,906 44.1% 36,598 55.9% 65,504 100%
Noncontract Employees6
Executives 17 24.3% 53 75.7% 70 100%
Other Leaders 2,233 35.6% 4,043 64.4% 6,276 100%
Individual Contributors 3,809 49.7% 3,860 50.3% 7,669 100%
Total Noncontract Employees 6,059 43.2% 7,956 56.8% 14,015 100%
Total Employees 34,965 44.0% 44,554 56.0% 79,519 100%
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 37
Workforce 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 Total Employee
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Demographic Information
Total Employees 79,519 71,496 59,643 59,720 64,853
Percent of Employees by Gender 56% Male 56% Male 57% Male 58% Male 57% Male
Non-Employee Workers 317 316 346 Not Reported Not Reported
44% Female 44% Female 43% Female 42% Female 43% Female
Active, Full-Time Equivalent 74,806 66,656 55,093 56,537 60,767
Percent of Employees Segmented by Full-time/Part-time and Gender
Full-time 55% Male 55% Male 56% Male Not Reported Not Reported
Total Employees by
Workgroup and Percent 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
43% Female 43% Female 42% Female Not Reported Not Reported
of Company
Part-time 1% Male 1% Male 1% Male Not Reported Not Reported
Air Operations 33,263 30,017 25,624 25,606 27,295
1% Female 1% Female 1% Female Not Reported Not Reported
42% 42% 43% 43% 42%
Percent of Employees Segmented by Age and Gender
Ground Operations 24,963 21,945 18,174 18,562 20,110
Under 30 Years Old 8% Male 7% Male 5% Male Not Reported Not Reported
31% 31% 30% 31% 31%
6% Female 6% Female 4% Female Not Reported Not Reported
Technical Operations 3,810 3,544 3,185 3,074 3,297
(Maintenance) 30-50 Years Old 27% Male 27% Male 28% Male Not Reported Not Reported
5% 5% 5% 5% 5%
20% Female 22% Female 20% Female Not Reported Not Reported
Customer and Source of 3,468 3,502 2,754 2,828 3,260
Support Representatives Over 50 Years Old 22% Male 21% Male 24% Male Not Reported Not Reported
4% 5% 5% 5% 5%
17% Female 17% Female 19% Female Not Reported Not Reported
Noncontract Employees 14,015 12,488 9,906 9,650 10,891
(Leadership and Individual
Contributors)6
18% 17% 17% 16% 17%
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 38
Percent of Employees by Percent of Employees
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Gender Within Each Category Segmented by Generation
Executives 76% Male 75% Male 69% Male Not Reported Not Reported Silent 0.1% 0.1% Not Reported Not Reported Not Reported
24% Female 25% Female 31% Female Not Reported Not Reported Baby Boomers 15.1% 17.2% Not Reported Not Reported Not Reported
Other Leaders 64% Male 66% Male 66% Male Not Reported Not Reported Generation X 40.3% 42.8% Not Reported Not Reported Not Reported
36% Female 34% Female 34% Female Not Reported Not Reported Millennial 36.6% 34.6% Not Reported Not Reported Not Reported
All Other Employees 55% Male 55% Male 57% Male Not Reported Not Reported
Generation Z 7.9% 5.3% Not Reported Not Reported Not Reported
45% Female 45% Female 43% Female Not Reported Not Reported
Percent of Total Employees
Percent of Employees by Age Within Each Category 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Segmented by Race/Ethnicity
Executives <30 0% 0% 0% Not Reported Not Reported
American Indian or Alaska Native 0.7% 0.6% 0.7% 0.7% Not Reported
30 - 50 41% 45% 31% Not Reported Not Reported
Asian 4.5% 4.3% 4.1% 3.9% Not Reported
>50 59% 55% 69% Not Reported Not Reported
Black or African American 19.1% 18.3% 16.4% 16.3% Not Reported
Other Leaders <30 7% 7% 6% Not Reported Not Reported
Hispanic or Latino 16.0% 16.0% 15.1% 14.8% Not Reported
30 - 50 55% 58% 54% Not Reported Not Reported
Native Hawaiian or
2.3% 2.0% 1.6% 1.5% Not Reported
>50 38% 35% 40% Not Reported Not Reported Other Pacific Islander
All Other Employees <30 15% 13% 9% Not Reported Not Reported Two or More Races 3.3% 3.1% 2.7% 2.6% Not Reported
30 - 50 46% 49% 48% Not Reported Not Reported White 53.3% 55.1% 59.4% 60.2% Not Reported
>50 39% 38% 43% Not Reported Not Reported Not Disclosed 0.8% 0.6% Less than 0.1% Less than 0.1% Not Reported
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 39
Percent of Employees by Benefits 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Category Who Are Racially/ 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Ethnically Diverse
Total Number of Noncontract 6,994 Male 5,606 Male 5,511 Male Not Reported Not Reported
Employees That Were Eligible for
Executives 14.3% 11.9% 11.3% Not Reported Not Reported Paid Parental Leave8
5,385 Female 4,242 Female 4,089 Female Not Reported Not Reported
Other Leaders 46.4% 44.1% 40.1% Not Reported Not Reported Total Number of Noncontract 181 Male 169 Male 185 Male Not Reported Not Reported
Employees That Took Paid Parental
Leave, by Gender8
All Other Employees 45.8% 44.4% 40.7% Not Reported Not Reported 136 Female 99 Female 105 Female Not Reported Not Reported
Total Number of Noncontract
179 Male 166 Male 182 Male Not Reported Not Reported
Employees That Returned to Work
Benefits 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 After Parental Leave Ended,
132 Female 94 Female 105 Female Not Reported Not Reported
by Gender8
Active and Inactive Employees Who More than More than More than More than More than
Participate in Benefits Programs 79,500 71,400 59,600 59,700 64,800 Total Number of Noncontract 165 Male 150 Male 167 Male Not Reported Not Reported
Excluding 401(k) and ProfitSharing Employees That Returned to Work
Plans and Share-based Compensation7 After Parental Leave Ended and Are
Still Employed 12 Months After Their 126 Female 83 Female 91 Female Not Reported Not Reported
Return to Work, by Gender8
Company Contributions to Employee More than More than More than More than More than
Benefit Programs Excluding 401(k) and $1.7 billion $1.5 billion $1.1 billion $1.3 billion $1.3 billion
ProfitSharing Plans and Share-based Return to Work Rate of Noncontract 98.9% Male 98.2% Male 98.4% Male Not Reported Not Reported
Compensation (Accrued)7 Employees That Took Parental Leave,
by Gender9
97.1% Female 94.9% Female 100% Female Not Reported Not Reported
401(k) Savings Plan Participation 94% 92% 92% 92% 91%
Return to Work Retention Rate of 91.2% Male 88.8% Male 90.3% Male Not Reported Not Reported
ProfitSharing Plan Participation All eligible All eligible All eligible All eligible All eligible Noncontract Employees That Took
Employees Employees Employees Employees Employees Parental Leave, by Gender10
92.6% Female 83.8% Female 86.7% Female Not Reported Not Reported
Company Contributions to 401(k) $941 million $793 million $749 million $561 million $1.2 billion
and ProfitSharing Plans
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 40
Hiring and Turnover 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 Workgroup Training Hours 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
New Hires During the Reporting 3,844 Male 3,608 Male 663 Male 215 Male 1,093 Male Flight Operations (Primarily Pilots) 1,187,013 849,145 378,722 252,030 482,473
Period, by Age and Gender:
Under 30 Years Old Inflight Operations 876,878 954,154 347,283 263,811 427,705
2,572 Female 3,439 Female 529 Female 133 Female 787 Female
(Primarily Flight Attendants)
New Hires During the Reporting 3,982 Male 4,395 Male 918 Male 254 Male 1,530 Male
Ground Operations 1,537,085 1,478,013 775,770 507,164 887,627
Period, by Age and Gender:
30-50 Years Old
2,841 Female 4,351 Female 794 Female 235 Female 1,014 Female
Technical Operations (Maintenance) 365,307 363,375 276,937 185,148 165,630
New Hires During the Reporting 1,019 Male 1,210 Male 325 Male 67 Male 379 Male
Customer and Source of 177,114 342,462 117,382 63,841 134,783
Period, by Age and Gender:
Support Representatives
Over 50 Years Old
1,025 Female 1,610 Female 385 Female 73 Female 422 Female
Training Hours by Topic (All Employees)
Turnover During the Reporting 1,533 Male 1,169 Male 489 Male Not Reported Not Reported
Period, by Age and Gender: Safety and Security More than More than More than More than More than
Under 30 Years Old 1,039 Female 839 Female 322 Female Not Reported Not Reported 1,230,000 1,290,000 650,000 460,000 1,000,000
Cybersecurity 29,366 16,684 Not Reported Not Reported Not Reported
Turnover During the Reporting 1,652 Male 1,547 Male 829 Male Not Reported Not Reported
Period, by Age and Gender:
Data Privacy 2,694 2,848 Not Reported Not Reported Not Reported
30-50 Years Old
1,362 Female 1,381 Female 660 Female Not Reported Not Reported
Human Rights More than More than More than More than More than
Turnover During the Reporting 979 Male 926 Male 683 Male Not Reported Not Reported
125,000 136,200 61,000 61,000 53,500
Period, by Age and Gender:
Over 50 Years Old
695 Female 898 Female 708 Female Not Reported Not Reported Percent of Total Employees Trained 71% 70% 50% 53% 46%
on Human Rights
Turnover Rate 9.1% 9.5% 6.2% Not Reported Not Reported
Average Training Hours by
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Employee Classification
Executives 15 17 12 Not Reported Not Reported
Other Leaders 74 72 47 Not Reported Not Reported
Individual Contributors 53 57 32 Not Reported Not Reported
(Contract & Noncontract)
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 41
Average Training Hours Employee Engagement 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
by Gender
Employees Represented Approximately Approximately Approximately Approximately Approximately
Male 62 59 45 Not Reported Not Reported by Unions 83% 83% 82% 83% 83%
Female 44 57 26 Not Reported Not Reported Noncontract Employee 98.5% Not Reported Not Reported Not Reported Not Reported
Check-in Completion
2023 Companywide
Participation Rate Engagement Score Wellbeing Score
Community Outreach 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Employee Survey
Total Corporate Giving $18,034,290 $13,737,023 $21,805,603 $10,190,071 $24,306,076 Spring Employee Survey 45% 66% 68%
Total Corporate Monetary Giving $4,633,470 $3,792,088 $11,627,907 $707,672 $5,843,946 Fall Employee Survey 41% 67% 68%
Tickets Donated 33,369 24,774 28,632 20,008 45,301
Total Scholarship Funds Granted $117,500 $95,000 $110,000 Not Reported Not Reported
Funds Raised Through Official $330,000 $180,000 $110,000 $1,300,000 $800,000
Southwest Fundraising Efforts
Total Percent of Executive Leaders 40% 42% Not Reported Not Reported Not Reported
Serving on Nonprofit Boards
Employee Volunteer Hours More than More than More than Nearly More than
207,000 140,000 75,000 75,000 200,000
Value of Employee Volunteer Hours Nearly More than More than More than More than
$6,600,000 $4,200,000 $2,200,000 $2,200,000 $5,800,000
Percent of Unique Employees 19% Not Reported Not Reported Not Reported Not Reported
Volunteering
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 42
Pla net
In 2023, we launched our updated sustainability strategy, Nonstop to Net Zero. This strategy outlines our path to achieve net zero carbon
emissions by 2050,1 supporting a more sustainable future for air travel. To help guide our more holistic approach toward sustainability,
we established carbon, circularity, and collaboration as strategic pillars. As we embark on the next phase of our Nonstop to Net Zero journey,
we also take pride in what we achieved over the past year.
2023 Highlights: 37% 2%
• Launched Nonstop to Net Zero: Southwest’s
path toward net zero carbon emissions by 2050,1
GSE electrified systemwide, SAF by 2030 — secured through
including three new operational environmental
including baggage tugs, beltloaders, offtake agreements, making progress
sustainability goals
and pushbacks toward our goal of 10%11
• Established Southwest Airlines Renewable
Ventures LLC (SARV), a subsidiary focused on
making SAF investments to help us achieve our $2.3B 880,000 lbs
sustainability goals
• Set a goal to reduce single-use plastics onboard
spent on new MAX8 aircraft to modernize retired aircraft materials recycled through our
with the goal of eliminating them by 2030
our fleet and improve fuel efficiency aircraft end-of-service program
where feasible4
Planet Section Framework Disclosures Key Topics
SDGs GRI SASB TCFD Climate Risks & Environmental Facilities
Impacts Compliance Energy Use
201-2 302-3 305-1 305-4 306-3 413-1 TR-AL-110a.1 Strategy
Fuel, Energy, & Waste Water
302-1 302-4 305-2 305-5 306-4 TR-AL-110a.2 Risk Management
GHG Emissions Management
302-2 302-5 305-3 305-7 306-5 Metrics & Targets
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 43
Planet Goals
Planet Goals
Planet Goals
In 2023, we developed a set of operational goals, adding to our existing carbon goals
In 2023, we developed a set of operational goals, adding to our existing carbon goals
GG oo aa ll PP rr oo gg rr ee ss ss11 11
Carbon
Carbon
Nonstop to
Nonstop to
24,873,759 MT CO2e
24,873,759 MT CO2e
AA cc hh ii ee vv ee nn ee tt zz ee rr oo cc aa rr bb oo nn ee mm ii ss ss ii oo nn ss bb yy 22 00 55 00 .. 11
Including Scope 1, 2, and 3, Category 3 emissions
Including Scope 1, 2, and 3, Category 3 emissions
Reduce our carbon emissions intensity
Reduce our carbon emissions intensity
NN EE TT ZZ EE RR OO 55 00 %% bb yy 22 00 33 55 ,, aa nn dd 22 55 %% bb yy 22 00 33 00 ..11 00 .. 55 %% rr ee dd uu cc tt ii oo nn ii nn ee mm ii ss ss ii oo nn ss
ii nn tt ee nn ss ii tt yy ff rr oo mm oo uu rr 22 00 11 99 bb aa ss ee ll ii nn ee
Compared with a 2019 baseline
Compared with a 2019 baseline
RR ee pp ll aa cc ee 11 00 %% oo ff oo uu rr tt oo tt aa ll jj ee tt ff uu ee ll SS ee cc uu rr ee dd SS AA FF gg aa ll ll oo nn ss tt hh rr oo uu gg hh oo ffff tt aa kk ee aa gg rr ee ee mm ee nn tt ss
Blended SAF
OO uu rr PP aa tt hh tt oo ww aa rr dd nn ee tt zz ee rr oo cc aa rr bb oo nn ee mm ii ss ss ii oo nn ss bb yy Blended SAF cc oo nn ss uu mm pp tt ii oo nn ww ii tt hh SS AA FF bb yy 22 00 33 00 .. pp rr oo jj ee cc tt ee dd tt oo rr ee pp ll aa cc ee 22 %% oo ff oo uu rr ff uu ee ll ii nn 22 00 33 00
2050 and a more sustainable future
2050 and a more sustainable future
Operational Initiatives
Operational Initiatives
SS aa vv ee 55 00 MM ii nn cc rr ee mm ee nn tt aa ll gg aa ll ll oo nn ss oo ff jj ee tt ff uu ee ll bb yy 22 00 22 55 ,,
SS aa vv ee dd 44 22 MM ii nn cc rr ee mm ee nn tt aa ll gg aa ll ll oo nn ss aa nn dd
CC OO 22 aa nn dd 11 .. 11 BB cc uu mm uu ll aa tt ii vv ee gg aa ll ll oo nn ss bb yy 22 00 33 55 ..33
11 66 22 MM cc uu mm uu ll aa tt ii vv ee gg aa ll ll oo nn ss oo ff jj ee tt ff uu ee ll
2025 goal is compared to a 2019 baseline
2025 goal is compared to a 2019 baseline
Carbon Circularity Collaboration
Carbon Circularity Collaboration
Reduce single-use plastics from inflight
Reduce single-use plastics from inflight
ss ee rr vv ii cc ee 55 00 %% bb yy ww ee ii gg hh tt bb yy 22 00 22 55 ,, aa nn dd ee ll ii mm ii nn aa tt ee EE ss tt aa bb ll ii ss hh ee dd bb aa ss ee ll ii nn ee ,, ss ee tt tt aa rr gg ee tt ,,
where feasible by 2030.4
AA dd dd rr ee ss ss ii nn gg oo uu rr cc aa rr bb oo nn WW oo rr kk ii nn gg tt oo ww aa rr dd ss ii mm pp rr oo vv ii nn gg PP aa rr tt nn ee rr ii nn gg ww ii tt hh oo rr gg aa nn ii zz aa tt ii oo nn ss where feasible by 2030.4 aa nn dd pp rr ii oo rr ii tt ii zz ee dd 22 00 22 44 ii nn ii tt ii aa tt ii vv ee ss
Applicable to inflight service only, 2025 goal is compared
Applicable to inflight service only, 2025 goal is compared
emissions through fuel and sustainability in our operations whose work complements our
emissions through fuel and sustainability in our operations whose work complements our
to a 2022 baseline
to a 2022 baseline
operational efficiency initiatives, through sourcing, recycling, efforts to achieve our goals and
operational efficiency initiatives, through sourcing, recycling, efforts to achieve our goals and
SAF, electrification of ground and upcycling. engaging with our suppliers
SAF, electrification of ground and upcycling. engaging with our suppliers EE ll ee cc tt rr ii ff yy 55 00 %% oo ff ee ll ii gg ii bb ll ee GG SS EE ss yy ss tt ee mm ww ii dd ee
support equipment, and on sustainability. 37% electric GSE systemwide
support equipment, and on sustainability. by 2030. 37% electric GSE systemwide
by 2030.
ee nn ee rr gg yy cc oo nn ss ee rr vv aa tt ii oo nn ..
100% electric
II nn cc ll uu dd ee ss bb aa gg gg aa gg ee tt uu gg ss ,, bb ee ll tt -- ll oo aa dd ee rr ss ,, aa nn dd pp uu ss hh bb aa cc kk ss
100% electric
Reduce energy utilization index (EUI) in our Dallas
LL ee aa rr nn mm oo rr ee aa tt ss oo uu tt hh ww ee ss tt .. cc oo mm // pp ll aa nn ee tt Reduce energy utilization index (EUI) in our Dallas
HH ee aa dd qq uu aa rr tt ee rr ss bb yy 55 00 %% bb yy 22 00 33 55 .. 99 %% rr ee dd uu cc tt ii oo nn ii nn EE UU II
Compared to a 2022 baseline
Compared to a 2022 baseline
Achieving our goals is dependent on the performance of third parties, including aircraft and engine manufacturers, federal and
Our net zero by 2050 goal includes Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 Category 3 emissions only and
Our net zero by 2050 goal includes Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 Category 3 emissions only and
state governments, SAF producers, and others.12 For example, to achieve our SAF goal, collaboration from numerous Stakeholders
excludes any emissions associated with non-fuel products and services, such as inflight service items.
excludes any emissions associated with non-fuel products and services, such as inflight service items. will be needed to implement initiatives like favorable incentives, tax credits, and other policies and actions to promote the scaling
of cost-competitive SAF. Additionally, our ability to achieve our goals is subject to advancements in modernizing air traffic control
systems as well as other risks and uncertainties.12
Planning our Path to Net Zero advocating for air traffic control (ATC) modernization and
other NextGen FAA initiatives, expanding our use of SAF,
and leveraging carbon removal opportunities. 80
Achieving our goal of net zero carbon emissions by 20501
requires a strategic mix of advanced long-term planning
The pathway depicted in our Path to Net Zero graphic
and near-term action—particularly since we’re aiming to 70
models one potential pathway, but is subject to numerous
achieve interim carbon emissions intensity reductions by
assumptions, dependencies, and uncertainties outside
2030 and 2035. We’ve set mid- (i.e., 2035 carbon emissions
60
of our control.12 As our strategy, technology, cross-sector
intensity goal) and long-term (i.e., Net Zero by 2050 goal)
collaborations, and other initiatives evolve, we will review
science-based targets in alignment with the goals of the
our assumptions and update our model annually as needed 50
Paris Agreement to limit warming to well below 2°C and
to reflect any new information that becomes available.
pursue efforts to limit it to 1.5°C. In late 2023, the TPI
conducted an independent assessment of Southwest and 40
To support our transition, we expect our largest costs to
determined these targets to be 1.5°C-aligned based on
be related to fleet modernization and the scaling of our
an industry-wide science-based pathway modelled by the
30
SAF supply and operations, followed by costs related to
International Energy Agency (IEA). We plan to evaluate
increasing our operational efficiencies and the elimination
any new 1.5°C guidance developed by the Science Based
of single-use plastics where feasible. We’re focused on 20 Targets Initiative (SBTi), and intend to engage on that
fiscal responsibility and have set an annual budget as we
guidance development through their working group
plan and execute our initiatives and work toward our goals.
where possible.
10
See the table on the following page for an overview of our
near-term actions within our transition plan, and how they
We developed a path to achieve our net zero goal that
align with our capital expenditures and/or research and 0
requires an integrated approach across a number of
development investments.12
important initiatives. These initiatives include investing in
fleet modernization, improving our operational efficiency, -10
)TMM(
e
OC
2
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 44
Path to Net Zero1
29%
3%
Replace 10% of our
5%
jet fuel with SAF
50%
25% intensity
reduction vs.
2019
50% intensity
reduction vs. 2019
13%
2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050
Baseline Estimated GHG
Fleet Renewal12 Operational Efficiency12
Innovative technologies continue to create potential to improve the fuel Includes continued investment in internal fuel saving measures such as
efficiency and emissions intensity of our aircraft. Projected reductions rely on our route optimization, single engine taxiing, engine washing, weight savings,
own ability to implement our fleet modernization plans and on manufacturers and other initiatives.
to deliver aircraft and other technologies needed to achieve
these reductions. NextGen FAA12
Fuel efficiency improvements are anticipated over time due to ATC and
other initiatives implemented by the FAA.
SAF12
SAF is the most critical lever in achieving our net zero1 goal. We assume, among Carbon Removals12
other things, that the SAF market will scale in alignment with the U.S.
Captures carbon negative SAF (any SAF with reductions below a CI of 0 such
government’s SAF Grand Challenge, which aims at making three billion gallons of
as through the use of carbon capture and sequestration in the production
SAF available by 2030 and 35 billion gallons (100% of projected U.S. aviation jet
process), that we may utilize. Additionally, includes potential removals
fuel use) available by 2050.13 Additionally, we assume that SAF will reach an
through, for example, direct air capture (DAC) and other technologies that
average carbon intensity (CI) of 15 gCO2e/MJ by 2050 given that the Clean Fuel
could become available or utilized by Southwest in the future.
Production Credit (CFPC) incentivizes lower carbon intensity SAF.
Alternative Propulsion
We have completed a comprehensive review of the alternative propulsion
Verified Offsets12,14
market. To date, we have found that most solutions are unlikely to replace
While offsets aren’t part of our depicted Path to Net Zero,1 they may play a role large scale commercial aviation by 2050, and therefore we have not modeled
in contributing toward our 2050 net zero goal if any of the levers above are the role of such technologies into our net zero carbon emissions by 2050
unable to provide currently anticipated reductions. transition plan.
Capital Expenditures, Investments, and SAF Offtakes
“Southwest is focused on
We are taking action towards Nonstop to Netzero by 2050 through capital expenditures, investments, and long-term offtake agreements
addressing our carbon
emissions and environmental
impact. While we work toward
our sustainability goals by
modernizing our fleet with
more fuel efficient aircraft
and securing SAF, which
will take time, we are also
making tangible progress on
sustainability initiatives today.
Our People and Customers
care about our planet, and
we continue to take action
to address aviation’s impact
on the environment, while
collaborating with our
suppliers, the government,
and other organizations.”
We’ve established a comprehensive SAF strategy covering but we continue monitoring the landscape with hydrogen, combustion-powered propulsion, in addition to
the short-, mid- and long-term. See the Sustainable electric, and hybrid aircraft: technological and certification barriers.
Aviation Fuel section for more information on our outlook
• In 2024, we made our first public engagement on • We are eager for mid-term developments of a new
on SAF and the role it plays in our pathway to Net Zero battery-electric propulsion technologies with zero
narrowbody aircraft which could be more fuel efficient
by 2050.1 direct emissions through joining the Hawaii Seaglider
because of new engine technology and airframe Helen Giles
Initiative, and are eager to explore inter- and intra-island
advancements. We will continue to monitor and engage
Regarding alternative propulsion, we support exploration travel alternatives that have the potential to support our
Managing Director,
with opportunities to help shape a new narrowbody
and advancement of all levers to address aviation’s carbon environmental sustainability goals.
airliner, which has the potential to have a significant Environmental Sustainability
emissions. Given the early stages of these efforts, we have
• Regarding hydrogen, there are significant infrastructure
impact on reducing our emissions intensity.
not incorporated alternative propulsion in our 2050 plan, and design barriers that must be overcome for hydrogen
xEpO
&
xEpaC
Fleet Operational
NextGen FAA12
Modernization12 Efficiency12
In 2023, we spent $2.3 billion on new MAX8 Since 2002, Southwest has invested more than We equipped 100% of our aircraft and Flight
aircraft or 64% of our total CapEx budget, which $653 million in fuel efficiency improvements, in Crews to take advantage of FAA NextGen Air
will help us reduce our carbon emissions intensity. addition to new aircraft purchases. Traffic Initiatives like Required Navigation
Performance that improve fuel efficiency.
sekatffO
/
stnemtsevnI
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 45
These initiatives will meet several operational needs and priorities, with the ancillary benefit of saving fuel and therby helping us reduce our carbon emissions intensity.
Sustainable
Blended SAF
Aviation Fuel12
Carbon Removals12
In 2023 and early 2024, we launched Southwest Airlines Renewable
Our long-term (15 and 20-year) offtakes and investment-grade
Ventures LLC (SARV) dedicated to creating more opportunities to obtain
balance sheet helped enable Velocys and USA BioEnergy to
scalable SAF; became 100% owners of SAFFiRE Renewables,
move forward with their SAF projects, which plan to use
LLC (SAFFiRE); and made a $30M investment in LanzaJet Inc. (LanzaJet).
carbon capture and storage in their production process.
This builds on our SAF strategy further detailed in the Sustainable
Aviation Fuel section below.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 46
How SAF Works
Carbon
SAF can be made from a variety of feedstocks, both biomass-based and non-biomass based, using different kinds of technologies known as pathways
2023 Spotlight
Step 1 Step 2
Feedstock Collection Feedstock Conversion Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage (CCUS)
• Established SARV, a subsidiary focused on
The aggregated and cleaned feedstocks are processed under high temperature In some SAF production processes, CCUS technologies may be implemented
in the presence of chemical catalysts to produce liquid hydrocarbons that make to capture CO2 emissions generated during production. Captured CO2 can be
making SAF investments to help us achieve
up SAF. There are several approved pathways to convert feedstocks into SAF, used for other industrial processes or stored underground to avoid entering
including: Hydroprocessed esters and fatty acids (HEFA), Alcohol-to-jet (ATJ), and the atmosphere, affording SAF with lower CI.
our sustainability goals
Gasification/Fischer-Tropsch (FT.). FT can also be used with renewable power to
combine green hydrogen with CO2 into e-fuels in the power-to-liquid (PtL) process.
• Invested $30 million in LanzaJet and signed Biomass Fats, oils, and CO2 from DAC or point
greases sources
CCUS
a 20-year agreement to purchase up to
Wood trimmings, agricultural Vegetable oils and waste Carbon dioxide (CO2) that
680 million gallons of neat SAF from USA
residues and municipal solid waste oils like beef tallow or used exists in the atmosphere
are aggregated, sorted, and cleaned cooking oil are collected or industrial waste gases is
BioEnergy—in total securing 2%11 SAF ATJ/HEFA/FT/PtL
to remove impurities, then chopped and cleaned to remove captured and combined
or shredded to reduce their size contaminants before with hydrogen to During this step, carbon capture, utilization, and
through offtakes for 2030 before fermentation or gasification. hydrotreatment. produce syngas. storage can be used to reduce the CI.
• Launched a new, innovative option for eligible
Step 3 Step 4
corporate Customers looking to purchase
Customer SAF Claims and/or carbon offsets Blending Distribution and Supply Chain Integration
through Southwest Business AssistTM Synthesized SAF is blended with traditional jet fuel in the ratios specified by ASTM Blended SAF is distributed through existing fuel supply chains
International standards (ASTM D7566). After this step, the final SAF blend meets (truck, rail, pipeline) to airports and fuel farms, integrating with the
aviation fuel standards (ASTM D1655). infrastructure already in place for conventional jet fuel distribution.
Sustainable Aviation Fuel
The federal government has set an ambitious goal to scale
Conventional jet fuel
Blended
SAF
SAF
up domestic SAF production to 3 billion gallons per year by
2030, requiring a 97% compound annual growth rate in SAF Blended SAF
production through 2030. Meeting these goals requires
government support and collaboration across the entire
Truck Rail Pipeline
aviation and SAF value chain. Progress is needed to reduce
SAF costs, harmonize sustainability certification standards
and accounting protocols, and reduce technical challenges
around SAF blend limitations, among other factors. in accordance with industry standards, SAF is compatible While SAF remains our most impactful lever on our Path the lack of sufficient government policies and incentives to
in existing jet fuel infrastructure as a fully certified drop- to Net Zero by 2050,1 scaling SAF supply critically depends address SAF costs. There is also the potential of technical
For Southwest Airlines, SAF plays an important role in our in fuel. Since SAF has the potential to reduce lifecycle on several external factors, including durable long-term and/or project execution challenges in SAF production
path toward Net Zero by 2050.1 SAF is fuel produced from GHG emissions in comparison to conventional jet fuel and government incentives, proven technology at commercial pathways that haven’t been demonstrated at commercial
non-fossil fuel sources that can result in lower greenhouse doesn’t require modifications to existing aircraft engines, scale, and the availability of SAF infrastructure.12 For scale. Additionally, neat SAF has a limited distribution
gas (GHG) emissions than conventional jet fuel on a it’s a crucial lever to reach net zero carbon emissions example, Southwest may be unable to purchase SAF in system and is subject to higher transportation risks than
lifecycle basis. When blended with conventional jet fuel by 2050. sufficient quantities to meet our sustainability goals due to conventional jet fuel.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 47
By 2030, our goal is to replace 10% of our total jet fuel Our investments support scaling technology that we Southwest plans to continue to partner with SAF
consumption with SAF, and in 2023 we made progress hope will produce large volumes of SAF for Southwest by producers to enter into offtake agreements, while SARV
USA BioEnergy
toward that goal. We’ve established a robust SAF strategy engaging across the value chain. will manage Southwest’s SAF investments, including
focused on diversification across pathways, feedstocks, and Southwest’s previously announced equity investment
• FT SAF also plays an important role in our portfolio.
partners and that promotes technology development along in SAFFiRE.
CI reductions through gasification and FT conversion In November 2023, Southwest announced an
the way:
of forestry and agriculture residues to SAF that also offtake agreement with USA BioEnergy for up to
Southwest initially invested in SAFFiRE in 2022, and in
• In the near-term, we see HEFA playing a primary role utilizes carbon capture and sequestration (CCS) could 680 million gallons of neat SAF.
2024, SAFFiRE became a wholly-owned subsidiary within
for the production of SAF, since the technology to significantly contribute toward our goals. We’ve secured
the portfolio of SARV. SAFFiRE is developing technology
produce this type of SAF in limited commercial quantities long-term offtake agreements with Velocys (15-year) and Over the term of the 20-year agreement, once
to produce cellulosic ethanol from corn stover,
is currently available. However, HEFA is feedstock USA BioEnergy (20-year) for FT SAF.
blended with conventional jet fuel, the SAF could
a widely available agricultural residue, which can then
constrained. SAF is also disadvantaged to renewable
produce the equivalent of 2.59 billion gallons of
be converted to SAF through the ATJ process. In early
diesel (RD) because, for example, RD costs less to
As we execute our SAF strategy and look long-term, we’ll net-zero fuel15 and avoid 30 million metric tons
2024, SARV announced a $30M investment into LanzaJet,
produce and yields more product from the same process
continue to evaluate potential investment opportunities in (MT) of CO . Southwest plans to begin purchasing
a SAF technology provider and producer. As a part of its 2
and can be sold at a higher price. These factors limit the
emerging PtL technologies. These SAF initiatives and their SAF from USA BioEnergy's facility near Bon Wier,
agreement with Southwest, LanzaJet intends to build
supply potential of HEFA for SAF in the long-term. We
implications on our Path to Net Zero are discussed in more Texas as early as 2028. Additionally, as part of the
an ethanol-to-SAF biorefinery using its proprietary ATJ
continue to advocate for policy incentives that could help
detail above.
offtake agreement, Southwest and USA BioEnergy
technology to produce fuel for Southwest. The potential
level the playing field between SAF and RD.
have established a long-term strategic relationship
facility plans to include the capability to convert SAFFiRE
• We see SAF made using ATJ technology playing a
offering Southwest the opportunity to purchase up
Renewable’s cellulosic ethanol into SAF. Southwest will
significant role in the mid- to long-term. Feedstock and Southwest Airlines Renewable Ventures
have the option to offtake that SAF in support of our to another projected 180 million gallons of SAF per
infrastructure exist in the U.S. and other countries for ATJ,
Planet goals. year from future planned production facilities.
and we’re also focused on agricultural residues. In early In 2023, we launched SARV, a wholly-owned subsidiary of
2024, we became 100% owners of SAFFiRE and invested Southwest Airlines focused on making investments to create
$30M in LanzaJet. more opportunities for Southwest to obtain scalable SAF.
“SARV's goal is to help scale SAF through strategic investments, better
positioning Southwest to have access to high quality, affordable SAF in
accordance with the robust standards of Southwest's SAF policy. Through
SARV's investment in LanzaJet, we're also entering the next phase in the
commercialization of SAFFiRE technology, which is designed to support the
production of cellulosic ethanol that can be converted to SAF.”
Tom Nealon
Southwest Airlines Executive Advisor, SARV President, and SAFFiRE Chief Executive Officer
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks Appendix 48
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 48
Corporate Customer SAF Beta Program
In addition to these developments, we continued ongoing engagements with our existing partners and offtake agreements Corporate Customer SAF Beta Program
throughout 2023. Through our SAF Beta program, our valued, eligible corporate Customers also play a key role in supporting the use of SAF in
our oTpherroautigohn os.u Irn S 2A0F 2B3e,t aw per oegnrtaemre, do uinr tvoa lSuAeFd Beleigtaib aleg creoerpmoerantets C tuhsatto hmeelrpse adls coo pvleayr aa kseigyn riofileca inn ts uppoprtoiortnin og ft hthee u psere omf SiuAmF i nfo r SAF
development of our SAF portfolio and furthers our goal to replace 10% of our our operations. In 2023, we entered into SAF Beta agreements that helped cover a significant portion of the premium for SAF
deliveries over conventional jet fuel.
• Neste: We continued using Neste MY Sustainable Aviation Fuel in our operations throughout 2023 as the first carrier bringing
deliveries over conventional jet fuel.
SAF to Oakland International Airport (OAK). According to Neste, their SAF is made from sustainably sourced, 100% renewable
total jet fuel consumption with SAF by 2030. We look forward to the opportunity
waste and residue raw materials, such as animal waste fat, and it could reduce GHG emissions by up to 80%16 over the fuel's In 2023, we also launched a new, innovative option for eligible corporate Customers looking to
In 2023, we also launched a new innovative option for eligible corporate Customers looking to
to grow our slitfercayctlee gcoimcp rareedla wtiitho unsisnhg ciopn vwenittiohna Ul jeSt fAue lB. ioEnergy.” support SAF. Within Southwest Business AssistTM, eligible corporate Customers can now purchase
support SAF. Within Southwest Business AssistTM, eligible corporate Customers can now purchase
Customer SAF Claims and/or carbon offsets. This allows more Customers access to purchase these
• SAFFiRE: In June 2022, Southwest announced an investment in SAFFiRE. As part of a Department of Energy (DOE)-backed
Scope 3 SAF claims through Southwest and increases self-service sustainability capabilities for
Scope 3 SAF claims through Southwest and increases self-service sustainability capabilities for
project, SAFFiRE aims to develop and scale technology for commercializing ethanol production from agricultural residues and
Michael AuBuchon
corporate Customers' individual priorities, budgets, and strategies.
other biomass feedstocks. According to the DOE’s National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), this project could produce corporate Customers' individual priorities, budgets, and strategies.
significant quantities of cost-competitive SAF, capable of achieving over an 84% reduction in CI compared to conventional
Managing Director, Fuel Strategy & Management
jet fuel on a lifecycle basis. In 2024, we increased our investment in SAFFiRE, taking full ownership. This move intensifies our
efforts to build up SAFFiRE’s feedstock supply chain, develop a fully integrated Pilot facility in Liberal, Kansas, and prove out
this innovative technology at scale.
Account detail > Purchase carbon offset
• Velocys: In 2021, we entered into a 15-year offtake agreement with Velocys for 219 million gallons of SAF. Based on Velocys’
design capacity and expected carbon intensity score, once blended with conventional jet fuel, the SAF could produce the Address your Scope 3 emissions
equivalent of 1.1 billion gallons of net zero fuel15 and avoid 12.9 million MT of CO over the term of the agreement. Input your desired Scope 3 Emissions amount, then address them by purchasing carbon offsets and/or Scope 3 SAF Claims.
throughout 2023. 2
• Marathon Petroleum and Phillips 66: We continue to work with Marathon Petroleum Corporation and Phillips 66 through our
Carbon Service hosted by i 0 in cart English · USD
Neste:
memoranda of understanding with these two leading energy companies, with the intention to facilitate the development and
International Airport (OAK). According to Neste, their SAF is made from 100% renewable and sustainably sourced waste and
production of commercialized SAF.
80%34
Total estimated 1 mt CO2e Select your preferred amount of Customer Scope 3 SAF Claims. The remainder will be
emissions addressed with carbon offsets. While the entire environmental impact from your Company’s
compared with using conventional jet fuel.
flying may not be eliminated by this purchase, your actions show your love for the Planet
and help to address some of your GHG emissions.
Edit details
SAFFiRE: In June 2022, Southwest announced an investment in SAFFiRE. As part of a Department of Energy (DOE)-backed
project, SAFFiRE aims to develop and scale technology for commercializing ethanol production from agricultural residues and
“This offtake agreement with USA BioEnergy marks important progress in the
"Customer Scope 3 SAF Claims" (l)
other biomass feedstocks. According to the DOE’s National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), this project could produce Customer Scope 3 SAF Claims Carbon offset projects
consist solely of claims for a reduction
50% 50%
to a company's Scope 3 (Category 6)
significant quadnetitvieesl oofp cmoste-cnotm opef toitiuver SSAAF,F c appoabrltef oofl aioch aienvidng f ouvretrh aen r8s4 %o ruerd ugcotioanl itno C rI ecopmlapcaree d1 t0o %co novfe notuiorn al
Business Travel emissions reporting,
(ii) do not include rights to physical
total jet fuel consumption with SAF by 2030. We look forward to the opportunity SAF, and (iii) exclude all other
environmental claims, attributes or
benefits, including those that
to grow our strategic relationship with USA BioEnergy.”
innovative technology at scale.
Southwest may make or use with
respect to its own corporate reporting
and compliance. Southwest and
Choose make no representations or
Total emissions
Velocys: 219 million gallons of SA warranties regarding eligibility,
Michael AuBuchon certifiability or value of such Claims Customer Scope 3 SAF Claims What is SAF? Go to payment
Velocys, once blended with conventional jet fuel, the SAF could produce the equivalent of 1.1 billion gallons of net zero fuel35 under any industry recognized Carbon offsets
scheme, program, standard, protocol,
and avoid 12.9M mainlliaogni MngT Dofi rCeOct oovre, rF tuheel t Sertmra toef gthye & ag Mreaenmaegnet. ment or other framework. Claims of Add to cart
2 Total price
emission reductions should only be
used on a well-to-wake (WTW) basis.
Marathon Petroleum and Phillips 66: We continue to work with Marathon Petroleum Corporation and Phillips 66 through
our memoranda of understanding (MOU) with these two leading energy companies, with the intention to facilitate the
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 49
Our SAF Policy
We have developed a robust SAF policy to help guide our SAF efforts, and this policy will evolve over time in this dynamic and developing industry
Economics Lifecycle GHG Reduction Sustainability Certification Exclusions Feedstocks
We believe in democratizing the skies through We require SAF to meet a minimum 60% We require SAF to be certified by an We will not procure SAF that contains palm oil We encourage the development of
friendly, reliable, and low-cost air travel. To GHG intensity reduction on a lifecycle basis industry-accepted sustainability certification and its derivatives or by-products, such as sustainable agriculture for crop-based
continue to enable this as we seek to procure compared to conventional jet fuel. scheme, such as the International palm fatty acid distillates. SAF must not feedstocks, prioritize waste and residue and
SAF, SAF must be affordable compared to Sustainability and Carbon Certification and contribute to deforestation or forest energy or cover crop feedstocks, and engage
conventional jet fuel, but today, SAF is The Roundtable on Sustainable Biomaterials. degradation in its production. in R&D with prospective producers and
significantly more expensive than conventional partners focused on PtL.
jet fuel. When we evaluate opportunities, the
parity of SAF to Jet A is an important driver.
Climate Commitments
Fuel Saving Initiatives Our new fuel savings goal hinges on optimizing our routes On the Ground
and deploying initiatives, policies, and programs that
reduce jet fuel consumption and our emissions intensity.
In addition to longer-term initiatives like SAF, it’s important We look for opportunities to implement operational
In 2023, compared to a 2019 baseline, incremental
that we take action to address carbon emissions where we changes to reduce on-the-ground fuel use as well. New 2023 Planet Goal
fuel efficiency initiatives saved an estimated 42 million
can in our operations today. In 2023, we added operational
Save 1.1
gallons, avoiding more than 490,000 MT of well-to-wake
efficiency goals to save fuel, electrify eligible GSE, and In 2023, we set a specific goal to electrify 50% of eligible
carbon emissions.
reduce energy utilization in our Dallas Headquarters GSE systemwide by 2030, including baggage tugs, belt-
facilities. For details, read more about our new operational loaders, and pushbacks. As of December 31, 2023, we’ve
Outside of our fuel savings goal, fleet modernization
goals in Planet Goals Progress. electrified 37% of eligible GSE across our network, and at
billion
helps us to reduce our carbon emissions intensity by
23 of our airports, we reached the milestone of electrifying
introducing new and more fuel efficient aircraft, while
more than 70% of eligible GSE. We’ve electrified more than
In the Air
retiring older and less fuel efficient aircraft. We continue
99% of our eligible GSE at San Diego International Airport
to modernize our fleet with more fuel efficient Boeing
(SAN) and Harry Reid International Airport (LAS). We plan to
gallons
At Southwest, we continually work to implement and track 737 aircraft. In 2023, we took delivery of 86 737-8 (MAX8)
continue electrifying eligible GSE and partner with airports
operational initiatives that reduce jet fuel consumption aircraft, which according to Boeing, are approximately 14%
to advance our electrification strategy.
and, as a result, our emissions intensity. Jet fuel is our more fuel-efficient than the 737-800.17 This represents a
largest source of emissions, accounting for more than capital investment of $2.3B in 2023 and underscores our
99% of our combined Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. It’s commitment to modernize our fleet.18
Save 50 million incremental gallons of
also our second largest operating expense, accounting for
jet fuel by 2025 and 1.1 billion gallons
roughly 24% of our operating costs in 2023. We’ve steadily
by 20353
increased our fuel efficiency over the years and remain
focused on continuous improvement in this area.
At 23 of our airports, we reached the milestone of more than 70% of eligible GSE.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 50
We partnered with El Paso International Airport (ELP) in Facilities Energy Use to a 2022 baseline, as well as aligning to the Company's Additionally, we continued exploring opportunities to
2023 and received a grant for $1.2 million to electrify our overall Net Zero by 2050 goal.1 build efficiently and obtain Leadership in Energy and
GSE fleet and help address air emissions in El Paso County. Environmental Design (LEED) certifications for new
Southwest actively looks for opportunities to address our
This project was funded in part by the Texas Volkswagen Since announcing our energy conservation goal for our construction when appropriate. In 2023, we completed
environmental impact at our owned and operated facilities.
Environmental Mitigation Program Grant from the Texas Headquarters campus, we developed a dashboard for construction of our Phoenix Maintenance Hangar, and
We continue to evaluate and explore ongoing opportunities
Commission on Environmental Quality. monitoring and reporting energy and carbon emissions in early 2024 the expanded hangar was awarded LEED
to embed sustainability into our facility operations and seek
across our buildings for clearer visibility into our energy-
Silver Certification. LEED is the world's most widely used
to measure and address our Scope 1 natural gas and Scope
saving opportunities. For example, we worked with
We also received an award for the sustainable design
green building rating system. To achieve this recognition,
2 electricity emissions where we operate. We assess energy
our Dallas Maintenance Hanger to improve building
and construction of our glycol tank expansion project at
the expansion incorporated sustainable design features
efficiency, water conservation, and construction practices
management systems and added insulation that will reduce
Chicago Midway International Airport (MDW) from the
including the use of recycled content in over 30% of the
while staying mindful of the potential impact of our facilities
peak demand during summer months. In 2023, our EUI at
Chicago Department of Aviation (CDA). Further actions on
building materials; the installation of high-reflectance
on the environment. To that end, we integrated energy
our Headquarters reduced by 9%. Most of this reduction
the ground include applying procedures to use electric
roof and surrounding paving materials to reduce heat
considerations into our facilities standards, including
came from decommissioning an active data center and
ground power and preconditioned air for aircraft at the
island effect; and the selection of building products from
developing an energy roadmap with a goal to reduce our
repurposing that space with an alternative use that requires
gate whenever available, which reduces the aircraft’s use
manufacturers with verified environmental performance.
EUI at our Headquarters in Dallas by 50% by 2035 relative less air conditioning and lower plug loads.
of auxiliary power units (APU) and helps avoid additional
emissions on the ground. Every minute the APU is off,
we save 0.57 gallons of jet fuel, which adds up over
time. Equipping gates with electric ground power and
pre-conditioned air is an important part of our facilities
programs at airports in order to facilitate the ability to use
ground power when possible.
New 2023 Planet Goal
100% electric
Electrify
50% of
eligible GSE
Electrify 50% of eligible GSE systemwide by
2030, including baggage tugs, belt-loaders,
and pushbacks
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 51
Sustainability at Southwest
Winglets
We look for opportunities to incorporate sustainability We’ve installed winglets
in the air, on the ground, and at our facilities on all aircraft in our fleet,
reducing drag and increasing
fuel efficiency.
Headquarters
We’ve developed an energy
roadmap with a goal to
Airport Air traffic
reduce our EUI at our
partnerships performance Fuel planning /
Headquarters in Dallas by
weight reduction onboard
We support Required navigation 50% by 2035 relative to a
airports on performance (RNP) saves fuel We've engaged in several initiatives to 2022 baseline.
Real-time wind updates
airport carbon by finding shorter routes to reduce the weight carried onboard our
We've provided our Flight Crews with
accreditations airports and we’ve equipped aircraft including retrofitting aircraft
improved up-to-date wind data linked
and green 100% of our fleet to participate cabin interiors and revising max landing
to the aircraft that allows them to take
buildings. in RNP procedures. fuel policies.
advantage of real-time wind profiles to
reduce fuel consumption per flight.
Facilities
We actively look for opportunities to embed
PC air / ground power
sustainability in our facility operations
We’ve set procedures to use electric ground power including assessing our energy efficiency,
and preconditioned air for aircraft at the gate water conservation, and construction
whenever available, which reduces the use of APU practices including LEED certification.
and helps avoid additional emissions on the ground.
Fleet renewal
We are modernizing our fleet with
more fuel-efficient Boeing 737
MAX aircraft.
SAF
We began using SAF in January
Engine washing 2022 and have a goal to
Electrifying GSE replace 10% of our total jet fuel
Washing airplane engines
consumption with SAF by 2030.
reduces fuel burn by We're working toward our
improving engine efficiency. goal of electrifying 50% of our
belt-loaders, bag tugs, and
pushbacks systemwide by 2030.
Blended SAF
Single engine taxi (SET)
Our SET procedures allow Pilots to taxi to and from the gate on one engine,
saving approximately 2 gallons of fuel every minute.
Performance at a Glance
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 52
Circularity Sourcing During our 2023 analysis, we also found that certain aspects of Southwest’s low-cost
operations inherently help us avoid generating waste. For example, because we don’t serve
full meals on our flights, we avoid the potential volume of food waste created from such meals
In 2023, we conducted a review of our inflight single-use plastics footprint and sustainability,
and eliminate the need for a range of single-use items like cutlery or plateware. We plan to
operations, and commercial considerations of available alternatives, as well as established
continue our progress in 2024 by introducing new onboard service items that could reduce
2023 Spotlight guiding principles for our inflight single-use plastics initiatives. This formed the foundation that
our single-use plastics in alignment with our roadmap.
allowed us to develop our 2025 and 2030 goals and our strategic roadmap to achieve them.
• Announced plans to reduce single-use
plastics from inflight service by 50% by
weight by 2025 and eliminate such items
Taking Action on Inflight Single-Use Plastics
where feasible by 20304
We’re working to reduce our inflight single-use plastics by 50% by weight and to eliminate where feasible by 2030.4 Here's what we're trying to tackle:
• Recycled more than 880,000 lbs of material
from retired aircraft and over 1,915 lbs
of Employee uniforms through a newly
established program at all Inflight Bases
• Upcycled 77,000 lbs of seat covers through 75%
~25%
Repurpose with Purpose
of onboard single-use plastics
100%
of the plastic we
includes cups, stir sticks, straws,
are trying to
and plastic snack packaging and
post-consumer
eliminate comes
we're planning to make progress
recycled materials
At Southwest, we understand our environmental impact from wine and
toward reducing this volume
are used in our
liquor bottles
includes more than just our carbon emissions, which is why in 2024
napkins
we added circularity as a key focus area of our Nonstop
to Net Zero strategy. Circularity at Southwest means
For more than
working toward reducing waste through maximizing the
25
value of resources by keeping products and materials
in circulation as long as possible. We strive to promote years Southwest
has been serving
circularity in our operations, which requires thinking about
canned water
the environmental impacts for what we source and how we
onboard
manage what happens at the end of its lifecycle, including
whether it can be reused, repurposed, or recycled. We’re
working to implement our circularity strategy through
sourcing, recycling, and upcycling.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 53
In 2023, we also enhanced our sourcing processes to
“Addressing our waste
include end-of-life treatment considerations. This effort
was marked by setting clearer environmental standards in New 2023 Planet Goal
footprint is extremely
our Supplier Code of Conduct and integrating sustainability
important to our Customers questions into our standard sourcing criteria. Further
Reduce
information on these initiatives can be found in the Supplier
and Employees, so we
Engagement section under our Collaboration pillar.
were proud to announce
50% of
Recycling
goals and initiatives in
single-use
2023 focused on reducing In 2023, we published our intention to improve Southwest’s
recycling program through five key focus areas:
inflight single-use plastics
• Establishing a multi-departmental recycling
plastics
governance Team
and increasing recycling in
• Improving data collection from vendors and airports
our operations. I’m excited
• Increasing education for Employees and Customers
for the progress we plan to
• Expanding access to specialized recycling programs
Reduce single-use plastics from inflight
across Southwest’s operation
make in 2024 as we continue
service by 50% by weight by 2025 and
• Practicing consistency for onboard recycling and beyond
eliminate where feasible by 20304
to integrate circularity into
Throughout the year, we evaluated our recycling processes
our operations—including
and waste data across our airport operations to understand
replacing certain inflight gaps and potential opportunities. Our evaluation revealed
that our provisioning warehouses have the capability to
service items with non-plastic Upcycling
recycle specific items such as cardboard, pallets, shrink
wrap, printer cartridges, and/or six-pack rings, regardless
alternatives and trialing new
of their locations. We also launched new initiatives, such Repurpose with Purpose is one of our signature programs
as switching to clear recycling bags to identify recycling that gives back to communities all over the world, all while
recycling initiatives at
materials and thereby increase the amount recycled that helping Southwest show our Heart for the planet through
could otherwise have been mistaken for trash. Additionally upcycling. Through this global sustainability initiative, we
various Stations.”
in 2023, we continued to build our uniform recycling proudly partner with organizations both in the U.S. and
program and were able to expand collections to 14 Stations abroad to reimagine leather aircraft seat covers (made from
and test with all workgroups. We’ve established permanent 57% recycled leather waste) into new, upcycled products.
collection and hosted pop-up recycling events based In 2023, we upcycled 77,000 lbs through this partnership,
Reid Grandle on our station needs, resulting in a total of 1,915 lbs of which helps keep waste out of landfills. Read more about
uniforms recycled in 2023. Repurpose with Purpose in Community Outreach.
Senior Vice President, Finance,
Strategy, & Sustainability
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 54
Aircraft Retirement
Reusing, Repurposing, and Recycling Retired Aircraft
We retired 39 aircraft in 2023 and dismantled 27 through our aircraft retirement program, resulting in 880,000 lbs of recycled and reused material
A big part of our circularity efforts are
focused on one of our biggest assets—
our fleet. Southwest applies innovative
strategies to the end-of-service treatment
2 1 39,000
of our aircraft. When replacing older planes
143
engines & APU lbs
with newer, more fuel efficient models, we
either sell the plane, return it to the lease are overhauled of scrap metal seat covers
are recovered are recovered
holder, or disassemble the aircraft. and reused
from an airframe on average and given a new life through
500+ the Repurpose with
Our aircraft disassembly process is guided
Purpose program
by three key principles aimed at improving parts
35+
resource circularity: reuse, resell, and are refurbished
recycle. Many components from retired parts
by certified maintenance repair
aircraft, like upgraded WiFi and avionics are removed
and overhaul companies for
parts, are still usable and are carefully reuse or resale by technicians and kept
removed by our Technical Operations in inventory
Teams. These parts are then inspected
for quality and added to our inventory,
aiding in cost reduction and maintenance
of other aircraft. Items with market value
are sold through consignment or certified
refurbishing vendors. After valuable
components are removed, we recycle the
remaining metal, aiming to minimize
landfill waste.
In 2023, we disassembled 27 retired
aircraft, resulting in 880,000 lbs of recycled
or reused materials. As a member of the
Aircraft Fleet Recycling Association (AFRA),
Southwest Airlines works exclusively with
AFRA-accredited organizations for aircraft
dismantling and recycling. AFRA’s Best
Management Practice program aims to
ensure dismantlers and recyclers follow
environmental best practices and are
Aircraft data shown are averages for Southwest 737-700 aircraft retired as of January 2023. Actual data for individual aircraft may vary from averages.€
monitored and inspected to
maintain accreditation.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 55
and opportunities to create additional tax incentives emissions from international civil aviation at 85% of 2019 ASCENT), a cooperative aviation research organization
Collaboration
(on both the federal and state levels) for SAF production. levels (compared to the prior baseline of 100% of 2019 involving academia, the FAA, the National Aeronautics and
levels). Southwest supports policies that promote Space Administration (NASA), the Department of Defense,
Southwest believes that government policies to address in-sector preferred emission reduction measures with the EPA, and Transport Canada, with the mission of creating
2023 Spotlight climate change in the aviation sector should strive for the direct emission reduction benefits and prioritizes these science-based solutions for the aviation industry’s biggest
following goals: policies over indirect offsetting. environmental challenges.
1. Transitioning the airline industry from fossil fuels
• Published our climate advocacy statement
Federal Southwest is also working with the FAA to expedite the
through the development and scalable production of
highlighting our direct and indirect climate implementation of their Next Generation Air Traffic Control
cost-effective SAFs; Southwest supports a variety of programs and initiatives
lobbying efforts procedures. If properly implemented, this technology
at the federal level, including modernizing the nation’s
2. Transitioning to much more fuel efficient fleets,
could reduce unnecessary fuel use and significantly reduce
ATC system, researching and certificating new aircraft and
including advanced aircraft and engine technologies
• Began utilizing EcoVadis to assess the aviation emissions.
engine technologies, and funding sustainability and energy
that are beyond anything available in the marketplace
ESG performance of our top 200 suppliers
programs that are collectively needed to reach net zero.
today; and
Lastly, a key piece to Southwest’s efforts to fly more fuel
(based on spend)
3. Implementing a modern and fully staffed ATC
efficiently and thus reduce our GHG emissions intensity is
Recognizing the importance of SAF toward our industry’s
system that is both network-centric and relies on
fleet replacement. The Boeing 737 MAX aircraft is more fuel
• Joined the NASA-Boeing Sustainable Flight
climate goals, Southwest laid the foundation for long-term
satellite-based technologies.
efficient (as well as quieter) than the 737 Next Generation
Demonstrator project engagement on SAF policy developments and incentives
aircraft (i.e., Boeing 737-700 and Boeing 737-800 aircraft).17
designed to reduce the overall cost of SAF. We actively
Direct Climate Advocacy Southwest’s fleet replacement is well on its way as we
engaged with policymakers to show our support of the
continue to replace 737-700 and 737-800 aircraft with 737
Partnerships play a crucial role in our sustainability efforts. Southwest engages directly and indirectly with federal government’s ambition for three billion gallons of
MAX aircraft.18
We partner with different organizations, nonprofit entities, policymakers and other Stakeholders at the federal, state, SAF by 2030 through the SAF Grand Challenge, the SAF
policymakers, airports, suppliers, Customers, and other local, and international levels to advance decarbonization in Blender’s Tax Credit (BTC), and the CFPC, and grants as part
State
cross-industry partners whose work complements our alignment with the goals of the International Civil Aviation of the Inflation Reduction Act. We’re also strong advocates
efforts to achieve our goals and advance our environmental Organization’s (ICAO) Carbon Offsetting and Reduction for allowing the “Greenhouse Gases, Regulated Emissions, Southwest is working to advocate for SAF policy
sustainability efforts. Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA) and the Paris and Energy Use in Transportation” (GREET) model as an advancements at the state level to help accelerate cost-
Agreement. While we recognize that the positions of the acceptable method for measuring lifecycle emissions to competitive SAF consumption. In California, Southwest
various trade associations and chamber organizations of worked alongside a coalition of aviation industry
determine the value of the SAF Blenders Tax Credit and
Climate Advocacy which Southwest is a member may not always directly align Clean Fuel Production Credit. Southwest, in addition, has Stakeholders to develop and implement a plan to
with our own or that of CORSIA or the Paris Agreement in incentivize SAF production and utilization. Additionally,
taken several other steps including developing a robust
every aspect, we believe it is imperative to work together 2023 saw successful SAF tax credit/incentive legislation
Southwest has consistently advocated for public policies SAF policy to guide our procurement of high quality SAF,
toward policies that support a transition to a net zero developed in Colorado, Illinois, and Minnesota, with more
that are focused on achieving our goal of net zero carbon considering indirect emissions in the lifecycle assessment
future. When such misalignment occurs, Southwest will work underway in other states.
emissions by 2050.1 Whether it’s working through A4A or (LCA) of SAF, and supporting the federal agencies working
work with these organizations or on our own to advance
partnering with other Stakeholders who share our climate together to develop a modified GREET model that takes all
progress where opportunities exist and use our influence to
priorities, we advocate for governmental policies and of these aspects into consideration.
advocate for change as needed.
programs that support our ability to fly more fuel efficiently
and use more SAF. To achieve Net Zero by 2050,1 we need Additionally, we lobbied for funding for the FAA’s
International
government assistance to enable greater advances related Continuous Lower Energy, Emissions and Noise Program,
to ATC modernization; new, more fuel efficient aircraft and Southwest supports CORSIA and the Paris Agreement in the FAA's principal environmental effort to accelerate the
electric GSE; and the scaling-up and deployment of SAF— partnership with A4A and the International Air Transport development of new aircraft and engine technologies to
such as implementing or extending policies and incentives Association (IATA). Southwest agreed to participate in the reduce emissions and other environmental impacts. We
to reduce the cost of SAF and incentivize SAF production.12 current voluntary phase of CORSIA and comply with this also lobbied for funding for the Center of Excellence for
Southwest is active in supporting government programs market-based measure’s new baseline—capping carbon Alternative Jet Fuels and Environment (better known as
SAF Tax Credit Legislative Successes (2023):
Indirect Climate Advocacy
Both A4A's and Southwest's goal of Net Zero by 2050 align with the goal of the Paris Agreement.
A4A is an American trade association and lobbying group advocating for its member airlines on international, federal,
state, and local policies.
Southwest has collaborated with A4A to further develop climate change policies to help reduce GHG emissions for the
aviation sector. Southwest actively engages in several A4A committees dedicated to influencing policy developments and
A4A is committed to advancing climate policies that are in its members' best interest to address climate change. A4A
advancing decarbonization for the industry. In 2023, Southwest was the Vice Chair of A4A's Environmental Sustainability
has published the following goals:
Council and our Executive Chairman held a position on the A4A Board of Directors. Southwest and A4A collaboratively
advocate for thefollowing climate priorities:
• Achieving net zero carbon emissions by 2050
• Partnering with stakeholders to advance the production and deployment of three billion gallons of
• Net Zero by 2050
cost-competitive SAF available to U.S. aircraft operators in 2030
• Air traffic control modernization
• Supporting the implementation of the internationally agreed-upon global market-based mechanism to enable
• Scaling-up cost-competitive SAF development and production
carbon-neutral growth in international air travel, ICAO's CORSIA
• Fuel efficiency improvements and low/no emissions technology development and innovation
• Implementation of CORSIA
• Expansion of electrical infrastructure improvements at airports
• Measuring lifecycle emissions through the GREET model for SAF Blenders Tax Credit
• Transparent and comparable climate-related disclosures
A4A and Southwest both opposed the California Senate Bill 253. While we are supportive of increased transparency
reportingrequirements and are actively working to strengthen and enhance our disclosures, we believe one harmonized
national approach is the best option, rather than state specific mandates.
Southwest's mid- (i.e., 2035 carbon emissions intensity goal) and long-term (i.e., Net Zero by 2050 goal) climate goals
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce (the "Chamber") is the world's largest business organization that advocates,
align with the goal of the Paris Agreement. While the U.S. Chamber of Commerce has not taken a position on the Paris
connects, informs, and fights for business growth and America's success.
Agreement's stated temperature goal, it has expressed support for the U.S. participating in the Paris Agreement and has
developed a clear set of climate change policy principles. Regarding the SEC climate-related disclosure rule, Southwest
The Chamber acknowledges that the climate is changing and that humans are contributing to these changes. The
supported improvements to the SEC's proposed rule and shared these suggestions in its own letter. In 2024, the SEC
Chamber has expressed support for the Paris Agreement. The Chamber believes that practical, flexible, predictable,
released its final climate-related disclosure rule, and Southwest is reviewing its obligations under the new rule.
and durable policies are needed to address climate change and an effective climate policy should:
• Support a market-based approach to accelerate • Aggressively pursue energy efficiency
GHG emissions reductions across the U.S. economy • Promote climate resilient infrastructure
• Leverage the power of business • Support trade in U.S. technologies and products
• Maintain U.S. leadership in climate science • Encourage international cooperation
• Embrace technology and innovation
aciremA
rof
senilriA
ecremmoC
fo
rebmahC
.S.U
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 56
1. Colorado – In May 2023, the SAF Investment Tax Credit 2. Illinois – In January 2023, Southwest and industry 3. Minnesota – In May 2023, the Minnesota Legislature
language, HB23-1272, passed the legislature and was partners were successful in working with the Illinois approved a SAF tax credit as a provision of the state’s
signed into law by Governor Jared Polis. The bill was part General Assembly to pass meaningful and stackable omnibus budget bill, HF 2887. The bill includes a $1.50/
of a broader package of tax credits aimed at reducing SAF tax credit legislation (SB 2951/SB 1963-IL Dept. of gallon refundable income tax credit for a producer or
GHG emissions in Colorado and included an income tax Revenue clean-up) for the state of Illinois. The Illinois blender of SAF in the state of Minnesota. The SAF tax
refundable SAF tax credit of up to $1 million to $3 million SAF tax credit is valued at $1.50/gallon and sunsets on credit begins in July 2024 and has a seven-year sunset
annually for the costs of constructing SAF production December 31, 2032. provision through 2031.
facilities in the state.
Trade Association Climate Positions Areas of Alignment with Southwest's Climate Positions and the Paris Agreement
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 57
Beyond Value Chain Mitigation Supplier Engagement Accordingly, we expect our suppliers to clearly identify to • Global Business Travel Association (GBTA): As a
Southwest the environmental impacts of their operations Sustainability Partner of the GBTA Foundation and
and maintain an open dialogue with Southwest about their a member of its Sustainability Leadership Council,
Carbon offsets are tradeable rights generated from How we work with suppliers is an important part of building
environmental responsibility and sustainability efforts. Southwest engages with the business travel industry to
projects that reduce, capture, or avoid a certain amount of a holistic approach to sustainability. Our engagement
champion climate action throughout the value chain.
emissions. Rights can be purchased from those projects with them extends beyond their impact on the products
In 2023, we supported efforts to improve harmony
to offset an equal amount of carbon emissions from other and equipment we use in the skies, on the ground, and
Key Partnerships in sustainable procurement criteria and launched a
activities like flying. While we recognize that offsets have in our offices; they also play a key role in empowering the
an important role to play for our planet, we don’t plan communities we serve and respecting the planet we love. sustainable travel management course and certificate.
to use carbon offsets toward our voluntary near-term We also presented at the annual GBTA Convention on
• Boeing and NASA Sustainable Flight Demonstrator
emissions intensity reduction targets and net zero goal. Throughout 2023, several key initiatives helped Southwest contrails, educating attendees on a key sustainability
Project: In 2023, Southwest Airlines engaged in a
Future requirements to use offsets for our international to strengthen our collaboration with suppliers around topic in the aviation industry including existing
collaborative effort with Boeing and NASA on the
flying as part of CORSIA or from other regulatory measures sustainability. Showcasing our dedication to ethical research to date and mitigation measures
development of the X-66A research aircraft. The X-66A
may arise.12 In addition, we may complement other business practices and corporate responsibility, we: being explored.
is an innovative aircraft featuring a Transonic Truss-
environmental initiatives with offset projects.
• Introduced our Supplier Code of Conduct, which Braced Wing design that brings the potential to reduce
outlines the minimum expectations for establishing and fuel consumption and emissions up to 30% relative to • SAF Blender’s Tax Credit (BTC) Coalition: The SAF BTC
During Earth Month in 2023, our leisure Customer offset
maintaining a business relationship with Southwest. This today’s most efficient airplanes. Southwest's involvement Coalition is a broad partnership of aviation industry
program saw its highest level of offsets purchased since its
includes operating honestly and with the highest ethical included providing insights on sustainable operations stakeholders who support new long-term tax incentives
inception in 2021. In March 2023, we agreed to purchase
standards, and in full compliance with all applicable laws, and airport compatibility, contributing to design for SAF. In 2023, we continued our engagement in the
more than 400,000 carbon credits over five years from
rules, and regulations. discussions, simulation and lab testing, and participating SAF BTC Coalition to advocate for formal recognition
SMBC Aviation Capital (SMBC). These credits will be
in flight testing. This collaboration supports the broader of the GREET model as a “similar methodology” under
• Integrated sustainability questions in our RFP process.
sourced from energy-efficient cookstove projects in Africa
These RFP questions are an important step in engaging aviation industry's objective of achieving net-zero the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), noting that doing so
and Central America. According to SMBC, its carbon credit
with our suppliers on their sustainability initiatives. GHG emissions. would give SAF investors a well-settled, durable, and
projects underwent independent evaluation by Climate
predictable framework for assessing program eligibility
• Launched EcoVadis, a sustainability ratings platform for
Focus, a Dutch firm. Moreover, the credits will be certified
and risk without undercutting ongoing and future
global supply chains, to assess our top 200 suppliers • Google Research: Furthering our efforts on contrails,
by Gold Standard or Verra, and align with up to 10 of the
modeling updates. In December 2023, the Department
Southwest engaged in a series of desktop trials
(based on spend) through the EcoVadis ESG ratings
17 SDGs, including Good Health and Wellbeing, Gender
throughout 2023, working with Google’s contrail of Treasury released guidance clarifying that an updated
platform. This partnership plays a vital role in enhancing
Equality, and Climate Action.
transparency and evaluating the impact of our supply prediction model to evaluate alternatives to planned version of the GREET model will be one of the acceptable
chain. Read more about our work with EcoVadis in routes that would have created contrails. We plan to methods for measuring lifecycle emissions to claim
Additionally, in 2023 we purchased Renewable Energy
Supply Chain Responsibility. expand our research efforts with Google in 2024. credit for the SAF Blenders Tax Credit. In 2022, the
Certificates (RECs) certified by an industry-recognized third
coalition also successfully supported the inclusion of
party to target our Scope 2 electricity emissions. While
important tax SAF credit incentives within the passage of
fundamentally different instruments with different impacts, Across Southwest, we take pride in our reputation as the • GE Research: Southwest worked with GE to support a
the IRA.
offsets and RECs help address our emissions footprint. airline with Heart, which naturally extends to a passion for DOE ARPA-E funded grant for a GE system that could
In 2023, Southwest matched 100% of our electricity treating People with respect, making a difference in our combine, for example, detailed engine operational
Our work with these partners in 2023 builds upon our
consumption in our Texas operations with RECs. communities, and respecting our environmental resources. data, a hybrid physics and machine learning model,
growing list of sustainability-focused partnerships that are
on-airplane data, and real-time and historical satellite
helping us further advance our sustainability efforts.
observations to predict contrails that last more than
five hours.
highest
During Earth Month in 2023, our leisure Customer offset program saw its
level of offsets purchased since its inception in 2021.
Climate Risks and Impacts
Assessing climate-related risk is a part of building today, our analysis did not identify them as significant
organizational resilience in the face of climate change. In short-term risks. Because these scenarios are subject to
2022, Southwest performed a qualitative scenario analysis a number of assumptions and projections, we cannot
in reference to the TCFD framework.19 Our qualitative guarantee that this determination will not change or that we
analysis used publicly available data on extreme weather will not experience increased short-term risks related to our
events that occurred in 2021 and 2022 alongside internal operations. For more information, please see our detailed
Stakeholder interviews conducted at that time. We plan to risk factors discussed under the heading “Risk Factors” in
update our TCFD scenario analysis periodically. the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2023, including those specific
Our 2022 qualitative analysis of potential climate-related to climate change and extreme weather events such as
impacts to our operations identified significant short-term the Risk Factor that begins “The Company’s operations have
exposure risks for winter storms and tropical storms only. been, and in the future may again be, materially and adversely
While we are seeing some other climate-related impacts disrupted by extreme weather events.”
Climate Scenarios
Scenario & Pathway Details
Lower Emissions Scenario • Temperature and sea levels rise, but not as high as in RCP8.5
RCP4.5 • Aligned with the 2015 Paris Agreement and the ambition to
limit global temperature rise to 2°C or less
Data Source: IPCC
Higher Emissions Scenario • Higher temperatures, higher sea levels
RCP8.5 • Represents an upper range of future climate change impacts
Data Source: IPCC
sksiR
lacisyhP
Lower Emissions Scenario • Pathway for the global energy sector to achieve net zero emissions
Net Zero by 2050 (NZE) by 2050, with advanced economies reaching net zero in advance
Data Source: IEA’s 2022 World Energy Outlook
Higher Emissions Scenario • Reflects current policy settings, as well as policy initiatives
Stated Policies (STEPS) under development
Data Source: IEA’s 2022 World Energy Outlook
sksiR
lanoitisnarT
Climate Risks & Impacts
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 58
Risk Mitigation procedures and processes in place to manage weather
events as they occur, with tiered response programs
Southwest builds enterprise-level risk management (ERM) based on the severity of the event. Given that our
into our everyday business operations using a tiered, aircraft are mobile, we're able to plan ahead and move
cross-functional Team of Risk Champions, Risk Owners, and those assets out of a storm’s pathway as necessary to
an Executive Risk Committee who all work collectively with prevent avoidable physical damage to our fleet. For
our ERM Team, as needed, to identify and manage risks. weather-related disruptions, such as winter storms,
We've worked to identify climate-related risks and integrate we continually strive to develop, follow, and enhance
them into this Companywide multi-disciplinary ERM operational processes and business management
process, which means they receive the same application of procedures for proactive cancellation of flights in an
processes and attention as any other Company risk. attempt to manage any disruptions to our operations.
We also strive to appropriately staff the operation and
Preparing for future weather events is a significant part of
determine when to pause and restart our operations
our physical risk mitigation strategy. For example, we have
in the affected region.
Scenario Analysis
For our scenario analysis,
two Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change (IPCC)
Representative Concentration
Pathway (RCP) scenarios were
applied to evaluate our future
potential exposure to physical
climate-related risks. This set
of scenarios proposes different,
potential climate futures.
For more information on Methodology and Scenario Analysis, read the 2022 Southwest Airlines One Report.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 59
Physical Climate Hazard Exposure Hotspots
Projections of Physical Climate Hazards by Southwest Region in 2030 and 2050
Higher Impact Lower Impact Not Applicable
Puerto Rico &
Desert South International
West Coast Mountain Central Midwest Northeast Southeast
Capacity
Capacity Capacity Capacity Capacity Capacity Capacity 2%
19% 20% 16% 16% 11% 16%
Hazards 2030 2050 2030 2050 2030 2050 2030 2050 2030 2050 2030 2050 2030 2050
Coastal Flooding
Drought
Increasing Temperatures
Extreme Tropical Storms
Heat Waves
Inland Flooding
Precipitation
Wildfires
Winter Storms & Cold Snaps
The capacity shown in the scenarios above are representative of capacity in 2023 and not a projected capacity for 2030 or 2050.
We engage Teams throughout our organization, as necessary, to prepare for, respond to, and attempt to mitigate impacts to We also evaluate and adjust our flight schedules on a regular basis throughout the year, allowing for greater flexibility to meet
our business from significant weather events. Recognizing the importance of weather-related planning, we’ve invested greater the needs of our Customers and adapt to changing conditions. To mitigate fuel-related disruptions from weather events such as
resources into meteorology and network impact analysis, expanding our meteorology staff in 2022 and 2023 and growing our floods and hurricanes, we closely monitor the likelihood of disruptions to fuel supply; work to establish and broaden our contacts
focus on weather events. with fuel trucking companies to obtain priority access to trucks should refinery or pipeline supply be interrupted; and regularly
examine strategic reserves, including an annual examination in advance of hurricane season. Our efforts to diversify our fuel
Additionally, we collaborate with a wide range of key Stakeholders, such as the FAA and airports, to evolve our capacity and supply, including the expansion of SAF within our fuel mix, are also intended to further mitigate such disruptions in the long-
planning processes. By leveraging various knowledge bases, expanding data sources, and using new methods of air traffic term. We also engage in the more hazard-specific risk reduction strategies detailed in the physical risks table.
management, we’re better equipped to proactively respond to inclement weather, equipment outages, and other factors that can
cause delays and cancellations.
Low Mid High
Exposure to Impacts:20
Short-Term Mid-Term Long-Term
Present Day 2030 2050
Potential Mid- to Long-Term Impacts Risk Reduction Strategies
etucA
Low Mid High
Exposure to Impacts:20
Short-Term Mid-Term Long-Term
Present Day 2030 2050
Potential Mid- to Long-Term Impacts Risk Reduction Strategies
Extreme Tropical Storms
Tropical storms can potentially lead to aircraft being grounded for extended In addition to the overarching
periods, an issue that may be exacerbated due to interruptions in fuel supply. extreme weather response plan
This could lead to lost revenues due to cancellations and schedule disruptions detailed in the Physical Risk
in affected areas and knock-on effects through the system. Operating expenses Mitigation section, we also have a
may increase in extreme tropical storm conditions, with increased fuel program to help Employees directly
expended to divert flights, increased maintenance, and airport fees as clean- affected by weather-related events
up and infrastructure upgrades may be increasingly required in affected areas. such as hurricanes, supporting them
Insurance premiums may also rise over time, or provide less coverage, with and getting them back on their
greater frequency and severity of events. For capital infrastructure, investments feet safely. Specifically, Southwest
may be required to replace hard assets damaged by extreme storms, and asset Employees may take advantage of
values may be impaired due to potential damage, such as to aircraft. Employees a Company-supported Catastrophic
may also be impacted by such storms, which may impact their work availability Assistance Charity, which helps
as well as Southwest's Employee support initiatives and costs. Southwest Employees suffering
from severe financial hardship
resulting from a catastrophic event
in their lives.
Inland Flooding
Extreme precipitation might lead to inland flooding and could create We integrate resiliency into
operational challenges for Southwest. Flooding could damage the airport our building design plans for
runway and infrastructure, making it unsafe for aircraft to take off and land. This owned ancillary buildings,
could in turn lead to flight delays and cancellations, impacting revenues. Inland including hangars, incorporating
flooding could additionally affect nearby transportation infrastructure and considerations of the 100-year
potentially disrupt fuel supply chains. Inland flooding could impact Southwest’s flood, large hailstorms, and
Employees' and Customers' ability to travel to and from the airport. lightning into the design process.
Storm systems are designed for
100-year flood and buildings are
typically set at a higher elevation to
help prevent flooding.
etucA
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 60
Climate-Related Physical Risks
Coastal Flooding
Large-scale coastal flood events have the potential to impact transportation See Physical Risk Mitigation section
infrastructure (e.g., roads, railroads), which could potentially cause fuel for our comprehensive strategy,
supply disruptions and impact Southwest Customers’ and Employees’ ability which is applicable to coastal
to arrive at the airport. Additionally, these impacts may lead to increases in flooding.
Southwest’s operating expenses in the form of increased maintenance or repair
costs, insurance premiums, airport fees for repairs or other items, or capital
expenditures to replace damaged or waterlogged infrastructure. Smaller, less-
developed airports located in areas exposed to coastal flooding may struggle to
adapt to increased incidences of coastal flood events.
Drought
As the frequency and intensity of drought may increase, the possibility of water At Southwest, we understand the
restrictions caused by drought might impact airport and flight operations. importance of water conservation.
Operating expenses may increase under drought conditions, becoming more Although water consumption is a
frequent as airport lease agreements may require increased infrastructure small part of our operations, it’s
enhancements for water conservation or include increased water use fees. an important natural resource,
and we strive to take measures to
Southwest might also experience medium-term to long-term impacts from conserve water in our facilities and
tourist destinations becoming less attractive in some areas. For example, loss of landscaping. The majority of our
snow in winter at ski destinations could impact revenues. water consumption comes from
domestic use by our Employees,
and we have implemented projects
to target conservation in this area to
preserve this natural resource.
Low Mid High
Exposure to Impacts:20
Short-Term Mid-Term Long-Term
Present Day 2030 2050
Potential Mid- to Long-Term Impacts Risk Reduction Strategies
etucA
Low Mid High
Exposure to Impacts:20
Short-Term Mid-Term Long-Term
Present Day 2030 2050
Potential Mid- to Long-Term Impacts Risk Reduction Strategies
Heat Waves
Heat waves may affect labor productivity, increase cooling costs, and affect To mitigate weather-related risks
aircraft performance. Southwest’s Ground Crews are on the tarmac for to our Employees, we provide
prolonged periods, potentially leaving them exposed to the effects of heat appropriate personal protective
waves. Potential increases in heat wave incidence, duration, intensity, and the equipment and resources, including
length of the season may increase cooling costs. Tarmac and airplane repair during heat waves. We have
costs may increase as prolonged exposure to heat may expedite the usual wear implemented health and Safety
of assets. Heat waves may also affect aircraft performance and could decrease procedures and policies, and we
revenues due to reduced flight payloads and more baggage restrictions monitor compliance with such
necessitated by weight limits imposed by heat. Additionally, related costs may policies and evaluate them for
increase, such as fuel. As heat makes the air less dense, aircraft must exert more relevance. For more information
thrust to produce enough lift for takeoff. In the long-term, capital investment about our Safety program, please
in new aircraft or parts may be necessary for greater resilience and greater refer to the management approach
operational functionality in higher temperatures. to Safety.
Winter Storms and Cold Snaps
Snowstorms can create multiple challenges to airline operations: the Safety In late December 2022, we
of aircraft, environmental compliance of deicing equipment and wastewater, experienced Winter Storm
which adds operating costs, and disruption to ground transportation and flights Elliott. After this winter weather
that could lead to lost revenue due to cancellations and schedule disruptions event, we implemented a plan
in affected areas, with potential follow-on effects through the system. Such to increase our existing winter
impacts may also increase operating costs in the form of premium pay and operational resiliency. This plan
rerouting of Employees to staff the operation. Extreme winter storms and includes increasing the number of
cold snaps can also affect transportation infrastructure and lead to damage of available deicing trucks and ground
equipment and supply chain interruptions. Aircraft assets damaged by extreme equipment; procuring additional
cold or winter weather, such as hail, may require accelerated depreciation, deicing pads and increasing
reducing earnings in the year of recognition and/or reducing the residual asset glycol capacity at key locations;
value of the aircraft asset. Various capital investments in order to mitigate implementing new weather
risks and impacts from weather-related events may also become necessary, applications to enhance deicing
including as discussed in the next paragraph regarding Winter Storm Elliott. holdover times; purchasing and
deploying additional engine covers
and heaters; expanding our existing
winter ops training and augmenting
winter staffing levels.
etucA
Wildfires
Extreme wildfires can rapidly change conditions such as visibility and wind We have implemented monitoring
speeds that affect air travel. In the event of a spreading wildfire, flights may procedures that require outdoor
either be delayed, re-routed, or canceled entirely depending on the severity of personnel in certain states to be
the wildfire, leading to potential lost revenues and potential knock-on effects provided masks should wildfire
throughout the system. Employees working at certain outdoor locations may smoke become a hazard, based
be impacted by harmful air quality conditions in the event of a nearby wildfire. on a parts per million threshold.
Operating expenses may also increase due to wildfire conditions in the form Those values are monitored locally
of increased maintenance costs for aircraft engines with severe smoke or by ground operations personnel
ash exposure or increased fuel expenses to re-route around affected areas. with assistance and support from
Aircraft assets damaged by smoke or ash may require accelerated depreciation, the Meteorology Team. Monitoring
reducing earnings in the year of recognition or reducing the residual asset occurs across 31 stations covering
value of the damaged aircraft asset. California and the western states.
cinorhC
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 61
Increasing Temperatures
As the annual average temperature may increase over time in the U.S., Through network planning, we
additional cooling costs might be needed. In some airports, the restriction can avoid routing aircraft to areas
on takeoff weight due to hot air might also become a chronic issue that limits that are more prone to takeoff
Southwest's ability to transport Passengers and cargo. Reduced available seat load restrictions during the hottest
miles and load factors due to decreased payloads might impact revenues. times of the day. This provides an
Increased fuel usage and associated costs may be necessary to gain the same opportunity to mitigate such takeoff
lift in hot conditions, and airport fees may increase to adapt infrastructure restrictions though planning efforts
to these chronic weather changes, such as by extending runway length and in the long term. Additionally, we
resilience to heat. In the longer-term horizon, capital expenditures may can consider changed climate
increase to invest in and replace fixed or other ground assets vulnerable to conditions in long-term travel
heat, such as new components more resilient and operationally suited to demand forecasts, especially given
higher temperatures. the regional scenario analysis
conducted within this scope
of work.
Low Mid High
Exposure to Impacts:20
Short-Term Mid-Term Long-Term
Present Day 2030 2050
Potential Mid- to Long-Term Impacts Risk Reduction Strategies
cinorhC
Climate-Related Transitional Risks
Low Mid High
Exposure to Impacts:21
Short-Term Mid-Term Long-Term
Changes in Precipitation N/A
Present Day 2030 2050
As extreme precipitation may increase in all regions, this We continue to work alongside the airports and local Potential Mid- to Long-Term Impacts Risk Reduction Strategies
could impact Southwest Customers’ and Employees’ airport authorities within our network to address
ability to commute and travel to and from the airport. contingency plans and flood preparedness. For our
It may also cause flight delays. Continuous exposure to owned ancillary buildings and hangar building designs,
extreme precipitation could additionally impact hard we include storm systems which are designed for 100-
assets not designed or engineered to withstand frequent, year floods and buildings are typically set at a higher
intense precipitation, resulting in higher expenditures in elevation to help prevent flooding.
insurance premiums, investments in flood defenses, and
increased airport fees to develop resilience upgrades to
mitigate these impacts.
lageL
dna
yciloP
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 62
Risk Reduction Strategies
Risk Reduction Strategies
Enhanced Emissions and
NZE
Climate Reporting Obligations
The Company is subject to federal, state, local, and international We actively monitor emerging regulations and
laws and regulations relating to the protection of the analyze the risks to our business, including
environment. Federal, state, local, and international legislative engaging with regulators and industry
and regulatory bodies are generally increasingly focused associations such as A4A and ICAO to advocate
on climate change and reducing GHG emissions, including for reasonable and responsible climate policy.
CO emissions. For example, the United Nations’ ICAO has
2
implemented its CORSIA program, which seeks to cap carbon As part of CORSIA, we monitor our international
emissions from international civil aviation at 85% of 2019 levels emissions for reporting purposes. We seek to
from 2024-2035. mitigate these obligations through initiatives
such as fuel-saving programs and efforts to
increase our supply of SAF. We report our Scope
1, Scope 2, and certain Scope 3 emissions and
progress toward our climate goals in our One
Report and CDP climate change questionnaire.
Mandates on and Regulation
NZE
of Existing Products and Services
Future policy, legal, regulatory, or other market developments We engage with regulators and industry
could require Southwest to reduce its emissions, modify its associations such as A4A and ICAO to advocate
supply chain practices or aspects of its operations, make capital for reasonable and responsible climate policy.
investments to purchase specific types of equipment, software, Our Governmental Affairs Department works to
or technologies to meet reporting requirements, secure carbon stay on top of proposed statutory and regulatory
offset credits or SAF due to increased obligations, or otherwise changes to educate a wide range of policymakers
incur additional costs related to climate objectives, such as and Stakeholder groups directly.
increased reporting and regulatory requirements resulting in
increased labor and professional services fees.
Low Mid High
Exposure to Impacts:21
Short-Term Mid-Term Long-Term
Present Day 2030 2050
Potential Mid- to Long-Term Impacts Risk Reduction Strategies
tekraM
Low Mid High
Exposure to Impacts:21
Short-Term Mid-Term Long-Term
Present Day 2030 2050
Potential Mid- to Long-Term Impacts Risk Reduction Strategies
Increased Cost of Raw Materials STEPS
Operating costs, such as fossil fuel, may be high Southwest attempts to manage its risk associated with volatile jet
or increase over time if global fuel production fuel prices by utilizing over-the-counter fuel derivative instruments
decreases due to supply chain disruptions or to hedge a portion of its future jet fuel purchases. In addition,
increased regulations such as carbon pricing. we continue to make long-term investments, such as our fleet
There may be additional financing costs to hedge modernization program, which helps our operations be more
exposure to volatile prices. fuel efficient. In 2023, we set a new goal to save 50M incremental
gallons of jet fuel by 2025, and 1.1B cumulative gallons by 2035.3 In
2023, we’ve saved 42M incremental gallons and 162M cumulative
gallons of jet fuel.3,11 Additionally, our efforts to diversify fuel supply,
including through expansion of SAF within our fuel mix, is also
intended to further mitigate such cost volatility—assuming SAF is
cost-competitive and less volatile in comparison.
Changing Customer Behavior NZE
Concern among consumers of the impacts of We recognize the importance for the aviation industry to address
climate change may mean some Customers its environmental impact. As a hard to abate sector, we know
choose to fly less frequently or fly on an airline there are challenges in achieving this goal. A truly collaborative
they perceive as operating in a manner that’s journey lies ahead, and Southwest remains focused on doing its
more sustainable. Customers may increasingly part. In 2023, we launched our updated sustainability strategy,
choose to use alternatives to travel, such as virtual Nonstop to Net Zero, which outlines our path to achieve net zero
meetings and workspaces. Further development carbon emissions by 2050.1 We’ve taken steps toward achieving
of high-speed rail or autonomous electric vehicles our sustainability goals, including securing a new SAF offtake
in markets now served by short-haul flights agreement, setting new operational goals, fleet modernization,
could provide Passengers with lower-carbon and fuel efficiency initiatives.
alternatives to flying. The Company’s collateral
to secure loans, including in the form of aircraft, To stay informed of Customer expectations, we routinely
could lose value as Customer demand shifts and leverage trip net promoter surveys, re-evaluate and adjust
economies move to low-carbon alternatives, network plans, and provide products and services to adjust more
which may increase the Company’s financing rapidly to leisure and business travel demand. For example, we
costs. As leisure destinations such as snow and have launched a new, innovative option for eligible corporate
tropical destinations face greater frequency and Customers looking to purchase Customer Scope 3 SAF Claims
severity of acute and chronic physical events, and/or carbon offsets.
there may be a change in demand for leisure
travel or destinations of choice for such travel,
potentially reducing revenues in current markets.
noitatupeR
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 63
Increased Stakeholder Concern or
NZE
Negative Stakeholder Feedback
Southwest’s reputation or brand could be Southwest operates one of the world's most admired and
adversely impacted by, among other things, awarded airlines, and we take pride in our reputation as the
(i) any failure to meet its sustainability or ESG airline with Heart. Famous for an Employee-first corporate
plans or goals, including those that relate to Culture, Southwest maintains an unprecedented record of no
climate change; (ii) the Company’s impact on involuntary furloughs or layoffs in its history. Our formula for
the environment; or (iii) public pressure from success brought industry-leading prosperity and 47 consecutive
investors or policy groups to change Southwest’s years22 of profitability for Southwest Shareholders through 2019
policies related to the environment. To the (NYSE: LUV).
extent that the Company is unable to respond
timely and appropriately to negative publicity, To address any potential Stakeholder concerns, we frequently
Southwest’s reputation and brand can be engage with our Stakeholders regarding our sustainability
harmed. Damage to our overall reputation efforts through investor calls, individual meetings with corporate
and brand could negatively impact its financial Customers, financial partner engagements, and through our
results and require additional resources for communications and outreach. We also measure consumer and
the Company to rebuild its reputation. Major Employee sentiment for public posts and press releases related
financial institutions have begun to announce to sustainability published on our channels, and we utilize a
GHG reduction targets for their financed quarterly report that monitors our reputation externally and
activities in the aviation sector. To the extent that provides insight on a variety of topics, including ESG.
the Company's climate targets are not perceived
to align with those of its lenders, the Company's We work to maintain our reputation and brand by setting
access to credit may be adversely impacted. long-term and near-term sustainability goals, and we’re taking
steps toward achieving these goals through initiatives like
SAF offtake agreements, fuel efficiency efforts, and our fleet
modernization program.
SAF Value Chain STEPS
As Southwest’s climate goals are dependent on SAF plays an important role in our depicted Path to Net Zero
the scaling of the SAF market, we’re inherently by 2050. By 2030, we plan to replace 10% of our total jet fuel
reliant on numerous factors to achieve these consumption with SAF; however, we cannot guarantee that our
goals, including: the implementation or SAF efforts will be successful or ultimately allow us to meet our
extension of SAF government incentives and the goal. In 2023 and 2024, we launched SARV, a wholly-owned
performance of third party SAF producers. Any subsidiary dedicated to creating more opportunities to obtain
non-performance of such third parties or lack scalable SAF, invested $30M in LanzaJet, and signed a 20-year
of appropriate incentives and infrastructure for agreement to purchase up to 680 million gallons of neat SAF
SAF could cause the Company not to achieve its from USA BioEnergy. In 2023, we continued to use SAF at OAK
sustainability goals, increase the Company’s costs and continued working with other SAF producers. For details,
associated with meeting such goals, or adversely read more in Carbon.
impact the Company’s reputation or brand.
Low Mid High
Exposure to Impacts:21
Short-Term Mid-Term Long-Term
Present Day 2030 2050
Potential Mid- to Long-Term Impacts Risk Reduction Strategies
ygolonhceT
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 64
Transitioning to Lower Emissions
NZE
Aircraft Technology
Southwest is reliant on MAX aircraft deliveries We plan to continue to modernize our fleet with more fuel-
from Boeing to meet our climate goals. With the efficient Boeing 737 MAX aircraft.17 The 737 MAX, powered by
emerging focus and advancement of new aircraft CFM International LEAP-1B engines, includes design updates
technologies, including electric and hydrogen, such as Boeing’s Advanced Technology winglet, which results
there may be opportunities for investment in in less drag and further optimizes the 737 MAX’s performance,
the future. Such investments could result in especially on longer-range flights.
increased operating expenses in the form of
research & development into new fuels and As SAF is currently recognized as the element that will play the
technologies and the potential for sunk costs most critical role in addressing the aviation sector’s carbon
if certain technologies aren’t widely accepted, emissions by 2050, we are focusing our strategy on SAF for the
commercialized, or become obsolete quickly. time being. Additionally, as a fully certified drop-in fuel when
blended with conventional jet fuel in accordance with industry
standards, SAF is compatible with existing infrastructure,
making SAF a lower infrastructure risk than novel propulsion
technologies. For details, read more in Carbon.
Climate-Related Opportunities
Low Mid High
Exposure to Impacts:
Short-Term Mid-Term Long-Term
Present Day 2030 2050
Potential Mid- to Long-Term Impacts Enhancement Strategies
secruoS
ygrenE
Use of SAF NZE
Reduced financial exposure to fossil fuel cost In 2023, we launched SARV, a wholly-owned subsidiary
increases or volatility as our fuel supply sources dedicated to creating more opportunities to obtain scalable
are diversified, assuming SAF is cost-competitive SAF. Southwest has set a goal to replace 10% of our total jet
and less volatile in comparison. We have seen fuel consumption with SAF by 2030. We’re working intently on
opportunities such as with low carbon intensity SAF partnerships and utilizing internal resources to develop
SAF, that benefits from government incentives that our SAF supply chain, such as through our investment in
reward such lower CI scores (such as the CFPC and SAFFiRE. We recognize the SAF market still needs to be scaled
the Low Carbon Fuel Standard). Additionally, new in order for us to be able to meet our goal, which requires
Inflation Reduction Act credits require domestic government support and collaboration across the entire value
blending and/or production, which provides more chain. We support the federal government's ambition for
energy Security than relying on foreign sources three billion gallons of SAF by 2030 through the SAF Grand
of oil. Participation in the SAF marketplace may Challenge and SAF incentives.13
additionally reduce financial exposure to potential
carbon pricing schemes.
secivreS
dna
stcudorP
Low Mid High
Exposure to Impacts:
Short-Term Mid-Term Long-Term
Present Day 2030 2050
Potential Mid- to Long-Term Impacts Enhancement Strategies
Low-carbon Airline and Less Carbon
NZE
Intensive Products and Services
Both corporate and individual airline Customers As Southwest communicates progress toward our climate
engage with airlines to address the climate impact goals, we may attract new customers and generate additional
of their flights, which could lead to increased revenue. Additionally, if Southwest successfully meets our
revenue from new customers. climate goals, this could boost our reputation and brand.
ygolonhceT
tneicffiE
ecruoseR
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 65
Use of More Fuel Efficient Technologies
NZE
for Fleet and Operations
More fuel-efficient technologies could reduce We’re modernizing our fleet, with plans to replace our older
Southwest’s operating costs and could reduce 737-700 aircraft with MAX aircraft that are more fuel efficient.17
financial exposure to potential carbon On the ground, Southwest continues to electrify our GSE fleet,
pricing schemes. having electrified 37% of all eligible GSE as of December 31,
2023, with plans to continue to electrify more.2
Use of More Efficient Modes
NZE
of Transport
More efficient modes of transport could reduce We support exploration and advancement of all levers
Southwest’s financial exposure to fossil fuel cost to address aviation’s carbon emissions, and we continue
increases or volatility as we diversify fuel types and monitoring the landscape with hydrogen, electric, and hybrid
explore alternative propulsion technologies. aircraft. In 2024, we made our first public engagement on
battery-electric propulsion technologies through joining the
Hawaii Seaglider Initiative, and we are eager to explore inter
and intra island travel alternatives that have the potential to
support our environmental sustainability goals.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 66
regulatory oversight at airports, as well as the source of our materials and processes to maintain full regulatory Airports' storm water discharge is governed by the EPA’s
Compliance
litigation by airports against AFFF manufacturers. Moreover, compliance, while optimizing performance and minimizing National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
regulatory authorities at the federal, state, and local levels operational disruptions and waste. program. This program issues permits to airports or to
are contemplating both the prohibition of PFAS-based airlines at those airports for the proper handling of aircraft
Maintaining compliance with local, state, and federal AFFF and costly remediation efforts at airports to address deicing fluid runoff and maintenance fluids to avoid
Water Management
environmental laws and regulations is fundamental to our groundwater contamination. Southwest actively monitors negative environmental effects. We partner with the airports
Environmental Policy. We continually work to meet our the conversations so we can operate with the most we serve to implement measures addressing aircraft deicing
annual goal of zero recorded environmental violations. updated information. We recognize the significance of water conservation. runoff. This includes the recovery of deicing fluids and
Our Environmental Services Team regularly conducts While our water usage is relatively small compared with adoption of other related pollution-reduction technologies.
audits to review compliance. We also work to improve our our overall environmental footprint, we collaborate with Additionally, we contribute to storm water management
performance by utilizing our environmental management Waste select airports across our network to manage storm water by adhering to regulatory plans like the SWPPP and SPCC.
system (EMS), following environmental guidelines and runoff and mitigate environmental impact on adjacent We also incorporate storm water protection into our annual
procedures, implementing corrective action, and training water bodies. environmental training for all operational groups.
At Southwest, our goal is to help conserve natural resources
our Employees to meet our compliance goals. We meet
by addressing the use of raw materials and comply with
with our airport Stakeholders on a regular basis both in
applicable local, state, and federal environmental laws
response to events and incidents (if any), as well as to foster
and regulations regarding hazardous and non-hazardous
a collaborative approach to our collective compliance.
waste. Maintaining a comprehensive analysis of all waste
generation across all Stations is a hurdle that we're
Our standard auditing protocol assesses a location’s
working to address. We work to track waste generation
recordkeeping permit status and compliance with
through multiple sources and third parties, with reports
requirements of regulatory plans such as Storm Water
collected each year aimed at providing a summary of our
Pollution Prevention Plans (SWPPP), and Spill Prevention waste disposal across our Stations. Material data collected
Control and Countermeasure Plans (SPCC). We perform includes scrap metal, batteries, e-waste, light bulbs,
visual walk-through inspections to confirm that key shredded paper, municipal waste, and all maintenance and
compliance practices are enacted while also tracking spills, cleaning agents (e.g., oil filters, glycol, solvents, paints).
audit findings and corresponding corrective action, and Forms of waste are broken out by hazardous and
permits and their expiration dates. We set goals and use non-hazardous categorization, energy recovery status,
our EMS and chemical management system (CMS) to aid quantity of material, and total weight for tracking purposes.
in our effort to maintain compliance with environmental
regulations, minimize costs and risk, and measure our We also educate and engage our Employees about proper
efforts to improve our environmental performance. and safe waste disposal methods. Our Technical Operations
Team practices first in, first out inventory management to
We also track environmental issues that may have an impact maximize the shelf life of our supplies. In addition to closely
to the broader aviation industry, such as the increased monitoring inventory, waste reduction efforts include our
focus of governmental agencies on per- and polyfluoroalkyl shelf life improvement project and the installation of paint
substances (PFAS). PFAS are a key component in aqueous mixing stations. We introduced Shelf Life Return Bins in our
film forming foam (AFFF), which is widely used to fight hangers for the return of partially used, unexpired materials
petroleum-based fires at both commercial and military to stock. Hangars also have paint mixing stations to mix
aviation facilities. The FAA and the U.S. Department of task specific amounts of paint based on what is needed for
Defense have strict performance specifications for fire a project, rather than mixing all of the paint components
suppression systems, which contributed to the use of included in a prepackaged kit. We continually review
AFFF/PFAS over the decades. PFAS is now the focus of
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 67
Planet Data Table
SAF Emissions Units 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Biogenic Emissions MT of CO e 8,212 7,642 Not Not Not
2
Associated with SAF26 Reported Reported Reported
Environmental Impact Units 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Scope 2
Total Energy Consumption Megawatt-Hours 84.0 75.9 64.6 49.8 81.1
(MWh) million million million million million Location-based MT of CO e 35,822 36,487 34,977 38,334 44,783
2
Market-based MT of CO e 21,256 30,376 Not Not Not
Production Activity Revenue 24.3 22.1 18.6 9.8 23.5
2
Reported Reported Reported
Ton Kilometers (RTKs) billion billion billion billion billion
Scope 3
Water Consumption23 Gallons 85.8 77.2 78.7 83.2 95.0
million million million million million
Category 1: Purchased Goods MT of CO e 1,716,201 1,496,394 Not Not Not
2
and Services Reported Reported Reported
GHG Inventory Units 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Category 2: Capital Goods MT of CO e 339,840 197,969 Not Not Not
2
Reported Reported Reported
Scope 1
Category 3: Fuel and Energy-related Activities
Conventional Jet Fuel Metric Tons of Carbon 20,619,349 18,487,864 16,050,702 12,252,482 19,984,165
Conventional Jet Fuel24 MT of CO e 4,165,400 3,748,969 3,242,473 2,475,178 4,037,089
Emissions24 Dioxide Equivalent 2
(MT of CO e)
2
Sustainable Aviation Fuel MT of CO e 2,434 2,303 Not Not Not
2
Reported Reported Reported
Emissions associated MT of Methane (CH ) 28 0.4 Not Not Not
4
with SAF and Nitrous Oxide Reported Reported Reported
Category 5: Waste Generated MT of CO e 3,625 1,632 1,574 1,473 2,221
(N O) in CO e 2
2 2 in Operations
GSE Fuel Emissions MT of CO e 43,559 25,601 29,535 35,328 37,578
Category 7: Employee MT of CO e 162,146 162,762 142,230 118,305 151,400
2
2
Commuting
Natural Gas MT of CO e 7,167 7,899 6,185 6,167 7,277
2
Total Scope 1, Scope 2, MT of CO e 24,873,759 22,309,123 19,363,872 14,807,489 24,110,892
2
and Scope 3 Category 3
Total Scope 1 Emissions24,25 MT of CO e 20,670,103 18,521,364 16,086,422 12,293,977 20,029,020
Emissions24
2
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 68
Other Air Emissions27 Units 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 Waste Management
Units 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
& Recycling28
Nitrogen Oxides (NO ) Tons 6.5 7.7 6.0 7.1 7.1
x
Emissions from
Total Waste Generated Tons 8,914 7,259 6,808 6,032 9,310
Stationary Sources
Total Waste Diverted Tons 2,104 1,524 1,470 1,503 2,426
Sulfur Oxides (SO ) Emissions Tons 0.5 0.7 0.6 0.7 0.7
x
from Stationary Sources
Total Waste Directed Tons 6,810 5,735 5,338 4,529 6,884
to Disposal
Compliance Units 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Total Waste Recycled % 24 21 22 25 26
Environmental Violations Number None None None None 1
Hazardous Waste Tons 34.9 19.6 16.1 25.7 27.4
Resulting in Fines
Generated
Total Environmental Fines Dollars None None None None $1,305
Hazardous Waste Managed Tons 17.5 17.1 11.5 19.1 22.3
Through Recycling and
BeneficiaI Reuse
Environmental
Units 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Performance
RTK Emissions Intensity24 Grams CO e/RTK 1,022 1,006 1,041 1,509 1,027
2
RPM Emissions Intensity24 Grams CO e/RPM 183 180 187 273 184
2
ASM Emissions Intensity24 Grams CO e/ASM 146 150 147 143 153
2
Fuel Efficiency ASMs/gallon 79.5 77.3 79.2 81.3 75.7
Purchases of Renewable kWh More More More None More
Energy Certificates than than than than
58 million 59 million 39 million 25 million
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 69
Per forma n ce
Delivering strong operational and financial performance, while keeping Safety a top priority, is critical to our Stakeholders and to the long-term
success of Southwest Airlines. This section provides a holistic overview of Southwest’s 2023 performance across these key areas, as well as the
growth of our network, Customer Satisfaction, and our indirect economic impact.
2023 Highlights 44,905 99%
• Launched digital bag tracking, enabling Southwest Customers to
track checked bags from tagging to arriving at their destinations
• Created more flexibility on day of travel with the launch of new Customer commendations completion factor
same-day change and same-day standby benefits29
• Partnered with IATA to conduct a Safety Culture Survey to gain
$26.1B 137M+
insights from Employees and identify areas of strength and areas to
continually improve
• Ended 2023 serving more than 800 city pairs connecting more
than 120 airports record operating revenues revenue Passengers carried
Performance Section Framework Disclosures
Key Topics
SDGs GRI SASB
Financial Fleet Safety Operational
Performance Management Performance
201-1 403-1 403-4 403-8 TR-AL-540a.1
203-1 403-2 403-5 413-1
Customer Network & Indirect
203-2 403-3 403-7 416-1 Satisfaction Growth Economic Impact
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 70
Financial Performance
2023 Spotlight We had a strong 99% completion factor performance
for full year 2023, with fourth quarter 2023 being our
best quarterly performance in more than a decade at
• Generated record full year operating 99.6%. And we improved across nearly all Operational
revenues of $26.1 billion and Customer metrics. Our completion factor,
ontime performance, early morning originators, and
• Achieved a record number of revenue mishandled bag rate all showed substantial year-over-
Passengers carried, at more than 137 year improvement, which in turn led to a year-over-year
improvement in our Net Promoter Score (NPS). During
million Passengers
2023, we also completed a comprehensive winter action
plan, restored our network, achieved full utilization
• Achieved a strong 99% completion factor
of our fleet, delivered significant new capabilities
performance for full year 2023, with fourth
for our Customers, and maintained the strength of
quarter 2023 being our best quarterly
our investment-grade balance sheet, despite facing
performance in more than a decade
extraordinary challenges over the past few years.
• Maintained the strength of our
While we’re proud of our 2023 accomplishments, we
investment-grade balance sheet
acknowledge that we’ve not yet delivered on our financial
targets. In 2024, we’re focused on leveraging strategic
initiatives to improve profitability and make progress toward
In 2023, Southwest generated record operating revenues our financial targets. This includes an important emphasis
of $26.1 billion and full year net income of $465 million. on better aligning Southwest’s route network with new
Excluding special items,30 we achieved full year net income demand patterns and the incremental benefit of new and
of $980 million. Our strong 2023 revenue performance existing strategic initiatives.
was driven by healthy leisure demand and continued yield
strength combined with record ancillary revenue, loyalty Cost pressures, particularly from higher labor costs and
program revenue, and Passengers carried. In fact, we set maintenance expenses, will likely persist throughout 2024.
operating revenue records in each quarter of the year and However, we’ll be relentless in executing our plans and
for the full year 2023. Additionally, we were pleased with will continue to make necessary adjustments, including
the performance of our revenue initiatives, including our potential capacity changes, to drive financial results
managed business initiatives. and make progress toward restoring our profit margins
to historical levels—without losing focus on delivering
Alongside revenue growth, 2023 was a year of significant outstanding service to our Customers, creating value for
progress toward achieving our operational performance our Shareholders, and delivering a safe, efficient, and
goals—all thanks to the efforts of our incredible People. reliable operation.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 71
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 72
Management Approach • Communities: Strong financial performance can protect
jobs and positively impact economic growth in the
communities in which we operate.
Our Leadership Team sets specific annual financial goals to
generate consistent profitability and enhance Shareholder
Reporting on Business
value, with a particular focus on generating returns on Strong relationships and regular communication with these
invested capital in excess of our weighted average cost Stakeholders all play a role in supporting strong financial Performance
of capital. performance. For example, we encourage all Employees
to contribute their ideas for process improvements,
With oversight from our CEO and Board, our Leadership enhancing efficiency, reducing costs, and attracting more Southwest’s Annual Report
team actively manages the financial performance of Customers. We listen to our Customers through many
to Shareholders provides
Southwest. All Executives play a role in incorporating channels, including social media, emails, and surveys. Their
these focus areas into our business strategy in an effort feedback helps guide strategic actions, such as our recent an overview of our business
to achieve our financial goals. Throughout the year, our investments in improved WiFi,31 larger overhead bins, and
and financial performance
Financial Planning and Analysis department closely tracks in-seat power. Satisfying Customers fosters repeat business,
our financial performance and provides frequent updates to positively impacting financial performance. Frequent in 2023. The Annual Report
Senior Executives and the Board. interactions with Shareholders, including one-on-one
also includes a discussion of
conversations, quarterly earnings calls, and participation
our business, risks factors,
in investor events, offer opportunities for insightful
Southwest recognizes the potential impact that our financial
discussions that challenge perspectives and influence
Management’s Discussion
performance may have on our Stakeholders, including our
future decisions.
Employees, Customers, Shareholders, suppliers, and the and Analysis of Southwest’s
communities we serve. Our financial performance focus
Financial Condition and
areas and goals include:
Results of Operations, and
• Employees: Financial performance supports job security,
our ability to invest in airplanes and grow the Company,
audited financial statements.
"Earning adequate and consistent
our ability to invest in the Employee experience, and
returns—ROIC well in excess of
Southwest’s ProfitSharing Plan—a defined contribution
WACC—is our financial North Star,
plan that gives our Employees the opportunity to share Southwest’s Proxy Statement,
and it's non-negotiable. We will
in Southwest’s success (subject to the Board’s discretion
provided to Shareholders
and approval). be relentless in executing against
in advance of the Annual
our plans, and we will continue
• Customers: Our ability to maintain a competitive cost
position allows us to keep fares low and offer more to make adjustments, including Meeting of Shareholders,
routes for Customers. Our financial performance also capacity adjustments if needed,
describes matters up for
ties to our ability to reinvest in Customer Experience
until we deliver those results.”
enhancements. Shareholder vote and
• Shareholders: Strong financial performance is includes Executive
Bob Jordan
foundational to delivering adequate returns
compensation information.
on investment.
President &
• Suppliers: Strong financial performance creates the
Chief Executive Officer
opportunity to grow our operations and increase our
procurement, which can benefit our suppliers.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 73
10-Year Summary
Our 10-Year Summary shows consistent profitability prior to Through our recovery from the pandemic, we’ve reached
the COVID-19 pandemic. In the decade leading up to 2020, important milestones such as becoming fully staffed,
we significantly increased our destinations served and restoring our robust network, and flying our full fleet.
further strengthened our robust point-to-point network. Despite pressures from rising operational costs, we remain
We increased our capacity and fleet, introduced near- dedicated to building on our momentum of the past 10
international service, and added thousands of Employees to years, leveraging network optimization and efficiency gains,
our Southwest Family. Our solid execution led to increased among other strategic initiatives, to achieve sustainable
earnings per share and returns to Shareholders. growth and a return to consistent profitability.
“We prioritized resources into restoring our network and Reliability in 2023,
and now can direct more focus and energy to consistently deliver a strong
financial performance that supports and reflects the operational excellence
of our People who are the Heart and soul of this great Company.”
Tammy Romo
Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 74
Select Consolidated Financial Data 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Dollars in millions except per share amounts, unaudited
Operating revenues
Passenger $23,637 $21,408 $14,066 $7,665 $20,776 $20,455 $19,763 $19,068 $18,299 $17,658
Freight 175 177 187 161 172 175 173 171 179 175
Special revenue adjustment — — — — — — — — 172 —
Other 2,279 2,229 1,537 1,222 1,480 1,335 1,210 1,050 1,170 772
Total operating revenues 26,091 23,814 15,790 9,048 22,428 21,965 21,146 20,289 19,820 18,605
Operating expenses 25,867 22,797 14,069 12,864 19,471 18,759 17,739 16,767 15,821 16,437
Operating income (loss) 224 1,017 1,721 (3,816) 2,957 3,206 3,407 3,522 3,999 2,168
Total other expenses (income) (409) 289 396 440 — 42 142 72 520 352
Income (loss) before income taxes 633 728 1,325 (4,256) 2,957 3,164 3,265 3,450 3,479 1,816
Provision (benefit) for income taxes 168 189 348 (1,182) 657 699 (92) 1,267 1,298 680
Net income (loss) $465 $539 $977 $(3,074) $2,300 $2,465 $3,357 $2,183 $2,181 $1,136
Net income (loss) per share, basic $0.78 $0.91 $1.65 $(5.44) $4.28 $4.30 $5.58 $3.48 $3.30 $1.65
Net income (loss) per share, diluted $0.76 $0.87 $1.61 $(5.44) $4.27 $4.29 $5.57 $3.45 $3.27 $1.64
Cash dividends per common share $0.720 $0.000 $0.000 $0.180 $0.700 $0.605 $0.475 $0.375 $0.285 $0.220
Total assets $36,487 $35,369 $36,320 $34,588 $25,895 $26,243 $25,110 $23,286 $21,312 $19,723
Long-term debt less current maturities $7,978 $8,046 $10,274 $10,111 $1,846 $2,771 $3,320 $2,821 $2,541 $2,434
Stockholders' equity $10,515 $10,687 $10,414 $8,876 $9,832 $9,853 $9,641 $7,784 $7,358 $6,775
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 75
Consolidated Financial Ratios 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014
Return on average total assets 1.3% 1.5% 2.8% (10.2)% 8.8% 9.6% 13.9% 9.8% 10.6% 5.8%
Operating margin 0.9% 4.3% 10.9% (42.2)% 13.2% 14.6% 16.1% 17.4% 20.2% 11.7%
Net margin 1.8% 2.3% 6.2% (34.0)% 10.3% 11.2% 15.9% 10.8% 11.0% 6.1%
Revenue Passengers carried (in 000s) 137,279 126,586 99,111 54,088 134,056 134,890 130,256 124,720 118,171 110,497
Enplaned Passengers (in 000s) 171,817 156,982 123,264 67,785 162,681 163,606 157,677 151,740 144,575 135,767
RPMs (in millions) 136,256 123,843 103,562 54,221 131,345 133,322 129,041 124,798 117,500 108,035
ASMs (in millions) 170,323 148,467 132,006 103,456 157,254 159,795 153,811 148,522 140,501 131,004
Passenger load factor 80.0% 83.4% 78.5% 52.4% 83.5% 83.4% 83.9% 84.0% 83.6% 82.5%
Average length of Passenger haul (miles) 993 978 1,045 1,002 980 988 991 1,001 994 978
Average stage length (miles) 730 728 790 743 748 757 754 760 750 721
Aircraft utilization (hours and minutes per day) 10:45 10:31 9:52 8:52 11:10 11:10 11:11 11:08 11:13 10:54
Trips flown 1,459,427 1,298,219 1,066,934 897,540 1,367,727 1,375,030 1,347,893 1,311,149 1,267,358 1,255,502
Average Passenger fare $172.18 $169.12 $141.92 $141.72 $154.98 $151.64 $151.73 $152.89 $154.85 $159.80
Passenger revenue yield per RPM 17.35¢ 17.29¢ 13.58¢ 14.14¢ 15.82¢ 15.34¢ 15.32¢ 15.28¢ 15.57¢ 16.34¢
Operating revenue yield per ASM 15.32¢ 16.04¢ 11.96¢ 8.75¢ 14.26¢ 13.75¢ 13.75¢ 13.66¢ 13.98¢ 14.20¢
Operating expenses per ASM 15.19¢ 15.36¢ 10.66¢ 12.43¢ 12.38¢ 11.74¢ 11.53¢ 11.29¢ 11.26¢ 12.55¢
Operating expenses per ASM, excluding fuel 11.54¢ 11.33¢ 8.15¢ 10.65¢ 9.62¢ 8.85¢ 8.88¢ 8.73¢ 8.60¢ 8.46¢
Fuel cost per gallon including tax $2.89 $3.10 $1.98 $1.45 $2.09 $2.20 $1.99 $1.90 $1.96 $2.97
Fuel consumed, in gallons (millions) 2,143 1,922 1,668 1,273 2,077 2,094 2,045 1,996 1,901 1,801
Active, full-time equivalent Employees at year-end 74,806 66,656 55,093 56,537 60,767 58,803 56,110 53,536 49,583 46,278
Aircraft at year-end32 817 770 728 718 747 750 706 723 704 665
Average age of fleet (years) 11 12 13 12 12 11 11 12 12 12
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 76
Reconciliation of Reported Amounts to Non-GAAP Measures30 Non-GAAP Return on Invested Capital
(Dollars in millions, unaudited) (Dollars in millions, unaudited)
Year ended December 31, 2023 Year ended December 31, 2023
$465 $224
Net income, as reported Operating income, as reported
Add: TWU 556 contract adjustment33 180 TWU 556 contract adjustment33 180
Add: SWAPA contract adjustment34 354 SWAPA contract adjustment34 354
Add: Fuel hedge contracts settling in the current period, Net impact from fuel contracts35 16
16
but for which gains were reclassifed from AOCI35
DOT settlement 107
Deduct: Mark-market impact from fuel contracts settling in current periods35 (17)
Litigation settlement 12
Deduct: Unrealized mark-to-market adjustment on available for sale securities (4)
Operating income, non-GAAP 893
Add: DOT settlement 107
Net adjustment for aircraft leases37 128
Add: Litigation settlement 12
Adjusted operating income, non-GAAP (A) $1,021
Deduct: Net income tax impact of special items36 (133)
Non-GAAP tax rate38 (B) 23.5%
Net income, excluding special items $980
Net operating profit after-tax (A*(1-B)=C) $781
Debt, including finance leases39 $8,033
Equity39 10,669
Net present value of aircraft operating leases39 1,029
Average invested capital $19,731
Equity adjustment40 (168)
Adjusted average invested capital (D) $19,563
Non-GAAP ROIC, pre-tax (A/D) 5.2%
Non-GAAP ROIC, after-tax (C/D) 4.0%
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 77
Our fleet management approach also emphasizes operations and maintain low costs, and it’s a crucial step
Fleet
modernization. As of December 31, 2023, Southwest had toward achieving our carbon emissions intensity targets.
firm orders for new 737 MAX7 and 737 MAX8 aircraft The MAX7 is also set to be the longest-range aircraft in our
Management
through 2031 to replace older aircraft.18 This order book fleet, allowing us to enhance our route network.
offers significant flexibility for our fleet plans through 2031,
highlighting our commitment to upgrading our fleet with New aircraft are great for our Customers too. New MAX
more fuel-efficient aircraft. Compared to the previous aircraft come equipped with WiFi, the latest-generation
Southwest only operates Boeing 737 aircraft. And with
generation of 737s, the MAX7 and MAX8 models offer of onboard USB-A and USB-C power ports on every seat,
more than 800 737s, we operate the largest all-Boeing 737
increased range, enhanced flight deck capabilities, quieter and feature cabin upgrades like adjustable headrests, lower
fleet in the world. Our single-fleet strategy helps keep costs
engines, and approximately 14% greater fuel efficiency.17 profile armrests, and improved cushion support.
low, supports efficient operations, and simplifies scheduling
across our point-to-point network. It also helps streamline
Fuel-efficient, longer-range aircraft provide substantial
operations and training for our Employees and business
benefits for Southwest. Using less fuel helps us streamline
partners. Above all, a single fleet helps us maintain focus
on our number one priority—Safety for our Employees
and Customers.
Under the guidance of our CFO and VP of Fleet Management, our Fleet Management Team collaborates
Fleet Composition with Stakeholders across the organization to oversee aircraft acquisitions and retirements. The
Fleet Management
Southwest Team aims to optimize the total cost of ownership and improve efficiencies across the
(as of December 31, 2023)
fleet, while catering to the needs of our Customers, Employees, and operations. Although our single-
manufacturer fleet strategy offers many advantages, we acknowledge our dependence on a single
MAX8 aircraft deliveries in 2023
48%
manufacturer. We routinely review our fleet strategy with Senior Leadership and our Board of Directors
737-700 to reaffirm our operational and fleet philosophy.
86
Fleet Composition
Fleet Management
-700 aircraft retirements in 2023
(as of December 31, 2023) 817
39
MAX8 aircraft deliveries in 2023
48% Total Boeing
25%
737-700 737 fleet
737-800 86
-700 aircraft retirements in 2023
27%
817
737 MAX8
39
Total Boeing
25%
737 fleet
737-800
27%
737 MAX8
Safety This operational philosophy provides a framework for a
safe work environment for our Employees, a safe travel
experience for our Customers, and helps to mitigate any
potential negative impacts from our operations. Ultimately, 2023 Safety Goals
putting Safety first positions Southwest for success.
2023 Spotlight
Every year, we set Safety performance goals. In 2023,
• Ended the year strong, meeting all of our
we met our goals and even exceeded expectations in
2023 Safety goals
some performance areas. Our goals included reducing
• Partnered with IATA to conduct a Safety
Culture Survey to gain insights from
Employee injuries and lost time in 2023, returning to
Employees and identify areas of strength
and areas to continually improve our 2018 performance metrics.41
Southwest Airlines’ Operational Philosophy puts Safety first,
without compromise. All Employees are expected to follow
Company policies and procedures designed to enable
operations at an acceptable level of risk for Southwest, in
compliance with regulatory requirements. Next, and only
Lost Time Injury Claim Index OSHA Recordable Injury Index
after operating safely, we balance being low-cost and
Operational Philosophy
reliable, all delivered with world-class Hospitality.
Indexed to 2018 Performance41 Indexed to 2018 Performance41
Safety
8 8
6 6
4 4
2.2
2 1.4 1.4 2 1.4
0.0 0.0 0.0
0 0
Low Cost Reliability
-0.9 -0.8
-2 -1.2 -2
-3.0
-4 -4
Hospitality
-6 -6
-5.6
-8 -8
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
dekroW
sruoH
000,002
rep
xednI
yrujnI
ni
egnahC
xednI
yrujnI
emiT
tsoL
ni
egnahC
dekroW
sruoH
000,002
rep
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 78
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 79
Focused on continuous improvement, our Safety and
Southwest’s Safety Management System Safety Policy
Security Team launched new initiatives to help us
Our commitment to Safety is embodied in our Safety Management Southwest’s Safety Policy is reflected in our Safety and Security Commitment, a
achieve our Safety goals in 2023:
System (SMS), which creates the framework that enables Southwest public pledge made by all Southwest Employees and Senior Leadership to the
to operate safely. Our systematic approach to managing Safety is Safety and Security of our Customers and Employees. It establishes clear Company
• Ground Operations enhanced our Station Trainer Program and Tactical
based on FAA requirements and regulations, and we comply with and Employee expectations for Safety and Security and holds our Employees
Leader Training. Leadership initiatives included holding weekly Station
all FAA requirements for our Employees and operations. accountable for meeting these expectations. Southwest’s Safety Policy also
Leader Safety Culture and Ops Philosophy calls, improving training
covers our Safety and Security Objectives, including Safety Objectives specific to
methods, and conducting Ramp Proficiency Audits. supporting Employees and reducing injuries. Southwest Employees are expected to
The SMS framework is
demonstrate their commitment to Safety by:
• Technical Operations initiatives included better use of Safety Committee
comprised of four components: • Following Company policies and procedures
Meetings to gather Frontline Employee input and perspective on how to
• Identifying anything that could cause damage or injury
reduce injury and damage. Tech Ops also increased the frequency of Aerial
Safety Policy, Safety Risk Management, Safety
• Reporting hazards through Companywide reporting tools
Lift Training reoccurrence from three to two years and began developing
a business case for training simulators. New initiatives also included Assurance, and Safety Promotion. • Knowing and understanding our Safety and Security Commitment
introducing a Lockout-Tagout training video, computer-based training, and
Other Safety policies include our Guidelines for Employees, Safety/Security
the launch of our "See Something, Say Something" campaign.
These components are seamlessly integrated into all of our
Management Manual, and our Drug and Alcohol Policy.
processes, establishing a robust structure for Safety at Southwest.
• Inflight Operations is collaborating with Ground Operations to enhance
Components of SMS
the clarity of proper door procedures in the manuals and is working with Our SMS processes incorporate participation from Employees to help identify
hazards (anything that could cause injury or damage). SMS is integral in the
the SWAU Instructor Teams to provide greater emphasis on proper door
development and implementation of procedural changes, including those specific to
procedures in training.
mitigating hazards. Being accountable to the Safety and Security Commitment is yet
• Flight Operations Flight Safety Audit Program (FSAP) conducted more than another way that our Employees offer our Customers the Hospitality we’re known
1,000 flight deck observations to collect Safety data to continuously monitor for—through the lens of a safe operation.
Assurance Promotion
normal line operations. FSAP data collected was analyzed to produce a
Line Operations Safety Audit (LOSA) Report, which benchmarks Southwest
Safety Risk Management
Airlines against industry peers. LOSA Report results are expected in early
2024 and will be used to improve the policies and procedures our Pilots use
Components of
every day in the flight deck to get our Customers to their destinations safely. The Safety Risk Management function of our SMS provides a proactive, systemic,
and standardized process designed to identify hazards and risks to the operation
SMS
• NOC added new safety KPIs and invested in additional resources for Safety and workplace before they become injuries, accidents, or incidents. It is designed
programs, created an oversight/auditing team to oversee compliance with to mitigate risk through the implementation of effective risk controls, including
our policies and procedures, and appointed a new Safety Director to refine tools, technology, and training. Our Safety Management System grants Employees
SMS processes, aiming to reduce inflight damage caused by lightning and Contractors the opportunity to anonymously report Safety or Security related
and hail. Risk questions, concerns, or suggestions through our internal Safety/Security Reporting
Policy
Management System (SRS).
• Cargo & Charters created an additional role in their organization, the
Charter Associate Program Manager (CAPM). CAPMs are individuals Upon joining Southwest, Employees complete mandatory job-specific Safety and
who specialize in Charter Operations and support Employees operating occupational health training, equipping them to perform their roles. Additionally,
charter flights to give Employees what they need to provide a safe and depending on their job function and group, Employees participate in continuous
efficient operation. required and voluntary training to enhance their skills and knowledge.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 80
Safety Assurance evaluations helped verify the effectiveness of our risk Safety Governance having situational awareness of their surroundings, being
controls and identify areas for enhanced performance. compliant with our policies and procedures, and reporting
These efforts underline our Employees' dedication to Safety Security risks in our new Security reporting system—just like
The Safety Assurance function of our SMS is data-driven, The Board, through its Safety and Compliance Oversight
and Customer protection. they report Safety risks.
using analytics to consistently evaluate the efficacy of Committee comprised of independent directors, monitors
risk controls and our overall Safety performance. At the Company’s activities in areas of safety and operational
Southwest, we monitor Safety using diverse data streams, compliance, periodically assesses the Company’s
Safety Promotion
including Employee reports, aircraft information, Safety safety and operational compliance obligations, reviews
investigations, fatigue management programs, and audits. relevant policies, and meets regularly with management
All areas of the SMS receive Companywide and to assess the adequacy of resources and operational
Audit data is used to proactively assess Safety risk controls. department-specific Safety Promotion support, which processes directed toward supporting safety and
Whenever we implement new or updated policies or includes both training and communication related to Safety. operational compliance.
procedures, we actively search for any factors that could We employ job-specific training grounded in rigorous
lead to injury or damage. Our monitoring extends beyond standards to equip Employees with the essential skills for Furthermore, Southwest engages with independent
recent implementations; we consistently review controls safe operations.
third parties to conduct Safety reviews when the Board
that have been part of our system for a long duration.
or management believe appropriate. In the last year for
example, the Company engaged a third-party vendor
Southwest Airlines is
Our assurance programs scrutinize the effectiveness of
to begin assisting the Company in joining the IATA
these controls across all operational areas. When we
committed to promoting Operational Safety Audit registry, including preparing for
encounter unexpected indications, we undertake further
the IATA Operational Safety Audit (the IOSA). The IOSA
analysis. We've established a formal system assessment
the Safety and Security program is an internationally recognized and accepted
process for documenting and addressing any issues
evaluation system designed to assess the operational
when Safety performance doesn't meet our stringent
of our Customers and
management and control systems of an airline.
standards. In 2023 alone, we carried out more than 30
system assessments. Employees - it’s our
Launching our Security Management
Moreover, we analyze high-performing areas to extract number one priority.
System (SeMS)
lessons that can be applied to other projects. A prime
example is our Extended Operations (ETOPS) program,
which involved comprehensive Safety risk management. Additionally, we have a dynamic engagement strategy to Our Employees are essential in maintaining a safe and
In developing this program, we preemptively identified inform and educate Stakeholders about the Company’s secure operation. Since 2017, Southwest has used SMS to
hazards and developed risk controls, which allowed us to Safety and Security Commitment. This strategy involves manage Safety risks and engrain a Safety Culture across
build strong assurance measures. This proactive approach enterprise-wide communication through various channels, the organization.
meant we knew the necessary data for collection and messages tailored to Frontline Employees addressing
could leverage automation for ongoing monitoring. Each Safety risks in their specific areas, and Leadership briefings In the fall of 2023, we launched a SeMS to do the same
monitored area has set metrics that are regularly reviewed that highlight trends and provide talking points to address for Security. SeMS creates a formal and comprehensive
and reported to the ETOPS Advisory Board. concerns or spotlight improvements. Leaders can also approach to managing Security risks—meaning we now
review results pertinent to their locations and workgroups, have additional layers such as reporting and audits in place
Furthermore, we continually assess our performance guiding them to focus on areas for enhanced outcomes. to help identify and mitigate potential Security threats
against Safety Objectives, including reducing injuries and The SMS is engineered to nurture a robust Safety Culture and vulnerabilities.
operational damage. Over recent years, amid significant through knowledge and understanding. Our holistic
operational shifts such as post-COVID-19 recovery and strategy underscores our commitment to make Safety a All Employees are expected to contribute to and
integrating thousands of new Employees, our data-driven top priority. strengthen our Security Culture by being observant and
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 81
Operational Performance 2023 Operational Improvements
Throughout 2023, we made progress on investments to improve our resiliency, prepare for the upcoming winter season,
and deliver on three key areas of operational improvements:
When Southwest launched in the early 1970s, we used our project outcomes within our operations portfolio. This
now famous “10-Minute Turn” to boost efficiency and take structure is essential for the continuous enhancement of
Improving Winter Enhancing Cross-Team Accelerating Operational
on larger competitors. Since then, Southwest’s fleet size our operational capabilities. Our strategy is to be forward-
Operations Collaboration Investments
and network breadth have grown considerably. But our thinking, concentrating on continuous improvement and
dedication to efficiency, operational improvements, and our integrating data science, automation, and the latest trends
Purpose remains unchanged. Efficiency and Reliability are into our operational tools and processes. This includes the
key to connecting People to what’s important in their lives regular development and trial of operational improvements Additional deicing Department alignment Network optimization
trucks and deicing pads for Network Planning tool
through friendly, reliable, and low-cost air travel.
in simulated and real-world settings. While we’re proud of
and NOC
our operational heritage, our focus remains on planning
Increased phone
Southwest’s operations Teams are dedicated to: More engine inlet Real-time dashboards
for future operations. Our goal is to consistently offer our system capacity for
plugs and heaters to monitor network
Customers and Flight
• Identifying operational challenges and opportunities Employees and Customers a safe, reliable, efficient, and
health and visibility
Crew
modern airline experience.
• Informing decision-making and productivity through
SureWx weather Improved Crew
Crew scheduling
diagnostic analysis
application Member
upgrades
communication
• Reporting on operational performance and forecasting
Our Path Forward
the operational trends that inform our network design Increased deicing fluid Formalized Winter Customer bag tracking
on website and mobile
capacity Operations Playbook
• Assessing how we design, build, and operate a app
Our Purpose is to connect People to what’s important in
flight schedule with a focus on proper staffing and
their lives through friendly, reliable, and low-cost air travel.
capacity planning, overseeing Station readiness
We fell short on that Purpose in December 2022, when
and improvements, and strategically responding to
extreme weather and an unprecedented number of flight
unplanned events and ground equipment in very low temperatures. flight cancellations. We also developed a seasonal
cancellations impaired our ability to quickly recover and
Additionally, we increased staffing at airports where planning forum with operational experts and Leaders,
serve our Customers as well as we would have liked to in
extreme cold requires rotating Employees working and for the winter season, we formalized a Winter
To drive efficiency, our operations Teams monitor the
the moment.
outdoors. Initiatives also included the introduction of the Operations Playbook for our Leaders to use.
daily, monthly, and annual operational performance of our
SureWx liquid water equivalent system, which provides
airline. This includes closely examining data points around
Following the December 2022 operational disruption, we
more precise information for Pilots and Dispatchers to
annual performance goals, such as ontime performance • Accelerating Operational Investments: We accelerated
conducted an internal review with a third-party aviation
know how much time an aircraft has to depart based on
and completion factor. Thousands of additional data points the delivery of upgraded tools and technology designed
consulting firm to identify key root causes, reflect on
the efficacy of anti-icing fluids in winter conditions.
are used to forecast, trend, monitor, and adjust elements of to help recover our operation quickly during extreme
lessons learned, and create an Action Plan divided into
our operation to achieve safe, reliable efficiencies from the weather and throughout all seasons. This included
three components:
time an aircraft arrives at the gate, deplanes, loads up again, • Enhancing Cross-Team Collaboration: We took steps completing several upgrades to software used to reassign
and arrives at its next destination—which occurred more • Improving Winter Operations: In 2023, we focused on to enhance collaboration across Teams and improve our Crews during disruptions, increasing our phone
than 4,400 times per day during some peak season days reinforcing our airport infrastructure and increasing the tools and procedures for streamlined communication system's call capacity to better handle large volumes of
in 2023. availability of equipment to help our Employees function and decision-making. Early in 2023, we consolidated the calls, and enhancing the tool that electronically notifies
more effectively in severe winter conditions. This Leadership of our Network Planning Team and Network Flight Crews of their new assignments. Moreover, we
At Southwest, we’re constantly innovating to shape the included adding more deicing trucks, pads, and ground Operations Control to unify our flight schedules and introduced an optimization tool to support large-scale
future of our airline. Our governance structure is clearly equipment, and increasing the storage capacity of daily operations. We implemented enhanced real-time solutions for our aircraft and Crew networks when
defined, streamlining the process for the evaluation, deicing fluid at key airports. We also obtained additional dashboards to monitor our network's health, providing unexpected disruptions occur due to weather.
approval, management, and realization of strategic engine inlet plugs and heaters to further protect aircraft greater visibility into potential issues such as impending
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 82
Customer Satisfaction
2023 Spotlight • In-seat power: We're on track with equipping aircraft
with USB-A and USB-C power ports. By the end of
2023, 17 aircraft were outfitted, both through new
• Launched digital bag tracking, enabling deliveries and retrofits. We plan to ramp up installations
Our Journey to Transform
Southwest Customers to track checked in 2024, with a goal to equip more than a quarter of
the Customer Experience
our entire fleet of aircraft with in-seat power by the end
bags from tagging to arriving at
of 2024.
their destinations
In 2022, we announced a plan to
• Updated the WiFi experience across our invest more than $2 billion over a • Larger bins: Starting March 2023, we began taking
entire fleet. That means less waiting for free five year period to revolutionize the delivery of new aircraft outfitted with larger bins,
increasing carryon luggage capacity by 50%. As of the
movies, faster free texting, and $8 internet Southwest Customer Experience
end of 2023, we have 69 aircraft equipped with larger
that flies31 from booking to baggage claim
bins and set a target to have 15% of our entire fleet
and beyond. Throughout 2023, we
equipped by the end of 2024.
• Created more flexibility on day of travel with
made significant progress on our
“2023 was a year of great progress
the launch of new same-day change and
Customer Experience journey.
• Food & Beverage: Since late 2022, our beverage
same-day standby benefits29
at Southwest toward resiliency
menu has expanded to include hard seltzer, rosé wine,
and On the Rocks Hornitos® Margarita. In 2023, we
and our operational capability.
Safety, maintaining low costs, ontime performance, and introduced Remy's Grahams™ as a new complimentary
We concertedly invested across
delivering an outstanding Customer Experience are all snack on select flights, along with AHA Sparkling Water
key tenets of our success. This philosophy has historically and Sprite. A-List Preferred status Passengers now enjoy
Onboard Experience the Company to improve our
positioned us as a Leader in Customer Satisfaction and is up to two complimentary premium drinks per flight,45
central to our Vision to be the world's most loved, most conveniently added to their mobile boarding passes. readiness for extreme weather,
At Southwest, we want to make the journey as great as
efficient, and most profitable airline.
streamlined our processes and
the destination. Recent onboard enhancements, including
upgraded WiFi,31 in-seat power, larger storage bins, and
Our strategy for leading in Customer Satisfaction is time- From In-Line to Online communication, and worked to
expanded food and beverage options, are all part of our
tested: provide the best value in economy air travel and
vision for a more comfortable and connected Southwest fortify the unmatched Hospitality
deliver it with award-winning Hospitality. We believe a
Introducing more self-service options allows us to reduce
cabin experience.
barrage of extra fees shouldn’t stand in the way of a great
wait times and to provide a more seamless Southwest of our People with new tools for
flying experience. Instead, we give our Customers the
experience. Many of our recent digital enhancements
“Freedom to Say Yes” through fair and flexible policies like • WiFi connectivity: As of December 2023, we fully a better footing to face modern
stem from listening to Customer feedback and their
bags fly free®,42 no change fees,43 flight credits that never upgraded our existing fleet with Anuvu's latest-
desire for more digital self-service options. By identifying challenges to air travel.”
expire,44 and our new same-day standby policy.29 We aim to generation WiFi hardware and modems, offering up to
the areas that generate the most Customer contacts for
provide the best all-in value for domestic economy travel, 10 times our previous bandwidth. We also welcomed
assistance or need to wait in a line at the airport, we’re
together with consistent, high-quality service across all more than 60 new aircraft equipped with Viasat, our
strategically expanding our self-service features to better
fares, not just premium ones. This combination of value new connectivity partner, and look forward to expanding Andrew Watterson
meet Customer needs.
and service has been integral to our identity since 1971 and our fleet with more Viasat-equipped Boeing deliveries
Chief Operating Officer
continues to distinguish us to this day. in 2024.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 83
In 2022, we introduced several new features to our Flexibility on the Fly Our Management Approach “Our ongoing conversation
Customer-facing digital platforms and airport kiosks,
with Southwest Customers
all designed to help Customers move more efficiently
Starting in 2023, Customers now have the ability to list for Customer Satisfaction is measured primarily through two
through the travel journey. Our momentum continued
same-day standby on ALL our fares, with free same-day metrics: NPS and the DOT complaint ratio. Both metrics
shaped our priorities to
in 2023.
flight changes available on Wanna Get Away Plus®, Anytime, are integral to our corporate goals, and we monitor them
and Business Select® fares when seats are available.29 closely, along with our competitors' scores. Despite a improve their experience in
• Digital baggage handling: Customers can now check Adding even more flexibility, Customers can now digitally dip in scores following the Winter Elliott disruption, clear
doing business with us with
bags on any device before arriving at the airport and cancel one portion of a round trip flight, a task that improvement occurred throughout 2023. This uptick was
print bag tags at the airport kiosk even quicker. We also previously required a phone call.43 For reservations with a testament to our dedicated Employees who worked
more flexibility. It guided
introduced digital bag tracking, allowing Customers multiple travelers, we've made it possible to change an tirelessly to deliver outstanding operational performance
to monitor their luggage's journey from tagging to individual's flight selection directly via our website and app and Customer Service and reaffirm our position as an significant enhancements
arrival. And in the event of a missing bag, travelers without having to alter the entire party’s reservation. industry leader.
around our Hospitality—in
no longer need to visit the Baggage Service Office in
person. Instead, they can conveniently report it from We consistently seek Customer feedback through a
• Same-day flight changes:29 Customers now have the our loyalty and managed
their smartphone. variety of approaches, and this information helps us
ability via their digital device to list for same-day standby
understand where we have gaps in delivering a seamless business programs, in
on ALL our fares, with free same-day confirmed flight
travel experience. It’s important to us that improvements
changes available on Wanna Get Away Plus®, Anytime,
• Expanded booking features: Starting in spring our airport spaces, online
for Customers do not come at the cost of the Employee
and Business Select® fares when seats are available.
2024, Rapid Rewards® Members can enjoy the new
experience, so we also regularly solicit feedback from our
capabilities and in-cabin
option of paying for flights using both cash and
Employees on proposed Customer-facing changes.
Rapid Rewards® points beginning with as few as • Cancel flights:47 Customers can now digitally cancel
comforts, and in a higher
1,000 points.46 Additionally, our desktop website now just one leg of a round trip flight, a task that previously
In August 2022, Southwest Airlines updated our Customer
enables Customers to search multiple nearby airports required a phone call. Additionally, for reservations with quality flight schedule.
Service Plan (CSP). Our CSP is designed to provide
in a single search. Gone are the days of requiring multiple Passengers, it is now possible via our website
clear, transparent guidelines on Customer expense
Advocating for them and
multiple browser tabs in order to find your perfect and app to change an individual's flights without having
reimbursement and assistance during travel disruptions.
Southwest flight! Users of our interactive route map to alter the entire party’s reservation.
We aim to provide ontime, reliable service, but we our Employees brought
on Southwest.com® will now also see “starting from”
acknowledge that delays and cancellations can occur.
price points on selected routes, making it easier than a consistent climb in our
• Flight disruption handling: In the event of a flight
Our CSP now details what Customers can expect during
ever to find our lowest fares.
cancellation, Customers can now change both bounds
significant flight delays and cancellations within our
satisfaction rankings across
of their itinerary, choose flights from nearby Southwest
control, such as mechanical issues or aircraft swaps. These
• My account: We continue to innovate My Account, our airports, make up to two changes without additional fees, guidelines are also reflected in the DOT’s Airline Customer 2023 that compels us to even
and even cancel for a full refund47—all digitally, without
Customers’ one-stop digital shop for managing their Service Dashboard.
greater things ahead.”
the need to call Customer Service.
booked travel. Customers can now easily view unused
flight credits, gift cards, or Southwest LUV Vouchers®
on both desktop and mobile. My Account has also
been upgraded to be more mobile-friendly, allowing
Customers to seamlessly navigate and view their tier
Ryan Green
status, promotions, and points activity all in one place.
Customers have the flexibility to add and edit their
Executive Vice President &
personal, travel, and contact information, as well as
Chief Commercial Officer
update their login and security data, email subscriptions,
and flight notification preferences.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 84
Network & Growth
2023 Spotlight Throughout 2023, we focused on completing our network day by pulling early morning and late night flights in a bit, Southwest Airlines is
restoration plans and reinforcing our presence in key and managing development markets that launched during
Southwest markets. This involved reintroducing popular the pandemic—all with the goal of improving the revenue
• Ended 2023 serving more than 800 nonstop long-haul routes and enhancing operational efficiency efficiency of our network and providing the exceptional focused on building
city pairs connecting more than 120 airports and resilience. scheduled service Southwest is known for.
flight schedules that
• Expanded our overall network footprint Southwest deeply values our long-term relationships
with robust growth in key Southwest with the communities we serve. Dozens of factors
are evaluated when considering a city for potential
markets supporting investment in our connect Customers
As we concluded 2023, we
Southwest service, such as Customer demand, existing
People and facilities
successfully restored our network
airline presence, proximity to other Southwest cities, and
to pre-pandemic levels, increasing infrastructure capabilities to support Southwest’s operating with the important
• Reintroduced popular point-to-point routes
connectivity and access across our requirements. We strive to provide a competitive product
and enhanced network resiliency
for our Customers and regularly examine destinations as
routes. We also made strategic
destinations in
considerations for future Southwest service. Our People
investments in our strongest cities.
work diligently to maintain low costs, provide low fares,
Notably, Denver and Las Vegas
Southwest Airlines is focused on building flight schedules and deliver legendary Hospitality, all of which are their lives.
recorded their highest-ever number
important to position Southwest well for future network
that connect Customers with the important destinations
of departures, underscoring our
growth opportunities.
in their lives, at the appropriate time, and with the optimal
growth and dedication to Customer
frequency, while balancing operational efficiency, cost, and
our long-term growth strategy. Our network strategy blends Satisfaction in these key markets.
nonstop and connecting routes to the top destinations
Customers want to fly, designed around the local demand
in the communities we serve.
Our unique point-to-point network, low fares, and Given the breadth of our network, Southwest leverages
famous Hospitality continue to make Southwest an more than 50 cities as connection points across our
attractive choice for Customers in cities across the network; a strategic move that sets us apart from the
U.S. and near-international destinations. More than competition which only utilize a few connection hubs.
50 years of operating this model has established
Southwest as a preferred carrier (No. 1 in market share) Looking forward, our near-term strategy is to refine and
in 22 of the top 50 U.S. markets, and we have the No. enhance our network to align with evolving post-pandemic
1 or No. 2 market share in 61 domestic cities.48 As of travel trends. This strategy encompasses a variety of tactics
December 31, 2023, Southwest served more than 800 to better match supply with current demand patterns,
nonstop city pairs connecting more than 120 airports, including things like reducing short-haul flying, shifting
resulting in nonstop service for approximately 73% of flights from lower-demand days to higher-demand days,
Southwest Customers. addressing the lower-demand shoulder periods of the
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 85
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 86
Indirect Economic Impact
Southwest’s impact Community Programs & Partnerships
on the communities
We champion the local communities where our
Customers and Employees live and work through
we serve extends far
strategic contributions to key programs and community
partnerships. Our community outreach programs range
beyond the runway.
from educational programs and scholarships to MTGPs
and diverse community initiatives. Read more about
Southwest’s Community Outreach.
Our market presence is designed to
stimulate local economies.
We want to be good stewards of our resources. This
commitment is reflected in our systematic approach to
evaluating the effectiveness of our charitable contributions,
When we serve a city, we expect our low fares to generate
partnerships, and community initiatives. This includes:
substantial savings for our Customers through the well-
known Southwest Effect—where our low fares invigorate • Evaluating partnerships through annual impact
local competition, help drive down prices, and stimulate reports to monitor whether partners are fulfilling their
more Passenger traffic. commitments within their partnership agreements.
Impact reports track a range of metrics, including cash
But it’s much more than just low fares. More broadly, great and in-kind investments, Employee volunteer hours,
airlines are drivers of economic vitality. By connecting and tickets provided for volunteer work.
cities and countries, we help make tourism and business
travel possible, which in turn boosts commerce, hospitality,
• Vetting new Partners for alignment with our goals
and service industries. Southwest not only employs more
and Values.
than 79,500 great People, but the jobs we create fuel jobs
in related sectors, including airport operations, aircraft
• Reassessing impact focus areas regularly to monitor
manufacturing, tourism, and much more. Air travel is critical
whether they align with Southwest’s business objectives,
for the global movement of goods and drives investment in
the needs of our communities, and an evolving social
key infrastructure.
and economic landscape.
The World Travel and Tourism Council estimates that
the global Travel and Tourism industry contributed 9.1% Through these practices, we aim for our efforts to not
of global gross domestic product (GDP) in 2023. And as only align with our corporate Values but also contribute
one of the largest carriers in the United States,49 we know significantly to the growth and wellbeing of the
we contribute to that impact. Internally, we measure our communities we serve.
economic impact, including factors such as Passenger
and departure numbers, Employee counts, stimulated
economic activities, GDP contributions, job creation,
and the total of Employee salaries, wages, and benefits.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 87
Performance Data Table
Performance 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
External Customer More than More than More than More than More than
commendations 44,900 44,000 38,000 34,000 88,000
Ratio of External Customer 3:1 2:1 5:1 3:1 3:1
commendations to personnel
complaints
American Customer Satisfaction 78 77 79 79 79
Index (ACSI)
U.S. DOT Customer Satisfaction Not Available 6.75 1.36 2.64 0.33
rating (consumer complaints per
100,000 enplanements)50,51
Ontime Performance 77.3 73.2 75.8 86.0 80.2
Number of mishandled 4.50 5.40 3.73 2.68 4.40
bags reported per 1,000
enplaned bags
Passengers denied boarding per 0.15 0.56 0.33 0.06 0.19
10,000 Passengers
Net Promoter Score 54.5 51.2 Not Reported Not Reported Not Reported
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 88
Governan ce
Sound governance is a fundamental principle at Southwest. We strive to maintain the highest standards of ethical conduct and are proud of
Southwest's history of strong corporate governance, beginning with the Company's Board of Directors.
2023 Highlights
• Launched our Code of Conduct
• Began partnering with EcoVadis to assess our top
200 suppliers (based on spend)
Ranked #23 on the 2023 America’s 2023 Rankings of
• Expanded our annual Cybersecurity Awareness Fortune World’s Most America's
Training requirement to all Employees Most Most
Responsible
• Collaborated on strategic ESG initiatives with our JUST
Admired
ESG Executive Steering Group
Companies List Companies, Ranked
Companies™ list
#141 out of 951
Key Topics
Governance Section Framework Disclosures
Data
Ethics Board Oversight Board Risk & Crisis Cybersecurity
SDGs GRI TCFD
Privacy
of ESG Composition Management
203-2 308-2 409-1 415-1 Governance
Supply Chain Supply Chain Public Policy, Regulation, Political Marketing &
205-1 405-1 414-1
Responsibility Disruption & Transparency Contributions Ethical Branding
308-1 408-1 414-2
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 89
The Foundational Five
The Foundational Five Foundational Five & 2023 Focus Areas
Our Strategic Priorities through 2026
Our Strategic Priorities through 2026
CEO Bob Jordan first introduced The Foundational Five in Our People and our Southwest Way Values are at
2022 to help provide Southwest Employees with a strategic the core of our DNA. A lot of companies provide
blueprint for success. transportation, or fly airplanes, but no one does it the
Reinvigorate our
Reinvigorate our way we do, with Southwest Heart. That’s what the
winning Culture
competition can’t match, and that’s what’s core to our
winning Culture • Reinvigorate our winning Culture through Employee
continued success—living out our Southwest Way Values
engagement, modernizing the Employee Experience,
each and every day. It takes all of us, working together
Win more and living The Southwest Way.
as a Team, to make this great Company go every day.
Customers
• Win more Customers and grow revenue by being
Our Employees rose to the challenge in 2023 and did
and grow
Win more where and when Customers want to buy and fly and by
a terrific job working together and operating with a
revenue
modernizing the Customer Experience.
Customers Team mentality.
• Modernize the operation by giving our exceptional
and grow
Employees the tools they need to serve our Customers—
• Build on our legendary Hospitality: Offer service that
revenue Modernize and each other—with our legendary Hospitality.
our Employees are proud of and our Customers trust, and
the operation
• Maintain our low-cost advantage through everyday roll out planned Customer Experience investments. This is
discipline and tangible efficiency initiatives.
how we create Customer loyalty.
• Be a good citizen by championing causes that matter
Modernize most, including committing to a diverse and inclusive
Our Customer Experience investments included faster
workforce, addressing our carbon emissions, and
WiFi, new in-seat power, larger overhead bins, and more
the operation
investing in community partnerships that drive impact.
self-service capabilities.31 What these updates have in
common is they’re all intended to remove friction from
Maintain our
low-cost These inspirational priorities set the foundation for the our experience and help deliver better service to our
advantage work ahead and guide Southwest’s goals for the coming Customers. Throughout 2023, we focused on improving
years. They help align our efforts and promote Teamwork Customer-to-Employee interactions throughout the
Be a good citizen
among our Employees. ticketing area, untethering Customer Service from
stationary computers, and providing mobility to serve
While a long-term roadmap is important, Bob also Customers on their travel journeys. By improving our
recognized the need for specific annual Focus Areas and digital Hospitality, we can widen our Customer Service
Maintain our Company Goals. In 2023, Southwest was All in for WN with advantage, reduce manual transactions, decrease costs,
a focus to: and equip our Employees to deliver the best Hospitality.
low-cost
• Live our Southwest Way Values: Focus on “we” before
advantage
“me.” We win when we support each other, serve others,
and work together as a Team.
Be a good citizen
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 90
• Be consistently reliable and operate with Our balance sheet remains strong, and we continue to be the
excellence: Deliver upgraded technology, tools, and only U.S. airline with an investment-grade rating by all three
processes, rooted in a Safety-first mindset. This will allow rating agencies.
our People to confidently deliver a reliable product in all
operating environments. As we look ahead, we are ready to keep building on the success
of 2023 with a 2024 focus of Ours to Own. Our future depends
on each of us acting like an owner, embracing the cause
This focus area ladders up to our strategic priority
that is Southwest, and showing up every day for the Team,
“Modernize the operation.” We want to confidently deliver
determined to do our part.
a reliable product, even when we face irregular operations.
In 2023, we continued to invest in the tools needed to
best serve our Customers and upgraded areas that are • Rise above: Our Culture and our Values set us apart. At
critical to building operational resiliency and strengthening Southwest we stand for something better—always have and
our operation. This included bolstering our frontline always will.
communication tools, making progress toward a paperless
• Enhance our legendary Hospitality with digital service
turn, and prioritizing frontline hiring and training.
modernization: Double down on Hospitality, both person-
to-person and digitally.
• Restore our network and fly the full fleet: Staff properly and
• Be consistently reliable by operating safely and efficiently:
show up for each other and our Customers. This will allow us to
We must operate safely and restore our legendary
regain our historic efficiency and productivity.
efficiency—it’s at the Heart of our DNA and powers low costs.
• Optimize and mature our route network: Swiftly adapt the
Our 2023 plan included a close look at operational
network to today’s demand environment as Customer mix
quality, and a specific piece of that was network design
and preferences have changed.
and recovery. We intensified our focus on frontline
• Produce strong profits and ProfitSharing: People will
staffing and tools, and specifically, mobility/digital tools
always come first at Southwest, and producing strong
and continuous improvement. Our goal was to have the
profits allows us to afford the future our People and
network fully restored by the end of 2023, and we proudly
Customers deserve.
accomplished that!
• Produce strong financial results and improve our low-cost
We are all owners of our
edge: Win Customers with Heart and Hospitality. That will lead
“How do you get to be great at anything in life? A great athlete, a great
to winning profitability that fuels our future. As a Company,
day, our Culture, our Team,
we’re excited about what lies ahead for Southwest! As we move musician, a great parent? If you want the outcome, you commit to the
through 2023, we will use our Foundational Five to steer us in
our Company, our results… work. ‘Take initiative’ is part of our Values at Southwest Airlines and it
all we do.
means it’s up to each of us as individuals to act—not somebody else.
and our future.
We remain steadfast in our focus to generate consistent
We are all owners of Southwest.”
profitability and returns on invested capital in excess of
It takes all of Southwest working together as a
our weighted average cost of capital. Historically, we've
Team to make this great Company go every single
generated industry-leading margins and topped the charts Bob Jordan
day. And together, owning it each day, Southwest
caring for our Customers, and we will be relentless in our
pursuit of regaining these leading positions. is unstoppable! President & Chief Executive Officer
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 91
The Company’s bylaws, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Board
Ethics
committee charters, Code of Ethics, and other corporate policies,
as well as additional information about the Company’s governance
practices, Board of Directors, and officers, are available on
Southwest seeks to operate with the highest ethical standards Southwest.com® in the Investor Relations section. As referenced
and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Our in our Code of Ethics, Southwest implemented additional policies
Board has adopted a Code of Ethics that sets out basic principles addressing specific topics, including, for example, an Insider
to guide the conduct of our Employees, Board Members, and Trading Policy and a Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Policy.
business associates. This includes guidelines on insider trading,
competition and fair dealing, payments to government personnel, Ethics isn’t just a pillar of Southwest governance; it’s ingrained
confidentiality, conflicts of interest, corporate opportunities, in our world-famous Culture. Southwest Leadership, led by our
protection and proper use of the Company’s assets, recordkeeping, Executive Team, holds all Employees accountable to our Core
reporting illegal or unethical behavior, and compliance procedures. Values, which emphasize Integrity and Honesty.
The Code of Ethics undergoes an annual review by the Board
of Directors. The Southwest Airlines Code of Conduct provides our Employees
with a roadmap for making the right decisions that position us for
In addition to the Code of Ethics, the Audit Committee has adopted sustained growth and success. Our Code of Conduct applies to all
procedures for the confidential and anonymous submission of Southwest Airlines Employees (i.e., full-time, part-time, and Interns)
Employee complaints regarding accounting, internal accounting and guides how we work and remain in compliance with our
controls, auditing matters, or concerns about questionable governing rules and applicable laws.
accounting or auditing matters ("Employee Reports"). The
Committee also handles Employee Reports, and both the Code of Working for Southwest requires a commitment to remain in
Ethics and the Audit Committee’s procedures prohibit retaliation compliance with our governing rules and applicable laws. The
for reports made in good faith. In addition, Southwest established commitment to work in accordance with the Code of Conduct is
channels through which Employees can report employment or what helps set Southwest apart and allows us to operate fairly,
Safety-related concerns. honestly, and ethically.
“At Southwest Airlines, we do business fairly, honestly, and ethically. Consistent with our
Values, Employees strive to uphold the highest level of integrity in all that they do. We are
committed to maintaining the highest standards of ethical business practices and legal and
regulatory compliance.”
Linda Rutherford
Chief Administration Officer
Governance & Oversight of Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG)
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 92
Over the course of 2023, the Compensation Committee continued to assist with the Board in overseeing the Company’s DEI
Governance & Oversight of ESG
philosophy, practices, and initiatives. In addition, the full Board continued to exercise its oversight responsibilities with respect to
other ESG matters, including with respect to the Company’s sustainability initiatives. The Compensation Committee and the full
Board received regular reports on DEI and other ESG topics from the Company’s management and other advisors during 2023.
Sound corporate governance begins with the tone
from the top.
Southwest’s Board of Directors (the “Board of Directors” or the “Board”) is committed to sound corporate governance policies
and practices supporting its fundamental responsibility to promote the best interests of the Company and its Shareholders by
overseeing the management of the Company’s business. The business and affairs of Southwest are managed under the direction
of the Company’s Board of Directors.
Among other duties and responsibilities, Southwest’s Board is responsible for:
• Overseeing the selection, evaluation, development, and compensation of senior management
• Overseeing the Company’s corporate responsibility practices, including with respect to sustainability and other ESG matters
• Assessing major risks facing the Company and reviewing options to mitigate such risks
• Reviewing, approving, and monitoring significant financial and business strategies and major corporate actions
• Overseeing the processes to maintain the utmost integrity and proper management of the Company
To assist the Board of Directors with its oversight responsibilities and best serve Southwest’s Shareholders, Employees, and
[GRAPHICS: INSERT SWA DESIGNED
Customers, the Board created the following committees:
• Audit Committee BOARD SKILLS MATRIX INFOGRAPHIC]
• Compensation Committee
• Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
• Safety and Compliance Oversight Committee
• Operations Review Committee
• Executive Committee
Board Oversight of ESG
Recognizing the fundamental importance of the Company’s corporate responsibility practices, the Board and its committees
provide oversight of the Company’s ESG-related initiatives, objectives, and progress. The Compensation Committee assists the
Board with its oversight of human resources policies and practices, including the Company's DEI philosophy, practices, and
initiatives. The Board believes that other ESG matters expand well beyond a single committee and that each Board Member offers
a unique perspective and valuable input critical in overseeing ESG matters. Accordingly, the Board decided the Company, its
Employees, and its Shareholders are best served if the full Board is entrusted to oversee and evaluate the Company’s other ESG
matters. More information regarding Board Committees is available on our Investor Relations website.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 93
Management Oversight and Committees Executive Steering Groups & Committees
The organizational structure of Southwest is designed to
give our Senior Executives oversight of their functional Environmental, Social, Diversity, Equity, Environmental
areas and encourage collaboration and a shared view of and Governance & Inclusion Social Topics Committee Sustainability Risk Committee Disclosures Committee
Executive Steering Group Executive Steering Group Executive Steering Group
success. As it relates to ESG, the core concepts of caring
for People, respecting our planet, and delivering key
operational and financial performance, all surrounded
Meets Quarterly Meets Quarterly Meets Monthly Meets Bimonthly Meets Quarterly Meets Quarterly
by strong corporate governance, are at the very core of
Southwest’s DNA. With respect to executive oversight of
Purpose
ESG matters, President & CEO Bob Jordan has ultimate
responsibility for the business of Southwest, including
ESG topics. Southwest’s most senior Executives meet • Review and collaborate • Partner with the DEI • Reviews and discusses • Evaluate climate-related • Reviewing the top • Review and determine
on strategic ESG issues Department to social topics and inquiries topics such as SAF enterprise risks and appropriate disclosures
weekly through standing Executive Committee meetings.
formulate DEI corporate agreements, progress providing oversight to be included in the
• Make recommendations, • Employs guidelines to
Respective to their organizational pillars, our Executive
strategy initiatives toward the Company’s to appropriately manage Company's periodic
and evaluate reporting measure impact
Leadership provides oversight for specific functional environmental and risks and mitigation reports filed with
opportunities presented • Promote the DEI and perception
sustainability goals, actions the SEC
areas, and related key topics as noted below in the by the Corporate strategy through the
• Routinely engages Senior
climate disclosures,
Citizenship Team primary focus areas of • Provide oversight to
organizational chart. Executives on proposed climate-related risks and
Talent; Culture & Values; overall risk management
• Discusses specific People, level of engagement
opportunities, and any
Brand, Reputation, & activities
Planet, Performance, and and responses
new and/or relevant topics
Social Topics; and
Governance topics • Understand key risks and
• Regularly identifies in the sustainability space
Communication
determine if appropriate
opportunities where
& Reporting • Make decisions related to
steps have been taken to
Southwest can
environmental
reduce risk to an
be proactive
sustainability at Southwest
acceptable level
Membership
Vice Presidents and Culture & Senior Leaders and Executive Leadership Senior Leaders and Senior Leaders and
Senior Leaders from Communications, Executives from Culture across our Finance, Executives including Executives from
People, Legal, Finance, Customer Support & & Communications, Legal, Culture & Chief Administration Finance, Legal, Treasury,
Environmental Services, Diversity, Governmental Affairs & Communications, and Officer, SVP & Chief Investor Relations,
Sustainability, Investor Equity, & Inclusion, Flight Real Estate, Ground Governmental Affairs Information Officer, EVP Cybersecurity, and
Relations, Culture & Operations, Ground Operations, Inflight Departments, including & Chief Financial Officer, Internal Audit
Communications, and DEI Operations, Inflight Operations, Investor engagement from the EVP & Chief Legal &
Operations, Operations & Relations, Legal, Executive Chairman of Regulatory Officer, SVP &
Hospitality, People & Marketing, People (HR), the Board of Directors, Chief Corporate Affairs
Learning Development, and DEI Departments; the Chief Administration Officer, Chief Operating
Southwest Business, Co-chaired by our Chief Officer, the Chief Officer, EVP & Chief
Supply Chain Administration Officer Financial Officer, and Commercial Officer, EVP
Management, and and EVP & Chief Legal & the President & Chief Operations, SVP
Technical Operations Regulatory Officer Executive Officer Operations & Hospitality;
SVP & Chief Customer
Officer, and VP Executive
Office; overseen by our
President & Chief
Executive Officer
Functional Areas
Board of Directors
Bob Jordan
President & Chief Executive Officer
Mark Shaw
Linda Rutherford Andrew Watterson Tammy Romo
Executive Vice President & Chief
Chief Administration Officer Chief Operating Officer Chief Financial Officer Legal & Regulatory Officer
• Airport Affairs • Artificial Intelligence & Data • Labor Relations • Corporate Strategy
• Corporate Facilities Transformation • Network Operations • Finance
• Governmental Affairs • Culture & Communications • Financial Planning &
Control
• Legal • Diversity, Equity, & Analysis
• Network Planning
• Real Estate Inclusion • Fuel & Sustainability
• Internal Audit • Safety & Security • Investor Relations
• People • Supply Chain Management
• Southwest Airlines • Treasury
University • Fleet Management
• Talent & Leadership
Development
• Technology
• Total Rewards
Ryan Green
Justin Jones
Executive Vice President &
Executive Vice President Operations
Chief Commercial Officer
• Customer Engagement • Cargo & Charters
• Customer Experience & • Crew Scheduling
Digital Experience • Flight Operations
• Customer Support & • Inflight Operations
Services • Ground Ops & Hospitality
• Innovation & Continuous • Ops Planning
Improvement • Ops Strategy & Design
• Marketing • Tech Ops
• Revenue Management &
Pricing
• Southwest Business
• Travel Products
saerA
lanoitcnuF
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 94
Board Composition
Southwest’s Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for recommending the criteria for Board membership
to the Board. These criteria are set forth in the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, which address Board Member
qualifications and independence requirements, among other Board and governance matters. The Board evaluates each Candidate
in the context of the Board as a whole, with the objective of recommending to Shareholders a group that can collectively best serve
the long-term interests of the Company's Employees, Customers, and Shareholders. While the Board believes its continuity and
stability were beneficial to the Company and Shareholders in 2019 and continuing through most of 2021, as the Company navigated
numerous challenges and changes, the Board and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee have since increased
focus on Board refreshment, appointing one new Director in November 2021, two new Directors in 2022, four new Directors in
2023, and nominating one new Director Candidate for election at the Company’s 2024 Annual Meeting.
Understanding the importance of Board composition and refreshment to the effective fulfillment of the Board’s oversight
responsibilities, and paying particular attention to diversity considerations, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
put forth a concerted and ongoing effort to identify and build a pipeline of possible Candidates to address the evolving needs of
the Board and the Company. As part of this effort and with input from the full Board, the Nominating and Corporate Governance
Committee regularly reviews its Candidate search process and recruitment criteria. In 2022, the Nominating and Corporate
Governance Committee refreshed its search criteria, including diversity considerations.
The Board strives for diverse representation. In considering diversity, the Board takes into account various types of diversity,
including, for example, diversity of experience, geography, gender, ethnicity, and race, with the goals of obtaining diverse
perspectives and encouraging constructive debate. The Board's primary consideration is to identify Candidates with the
background, attributes, experience, and skills that will best fulfill the Board's and the Company's needs at the time a search is
being conducted.
Board of Directors Evolution
The Southwest Board of
Directors strives to maintain
diverse representation in
Biegler Cunningham Biggins Jordan Conrado Mendoza
a variety of areas, including,
for example, experience,
Kelly Gilligan Brooks Hess Reynolds Soltau Blunt Atherton
geography, gender,
BEFORE 2021 2021 2022 2023 2024
ethnicity, and race.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 95
The Company's Board nominated 14 Directors for election Candidates and two gender diverse Candidates. In 2023, the Board of Directors Skills and Experience
at the 2024 Annual Meeting. Twelve of the 14 Director slate of nominees for election to the Board at the Annual
nominees are independent, as defined by the New York Meeting included four racially/ethnically diverse Candidates
Stock Exchange (NYSE). All Director nominees on the Audit and three gender diverse Candidates. Reflecting the Board’s Public CEO Consumer Government Human Environmental/ Logistics/
Experience Financial Technology Services Affairs Capital Sustainability Operations
Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Nominating continued attention to diversity considerations, the slate
and Corporate Governance Committee, the Operations of nominees for election to the Board at the 2024 Annual Lisa M. Atherton
Review Committee, and the Safety and Compliance Meeting includes four ethnically diverse Candidates and
David W. Biegler
Oversight Committee are independent, as defined by four gender diverse Candidates. If all nominees are elected
NYSE rules.52 to the Board, the Board will be 29% gender diverse, 29% J. Veronica Biggins
racially/ethnically diverse, and, combined, 43% diverse.52
Roy Blunt
In 2022, the slate of nominees for election to the Board at
Douglas H. Brooks
the Annual Meeting included two racially/ethnically diverse
Eduardo F. Conrado
William H. Cunningham
Thomas W. Gilligan
David P. Hess
Robert E. Jordan
Gary C. Kelly
Elaine Mendoza
Christopher P. Reynolds
Jill A. Soltau
Skill Definition Skill Definition
Substantial professional experience in
Substantial professional experience as a past or
government relations, regulatory
Public CEO present CEO of a public company Government
affairs, or public policy
Experience Affairs
Substantial professional experience in finance or Substantial professional experience in
accounting, including experience assessing capital human resources, compensation
Financial structure, financing and investing activities, Human Capital practices, talent acquisition, retention,
financial reporting, and internal controls and development, as well as DEI initiatives
Substantial professional experience in technology
Substantial professional experience with
fields such as product development, digital Environmental/
environmental or sustainability initiatives
solutions, data analytics, information technology, Sustainability
Technology
data management, and cybersecurity
Substantial professional experience with
supply chain management, logistics,
Substantial professional experience in customer Logis tics/ inventory management, network design,
Consumer Services and product support services Operations or operations strategy.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 96
Risk & Crisis Management
Our proactive risk management
approach empowers Southwest to
2023 Spotlight The ERM Team oversees a tiered risk management This includes managing a Remote Operations Center as
confidently and compassionately
structure, involving Risk Champions from key departments, a backup for essential departments and collaborating
respond to events impacting
Senior Leader Risk Owners, and an Executive Leadership with Operations, Corporate Insurance, Supply Chain
our Customers, Employees,
• Conducted a best-practices review of our Risk Committee. These Risk Champions and Owners meet Management, Finance, and Technology on various
and communities.
ERM Program and benchmarked with quarterly, or as required, to identify, assess, document, risk aspects. A Business Continuity Steering Committee
another carrier prioritize, and evaluate risks based on impact, vulnerability, convenes biannually to coordinate and enhance our
likelihood, and velocity. The ERM Team collaborates with resilience initiatives.
• Developed improved ERM reporting Risk Champions to formulate risk statements, collect
information, develop mitigation plans, and monitor
for risk metrics
progress. All risks and their mitigation strategies are
tracked, with critical risks escalated to the Risk Committee,
which convenes quarterly to confirm that effective action
The airline industry is well known for its volatility and
plans are in place. The President & CEO oversees the Risk
susceptibility to operational challenges. Economic
Committee and the overarching ERM function.
fluctuations, fuel cost volatility, environmental factors,
and intense competition are just a few hurdles faced by
Beyond the ERM Team, our Emergency Response and
airlines. While these challenges persist, new ones, such as
Business Continuity Teams are instrumental in crisis
those related to climate change, continue to emerge. For
planning and response, fulfilling our legal obligations, and
Southwest, effective risk identification and mitigation, along
caring for those affected by emergencies.
with rapid response mechanisms for emerging events,
are essential for our sustained success, resilience, and
The Emergency Response Team is tasked with developing
maintaining our strong brand reputation among Employees
and updating response plans, training programs, and
and Customers.
conducting plan exercises to enhance preparedness for
emergencies like aircraft accidents, hurricanes, pandemics,
Our ERM Team plays a crucial role in managing both
and Corporate Campus incidents. Post-event reviews lead
existing and emerging risks relevant to our business goals
to insightful lessons and plan modifications. This Team also
and objectives. The Team conducts risk assessments,
oversees the Care Team, comprising Southwest volunteers
produces internal reporting, identifies risk focus areas,
who assist in aircraft accident responses. The Emergency
and promotes cross-functional alignment. This includes
Response Committee includes Senior Leaders and subject
the integration of climate-related risks into our
matter experts, and meets biannually for training and
comprehensive, Companywide ERM strategy. In 2023,
program updates. Major event response plans are regularly
ERM conducted a benchmarking exercise with another
updated, practiced, and reviewed by Senior Leadership.
airline. This exercise introduced new activities our ERM
function incorporated into the program, and it affirmed
The Business Continuity Team adopts an all-hazards
our current risk methodology practices. Additionally, new
approach to prepare for business disruptions, promoting
workflows and reporting capabilities were implemented
operational continuity during challenges affecting our
in an effort to continuously improve risk metrics used by
Employees, facilities, and technology.
internal Customers.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 97
This risk-based approach is integral to mitigating
Cybersecurity
Cybersecurity risks and impacts on our facilities, airports,
and aircraft. The NIST CSF Framework guides us in
understanding, managing, and reducing Cybersecurity risks
and helps inform our cybersecurity strategy.
2023 Spotlight
Our Employees are vital in maintaining the Security
• Expanded our annual Cybersecurity of our systems and data. Annually, all Southwest
Employees acknowledge and are expected to adhere
Awareness Training requirement to
to the Cybersecurity policies outlined in our Employee
all Employees
Policy Handbook. Starting in 2023, we mandated annual
Cybersecurity Awareness Training for all Employees. Our
• Hosted multiple internal Cybersecurity
Cybersecurity Training, Education, and Awareness Team
Awareness events, offering events to
also organizes various events throughout the year, covering
all Southwest Employees
topics from artificial intelligence to password security.
• Continued to develop a dedicated
Collaborative partnerships are crucial in staying ahead of
Cybersecurity Aircraft Team to drive key
evolving cyber threats and new regulations. Southwest
Security initiatives
is a proud founding member of the Aviation Information
Sharing and Analysis Center (A-ISAC). We are also active
in the A4A Cybersecurity Council. To further enhance
Southwest's dedicated Cybersecurity Team, a part of our our vigilance, we subscribe to multiple open source
Technology Department, comprises skilled engineers, and commercial Cybersecurity threat intelligence
analysts, and Leaders. This Team is responsible for feeds, enabling us to keep a close watch on the global
maintaining our Cybersecurity operations, procedures, threat landscape and integrate these insights into our
and products. Security measures.
To effectively prepare for potential Cybersecurity
incidents, the Team manages and annually tests
Southwest’s Cybersecurity Incident Response Plan. We
Southwest established a dedicated
track vulnerability management, penetration testing,
Cybersecurity Aircraft Team with the goal
Cybersecurity incidents, and Cybersecurity risks through
to maintain the Security of our aircraft and
a platform that helps meet our internal service-level
agreement goals. the systems that connect to our aircraft so
that we can continue to safely connect
Leveraging the National Institute of Standards and our Customers to what is important in
Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework (CSF), their lives.
Southwest protects its data, system, and application
Security across all business areas.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 98
Data Privacy
2023 Spotlight and oversight of our program. The Privacy Office is under The Privacy Office also works collaboratively with Technology, Cybersecurity, and the Legal Department, among others,
the oversight of the VP AI and Data Transformation. to monitor and respond to potential incidents that might impact personal information or Company data.
Responsibilities of this function include:
• Raised internal privacy awareness through For more information about how we process personal information, our Privacy Policy is accessible on Southwest.com®.
• Handling requests for personal information from
a Privacy Week in March, a full week of
Customers and Employees
events that included a Leadership panel
• Conducting third-party risk reviews of suppliers
and Privacy Champion appreciation
and partners
• Managing ongoing Privacy by Design and Record of
• Rolled out a new Privacy tool in
Processing Activities programs
collaboration with The Privacy Office and
• Participating in Incident Response processes
Technology, helping to automate processes
• Enhancing and expanding Southwest’s Privacy
and provide stronger metrics on our data
Champion network
Privacy Program
• Overseeing Company training, communications, events,
and privacy program technology
• Drove collaboration between the Privacy
Office, Cybersecurity, Data Governance,
To monitor the efficacy of our Privacy Program, various
AI and Data Transformation, and Legal
components are audited by our Internal Audit Department.
departments on multiple enterprise-wide
events and programs, including Data
While the Privacy Office spearheads the management and
Analytics Day, Cybersecurity Month,
oversight of our program, we uphold the belief that privacy
and the launch of our Information
is a shared responsibility. SWAU offers data privacy training
Governance program courses for all Employees. These courses, including “Privacy
at Southwest” and “Privacy by Design,” educate Employees
on identifying and reporting potential data privacy incidents
Protecting the personal information of our Employees, and integrating privacy controls throughout the personal
Customers, partners, and others who share data with us is information lifecycle.
vital. Prioritizing data privacy not only aligns with our core
Value of putting People first, but it's also the right thing Southwest appointed approximately 75 Privacy Champions
to do. across the Company. Champions, who undergo additional
privacy training, help foster widespread awareness of
Our Privacy Program aligns to a comprehensive set of privacy standards and controls needed throughout the
privacy principles and applicable laws. The Privacy Office, personal information lifecycle. Working in tandem with
sitting within our new Information Governance program the Privacy Office, they help scale and operationalize our
and equipped with dedicated resources to mitigate data Privacy Program.
privacy risks, is tasked with the day-to-day management
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 99
Supply Chain Responsibility
2023 Spotlight We focus on identifying suppliers who can elevate our In 2023, we began utilizing EcoVadis to assess the ESG
productivity and quality, and who bring innovative solutions performance of our supply chain and alignment with
that strengthen our position as an industry leader. In 2023, Southwest’s Supplier Code of Conduct. To engage suppliers
• Published our Supplier Code of Southwest engaged Supplier.io, a third-party supplier in sustainability and help align our procurement with our
EcoVadis
Conduct, reflecting our commitment diversity data and platform provider, to evaluate our diverse ESG goals, we incorporated sustainability questions into our
spend through data enrichment and to capture diverse RFP process.
to ethical business practices and
spend of our Tier I suppliers through their Tier II portal,
corporate responsibility Southwest began working
UniTier. We want to know that our Tier I suppliers exemplify
with EcoVadis—a sustainability
Southwest Airlines’ Values and invest in diversity and Supplier Code of Conduct
• Supported the growth and success of
inclusion efforts within their own organizations. ratings platform for global supply
supplier diversity with the relaunch of
Southwest Supplier Diversity Ambassadors, Our Supplier Code of Conduct was published in 2023. It chains—in 2023 to assess our top
Our commitment to engaging with small and diverse
reflects our commitment to ethical business practices and
formerly Supplier Diversity Advisory Council 200 suppliers (based on spend)
suppliers is a key part of being a responsible corporate
corporate responsibility. This policy outlines Southwest’s
Citizen. Our Supplier Diversity program aims to provide
expectation that our suppliers operate with high ethical through the EcoVadis ESG ratings
• Focused on building relationships
opportunities to qualified small and diverse businesses,
and legal standards, contributing to not only enhancing our
platform, increasing transparency
with small and diverse businesses by
including those owned by minorities, women, veterans,
services but also empowering communities and respecting
participating in more than 35 local and disabled, and LGBTQ+ individuals. This commitment fosters and measuring the impact of our
our planet.
national events hosted by certifying an environment that values diverse thoughts, backgrounds,
supply chain. An initial group of key
and experiences.
agencies, where Supply Chain Management The policy also sets forth our expectation that suppliers
suppliers was asked to voluntarily
interacted with more than 600 suppliers conduct business with honesty and integrity, and maintain
We implemented initiatives to boost our supplier participate in the EcoVadis
respectful workplaces that guard against human rights
diversity and engagement, such as relaunching the
• Began integrating sustainability questions abuses. It emphasizes environmental responsibility and sustainability assessment, resulting
Supplier Diversity Ambassadors program. In this program,
into our RFP process, helping to align sustainable practices, alongside proactive risk management
in performance scorecards that
formerly known as our Supplier Diversity Advisory
and a commitment to continuous improvement.
our procurement processes with our
Council, ambassadors act as vital links between Supplier provide critical information
Compliance is essential, as non-adherence may affect
sustainability goals
Diversity and Supply Chain Management. Additionally,
future business eligibility with Southwest. regarding the environmental
we introduced an educational video course to inform
and social impacts of our supply
Employees about the impact of their supplier choices.
A robust and responsible supply chain is about much more
Our procurement policy and process enables fair and
than a competitive edge. It reflects our commitment to chain. We have also set internal
impartial evaluation of all suppliers. We use various
We also expanded our partnerships with certifying agencies
being a good corporate Citizen. Our strategic approach to
selection processes tailored to Company needs and market
KPIs and developed a roadmap
and organizations. Throughout the year, we participated in
supply chain management encompasses a proven sourcing
conditions, focusing on quality, Reliability, and service at
more than 35 events, interacting with over 600 suppliers, for continued development of our
methodology, a commitment to supplier diversity, and
the lowest total cost. This policy guides wise spending,
focusing on building relationships with small and diverse
dedication to ethical and sustainable practices. improves contract adherence, and helps protect Southwest shared sustainability journey with
businesses. Southwest’s search for mutually beneficial
from risk. A common understanding of the procurement
our suppliers.
relationships extends beyond our partnerships with
To optimize costs and efficiency, we utilize a cross-
process among Southwest’s Supply Chain Management
certifying agencies and organizations. Our presence at the
functional strategy in our sourcing methodology. This
Department, our Internal Customers, and current and
Air Carriers Purchasing Conference led to a partnership with
involves comprehensive market research, competitive
potential suppliers is vital for our success.
FirstKem, a small business enterprise.
bidding, and routine program reassessment.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 100
“Southwest places a high value Supply Chain Enhancing Communication and Efficiency Public Policy,
on building longstanding
To further refine our operations, we expanded the Regulation, &
Disruption
relationships and holding our
electronic exchange of planning data with our suppliers.
suppliers to the same standards This initiative streamlines communication and reduces
Transparency
transaction costs, fostering more efficient and mutually
that we have for ourselves in our
Supply Chain Management is a critical function of beneficial relationships. This step is pivotal in maintaining
Vision to be the world's most Southwest Airlines, with our data-driven approach playing a cost control while promoting high service levels.
key role in cost management, risk mitigation, and fostering
Legislative and regulatory actions have the potential to expand or
loved, most efficient, and most
continuous improvement within our supply chain. The Southwest’s Supply Chain Management remains
limit Southwest’s growth opportunities. In addition, government
profitable airline. To that end, integration of tools such as automation, not only helps committed to managing and adapting to the challenges
policies, including new legislation and regulations and the
in reducing overall costs but also equips us to better of supply chain disruptions effectively. Through strategic
we encourage our suppliers enforcement of existing regulations, can have a profound impact
navigate a dynamic environment and meet the needs of planning, robust supplier relationships, and an unwavering
on how we do business. Our Governmental Affairs Department
to participate in sustainability our Customers. dedication to continuous improvement, our approach to
works to stay on top of proposed statutory and regulatory
Supply Chain Management is crucial in upholding our
assessments as we all work changes to directly educate a wide range of policymakers
operational excellence.
and Stakeholder groups. We present our views on these
together to build and maintain Challenges and Adaptive Strategies
topics through trade associations, business forums, chamber
a sustainable community of organizations, and interactions with public officials at the federal
Global supply chains are still grappling with the aftermath level and in the states and communities we serve.
suppliers—large, small, and
of the pandemic. Although Southwest observed
diverse. These assessment tools improvements in lead times and material availability, we One trade association in which we participate is A4A, which
continued to face shortages and disruptions in 2023. These allows us to gain insight into core issues for the airline industry
provide valuable insights into
persistent challenges have led to increased supplier pricing and to advocate jointly for regulations that support a healthy,
areas of strength and areas for and necessitate maintaining higher safety stock levels to competitive industry. We also benefit from the opportunity to
preserve our operational integrity. share technical expertise and operational knowledge that leads
improvement in a broad range
to improved Safety and Security.
of corporate social responsibility As we returned to our pre-pandemic operating levels, our
Supply Chain Department proactively addressed these In 2023, A4A determined that $827,527 of the total dues paid by
categories. Southwest and
shortages, especially where key suppliers faced difficulties the Company to A4A were nondeductible lobbying expenses.
our suppliers benefit from
in scaling up production. Tackling these issues requires Southwest also paid dues to several other national, state,
a comprehensive response strategy, including detailed and local trade associations, business forums, and chamber
the increased transparency
supplier management, Executive-level engagement, and organizations, in which a portion of those dues were used
as we all strive for continued
the addition of new suppliers. by these organizations for nondeductible lobbying activities.
However, in all cases, that portion was not more than $5,500
development in our shared
Moreover, our Supply Chain Department has intensified annually for each organization.
sustainability journey.”
monitoring and oversight, especially for underperforming
suppliers and those vital to our operations. This enhanced Regarding climate change, our advocacy in this regard is focused
oversight involves regular reviews of delivery rates and on Southwest achieving our goal of net zero carbon emissions
Stacy Malphurs production status, enhanced collaborative planning, by 20501 and our 2035 CI reduction goal, which is based on
increased involvement from our Senior Leadership, and scientific models that are in alignment with the goals of the Paris
Vice President,
facility visits to foster closer collaboration with supplier Agreement. Additional information on climate advocacy can be
Supply Chain Management
leadership and their teams. found in Collaboration.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 101
Illinois, and Missouri). In 2023, the Company did not Our commitment to upholding ethical standards extends
Political
support or finance any state or local ballot measure before far beyond Customer loyalty and trust; it encompasses
voters. At the federal level, no Company funds were used fostering positive relationships with clients, vendors, and
Contributions Ethical marketing is integral
to support or finance any political campaign, nor did the partners, thereby acknowledging our responsibility not only
Company support or finance any so-called “Super PACs” to Southwest’s mission to ourselves but to the entire aviation industry.
or any political committees organized under section 527
of being a trusted global
of the Internal Revenue Code. The Company made In our journey to become the world's most loved airline,
Southwest adopted a policy that it will primarily use its
no contributions to a politically affiliated 501(c)(4) citizen, reflecting our our Customer Insights Team plays a pivotal role. By
affiliated political action committee, the Southwest Airlines
organization in 2023. consistently monitoring sentiment and our Brand Net
Co. Political Action Committee (SWAPAC), financed by Core Values of Integrity,
Promoter Score (BNPS), we gather essential feedback for
contributions made voluntarily by Employees, to support
Pride, and Honesty in
the continuous improvement of our services. Through
political campaigns. Company funds are limited to
proactive measures, legal compliance, and a relentless
our communication.
supporting selected political campaigns at the state and
focus on Customer Satisfaction, Southwest Airlines
Marketing &
local level in compliance with the laws of the relevant states
sets industry benchmarks and maintains our status as a
and localities.
trusted airline.
Ethical Branding
We hold the responsibility of managing the SWAPAC and
being good stewards of our Employees’ hard-earned dollars
in high regard. We have a time-tested evaluation process
when considering SWAPAC contribution requests, and we
evaluate our criteria for giving annually. Additionally, the Southwest Airlines is dedicated to upholding the highest
criteria, as well as all political campaign contributions from standards of ethical business practices, as outlined in our
the SWAPAC or by the Company directly, are approved Code of Ethics and Privacy Policy. We seek to comply with
by the Senior VP & Chief Corporate Affairs Officer and laws governing advertising and Customer communications,
overseen by Southwest’s Chief Legal and Regulatory Officer, operate within DOT regulations, and adhere to applicable
with an annual summary of those contributions provided laws. This supports our efforts to maintain advertising that
to the Southwest Board of Directors. We intend for all is transparent and truthful.
political contributions to promote Company interests and
are not guided by any private political preferences of any As part of our vetting process, key Stakeholders such
Employee. We disclose all contributions by the SWAPAC as our Legal Team, and where appropriate, our DEI
via publicly available reports filed monthly with the Federal department and our Executive Leadership Team, review
Election Commission. The Company strives to comply with our marketing communication and creative ideas. Our goal
all applicable federal, state, and local campaign finance is to emphasize clear and honest communication in our
restrictions and disclosure requirements. marketing efforts in order to comply with applicable laws.
In 2023, contributions from the SWAPAC totaled $194,500 We recognize the crucial role of building trust with our
to political committees at the federal level and $65,750 to valued Customers and the potential consequences of false
political committees at the state and local levels. Moreover, or unethical branding. Such actions can erode trust and
the Company contributed $123,400 directly to state and/or credibility, lead to penalty implications, and risk long-term
local political campaigns in four states (California, Florida, reputational damage.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 102
Governance Data Table
Board of Directors by Gender, Age, and Ethnicity/Race53 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Gender
80% Male 85% Male 75% Male Not Reported Not Reported
20% Female 15% Female 25% Female Not Reported Not Reported
Age 100% over age 50 100% over age 50 100% over age 50 Not Reported Not Reported
Ethnicity/Race
Black or African American 13% 15% 8% Not Reported Not Reported
Hispanic or Latino 13% 0% 8% Not Reported Not Reported
White 74% 85% 84% Not Reported Not Reported
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 103
Repor ti ng Fra meworks
Since 2009, Southwest has utilized guidance from recognized ESG standards and frameworks to guide our disclosures in the One Report.
In our ongoing effort to provide the utmost transparency to our Stakeholders, we elected to reference and provide information using the
GRI Universal Standards 2021, the SASB standards, the TCFD framework, and United Nations SDGs. Disclosures corresponding to these
standards and frameworks can be found in the indices on the pages that follow.
Information is presented in the 2023 Southwest One Report with respect to efforts related to our CSR and ESG key topics, a term we use
instead of materiality to avoid confusion with key financial information.
Framewor ks & Resources
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 104
GRI Index
Indicator Description 2023 Response Indicator Description 2023 Response
The organization and its reporting practices 2-5 External assurance Our 2023 GHG inventory was assessed by a third-party at the reasonable
assurance level and completed in accordance with the ISO Standard. This
2-1 Organizational details Southwest Airlines Co. is a publicly traded corporation. assurance engagement included our Scope 1, Scope 2, and certain Scope 3 GHG
emissions. The report can be found here.
Our Headquarters is located at:
2702 Love Field Dr. Southwest has obtained third-party assurance of its GHG inventory since 2017.
Dallas, Texas 75235
USA Activities and Workers
2-6 Activities, value chain Southwest Airlines operates in the airline sector. Information regarding our
During 2023, we operated in 11 countries: the United States, Mexico, Jamaica,
and other business activities, value chain, and other business relationships can be found under Items
the Bahamas, Aruba, Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, Belize, Cuba, the Cayman
relationships 1 and 7 in our 2023 Form 10-K. Additional information regarding our supply
Islands, and Turks and Caicos.
chain is contained in Supply Chain Responsibility.
2-2 Entities included in The 2023 One Report includes the operations of Southwest Airlines Co. and its
2-7 Employees People Data Table
the organization’s wholly owned subsidiaries, which include AirTran Airways, Inc., AirTran Holdings,
sustainability reporting LLC, Southwest Jet Fuel Co., Southwest Airlines Renewable Ventures LLC, and
All Southwest Airlines Co. Employees are classified as permanent. We do not
Triple Crown Assurance Co., which is consistent with our financial reporting
have non-guaranteed hours Employees.
contained in Southwest Airlines Co.'s 2023 Form 10-K.
2-8 Workers who are not People Data Table
2-3 Reporting period, The 2023 One Report was published on May 8, 2024, and includes activities
employees
frequency and contact for calendar year 2023, unless otherwise stated. It is published annually and
point aligns with Southwest Airline Co.'s financial reporting period. (January 1,
Governance
2023-December 31, 2023)
2-9 Governance structure and People Data Table
The contact point for questions regarding the 2023 One Report is composition Governance and Oversight of ESG
SWACitizenship@wnco.com. Corporate Bylaws
Corporate Governance Guidelines
2-4 Restatements of We obtained reasonable assurance for our 2023 GHG emissions, increasing Corporate Policies
information the assurance level from prior years limited assurance. Within this process, we 2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 6-24
updated our jet fuel density factor, which resulted in a less than 1% change to our
Scope 1 jet fuel related emissions. Given that jet fuel emissions make up 99.6% of 2-10 Nomination and selection Board Composition
total Scope 1 and 2 emissions and are a core component of our carbon goals, we of the highest governance Corporate Governance Guidelines
chose to restate prior years emissions for Scope 1 and Scope 3: Conventional Jet body Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter
Fuel to reflect this update and ensure continuity against our baseline. 2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 15-24
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 105
Indicator Description 2023 Response Indicator Description 2023 Response
2-11 Chair of the highest 2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 12-13 and 16-18 2-20 Process to determine 2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 28-65
governance body remuneration
2-21 Annual total 2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 50
2-12 Role of the highest Governance and Oversight of ESG
compensation ratio
governance body Ethics
The Company does not report the ratio of the percentage change in annual total
in overseeing the 2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 18-20
compensation ratio as it is not considered meaningful.
management of impacts
Strategy, Policies and Practices
2-13 Delegation of Governance and Oversight of ESG
responsibility for 2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 18-20
2-22 Statement on sustainable From Our President & CEO
managing impacts
development strategy 2023 Form 10-K, pp. 13-14 and 28-29
2-14 Role of the highest The Southwest Airlines One Report is reviewed by Leaders across the 2-23 Policy commitments The Company’s primary corporate policy commitments can be found here:
governance body in organization, including our VPs of People, DEI, Legal-Corporate and Transactions, Corporate Governance Guidelines
sustainability reporting Investor Relations, Accounting & Financial Reporting, Corporate Reputation; Corporate Policies
Senior VP and Controller, Senior VP Finance, Strategy, & Sustainability, Senior VP
Culture & Communications; Chief Administration Officer; Chief Financial Officer, Our Board of Directors or Senior Management have approved the following
and President & CEO. It is additionally reviewed by our Executive Chairman. corporate policies:
Corporate Governance Guidelines
2-15 Conflicts of interest Ethics
Code of Conduct
Code of Ethics
Code of Ethics
2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 24-25
Policy on Shareholder Rights Plans
Human Rights Policy
2-16 Communication of critical Governance and Oversight of ESG
concerns Code of Ethics
All other corporate policies are approved by presiding Board of Director
2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 18-20
Committees or Senior Management.
2-24 Embedding policy Governance and Oversight of ESG
Nature and total number of critical concerns is confidential information and is
commitments Ethics
not communicated externally by the Company.
Cybersecurity
2-17 Collective knowledge Management reports to the Board of Directors on significant sustainability Data Privacy
of the highest strategies, plans, initiatives, and progress. Marketing & Ethical Branding
governance body
2-25 Processes to remediate Code of Ethics
2-18 Evaluation of the Corporate Governance Guidelines negative impacts
performance of the 2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 22-23
Mechanisms for seeking Ethics
highest governance body
2-26 advice and raising Code of Ethics
2-19 Remuneration policies Governance and Oversight of ESG concerns 2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 18
Corporate Governance Guidelines
2-27 Compliance with laws and 2023 Form 10-K, pp. 53-56
2024 Proxy Statement, pp. 28-65
regulations
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 106
Indicator Description 2023 Response Indicator Description 2023 Response
2-28 Membership associations We develop and nurture authentic civic and business relationships across the 3-3 Management of Employee Experience, Culture, & Engagement
more than 100 communities within the Southwest system. In 2023, we invested material topics Employee Retention & Recruitment
in more than 150 national, state, and local membership organizations including, Employee Training, Education, & Career Development
but not limited to, the Chicagoland Chamber, Greater Baltimore Committee, Ethics
Downtown Denver Inc., Dallas Regional Chamber, Chamber of Commerce Financial Performance
Hawaii, Los Angeles Area Chamber of Commerce, Greater Houston Partnership, Fleet Management
and Florida Economic Development Council. Southwest also participates in: Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining
• A4A Governance and Oversight of ESG
• Aviation Climate Taskforce (ACT) Human Rights & Anti-Trafficking
• Coalition for Public Relations Research Standards Indirect Economic Impact
• National Diversity Council Board Marketing & Ethical Branding
• National Diversity Council Network & Growth
• U.S. Chamber of Commerce Operational Performance
• Travelers United Political Contributions
Public Policy, Regulation, & Transparency
Stakeholder Engagement
Risk & Crisis Management
Safety
2-29 Approach to stakeholder Management Approach to Key Topics - Stakeholder Engagement
Supply Chain Disruption
engagement
Supply Chain Responsibility
2-30 Collective bargaining As of December 31, 2023, approximately 83% of our Employees are
Economic Performance
agreements covered by CBAs.
201-1 Direct economic value Financial Performance
Material Topics
generated and distributed 10-Year Summary
Network & Growth
3-1 Process to determine Management Approach to Key Topics
Performance Data Table
material topics
201-2 Financial implications Our Heart for the planet involves using resources efficiently and identifying
3-2 List of material topics Management Approach to Key Topics
and other risks and emerging environmental trends and risks. In the air, we strive to responsibly
3-3 Management of Carbon opportunities due to manage our fuel consumption and improve our emissions intensity. Given fuel is
material topics Circularity climate change one of our largest expenses, managing fuel consumption is not only important
Climate Risks & Impacts for sustainability, it's also good for our bottom-line.
Collaboration
Community Outreach Carbon
Compliance Climate Risks & Impacts
Customer Satisfaction TCFD Index
Cybersecurity Southwest Airlines CDP Submission
Data Privacy
201-3 Defined benefit plan Employee Compensation, Benefits, & Health - Benefits
Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion
obligations and other Employee Benefits and Perks Guide
Employee Compensation, Benefits, & Health
retirement plans 2023 Form 10-K, pp. 26-28 and pp. 129-131
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 107
Indicator Description 2023 Response Indicator Description 2023 Response
201-4 Financial assistance None in 2023 Energy
received from
government 302-1 Energy consumption No onsite renewable energy was consumed. We purchased over 58 thousand
within the organization MWh of Green-e certified RECs covering 100% of our Texas operations as of
Indirect Economic Impact
May 2023.
203-1 Infrastructure investments Network & Growth
Total of 84,003,424 MWh non-renewable energy consumed comprising:
and services supported Community Outreach
• Heating: 37,561MWh
2023 Form 10-K, pp. 105-106
• All electricity including cooling: 85,818 MWh
• Jet A: 83,699,387MWh
• Other fuels: 180,658 MWh
203-2 Significant indirect Employee Retention & Recruitment
• Steam not captured due to de minimis impact
economic impacts Community Outreach
People Data Table
We did not sell any electricity, heating, cooling, or steam in 2023.
Supply Chain Responsibility
Network & Growth
Heating and electricity data is captured through an energy bill aggregation
Indirect Economic Impact
tool which compiles utility data, capturing the electricity, natural gas, and water
Performance Data Table
consumed in our operations. We maintain detailed records of our actual jet fuel
Supply Chain Disruption
and ground fuel consumption per Station for all scheduled and unscheduled
Anti-Corruption flights. GSE fuel is tracked and aggregated by fuel type, including auto gas, diesel
fuel, dyed diesel fuel, propane fuel, and compressed natural gas.
Operations assessed for Ethics
205-1
risks related to corruption Code of Ethics
Planet Data Table
205-2 Communication and At Southwest, we strive to maintain accountability and transparency of our
302-2 Energy consumption Energy consumption outside of the organization is reported under Scope 3
training about anti- business practices to reduce or eliminate corruption. We expect our Board
outside of the emissions in the Planet table. We report this in metric tons of CO e rather than in
corruption policies and of Directors and all Employees to acknowledge receipt and understanding of
2
organization joules to maintain consistency with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP).
procedures our Code of Ethics and Insider Trading Policy. We also employ robust auditing
procedures to analyze and monitor business activities, which further enhance
Planet Data Table
our ability to maintain high ethical standards. We continually review our systems
to provide transparency and accountability, and we update our corporate
302-3 Energy intensity The energy intensity ratio includes the MWh associated with all Jet A, gasoline,
governance policies when appropriate.
diesel, propane, CNG, natural gas, and electricity consumed within our
operations, divided by our revenue ton kilometers.
During 2023, we also distributed our Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Policy
and Anti-Corruption Compliance Procedures to the Board of Directors, all
Planet Data Table
Company Officers, Senior Leaders of all departments, and select Employees and
Climate Risks & Impacts
Contractors involved with Southwest's financial records and/or international
Planning our Path to Net Zero
operations. In 2023, more than 96% of Southwest recipients completed a Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act Policy compliance questionnaire.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 108
Indicator Description 2023 Response Indicator Description 2023 Response
302-4 Reduction of energy Given that jet fuel emissions make up more than 99% of our total Scope 1 and 2 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG our Scope 1, Scope 2 and certain Scope 3 categories. In 2023, we made several
consumption emissions, our tracking is focused on fuel saving initiatives. Since 2019, we have emissions updates to the emission factors applicable to our Scope 1 emissions, including
captured a total of 1.6 million MWh of fuel savings as a result of fuel our fuel density figure to align with ICAO standards. These updates resulted in a
conservation efforts.54 <1% change in our emissions compared with prior reporting.
Fuel savings (gallons) are tracked through a combination of direct measurements Southwest follows the operational control approach defined by the GHG
and estimates for several ground-, air-, and weight-related fuel efficiency Protocol, accounting for emissions from operations over which we have
initiatives. The fuel gallons savings in 2023 were summed and converted to MWh complete authority to apply operating practices. We calculate and incorporate
using typical TJ/Gg values for Jet A per CDP guidance. the relevant carbon dioxide (CO ), methane (CH ), and nitrous oxide (N O)
2 4 2
emissions from our operations. Emissions are consolidated and disclosed in
Carbon metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO e) using the 100-year time horizon
2
Climate Risks & Impacts global warming potential (GWP) values from the Intergovernmental Panel on
Planning our Path to Net Zero Climate Change (IPCC) Fifth Assessment Report (AR5). Hydrofluorocarbons
(HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), nitrogen trifluoride (NF3 ), and sulfur
hexafluoride (SF6 ) were found to be de minimis, and therefore not reported in
302-5 Reductions in energy The Company’s ASMs per gallon of fuel consumed was 79.5 in 2023,
association with our operations.
requirements of products representing a 5% increase in fuel efficiency over our 2019 baseline levels.
and services
Planet Data Table
Our fuel consumption and fuel saving programs are closely tracked and
Carbon
monitored in order to understand the incremental savings such initiatives yield
Southwest Airlines CDP Submission
each year. We track initiatives such as APU utilization, single engine taxiing,
central monitoring, RNP, cost index, and weight saving initiatives.
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) The baseline 2019 and current 2023 location-based and market-based Scope 2
Carbon GHG emissions emissions can be found in the Planet Data Table.
Planet Data Table
Climate Risks & Impacts Planet Data Table
Planning our Path to Net Zero Carbon
Southwest Airlines CDP Submission
Emissions
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) The baseline 2019 and current 2023 Scope 3 emissions can be found in the
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG The baseline 2019 and current 2023 Scope 1 emissions can be found in the
GHG emissions Planet Data Table. We report on the five categories relevant to our operations:
emissions Planet Data Table, as are our relevant biogenic CO emissions in 2023.
Category 1: Purchased Goods and Services, Category 2: Capital Goods,
2
Category 3: Fuel- and Energy-Related Activities, Category 5: Waste Generated in
Southwest follows The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and
Operations, and Category 7: Employee Commuting.
Reporting Standard (GHG Protocol) guidance to collect activity data and calculate
emissions. Our 2023 greenhouse gas inventory was assessed by a third-party and
Planet Data Table
completed in accordance with ISO standards, obtaining reasonable assurance of
Southwest Airlines CDP Submission
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 109
Indicator Description 2023 Response Indicator Description 2023 Response
305-4 GHG emissions intensity We measure intensity by emissions including all Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NO ), Planet Data Table
x
3 Category 3 (upstream emissions of jet fuel) per revenue ton kilometer (RTK), sulfur oxides (SO ), and
x
which includes the use of SAF and excludes the use of carbon offsets. This other significant air
includes all jet and GSE fuel, as well as the heating and electricity emissions emissions
associated with buildings and structures under our operational control.
Waste
Planet Data Table
306-3 Waste generated Maintaining a comprehensive analysis of all waste generation across all Stations
Climate Risks & Impacts
is a hurdle that we are working to address. We work to track waste generation
Planning our Path to Net Zero
through multiple sources and third parties, with reports collected for each year
Southwest Airlines CDP Submission
aimed at providing a summary of our waste disposal across our Stations. Material
data collected includes scrap metal, batteries, e-waste, light bulbs, shredded
305-5 Reduction of GHG Given that Southwest reports on the relevant CO , CH , and N O associated
2 4 2
paper, municipal waste, and all maintenance and cleaning agents (e.g., oil filters,
emissions with our operations only, reported as CO e, we measure our reduction of GHG
2
glycol, solvents, paints). Forms of waste are broken out by hazardous and non-
emissions with this same scope of gases included. We measure reductions in
hazardous categorization, energy recovery status, quantity of material, and total
the form of an emissions intensity reduction (Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3,
weight for tracking purposes.
Category 3: upstream emissions of jet fuel) per RTK from our baseline 2019. In
2023, our emissions intensity reduced 0.5% compared to the 2019 baseline.
Planet Data Table
Since 2019, fuel saving initiatives are estimated to have saved more than
Circularity
42 million incremental gallons of jet fuel, equivalent to 490,000 MT of well to
wake carbon emissions. These incremental savings came largely from closely
306-4 Waste diverted from Maintaining a comprehensive analysis of all waste generation across all Stations
tracked single engine taxiing, central monitoring, flight optimization, and weight
disposal is a hurdle that we are working to address. We work to track waste generation
saving initiatives.
through multiple sources and third parties, with reports collected for each year
aimed at providing a summary of our waste disposal across our Stations. Material
Carbon
data collected includes scrap metal, batteries, e-waste, light bulbs, shredded
Planet Data Table
paper, municipal waste, and all maintenance and cleaning agents (e.g., oil filters,
Climate Risks & Impacts
glycol, solvents, paints). Forms of waste are broken out by hazardous and non-
Planning our Path to Net Zero
hazardous categorization, energy recovery status, quantity of material, and total
Southwest Airlines CDP Submission
weight for tracking purposes. In 2023, 4,207,288 lbs of waste was recycled and
77,000 lbs of material was reused through our Repurpose with Purpose program.
305-6 Emissions of ozone- One of the most important issues surrounding chemical management is the use
depleting substances of ozone-depleting substances. The ozone layer prevents harmful ultraviolet
Planet Data Table
(ODS) light from passing through the atmosphere, and the use of these substances
can cause a decrease in the total volume of the ozone layer. Potential ozone-
306-5 Waste directed to disposal Planet Data Table
depleting substances Southwest presently uses include refrigerants found in
the HVAC systems and appliances of Southwest operated buildings and the
Supplier Environmental Assessment
air conditioning systems of Company vehicles. Based on an upper-bound
assumption of the expected losses that would occur from Southwest facilities, 308-1 New suppliers that Our supplier questionnaire is a crucial part of our procurement vetting process
were screened using where we expect suppliers to comply with applicable laws.
in 2019, we determined that the emissions from these refrigerants represented
environmental criteria
less than 0.02% of our total GHG emissions. We do not produce or import ozone-
Supply Chain Responsibility
depleting substances in Southwest operations.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 110
Indicator Description 2023 Response Indicator Description 2023 Response
Beginning in 2024, for qualifying Pilots, Southwest offers two weeks paid leave
308-2 Negative environmental Southwest collaborates with EcoVadis to assess the sustainability impacts of top 401-3 Parental leave
and ten additional weeks unpaid leave for a biological parent, a newly adoptive
impacts in the supply 200 suppliers (based on spend) through the EcoVadis ESG ratings platform.
parent, or a parent who becomes a permanent legal custodial caregiver to a
chain and actions taken
dependent child living in their home. The leave must be taken on a consecutive
Supply Chain Responsibility
basis (not intermittent) within three months of the date of birth of the child or
the date the child is placed for adoption in the Employee’s home. A Pilot who
Employment
is the custodial birth mother of a child newly born or who experiences a loss of
401-1 New employee hires and People Data Table pregnancy after twenty weeks is eligible for between six to eight weeks of paid
employee turnover leave. Eligible Pilots may also receive extended unpaid bonding leave upon
request to their Chief Pilot.
401-2 Benefits provided to Employee Compensation, Benefits, & Health - Benefits
full-time employees People Data Table People Data Table
that are not provided to Employee Benefits and Perks Guide Employee Compensation, Benefits, & Health
temporary or part-time
Labor and Management Relations
employees
402-1 Minimum notice periods To create the best possible work environment, we strive to provide our
401-3 Parental leave For qualifying Noncontract Employees, Southwest offers six weeks paid leave for
regarding operational Employees with advanced notice of significant policy or expectation changes
a custodial birth parent (mother or father), the spouse or committed partner of a
changes through proactive communication. Notice is provided to Contract Employees
custodial birth parent at the time of birth, a surrogate parent, or a newly adoptive
and/or their respective Unions per the terms of our CBAs.
parent. The leave must be taken on a consecutive basis (not intermittent) within
12 months of the date of birth of the child or the date the child is placed for Occupational Health and Safety
adoption in the Employee’s home. This benefit for eligible Employees begins 90
403-1 Occupational health Safety
days after the Employee’s last date of hire.
and safety management
system
Our Fight Attendants’, Dispatchers’, and Meteorologists’ (Covered Employees)
CBAs also contain parental leave provisions. Except for those Covered Employees
403-2 Hazard identification, risk Safety
who qualify for Maternity Leave or Post Maternity Leave of Absence, a covered
assessment, and incident
Employee that is the biological parent of a child, adopts, or becomes a
investigation
permanent legal custodial caregiver to a dependent child that formerly was not,
but will be living in their home, will be granted a leave of absence for a period 403-3 Occupational health Safety
not to exceed 12 consecutive weeks and will retain and accrue seniority for services
all purposes during such leave and will not lose insurance coverage. Covered
403-4 Worker participation, Safety
Employees have the option to use their Sick Leave or vacation pay during this
consultation, and
leave. The leave must be taken in its entirety within 12 calendar months from
communication on
the date the child begins living in the Covered Employee’s home. Any applicable
occupational health
federal, state, or local leaves will run concurrently.
and safety
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 111
Indicator Description 2023 Response Indicator Description 2023 Response
403-5 Worker training on Safety 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and Employee Compensation, Benefits, & Health - Compensation
remuneration of women
occupational health and People Data Table - Training Hours by Topic
to men
safety
Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining
403-6 Promotion of worker Employee Compensation, Benefits, & Health - Benefits
health
407-1 Operations and suppliers Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining
in which the right to
403-7 Prevention and mitigation Safety freedom of association
of occupational health People Data Table - Training Hours by Topic
and collective bargaining
and safety impacts
may be at risk
directly linked by business
relationships Child Labor
408-1 Operations and suppliers Supply Chain Responsibility
403-8 Workers covered by Safety
at significant risk for Human Rights & Anti-Trafficking
an occupational health
incidents of child labor Human Rights Policy
and safety management
system
Forced or Compulsory Labor
Training and Education
409-1 Operations and suppliers Supply Chain Responsibility
at significant risk for Human Rights & Anti-Trafficking
404-1 Average hours of training People Data Table
incidents of forced or Human Rights Policy
per year per employee
compulsory labor
404-2 Programs for upgrading Employee Training, Education, & Career Development Security Practices
employee skills and
410-1 Security personnel trained Third-party security personnel receive initial training that includes the
transition assistance
in human rights policies following topics:
programs
or procedures • Security officer authorities and limitations
• Security officer and law enforcement arrest authority
404-3 Percentage of employees Employee Training, Education, & Career Development
• Dealing with disturbed persons and respecting individuals
receiving regular People Data Table
• Use of force and use of force continuum
performance and career
• Safety
development reviews
• Emergency responses
Diversity and Equal Opportunity
Security officers are required to pass a written exam at the conclusion of the
above training. Additionally, monthly sustainment training regarding pertinent
405-1 Diversity of governance People Data Table
topics is conducted including: workplace diversity, de-escalation techniques, and
bodies and employees Governance Data Table
harassment and discrimination.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 112
Indicator Description 2023 Response Indicator Description 2023 Response
Local Communities
416-2 Incidents of non- SASB TR-AL-540a.3
compliance concerning
413-1 Operations with local Southwest collects impact reports from community partners to understand each
the health and safety
community engagement, organization's overall impact and programmatic outcomes based on Southwest's
impacts of products and
impact assessments, and contributions and/or grants to advance the mission of each organization. Impact
services
development programs assessments are administered to all annual partners.
Customer Privacy
Indirect Economic Impact
Community Outreach
418-1 Substantiated complaints No substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and
Operational Performance
concerning breaches of losses of customer data during 2023.
Southwest Airlines Community Blog
customer privacy and
losses of customer data
Supplier Social Assessment
414-1 New suppliers that were Our supplier questionnaire is a crucial part of our procurement vetting process
screened using social where we expect suppliers to comply with applicable laws.
criteria
Supply Chain Responsibility
414-2 Negative social impacts Supply Chain Responsibility
in the supply chain and
actions taken
Public Policy
415-1 Political contributions Political Contributions
Customer Health and Safety
416-1 Assessment of the health Safety
and safety impacts of
product and service
categories
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Index
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 113
SASB lndex
Topic Code Metric Category Unit of Measure 2023 Response
Greenhouse Gas TR-AL-110a.1 Gross global Scope 1 emissions Quantitative MT CO e 20,670,103
2
Emissions
Planet Data Table
Planet Goals
TR-AL-110a.2 Discussion of long- and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 Discussion and N/A Planet Goals
emissions, emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of performance against Analysis Carbon
those targets Climate Risks & Impacts
TR-AL-110a.3 (1) Total fuel consumed, (2) percentage alternative and (3) percentage Quantitative Megawatt- Total jet fuel consumed in 2023 was 83,699,387 MWh with 0.04% alternative
sustainable hours, and sustainable fuels consumed.
Percentage (%)55
Labor Practices TR-AL-310a.1 Percentage of active workforce covered under collective bargaining agreements Quantitative Percentage (%) Approximately 83%
TR-AL-310a.2 (1) Number of work stoppages and (2) total days idle Quantitative Number, Days idle 0 & 0
Competitive Behavior TR-AL-520a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated with Quantitative Reporting currency $0
anti-competitive behaviour regulations
Accident & Safety TR-AL-540a.1 Description of implementation and outcomes of a Safety Management System Quantitative N/A Safety
Management
TR-AL-540a.2 Number of aviation accidents Quantitative Number “Accidents” is defined according to the International Civil Aviation Organization
(Annex 13) and the National Transportation Safety Board (Part 830). The two
accidents involved one Crew Member injury during inflight turbulence and one
accident related to aircraft damage.
TR-AL-540a.3 Number of governmental enforcement actions of aviation safety regulations Quantitative Number No FAA legal enforcement actions.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 114
Activity Metrics56
Metrics that quantify the scale of a company's business and are intended for use in conjunction with accounting metrics to normalize data and facilitate comparison.
Code Activity Metric Category Unit of Measure 2023 Response
TR-AL-000.A Available seat miles Quantitative ASM 170,323 million
TR-AL-000.B Passenger load factor Quantitative Rate 80.0%
TR-AL-000.C Revenue passenger miles Quantitative RPM 136,256 million
TR-AL-000.D Revenue ton kilometers Quantitative RTK 24.3 billion
TR-AL-000.E Number of departures Quantitative Number 1,459,427 (measured as Trips Flown)
TR-AL-000.F Average age of fleet Quantitative Years 11
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 115
TCFD Index
Description of TCFD Disclosure Requirement Complete TCFD Disclosure Requirement 2023 Response
Governance Degree of Board oversight Describe the Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. Governance and Oversight of ESG
Management’s role Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities. Governance and Oversight of ESG — Management
Oversight and Committees
Strategy Climate-related risks and opportunities Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short-, medium-, Climate Risks & Impacts
and long-term.
Impacts of risks and opportunities Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and Climate Risks & Impacts
financial planning.
Resilience of the organization’s strategy Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related Climate Risks & Impacts
scenarios, including a 2°C-or-lower scenario.
Risk Climate risk identification process Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks. Climate Risks & Impacts
Management Risk & Crisis Management
Climate risk management process Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks. Climate Risks & Impacts
Risk & Crisis Management
Integration with other risk-management processes Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the Climate Risks & Impacts
organization’s overall risk management. Risk & Crisis Management
Metrics & Targets Identify risk-assessment metrics Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its Planning our Path to Net Zero
strategy and risk-management process. Carbon
Identify GHG emissions Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 GHG emissions, and the related risks. Planet Data Table
Identify targets and risk metrics Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and Planning our Path to Net Zero
performance against targets. Carbon
Climate Risks & Impacts
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 116
United Nations Sustainable The SDGs are a set of 17 goals created as a call to action to address pressing global challenges. While Southwest supports all 17
SDGs, we have identified eight goals where we have the opportunity to have the greatest impact. These goals help inform our
Citizenship strategy and help us leverage our People and resources to tackle pressing global challenges. Our work and impact
Development Goals
made to support the progress of reaching these goals is detailed in the following pages.
SDG Target Relevance Key Topics
3.4 By 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from non-communicable diseases through As an organization committed to connecting People to what’s important in their lives, Employee Compensation,
prevention and treatment and promote mental health and wellbeing Southwest is uniquely positioned to connect our Employees, Customers, and communities Benefits, & Health
to the support and services they need to live healthy lives.
3.5 Strengthen the prevention and treatment of substance abuse, including narcotic drug abuse and
Community Outreach
harmful use of alcohol
Collaboration
4.1 By 2030, ensure that all girls and boys complete free, equitable and quality primary and Southwest is dedicated to providing quality training and development that inspires Community Outreach
secondary education leading to relevant and effective learning outcomes Employees to realize their full potential. We strive to foster authentic connections
and inclusion in the workplace and are committed to providing Employees with an Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion
4.4 By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant skills,
environment where they feel comfortable bringing their authentic selves to work.
including technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs, and entrepreneurship
Southwest continues to look for opportunities to reflect the communities we serve and Employee Retention & Recruitment
welcome applicants with diverse thoughts, backgrounds, and experiences.
4.7 By 2030, ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote
Employee Training, Education, &
sustainable development, including, among others, through education for sustainable
Career Development
development and sustainable lifestyles, human rights, gender equality, promotion of a culture of
peace and non-violence, global citizenship, and appreciation of cultural diversity and of culture’s
Indirect Economic Impact
contribution to sustainable development
5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere Southwest proudly puts People first—which extends to our Employees, Customers, Employee Recruitment & Retention
community members, and business partners. Our support of human rights transpires in
5.2 Eliminate all forms of violence against all women and girls in the public and private spheres,
a variety of ways, including our recruitment efforts; how we train, treat, and equip our Supply Chain Responsibility
including trafficking and sexual and other types of exploitation
Employees; our commitment to Hospitality and civility; our dedication to an ethical
supply chain, and the support we provide to a variety of organizations in service to Human Rights & Anti-Trafficking
our communities.
Collaboration
8.2 Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversification, technological upgrading, Southwest strives to deliver consistent economic performance by generating profitability Carbon
and innovation including through a focus on high-value added and labor-intensive sectors while pursuing operational efficiencies and strategies that show our Heart for the Planet
and People. We remain dedicated to building on our momentum, leveraging network Circularity
8.4 Improve progressively through 2030, global resource efficiency in consumption and production
optimization, efficiency gains, and sustainable action, to achieve viable growth.
and endeavor to decouple economic growth from environmental degradation in accordance
Human Rights & Anti-Trafficking
with the 10-Year Framework of Programs on Sustainable Consumption and Production, with
developed countries taking the lead
Network & Growth
8.7 Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labor, end modern slavery and
Operational Performance
human trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labor,
including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labor in all its forms
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 117
SDG Target Relevance Key Topics
10.1 By 2030, progressively achieve and sustain income growth of the bottom 40% of the population Attracting and retaining top talent is key to our continued success. We focus on growing Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion
at a rate higher than the national average the Southwest Family with individuals who share our Company Values, offering them a
competitive Total Rewards package, comprehensive on-the-job training, and the resources Employee Compensation,
10.3 Ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities of outcome, including by eliminating they need to succeed. We strive to offer fair and market-competitive pay for all Employees Benefits, & Health
discriminatory laws, policies and practices and promoting appropriate legislation, policies and that recognizes and rewards performance, and positions our Company to successfully
action in this regard retain our People.
Employee Retention & Recruitment
10.4 Adopt policies, especially fiscal, wage and social protection policies, and progressively achieve
Employee Training, Education, &
greater equality
Career Development
11.5 By 2030, significantly reduce the number of deaths and the number of people affected and Assessing our risk is a part of building our organizational resilience. At Southwest, we Carbon
substantially decrease the direct economic losses relative to global gross domestic product partner with airports, Employees, communities, Customers, and others to work toward our
caused by disasters, including water-related disasters, with a focus on protecting the poor and goal of net zero carbon emissions by 20501 and a more sustainable future. Circularity
people in vulnerable situations
Climate Risks & Impact
11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying
special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management
Community Outreach
12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling Southwest takes pride in being the airline with Heart and that includes supporting a more Carbon
and reuse sustainable future for air travel. To guide our approach, we are working to make progress
across our strategic areas of focus which include: address our carbon emissions through Circularity
12.6 Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable fuel and operational efficiency initiatives, support the development of sustainable aviation
practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle fuel (SAF), electrification of eligible ground support equipment2, and energy conservation;
Collaboration
work towards improving sustainability in our operations through sourcing, recycling, and
upcycling; and partner with organizations whose work complements our efforts to achieve
our goals.
13.3 Improve education, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity on climate change We know our Path to Net Zero cannot be achieved alone. Partnerships play a crucial role Carbon
mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning in our sustainability efforts. Southwest partners with different organizations, nonprofits,
policymakers, airports, suppliers, Customers, and other cross-industry partners whose Circularity
work complements our efforts to achieve our goals and advance our environmental
sustainability efforts.
Collaboration
Climate Risks & Impact
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 118
Glossary
Term Acronym Definition Term Acronym Definition
Active, full-time equivalent Employees as of December 31, for specific Book and Claim is a chain of custody model that allows for the ‘de-
calendar year. Active full-time equivalent Employees figure includes coupling’ of specific attributes, like for example, the environmental
an adjustment to count all part-time Employees as a 0.5 full-time benefits from the physical product and the ability to transfer them
Book and Claim
equivalent Employee. The Company utilizes active full-time equivalent separately via a dedicated registry in the form of a ‘credit.’ This
Active, Full-time Equivalents FTE
Employees to measure productivity and efficiency, so it has chosen to approach has been already successfully implemented in the renewable
not include inactive Employees in the figure. (Included less than 250 electricity sector but is still being developed for SAF.
and 10,421 Employees participating in Extended Emergency Time Off
program as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively). Measure used to compare the emissions from various greenhouse
gases on the basis of their global-warming potential (GWP), by
Carbon Dioxide Equivalent CO e
Includes Pilots, Flight Attendants, Dispatchers, Meteorologists, 2 converting amounts of other gases to the equivalent amount of carbon
Air Operations
Simulator Technicians, and Training Instructors. dioxide with the same global warming potential.
Carbon intensity measures how much GHG, or in particular CO ,
Aircraft Utilization The hours and minutes in a day an aircraft is in the air.
2
is emitted relative to some metric (e.g., electricity produced, fuel
consumed, or dollars generated). For example, the U.S. Energy
One seat (empty or full) flown one mile. Also referred to as “capacity,”
Carbon Emissions Intensity CI Information Administration (EIA) defines CI as the “amount of carbon
Available Seat Mile ASM which is a measure of the space available to carry Passengers in a
by weight emitted per unit of energy consumed.” The EPA defines CI as
given period.
the “relative amount of carbon emitted per unit of energy or
fuels consumed.”
Average Length of
Average distance paying Passengers are flown, calculated in miles.
Passenger Haul
Carbon offsets are tradeable rights generated from projects that
Carbon Offset
reduce, capture, or avoid a certain amount of emissions.
The average amount of Passenger Revenue per Revenue
Average Passenger Fare
Passenger carried.
Circularity at Southwest means working toward reducing waste
through maximizing the value of resources by keeping products
Average Stage Length The average distance flown per aircraft departure, calculated in miles.
Circularity and materials in circulation as long as possible. This can be through
reusing, recycling, and considering what happens to a product at the
Biogenic Emissions CO emissions from the combustion or biodegradation of biomass.
end of its lifecycle from the time that sourcing begins.
2
The term biomass refers to the biodegradable fraction of products, The percentage of scheduled flights that are completed, or the number
waste, and residues from biological origin (e.g. from agriculture, Completion Factor of scheduled flights that arrive without cancellation or diversion
forestry and related industries including fisheries and aquaculture), divided by the number of scheduled flights.
Biomass as well as the biodegradable fraction of industrial and municipal
waste. Bioenergy refers to all energy produced from biomass,
including biofuels. It can be used either directly (wood energy) after
methanogenesis (biogas) or new chemical transformations (biofuel).
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 119
Term Acronym Definition Term Acronym Definition
Contrails (also known as aviation-induced cirrus clouds) are trails of Scope 1: Emissions from operations that are owned or controlled by
condensed and frozen water vapor emitted from aircraft engines at Southwest Airlines Co.
Contrails high altitude under certain atmospheric conditions. Contrails are not Scope 2: Indirect emissions from the generation of purchased or
formed on all flights, and instead only when certain atmospheric Greenhouse Gas Emissions - acquired electricity, steam, heating or cooling consumed by Southwest
conditions, including temperature and humidity levels, are present. Scope 1, 2, and 3 Airlines Co.
Scope 3: All other indirect emissions (not included in Scope 2) that
Carbon Offsetting and A market-based mechanism developed by ICAO (International Civil occur in the value chain of Southwest Airlines Co., including both
Reduction Scheme for CORSIA Aviation Organization–the UN’s governing body for aviation) to cap upstream and downstream emissions.
International Aviation growth in international emissions.
The support equipment found at an airport, usually on the apron,
Direct air capture technologies extract CO directly from the Ground Support Equipment GSE the servicing area by the terminal. Examples include belt-loaders,
2
atmosphere at any location, unlike carbon capture which is generally pushback tugs, baggage carts, etc.
Direct Air Capture DAC carried out at the point of emissions, such as a steel plant. The CO can
2
be permanently stored in deep geological formations or used for a A waste with properties that make it dangerous or capable of having
variety of applications. a harmful effect on human health or the environment. Hazardous
Hazardous Waste waste is generated from many sources, ranging from industrial
Enplaned Passengers One Passenger, originating or connecting, boarded on an aircraft. manufacturing process wastes to batteries and may come in many
forms, including liquids, solids gases, and sludges.
All People Leader positions at Southwest at and above the Vice
Executives
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is an
President (VP) level.
Intergovernmental Panel on intergovernmental body of the United Nations. Its mission is to
IPCC
Climate Change advance scientific knowledge about climate change caused by
Fuel Efficiency Calculated as gallons of jet fuel consumed divided by ASMs.
human activities.
Generations are defined as follows: Silent (1928-1945); Baby Boomers
These ratios express the impact (e.g., energy, emissions, etc.) per unit
(1946-1964); Generation X (1965-1980); Millennial (1981-1996);
Generation Intensity Ratio of activity, output, or any other organization specific metric. Intensity
Generation Z (1997 and after). Calculated based on
ratios are often called normalized environmental impact data.
Employee birthdate.
A fuel’s ‘lifecycle’ refers to all GHG emissions produced during the
Gases in the earth's atmosphere that trap heat. These consist of six
Lifecycle Basis fuel’s entire process, from extracting or collecting the feedstock to
gases listed in the Kyoto Protocol: CO ; methane (CH ); nitrous oxide
2 4 refining, transporting, and ultimately using the fuel.
(N O); hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs); perfluorocarbons (PFCs); and
2
sulphur hexafluoride (SF ). The greenhouse gas effect is a process
A method to quantify Scope 2 GHG emissions based on average
Greenhouse Gas GHG 6
that occurs when gases in the earth’s atmosphere trap the sun’s heat, Location-Based Scope 2
energy generation emission factors for defined locations, including
making the planet warmer. Gases that trap heat in the atmosphere are Emissions
local, subnational, or national boundaries.
called greenhouse gases, and the main greenhouse gases are carbon
dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, and fluorinated gases.
A method to quantify Scope 2 GHG emissions based on GHG
Market-Based Scope 2 emissions emitted by the generators from which the reporter
Emissions contractually purchases electricity bundled with instruments, or
unbundled instruments on their own.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 120
Term Acronym Definition Term Acronym Definition
Operating Expenses per Calculated as operating expenses minus fuel and oil, special items, and
Mishandled Bags Baggage which is damaged, delayed, lost or pilfered.
ASM, Excluding Fuel and Oil ProfitSharing costs divided by ASMs. This is the average cost, excluding
CASM-X
Expense, Special items, fuel and oil, special items, and ProfitSharing costs, to fly an aircraft seat
Sustainable Aviation Fuel that is entirely free of all fossil fuels and is
Neat SAF
and ProfitSharing (empty or full) one mile, which is a measure of cost efficiencies.30
not blended.
Calculated as operating revenues divided by ASMs. Also referred to
Net Promoter Score NPS Calculated from Customer survey results.
Operating Revenue Yield as "operating unit revenues", this is the average operating revenue
RASM
per ASM from flying an aircraft seat (empty or full) one mile during a particular
The balance between the amount of GHG that's produced and the
Net Zero Carbon Emissions period, which is a measure of operating revenue production.
amount that's removed from the atmosphere.
Other Leaders refers to all People Leader positions at Southwest below
Other Leaders
New Hires External hires into Southwest.
the VP level.
Workers retained by Southwest through third-party agencies to Calculated as RPMs divided by ASMs which measures the
provide temporary, non-collective bargaining agreement (CBA) staff Passenger Load Factor percentage of available seating capacity that has been filled with
augmentation services (e.g., coverage for noncontract Employees paying Passengers.
Non-Employee Workers
out on leave, supplementary staffing for project work, etc.). Does not
include personnel of professional and managed services organizations Calculated as Passenger revenue divided by RPMs. Also referred to as
Passenger Revenue Yield per
engaged by Southwest. "yield," this is the average cost paid by a paying Passenger to fly one
RPM
mile, which is a measure of revenue production and fares.
According to the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT), a flight is
considered "on time" if it arrives at the gate within 15 minutes of its
Production Activity Unit of activity, output, or other organization specific metric.
Ontime Performance OTP
scheduled arrival time, or departs from the gate within 15 minutes of
its scheduled departure time.
A type of energy attribute certificate defined as representing the
Renewable Energy
REC property rights to the generation, environmental, social, and other
Calculated from Customer survey results excluding trips that do not Certificate
Ontime Net Promoter Score non-power attributes of renewable electricity generation.
arrive ontime.
One paying Passenger flown one mile. Also referred to as “traffic,”
Calculated as operating expenses divided by ASMs. Also referred to as
Revenue Passenger Mile RPM
which is a measure of demand for a given period.
"unit costs" or "costs per available seat mile," this is the average cost to
Operating Expenses per ASM CASM
fly an aircraft seat (empty or full) one mile, which is a measure of
Number of paying Passengers traveling O&D, or from origin to
cost efficiencies.
Revenue Passengers Carried O&Ds destination, regardless of routing, Nonstop, through, and connecting
Passengers traveling from A to B represent a single O&D.
Calculated as operating expenses minus fuel and oil costs divided by
Operating Expenses per ASMs. Also referred to as "non-fuel unit costs" this is the average cost,
A revenue ton kilometer is one U.S. ton of revenue traffic (Passenger
ASM, Excluding Fuel excluding fuel and oil costs, to fly an aircraft seat (empty or full) one
Revenue Ton Kilometer RTK
and cargo) transported one kilometer.
mile, which is a measure of cost efficiencies.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 121
Term Acronym Definition Term Acronym Definition
Part of the US Climate Action Plan includes an aspirational goal to SAF is fuel produced from non-fossil fuel sources that can result in
increase SAF production domestically to 3 billion gallons by 2030 and Sustainable Aviation Fuel SAF lower greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions than conventional jet fuel on a
SAF Grand Challenge enough to meet domestic airlines' expected jet fuel consumption by lifecycle basis.
2050 (~35 billion gallons). 26.3 million gallons of SAF were produced
or imported into the US in 2023. Total Employees Active and inactive Employees as of designated period end.
There are several approved pathways to convert feedstocks into SAF,
Calculated as total fuel consumed (non-renewable and renewable) plus
Total Energy Consumption
including: Hydroprocessed fatty acid esters and fatty acids (HEFA)
electricity, heating, cooling, and steam purchased for consumption.
converts fats, oils, and greases (FOGs) into jet fuel; Alcohol-to-jet (ATJ)
SAF Pathways converts ethanol or isobutanol made from biomass into jet fuel; and
Employees who terminated from Southwest during the period.
Turnover
Gasification/Fischer-Tropsch (FT) converts biomass into jet fuel. FT can
Includes retirements, voluntary and involuntary terminations, etc.
also be used to convert carbon from direct air capture (DAC) into jet
fuel (Power-toLiquids (PtL), synfuel, or e-fuel).
Turnover Rate Turnover divided by Total Employees at period end.
Flights in the published schedule, domestic and international. Excludes
Scheduled Service A value chain is the complete journey of a product or process,
ferries and charters.
covering all stages from material sourcing to end-of-life. It includes
Value Chain
sourcing, production, distribution, and disposal, highlighting the
Based on the modeling of the International Energy Agency (IEA)’s
Scientific Models interconnectedness of each step.
Energy Technology Perspectives report.
Value of Employee Based on Independent Sector's value of volunteer time of $31.80 per
Senior Leadership Director and Managing Director positions at Southwest.
Volunteer Hours hour (updated April 2023).
Senior Management
Southwest Airlines' unique two-character airline code assigned by the
SMC See Executives.
WN
Committee
International Air Transport Association; pronounced “win.”
Expenses or sources of income not regularly part of of Southwest's
Water Consumption Water usage at our domestic facilities.
Special Items ongoing operations (e.g., the change in market value for our
hedging portfolio).
CO e emissions resulting from the production, logistics, and
Well-to-Wake Emissions 2
combustion of jet fuel.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 122
Endnotes
Number Endnote Description Number Endnote Description
1 Our carbon emissions intensity reduction goals are compared against a 2019 baseline on a revenue ton 12 Detailed risk factors, including those specific to extreme weather events and climate change, are discussed
kilometer (RTK) basis [including Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 Category 3 emissions (upstream emissions of under the heading “Risk Factors” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
jet fuel)] and includes the use of SAF and excludes the use of carbon offsets. Our net zero by 2050 goal includes December 31, 2023.
Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 Category 3 emissions only and excludes any emissions associated with non-fuel
products and services, such as inflight service items. 13 See U.S. Department of Energy's SAF Grand Challenge Roadmap released September 2022.
2 Includes baggage tugs, belt-loaders, and pushbacks. 14 Verified offsets are defined as credits that have undergone independent third-party verification by an
accredited verification body to have followed the methodologies and protocols of the applicable program in
3 Incremental is additional fuel saved in a year compared to prior year through fuel savings initiatives. Nominal the development and execution of project activities.
is total fuel saved within that year. Southwest's 2025 goal is the sum of incremental gallons saved from 2019 -
2025, and its 2035 cumulative goal is the sum of nominal gallons saved from 2019 to 2035. 15 Fuel with a carbon emissions intensity of zero (0) gCO e/MJ or lower on a lifecycle basis.
2
4 Weight compared to a 2022 baseline and includes plastics for inflight service. Elimination goal is dependent on 16 Calculated by Neste Oyj with established LCA methodologies, such as CORSIA methodology and based on neat
the availability of operationally and commercially feasible alternatives. (not blended) SAF.
5 Compared to a 2022 baseline. 17 The 737 MAX8 is approximately 14% more fuel-efficient than the 737-800. The 737 MAX7 is expected to
produce comparable fuel efficiency improvement compared with the 737-700.
6 Includes Employees who are members of unions, but are serving in Leadership and Individual Contributor positions.
18 Southwest has capital commitments associated with our firm orders with Boeing for additional aircraft. Please
7 Includes Southwest’s contributions to Employee health and welfare plans, workers’ compensation insurance, and refer to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, and any
employer payroll taxes. 2020 includes one-time accrual for Employees participating in voluntary separation programs. additional filings with the SEC for information about the Company’s capital commitments and risks.
8 Reported figures are from prior year to facilitate calculation of return to work and 12-month retention rates. 19 A quantitative impact analysis wasn’t part of this scope of work. And given the estimates, assumptions,
timelines, and nature of this qualitative analysis, at this time Southwest cannot accurately predict the impact of
9 Calculated as total number of Employees that returned from parental leave divided by total number of any potential losses or costs associated with the physical and transitional effects of climate change. Detailed
Employees that took parental leave in the prior year. risk factors, including those specific to extreme weather events and climate change, are discussed under the
heading “Risk Factors” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
10 Calculated as total number of Employees that returned from parental leave and were still employed 12 months 2023.
after their return divided by total number of Employees returning from parental leave in the prior year.
20 Exposure means the likelihood and magnitude of chronic and acute physical climate impacts to Southwest
11 Representative of 2023 performance only, and prior performance does not guarantee that the Company regions. The exposure scores use multiple sources of publicly available, peer-reviewed climate science data and
will be able to meet its stated sustainability goals. Intensity reduction percentages represent reductions as
confidence levels to reflect the potential acute and chronic changes to the climate. A high impact means a high
of December 31, 2023. The SAF percentage is based on contracted gallons of SAF expected to be utilized in
likelihood of significant changes to the physical climate in the region. This doesn't consider each Southwest
2030 (as of December 31, 2023). Southwest is working to procure greater volumes of SAF, and to the extent
region's ability to change, adapt, and continue to operate, nor does it factor in Southwest’s and a community's
applicable, those volumes will be captured in future reporting of this metric after the agreements for those
adaptive capacity and resilience measures.
volumes are executed by the parties.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 123
Number Endnote Description Number Endnote Description
21 Exposure means the likelihood and magnitude of transition activities' impact to Southwest. The exposure 29 For both same-day change and same-day standby, a Customer must change their flight or request to be added to
scores leverage information provided by Southwest about the present-day exposure and consider how these the same-day standby list at least 10 minutes prior to the scheduled departure of their original flight or the no-
risks will change over time according to the International Energy Agency (IEA) scenarios. The sensitivity scoring show policy will apply. If using the app or mobile web for standby, the Customer must list their name 30 minutes
is specific to Southwest and was developed through internal Stakeholder interviews, a review of relevant ahead of scheduled departure. The Customer will be required to pay any government taxes and fees associated
project materials, as well as disclosures from Southwest’s and peers’ public risk disclosures. with these itinerary changes but refunds will be provided. The Customer's original boarding position is not
guaranteed. Southwest Business Customers booked through travel agencies may need to see a Southwest agent
22 1973 through 2019 annual profitability. at the airport for both a same-day change or standby listing. See Southwest.com/standby for more details.
23 Water consumption is primarily for domestic use at our facilities. 30 The Company's Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). These GAAP financial statements may include (i) unrealized
24 In 2023, as part of our move to reasonable assurance in accordance with ISO standards, we made updates to noncash adjustments and reclassifications, which can be significant, as a result of accounting requirements
the emission factors applicable to our scope 1 and scope 3 category 3 emissions, including our fuel density
and elections made under accounting pronouncements relating to derivative instruments and hedging and (ii)
figure to align with ICAO standards. These updates resulted in a <1% change in our emissions compared with
other charges and benefits the Company believes are unusual and/or infrequent in nature and thus may make
prior reporting. To ensure consistency in how we measure progress against our emissions intensity goal with a
comparisons to its prior or future performance difficult.
baseline year of 2019, we have restated prior year metrics using these updated factors.
As a result, the Company also provides financial information in this report that was not prepared in accordance
with GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to the information prepared in accordance with
25 Emissions from refrigerant losses are not included in our emissions inventory due to their de minimus impact
GAAP. The Company provides supplemental non-GAAP financial information (also referred to as "excluding
on our overall emissions.
special items"), including results that it refers to as "economic," which the Company's management utilizes to
evaluate its ongoing financial performance and the Company believes provides additional insight to investors as
26 Represents the gross biogenic product CO emissions from the combustion of sustainable aviation fuel, which
2
supplemental information to its GAAP results. The non-GAAP measures provided that relate to the Company’s
are outside of all scopes.
performance on an economic fuel cost basis include: operating income, non-GAAP, net income, non-GAAP,
adjusted operating income, non-GAAP, and income tax rate, non-GAAP.
27 Stationary NOx and SOx emissions are reported in our annual emissions inventories for our DAL and PHX
facilities. We are not currently required to prepare emissions inventories at locations other than DAL and PHX.
The Company's economic fuel and oil expense results differ from GAAP results in that they only include the actual
As a result, NOx and SOx emissions are not calculated for these locations. In the event we are required to
cash settlements from fuel hedge contracts - all reflected within fuel and oil expense in the period of settlement.
prepare emissions inventories at locations other than DAL and PHX, those emissions will be included in
Thus, fuel and oil expense on an economic basis has historically been utilized by the Company, as well as some
future reporting.
of the other airlines that utilize fuel hedging, as it reflects the Company’s actual net cash outlays for fuel during
the applicable period, inclusive of settled fuel derivative contracts. Any net premium costs paid related to option
28 Waste and material recycled from aircraft and select facilities as part of Southwest’s waste management and co-
contracts that are designated as hedges are reflected as a component of Fuel and oil expense, for both GAAP
mingled recycling programs. Data is not available for all locations where Southwest operates. Does not include
and non-GAAP (including economic) purposes in the period of contract settlement. The Company believes
international flights due to regulations that require waste from international flights to be sterilized.
these economic results provide further insight into the impact of the Company's fuel hedges on its operating
performance and liquidity since they exclude the unrealized, noncash adjustments and reclassifications that
29 Free same-day change/standby. Same-day change: On the day of travel, a Customer can switch free of
are recorded in GAAP results in accordance with accounting guidance relating to derivative instruments, and
airline charges to another flight with space available departing on the same calendar day between the same
they reflect all cash settlements related to fuel derivative contracts within fuel and oil expense. This enables
origin airport and destination airport as their original flight. With the exception of A-List Preferred and A-List
the Company's management, as well as investors and analysts, to consistently assess the Company's operating
Members, Customers who purchase Wanna Get Away® fares are not eligible for free same-day change. Same-
performance on a year-over-year or quarter-over-quarter basis after considering all efforts in place to manage
day standby: A Customer can list for same-day standby on an earlier flight via a Southwest Customer Service
fuel expense. However, because these measures are not determined in accordance with GAAP, such measures
Agent at the airport or the Southwest app or mobile web. The Customer will receive a message based on the
are susceptible to varying calculations, and not all companies calculate the measures in the same manner. As a
contact preference selected during booking if they are cleared on the flight.
result, the aforementioned measures, as presented, may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures
presented by other companies.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 124
Number Endnote Description Number Endnote Description
30 Further information on (i) the Company's fuel hedging program, (ii) the requirements of accounting for derivative 30 The comparable GAAP measures include charges or benefits that are deemed "special items" that the Company
instruments, and (iii) the causes of hedge ineffectiveness and/or mark-to-market gains or losses from derivative believes make its results difficult to compare to prior periods, anticipated future periods, or industry trends, and
instruments is included in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on Form 10-K for the fiscal year the Company’s profitability targets and estimates, both internally and externally, are based on non-GAAP results
ended December 31, 2023. since "special items" cannot be reliably predicted or estimated. The Company believes non-GAAP return on
invested capital is a meaningful measure because it quantifies the Company's effectiveness in generating returns
The Company’s GAAP results in the applicable periods may include other charges or benefits that are also deemed
relative to the capital it has invested in its business. Although return on invested capital is commonly used as a
"special items," that the Company believes make its results difficult to compare to prior periods, anticipated future
measure of capital efficiency, definitions of return on invested capital differ; therefore, the Company is providing
periods, or industry trends. Financial measures identified as non-GAAP (or as excluding special items) have been
an explanation of its calculation for non-GAAP return on invested capital in the accompanying reconciliation in
adjusted to exclude special items. For the periods presented, in addition to the items discussed above, special
order to allow investors to compare and contrast its calculation to the calculations provided by other companies.
items include:
Information regarding special items and reconciliation of reported amounts to amounts excluding special items
• I ncremental expense associated with the recently ratified Pilot and Flight Attendant contracts. The change in
are included in the accompanying reconciliation tables in the Performance section.
estimate recognized in 2023 relates to additional compensation for services performed by Employees outside of
the applicable fiscal period;
31 Where available. Available only on WiFi-enabled aircraft. Limited-time offer. Internet access for $8 per device
from takeoff to landing. Price is subject to change. May not be available for the full duration of flight. In order
• A charge associated with a settlement reached with the DOT as a result of the Company's December 2022
to provide a top-notch Internet experience, we prohibit access to certain high-bandwidth applications and
operational disruption;
websites. We also prohibit access to certain obscene or offensive content.
• A charge associated with a tentative litigation settlement regarding certain California state meal-and-rest-break
regulations for flight attendants; and
32 Included four and six Boeing 737 Next Generation aircraft in temporary storage as of December 31, 2022
and 2021, respectively and 60 Boeing 737 Next Generation aircraft in long-term storage as of December 2021
• U nrealized mark-to-market adjustment associated with certain available for sale securities.
and 2020. Also included 32 and 34 Boeing MAX8 aircraft in long-term storage as of December 31, 2020 and
Because management believes special items can distort the trends associated with the Company’s ongoing 2019, respectively.
performance as an airline, the Company believes that evaluation of its financial performance can be enhanced by
a supplemental presentation of results that exclude the impact of special items in order to enhance consistency 33 Represents changes in estimate related to the contract ratification bonus for the Company’s Flight Attendants as
and comparativeness with results in prior periods that do not include such items and as a basis for evaluating part of the tentative agreement reached in October 2023 with TWU 556. The Company began accruing for all
operating results in future periods. of its open labor contracts on April 1, 2022, and this incremental $180 million expense extends the timeframe
covered by the ratification bonus to the date the Flight Attendant contract became amendable on November 1,
The following measures are often provided, excluding special items, and utilized by the Company’s management,
2018, to compensate for missed wage increases over that time period. The Company’s consolidated financial
analysts, and investors to enhance comparability of year-over-year results, as well as to industry trends: operating
statements for the year ended December 31, 2023 include market rate wage accrual for all workgroups with
income, non-GAAP, net income, non-GAAP, adjusted operating income, non-GAAP, and income tax rate, non-
open collective bargaining agreements. See the Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for
GAAP. The Company has also provided its calculation of return on invested capital, which is a measure of financial
further information.
performance used by management to evaluate its investment returns on capital. Return on invested capital is
not a substitute for financial results as reported in accordance with GAAP and should not be utilized in place of
34 Represents changes in estimate related to the contract ratification bonus for the Company’s Pilots as part of
such GAAP results. Although return on invested capital is not a measure defined by GAAP, it is calculated by the
the tentative agreement reached in December 2023 with SWAPA. The Company began accruing for all of its
Company, in part, using non-GAAP financial measures. Those non-GAAP financial measures are utilized for the
open labor contracts on April 1, 2022, and this incremental $354 million expense represents an increase in
same reasons as those noted above for Net income, non-GAAP and Operating income, non-GAAP.
retroactive pay associated with wage rates for purposes of calculating the ratification bonus agreed to for
Pilots for periods prior to 2023. See the Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for
further information.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 125
Number Endnote Description Number Endnote Description
35 See Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the 2023 Form 10-K for further information. 45 Effective November 6, 2023, on flights traveling 176 miles or more, A-List Preferred Members receive up to
two complimentary premium drinks per leg. Flights traveling 175 miles or less only serve water. Drink coupons
36 Tax amounts for each individual special item are calculated at the Company's effective rate for the applicable are subject to availability. Service may also be limited at Southwest's discretion and are non-exchangeable for
period and totaled in this line item. other goods or services. Drink coupons are invalid after expiration date and will not be updated or replaced.
Members must be 21 or older to consume alcoholic beverages and alcohol purchased with drink coupons must
37 Net adjustment related to presumption that all aircraft in fleet are owned (i.e., the impact of eliminating aircraft be consumed onboard the aircraft. Beverage options may change at any time and are subject to availability.
rent expense and replacing with estimated depreciation expense for those same aircraft). The Company makes
this adjustment to enhance comparability to other entities that have different capital structures by utilizing 46 Cash + Points will allow Rapid Rewards® Members to combine Points with other eligible forms of payment to
alternative financing decisions. purchase flights, starting in the spring of 2024. Not all Customers will see Cash + Points as an available payment
option during the initial rollout. Cash + Points bookings will not earn Rapid Rewards® points, tier qualifying
38 The GAAP full year tax rate as of December 31, 2023, was 26.5%, and the full year Non-GAAP tax rate was 23.5%. points for A-List or A-List Preferred status, or Companion Pass qualifying points.
See Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures for additional information.
47 As long as a Customer cancels their reservation at least ten (10) minutes prior to the scheduled departure
39 Calculated as an average of the five most recent quarter end balances or remaining obligations. The Net of their flight. If a Customer cancels, they are eligible to receive 100% of their ticket value as a refund to
present value of aircraft operating leases represents the assumption that all aircraft in the Company’s fleet
their original form of payment. A Southwest flight credit from a previous reservation that is applied toward
are owned, as it reflects the remaining contractual commitments discounted at the Company's estimated
a Business Select® or Anytime fare will be refunded as a Transferable Flight Credit™. For travel booked with
incremental borrowing rate as of the time each individual lease was signed.
Rapid Rewards® points, if canceled, points will be returned to the Rapid Rewards® account holder who booked
the ticket. *Starting July 1, 2023 (12:00 a.m. CT), for Wanna Get Away® or Wanna Get Away Plus® reward travel
40 The Equity adjustment in the denominator adjusts for the cumulative impacts, in Accumulated other
reservations (booked with points): If a Customer does not cancel their reservation at least 10 minutes before
comprehensive income and Retained earnings, of gains and/or losses that will settle in future periods, including
the flight’s original scheduled departure time, any points used for booking will be forfeited, along with any
those associated with the Company's fuel hedges. The current period impact of these gains and/or losses is
taxes and fees associated with their reward travel reservation. For Anytime or Business Select® reward travel
reflected in the Net impact from fuel contracts in the numerator.
reservations: the points used for booking will be redeposited to the purchaser's Rapid Rewards® account, and
any taxes and fees associated with the reward travel reservation will be converted into a Transferable Flight
41 Due to changes in the operations in 2020 from circumstances at the time, results from 2020 do not provide a
Credit™ for future use. Transferable Flight Credits™ allow a Customer to transfer their flight credit to someone
meaningful yearly performance comparison.
else. Both must be Rapid Rewards® Members and only one transfer is permitted. Transferable Flight Credits™
unexpired on or created on or after July 28, 2022, do not expire and will show an expiration date until our
42 First and second checked bags. Weight and size limits apply.
systems are updated. A Transferable Flight Credit™ with an expiration date on or before July 27, 2022, is expired
in accordance with its existing expiration date. For bookings made through a Southwest® Business channel,
43 If a Customer needs to change an upcoming flight itinerary, they'll only pay the difference in fare (if one
there is a limitation to transfer only between employees within the organization.
applies). Failure to cancel a reservation at least 10 minutes prior to scheduled departure may result in forfeited
travel funds.
48 As measured by the Department of Transportation O&D Survey for the twelve months ended September 30,
2023, based on domestic originating passengers boarded.
44 Flight credits will be issued as long as the flight is canceled at least 10 minutes prior to the scheduled
departure. Flight credits don't expire and are non-transferable. For travel booked with Rapid Rewards® points:
49 Based on U.S. Dept. of Transportation quarterly Airline Origin & Destination Survey since Q1 2021.
starting July 1, 2023 (12:00 a.m. Central Time), for Wanna Get Away® or Wanna Get Away® Plus reward travel
reservations (booked with points): If a Customer does not cancel their reservation at least 10 minutes before the
flight's original scheduled departure time, any points used for booking will be forfeited, along with any taxes
and fees associated with the Customer's reward travel reservation.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 126
Number Endnote Description
50 U.S. Department of Transportation. (2023, March “updated”). Air Travel Consumer Report (ATCR): A Product
of the Office of Aviation Enforcement and Proceedings, Aviation Consumer Protection Division. Washington,
D.C. The Department of Transportation (DOT) ranks all U.S. carriers based on the lowest ratio of complaints
per 100,000 passengers enplaned, as published in the DOT Air Travel Consumer Report (ATCR). As a result of
significant operational disruptions experienced at the end of December, Southwest finished sixth in Customer
Satisfaction among U.S. Marketing Carriers based on a cumulative 6.75 ratio of the DOT complaints per
100,000 enplaned passengers for 2022. A Marketing Carrier is an airline that advertises under a common
brand name, sells reservations, manages frequent flyer programs, and is ultimately responsible for the airline’s
consumer policies. Operating Carriers only handle the flight operations, passenger check-in/boarding, and
baggage handling for the respective Marketing Carriers they serve—Operating Carriers are not responsible for
the DOT complaints related to policies, procedures, and advertising associated with the Marketing
Carrier’s brand.
51 Since April 2023, the DOT has suspended publishing the traditional Customer Satisfaction results for all carriers
until a new Airline Consumer Enforcement Reporting System (ACERS) is launched. The DOT does not plan to
publish the Customer Satisfaction results/rankings for June – December 2023.
52 Based Director nominees' voluntary self-disclosure. For additional information on the slate of nominees for
election to the Board at the Company's 2024 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, please see Southwest's 2024
Proxy Statement.
53 Based on Board of Directors members' voluntary self-disclosure. Includes active Board of Directors members as
of December 31, for specific calendar year.
54 In 2023, we updated our fuel saving calculations to align with our new goals, and we are now reporting the
total incremental fuel savings since our baseline year of 2019. We converted the gallons saved to megawatt
hours using typical TJ/Gg values for Jet A per CDP guidance.
55 Southwest reports our energy consumption in megawatt-hours (MWh), rather than gigajoules as outlined in
the SASB metrics.
56 As a U.S. based company, Southwest Airlines Co. is subject to GAAP accounting practices as required by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Given these requirements, we have aligned with the 2018 SASB
Framework, which follows GAAP accounting practices.
Citizenship People Planet Performance Governance Frameworks & Resources 127
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
The 2023 Southwest Airlines One Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the the future and are not guarantees of future performance. Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties, assumptions,
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking and other factors that are difficult to predict and that could cause actual results to vary materially from those expressed in or
statements are based on, and include statements about, the Company’s current estimates, intentions, beliefs, expectations, goals, indicated by them. Factors include, among others, (i) the impact of fears or actual outbreaks of diseases, extreme or severe
strategies, and projections for the future and are not guarantees of future performance. Specific forward-looking statements can weather and natural disasters, actions of competitors (including, without limitation, pricing, scheduling, capacity, and network
be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and include, without limitation, statements decisions, and consolidation and alliance activities), consumer perception, economic conditions, banking conditions, fears or
related to (i) the Company’s Vision; (ii) the Company’s goals, plans, strategic priorities, initiatives, and focus areas, in particular with
actual acts of terrorism or war, sociodemographic trends, and other factors beyond the Company's control, on consumer behavior
respect to Customer Experience initiatives; operational and performance goals; People and Hospitality goals; diversity, equity, and
and the Company's results of operations and business decisions, plans, strategies, and results; (ii) the Company's ability to timely
inclusion goals; and environmental sustainability goals, including with respect to achieving net zero carbon emissions, reducing
and effectively implement, transition, and maintain the necessary information technology systems and infrastructure to support
carbon emissions intensity, replacing conventional jet fuel with sustainable aviation jet fuel, offsetting carbon emissions,
its operations and initiatives; (iii) the emergence of additional costs or effects associated with the cancelled flights in December
engaging with third parties, reducing energy consumption at the Company’s Corporate Campus and Dallas Maintenance Hanger,
2022, including litigation, government investigation and actions, and internal actions; (iv) the Company's dependence on Boeing
reducing single-use plastics, and electrifying the Company’s ground support equipment; (iii) the Company’s plans and
and Boeing suppliers with respect to the Company's aircraft deliveries, fleet and capacity plans, operations, maintenance,
expectations regarding environmental sustainability investments, contracts, and capital expenditures and opportunities; (iv) the
strategies, and goals; (v) the Company's dependence on Boeing and the Federal Aviation Administration with respect to the
Company's plans associated with the management of SAFFiRE; (v) the goals and focus areas of Southwest Airlines Renewable
certification of the Boeing MAX 7 aircraft and Boeing production volumes; (vi) the impact of fuel price changes, fuel price
Ventures LLC and SAFFiRE Renewables LLC and their investments; (vi) the Company's and SAFFiRE's expectations regarding
volatility, volatility of commodities used by the Company for hedging jet fuel, and any changes to the Company's fuel hedging
SAFFiRE technology; (vii) the Company's and SAFFiRE's plans and expectations associated with the development and utilization of
strategies and positions, on the Company's business plans and results of operations; (vii) the Company's dependence on other
a pilot plant, as well as expectations with respect to the capabilities of the expected plant; (viii) the Company's and SAFFiRE's
third parties, in particular with respect to its technology plans, its plans and expectations related to operational excellence and
expectations with respect to technology license usage; (ix) the Company's and SAFFiRE's plans and expectations associated with
reliability, fuel supply, maintenance, environmental sustainability; technology licensing, Global Distribution Systems, and the
the conversion of ethanol into SAF; (x) the plans, goals, and expectations of SARV, SAFFIRE, and Southwest associated with the
production, transport, storage, blending, and distribution of SAF, and the impact on the Company's operations and results of
available volume of SAF and the quality, components, and affordability of SAF; (xi) the Company's expectations regarding working
operations of any third party delays or non-performance; (viii) the impact of governmental regulations and other governmental
with companies and organizations to develop technology; (xii) the Company's expectations with respect to SAF offtake
actions on the Company's business plans, results, and operations, including with respect to carbon emissions, SAF, SAF tax
agreements; (xiii) the Company's expectations with respect to LanzaJet and Lanzajet technology; (xiv) the Company’s network and
credits, environmental compliance requirements, and other sustainability matters;; (ix) the Company’s ability to obtain and
capacity plans and expectations, including with respect to the optimization of the Company’s network; (xv) the Company’s plans,
maintain adequate infrastructure and equipment to support its operations and initiatives; (x) the impact of labor matters on the
expectations, and goals regarding its fleet, fleet delivery schedule, fleet modernization, and fuel efficiency, including with respect
Company's business decisions, plans, strategies, and results; (xi) the Company’s ability to timely and effectively prioritize its
to deliveries, retirements, and capabilities and factors and assumptions underlying the Company’s plans and expectations; (xvi)
initiatives and focus areas and related expenditures, including its ability to implement and maintain the necessary processes to
the Company’s plans for glycol tank expansion at Chicago Midway; (xvii) the Company’s plans with respect to the use of electric
support the utilization of sustainable aviation fuel; (xii) the Company's dependence on its workforce, including its ability to employ
ground power and preconditioned air for aircraft at the gate; (xviii) the Company’s plans and expectations with respect to
and retain sufficient numbers of qualified Employees to effectively and efficiently maintain its operations; (xiii) any negative
circularity, recycling, and upcycling; (xix) the Company’s plans and expectations with respect to climate risk mitigation; (xx) the
developments in any phase of SAFFiRE's business development from current concept to commercialization, including limitations
Company’s estimated fuel costs, hedging activity, and fuel efficiency and the assumptions underlying the Company’s fuel-related
on the availability of feedstock, transportation, and refinery availability; (xiv) any negative developments in any phase of LanzaJet's
expectations and estimates, including expectations related to the Company’s fuel derivative contracts; (xxi) the Company’s goals
business development; (xv) the continuation of government support for SAFFiRE's and LanzaJet's objectives and renewable fuels
with respect to conservation and water management; (xxii) the Company’s financial and operational outlook, expectations, goals,
generally, including SAF; (xvi) the consequences of competition with other existing and new sources of aviation fuel, whether or
plans, and projected results of operations, including factors and assumptions underlying the Company’s expectations and
projections; (xxiii) the Company’s goal to enhance Shareholder value; (xxiv) the Company’s plans, goals, and expectations with not sustainable; (xvii) the ability to obtain and protect intellectual property rights relating to the development and
respect to enhancing and improving the Customer Experience, including upgrades to WiFi hardware, larger overhead bins, in- commercialization of technology, including with respect to converting corn stover to renewable ethanol and converting ethanol
seat power installations, and associated expected expenditures; (xxv) the Company’s safety goals and initiatives; and (xxvi) the to SAF; and (xviii) other factors, as described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the
Company’s plans and expectations with respect to cybersecurity, data privacy, and risk management. These forward-looking detailed factors discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
statements are based on the Company’s current estimates, intentions, beliefs, expectations, goals, strategies, and projections for ended December 31, 2023.
www.Southwest.com/onereport
