GG LLOOBBAALL
EE NN VV II RR OO NN MM EE NN TTAA LL
SSTTAARRBBUUCCKKSS 2FI0S2C2AL 2022
&& SS OO CC IIAALL II MM PPAACCTT
rreeppoorrtt
oouurr oouurr oouurr oouurr
MMMMXXXXIIII
PPAARRTTNNEERRSS CCOOFFFFEEEE CCOOMMMMUUNNIITTIIEESS PPLLAANNEETT
SINETCRTOIODNU CTITTILOEN souubrs fiescctaiol n2 0ti2tl2e report
GGlloobbaall EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall && SSoocciiaall IImmppaacctt RReeppoorrtt 22
When Starbucks opened in 1971, our vision for success
was to be a different kind of company.
Starting in fiscal year 2022 (FY22), we embarked on THREE PRIORITIES GUIDE
an ambitious journey to reinvent ourselves, building OUR ONGOING EFFORTS:
on more than 50 years of global impact. This journey 1 Investing in our Partners
includes making key investments in Environmental,
2 Building a More Sustainable, Equitable and Resilient
Social and Corporate Governance (ESG) strategies
Future for Coffee, our Communities and our Planet
that help us uplift our partners and customers, give
back more than we take from our planet, create 3 Leadership and Governance
responsible growth for our company and operate in
a manner that supports the resilience of our business. As always, we are approaching our ESG priorities with the
same creativity and consistency our partners (employees)
Our commitment to transparency, intentionality
bring to their work every single day. Through our ESG efforts,
and accountability underpins all our efforts to share
we are working to modernize and transform the Starbucks
extensive data on our progress against our ambitious
experience in our stores and recreate an environment that
ESG goals, business practices, work in sustainability
is welcoming and safe for all — where we uplift one another
and our commitment to the communities we serve.
with dignity, respect and kindness.
Since 2001, we have proactively published this
annual update on key ESG programs and progress.
MMXXII
©© 22002233 SSttaarrbbuucckkss CCoorrppoorraattiioonn.. AAllll rriigghhttss rreesseerrvveedd..
Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 3
table of contents
SECTION I
INVESTING IN OUR PARTNERS 4
5 Partner Experience 17 Partner Engagement 22 Fiscal 2023 Highlights
SECTION II
BUILDING A MORE EQUITABLE,
SUSTAINABLE AND RESILIENT FUTURE FOR
COFFEE, OUR COMMUNITIES AND OUR PLANET 23
25 Our Communities 31 Our Planet 38 Coffee and Our Supply Chain
45 Fiscal 2023 Highlights 46 Starbucks Accolades
SECTION III
LEADERSHIP AND GOVERNANCE 48
55 About This Report
REPORT APPENDIX
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS AND DATA TABLES 56
57 Goals Summary Scorecard 64 Our Planet: Data 68 SASB Reporting 72 Human Rights
74 Occupational Health and Safety Standard 77 External Auditor Assurance Letters
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
SECTION I
Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 4
INVESTING
in our
PARTNERS
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 5
INVESTING IN
partner OUR PARTNERS
At Starbucks, we like to say that we are not in the coffee business serving
experience
people, but in the people business serving coffee. Here, our employees —
who we call partners — are the heart of the Starbucks experience. Starbucks
took significant action in FY22 to improve our partner experience through
increased wages, additional training, equipment upgrades and expanded
benefits. Our wage increases, training program expansion and equipment
upgrades for U.S. retail partners in FY22 totaled $1 billion. Starbucks effort
to improve our partners’ experience is founded on a deep commitment to
advance inclusion, diversity and equity—and the belief that we are at our
best when we create inclusive and welcoming environments.
MMXXII
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
INVESTING IN
partner experience
OUR PARTNERS Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 6
PROUDLY SERVING THE BEST BENEFITS IN THE U.S. FOR HOURLY RETAIL WORK
Starbucks is proud to offer a wide range of benefits that allow our
partners to choose the plans and programs that best support their
individual needs and goals. In the U.S., benefits provided to all
eligible part- and full-time partners include comprehensive health
coverage, annual Bean Stock grants, retirement savings matching,
Lyra for mental health, commuter benefits, Spotify Premium, paid
time-off, paid parental leave, fertility benefits — and more.
FUTURE ROAST 401(K) STARBUCKS COLLEGE FAMILY EXPANSION
MEDICAL, DENTAL AND VISION
Starbucks matches 100% of the ACHIEVEMENT PLAN REIMBURSEMENT
Comprehensive medical, dental
first 5% contributed each pay Partners can earn their first bachelor’s Financial assistance for partners who are
and vision coverage with choices
period (regardless of whether the degree online with 100% tuition and fees growing their families through adoption,
for partners, their spouse or
contribution is 401(k) pre-tax, Roth covered upfront through Arizona State surrogacy or intrauterine insemination
domestic partner and children
after-tax or a combination of both) University’s online degree programs (IUI), up to $40,000 per partner
MENTAL HEALTH BENEFIT
BEAN STOCK STUDENT LOAN MANAGEMENT PAID PARENTAL LEAVE
Free mental health therapy
Yearly grant of restricted stock Access to resources to help better Paid leave for birth and
for partners, their spouse or
units, which vest over two years manage student debt non-birth parents
domestic partner and children
GIVING MATCH PARTNER AND FAMILY
Starbucks matches up to $1,000 INCENTIVIZED SAVINGS PROGRAM DACA FEE REIMBURSEMENT SICK TIME
per year per partner in volunteer Incentivized savings plan for short-term Reimbursement for government- Paid sick time for partners to care
hours and financial donations to goals and unplanned financial challenges mandated DACA renewal fees for themselves and their families
qualified non-profit organizations
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
INVESTING IN
partner experience
OUR PARTNERS Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 7
Our benefits reflect our mission and commitment to put our people Key initiatives launched in the U.K. and Europe, Middle East & Africa
first — including more than 250,000 U.S. partners representing diverse (EMEA) regions include pay increases, maintaining a premium to national
communities. We offer the highest-rated benefits in the U.S. for hourly living wage, free food on shift and an extra holiday. Partners in these
employees1 — inspired by direct collaboration with partners. As an regions also received a “share of success” bonus in FY22, amounting to
industry leader in compensation and pay equity, we’re constantly £4.3 million in bonus payments.
expanding benefits and opportunities. We proudly offer our world-
Tata Starbucks Limited, a joint venture, became the first food and
class benefits to eligible part-time and full-time partners across retail,
beverage company in India to establish a company-wide, five-day work
manufacturing and enterprise (corporate), including:
week for all partners. The company also embraces flexibility through its
• C omprehensive health coverage (medical, dental and vision). ‘connected workplaces’ program, where its non-retail support partners
• A highly competitive 401(k) program with company match. work in hybrid, field support and remote roles, and store partners can
experience both part-time and full-time roles. Tata Starbucks also
• B ean Stock — Starbucks continues to be one of the only retailers to
provides meaningful opportunities and comprehensive benefits for
offer a stock program that includes part-time retail hourly partners.
partners including providing a graduation support program to all full-time
As part of the $1 billion in investments to improve our U.S. partner and part-time Tata Starbucks partners. The company offers many health
experience, our industry-leading core benefits package expanded and wellness programs including free mental and emotional counseling to
and evolved in FY22 to meet their needs — with plans for continuous partners and their family members, and an optional company-subsidized
improvement and updates in progress. parental insurance program. In 2021, Tata Starbucks inaugurated the
We also offer global Starbucks partners relevant benefits that help address Two-Wheeler Mobility Support Program to help partners purchase a
unique needs in different parts of the world. In 2017, Starbucks China two-wheeler vehicle for professional or personal use, enhancing their
introduced a first-of-its-kind program to provide critical illness insurance independence and commuting experience.
for parents of eligible partners. Just last year, it launched “14th Month
Pay,” a pioneering initiative giving retail partners an additional month’s
salary as a bonus on top of the 13th month pay they are eligible for, to
be paid out at the end of every financial year. Partners can also select
from a wide array of innovative flexible benefits such as HPV vaccinations
and ‘pawternal’ care for new pets. Starbucks China partners also enjoy
opportunities to pursue their coffee passion and career aspirations
through initiatives such as talent exchange and barista championships.
“Core to offering innovative benefits that truly make a difference in partners’
lives is us working together with our partners to evolve those benefits and
co-create Starbucks future. I firmly believe that when we invest in our partners,
we invest in the success of Starbucks.”
SARA KELLY, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF PARTNER OFFICER
1 As ranked by Aon, a leading global professional services firm, against other major retail employers.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
INVESTING IN
partner experience
OUR PARTNERS Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 8
Total Compensation and Retirement
In FY22, Starbucks announced that the company:
• I ncreased minimum starting pay rate for all U.S. hourly partners to $15/hour.
• A chieved an average national pay rate for all U.S. hourly partners of nearly $17/hour.
• P rovided Starbucks shares via the Bean Stock program to more than 230,000 partners in 21 markets.
We are invested in the total health of our partners — including their financial health. In FY22, we announced that
the minimum starting rate for all U.S. retail hourly partners is $15/hour. On average, Starbucks hourly partners
earned nearly $17/hour nationally, which has improved to $17.50/hour in FY23. Our eligible tenured hourly
partners received at least a 5% raise for two to five years of service, and at least a 7% raise after five years.
We help our partners save for emergencies, the future and retirement in an ever-changing economy. In FY22,
we announced the addition of two new programs to help partners manage their savings and income. The
Starbucks Financial Resilience Toolkit includes topics ranging from budgeting and short-term savings to long-
term savings and retirement tips and guidance. We know that many of our partners have student debt, so a new
program provided by Tuition.io provides partners with payment strategies, student loan management coaches
and links to take action.
The Starbucks Financial Resilience Toolkit and the Tuition.io initiatives join our robust savings and retirement
benefits. Starbucks Future Roast, our signature 401(k) savings plan, allows partners to contribute pre-tax or Roth
after-tax dollars, with a Starbucks match for contributions. In partnership with Fidelity, all eligible U.S. partners
can now participate in My Starbucks Savings, a way to save for the unexpected, including a Starbucks match of
$25 and $50 credits at key savings milestones up to a total of $250 per partner.
We know that our partners are the foundation of our success, so we want them to share in that success through
Starbucks stock ownership. Bean Stock began in 1991, on the same day Starbucks opened its 100th store. The
landmark program that awards partners with company stock was the first of its kind in the retail industry. During
FY22, more than 230,000 partners in 21 markets received Bean Stock, including Austria, Great Britain, Italy,
Switzerland, Japan, China, Canada and the United States. Partners in North America can also take advantage of
the Starbucks Stock Investment Plan (S.I.P.), a quarterly stock purchase plan that allows Starbucks partners to
buy Starbucks stock at a 5% discount.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
INVESTING IN
partner experience
OUR PARTNERS Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 9
Partner Experience Innovation Center
Launched the Partner Experience Innovation Center to reimagine and
improve the partner experience.
Retail partners create thousands of meaningful moments each day for
our customers, all around the world. At the same time, we know that our
partners have endured a challenging few years — from a global pandemic
upending our day-to-day lives, to facing the ongoing impacts of a
strained supply chain.
In FY22, we announced approximately $1 billion in investments in wages,
benefits, training and equipment to radically improve the U.S. retail
partner experience — the result of dozens of collaboration sessions
across the country where hundreds of retail partners and leaders met to
co-create the future of Starbucks. The newly-formed Partner Experience
Innovation Center (PEIC) was created to reimagine the partner experience
and build trust with our partners by addressing their biggest challenges.
When we meaningfully invest in an experience that enables our partners
to thrive, they become more engaged and better connected with our
customers, which drives our business performance. Thriving partners are
a catalyst to building a stronger Starbucks business and brand.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
INVESTING IN
partner experience
OUR PARTNERS Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 10
Inclusive Healthcare Starbucks College Achievement Plan
We will always work to ensure that our partners have access to quality
Nearly 2,150 partners graduated from college using Starbucks
healthcare and the support services they need. In FY22, we added to our
College Achievement Plan (SCAP), with more than 23,000 partners
extensive healthcare benefits with a healthcare reimbursement program
participating in the program in FY22.
to ensure that all partners can receive reimbursement for travel expenses
for abortion or gender-affirming procedures when they cannot legally
As part of our commitment to help our partners succeed in career and
access services in their state of residence and do not have a provider
life — even beyond Starbucks — we offer 100% upfront tuition coverage
within 100 miles of their home. In FY22, we also broadened the Starbucks
for a first-time bachelor’s degree to eligible partners in the U.S. through
Family Expansion Reimbursement program, which assists partners with
SCAP, in partnership with Arizona State University (ASU). SCAP participants
the costs of growing their families through adoption, surrogacy or fertility
have access to more than 140 bachelor’s degree programs, and since
treatments.
the start of the program more than 9,100 partners have used SCAP to
These efforts in FY22 build on our long-standing commitment to ensuring graduate from college.
that our partners have access to quality healthcare regardless of where
Starbucks also offers the Pathway to Admission program, an expansion
they live or what they believe. In 2018, Starbucks broadened its health
of the SCAP benefit. Through this program, Starbucks and ASU provide an
insurance options for transgender partners beyond gender reassignment
admissions pathway for partners who do not initially qualify for admission.
surgery (which had been covered since 2013), to include procedures that
Through Pathway to Admission, partners can take up to 10 college-level
had previously been considered cosmetic. All U.S. partners who welcome
courses to earn their admission into the university, with credit conversion
a new child by birth, foster or adoption can access paid parental leave.
costs fully covered. Partners who are Veterans can extend an additional
Starbucks also provides all U.S. partners and qualified family members
SCAP benefit to a qualifying family member.
access to 20 free sessions a year with a mental health therapist or coach
through Lyra Health, and free access to Headspace. We also offer all
U.S. partners the option to work with Starbucks Advocates — a team of
individuals dedicated to working directly with partners year-round —
who are knowledgeable about healthcare coverage and available to help
partners with complex health benefits questions.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
INVESTING IN
partner experience
OUR PARTNERS Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 11
TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT
Training and educational
Barista First 30 & Continuous Learning Journey Talent Attraction & Development
resources are designed to recruit
and retain talented people and Baristas in the U.S. receive 42 training hours. • M ore than 160,000 baristas were hired in the U.S.
affirm Starbucks as one of the
• M ore than 60% of U.S. retail leadership roles were filled from
very best employers in retail As part of our $1 billion investment in improving the retail partner
internal partners.
globally. The way we hire, develop experience, we evolved the Starbucks training program known as Barista
and advance our partners is a Basics into Barista First 30, a 42-hour training program to be completed Starbucks has a long history as a leading company to attract and
critical pillar in our journey to in the first 30 days of employment that covers all the foundations of develop diverse talent. Starbucks is working side-by-side with partners
ensure that all of our partners being a Starbucks partner from mission and culture to the skills needed to to ensure that we remain at the top of our field for talent acquisition
have the opportunity to thrive serve customers in our stores. Barista First 30 nearly doubles the number and development. In FY22, the total partner turnover in North America
at — and beyond — Starbucks. of training hours provided in the previous program and is followed by a (U.S. and Canada) was nearly 65%, significantly lower than industry2
continuous learning journey that coincides with the 90-day check-in turnover rates.
and 180-day milestone. Our newly designed shift supervisors training
program includes nearly 30 hours of training that provides the essential
knowledge needed for the role. Taken together, our training ensures that
Starbucks store partners can provide a great experience for customers
while gaining the skills and information they need to thrive in their roles.
In FY22, we also invested in coffee education through the Coffee
Master Program. Starbucks partners are certified as Coffee Masters
after completing coursework and an exploration of Starbucks coffees in
Starbucks Coffee Academy. The Coffee Master program acknowledges
partners’ knowledge and skill with the special designation of the black
apron after they finish the robust curriculum. Partners who complete
the Coffee Master program are eligible to attend Origin Experience
trips — trips to coffee-growing regions to experience coffee farms
and meet farmers, suppliers and community members. More than
4,500 partners have completed Coffee Masters and earned the black
apron since the re-launch in June 2022. In FY23, nearly 1,500 partners
completed Coffee Masters, with an additional 1,000 partners enrolled
in the program.
2 Defined by the “Bureau Labor Statistics — Food and Accommodations Services”
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
INVESTING IN
partner experience
OUR PARTNERS Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 12
INCLUSION, DIVERSITY AND EQUITY
We are dedicated to creating a culture of warmth and
belonging, where everyone is welcome and respected.
Our work to advance inclusion, diversity and equity
at Starbucks has already led to important policies,
programs and initiatives. There is still more to be done,
and we are committed to taking further actions toward
tangible and lasting change.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
INVESTING IN
partner experience
OUR PARTNERS Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 13
RACIAL & SOCIAL EQUITY
GOALS & REPRESENTATION
We are on a journey to advance Goals and FY22 results3:
racial and social equity for our
partners, our community and Representation of POC and women in retail roles Representation of POC and women in manufacturing roles
our society. We are building
on the work in our prior Civil Goal: At least 40% People of Color (POC) representation and 55% women Goal: At least 40% POC representation and 30% women in all
Rights Assessments, conducted in all retail roles (regional vice president, regional director, district manufacturing roles (director, manager, individual contributor) by 2025
by Covington & Burling, to meet manager, store manager, shift supervisor, barista) by 2025
ROLE POC WOMEN
racial, ethnic and gender diversity
ROLE POC WOMEN director 29% 14%
representation goals across the
regional vice president 31% 63%
company. Our goal is to achieve manager 30% 29%
racial and ethnic diversity of at regional director 32% 50% individual contributor 43% 33%
least 30% at all corporate levels district manager 33% 61%
and at least 40% at all retail and
store manager 39% 68%
manufacturing roles by 2025.
We also aim to achieve at least shift supervisor 47% 71%
Representation of age in total workforce
50% women working across all barista 53% 73%
corporate levels, 55% women RETAIL CORPORATE MANUFACTURING
working across all retail roles
Under 30: 82% Under 30: 18% Under 30: 17%
and 30% women working in
30-50: 15% 30-50: 61% 30-50: 52%
manufacturing roles.
Representation of POC and women in enterprise roles Above 50: 3% Above 50: 20% Above 50: 32%
Goal: At least 30% POC representation and 50% women for all enterprise
roles (senior vice president+, vice president, director, manager, individual As disclosed in our 2023 Proxy Statement: Our Board of Directors has
contributor) by 2025 38% person of color representation (three out of eight members) and
25% representation of women (two out of eight members).
ROLE POC WOMEN
senior vice president+ 27% 57%
vice president 30% 55%
director 27% 59%
manager 31% 55%
individual contributor 38% 55%
3 Demographic percentages represented in this section have been rounded.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
INVESTING IN
partner experience
OUR PARTNERS Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 14
Inclusion & Diversity Mentorship Program Supporting LGBTQIA2+ Partners
What began as a pilot in 2021 has quickly become a sought-after
Starbucks scored 100% on the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index for the 12th year in a row.
learning and development opportunity for partners. Designed to support
partners who have been historically marginalized, including Veterans,
Starbucks is committed to building a culture where everyone is welcome and continue our deep and long-
women, LGBTQIA2+ partners and those living with disabilities, the
standing commitment to remaining a top employer for LGBTQIA2+ people. In FY22, we joined more than 170
Starbucks Inclusion & Diversity Mentorship Program connects partners
organizations and the Human Rights Campaign in urging the U.S. Senate to pass the Respect for Marriage Act,
to senior leaders, providing 1:1 sessions and ongoing guidance.
which was signed and passed in December 2022, and we joined other businesses in an advocacy statement
to address and oppose policy actions or legislation that discriminate against the LGBTQIA2+ community. Our
efforts were recognized in 2022, and Starbucks was listed once again as a Best Place to Work for LGBTQIA2+
Global Equity in Pay4 Equality by the Human Rights Campaign. The Starbucks Foundation donated more than $700,000 to support
nonprofits serving LGBTQIA2+ communities in FY22. We are working to implement our vision of an inclusive
Starbucks has achieved and maintained 100% pay equity for women and equitable company for all through our work directly with our partners — like our expanding benefits for
and men and people of all races performing similar work in the U.S. our transgender partners to access gender-affirming care, regardless of where they live. At the same time, we
and maintained 100% gender equity in pay in Canada. are working to ensure our partners are supported through inclusive policies around the country.
In 2018, Starbucks achieved pay equity for all partners in the U.S. performing
similar work and has maintained equity every year. In FY22, Starbucks once
% of U.S. workforce: LGBTQIA2+ (self-identification)
again maintained 100% pay equity for women and men and people of all
races performing similar work in the U.S. As of the end of FY22, median pay RETAIL CORPORATE MANUFACTURING
ratio in the U.S. was 100% for women and partners of all races. We also ( 79% response rate) (50% response rate) (43% response rate)
maintained gender equity in pay in Canada and are working to leverage 36% 22% 11%
knowledge and lessons learned in markets where we have achieved pay
equity to develop applicable principles for our global markets and share
with other leading employers. We continue to work with licensed partners
to prioritize pay equity for all partners in all markets.
“In every community we serve, Starbucks is committed to
building a culture where all feel welcome. While each of our
markets is unique, what unites us as partners is our values –
our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion, and our
shared goal of creating places of belonging for our partners
and customers.”
MICHAEL CONWAY, GROUP PRESIDENT,
INTERNATIONAL AND CHANNEL DEVELOPMENT
4T he geographic scope of this data point includes all company-operated stores in
North America (which is inclusive of the U.S. and Canada).
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
INVESTING IN
partner experience
OUR PARTNERS Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 15
Inclusive & Accessible Design
We know that when we design with and for people who have lived experience with disability, it improves
the experience for all partners, customers and communities. That’s why Starbucks is committed to designing,
testing and scaling more inclusive design standards and experiences across our store portfolio, starting in
the U.S. and then expanding standards globally, with the goal of ensuring that physical and digital Starbucks
environments will meet an elevated standard of accessibility by 2030. These standards will provide customers
with more options to enjoy both their in-store and digital Starbucks experiences by creating more ways to
communicate both visually and audibly and by offering more tools to help customers navigate physical store
environments.
To advance these standards, Starbucks is testing technology solutions in select store locations including:
• S peech-to-text technology that provides a live visual display of speech for partners and customers to
reference when placing or picking up an order.
• O rder readiness notifications through a customer order status board that visually provides an update and
confirms when an order is ready.
These efforts build on other accessible design improvements over the last year. Since 2021, Starbucks has
offered free Aira service, which connects people who are blind or have low-vision to trained, professional
visual interpreters who provide instant access to visual information about the customer’s surroundings
through a smartphone app. Starbucks also offers multiple formats of the menu including large-print and Braille
menus in all stores in the U.S. and Canada. Globally, Starbucks operates 16 Signing Stores that provide a space
for the Deaf and hard of hearing community to connect through sign language and celebrate Deaf culture.
Disability Inclusion
Starbucks scored 100% on the Disability Equality Index. Starbucks is recognized as one of the DEI Best
Places to Work for Disability Inclusion.
Over 1 billion people have a disability across the globe, and it is a strength. And at Starbucks, we believe it is
our responsibility to raise the bar when it comes to creating a more inclusive environment for our partners
and customers living with apparent and nonapparent disabilities. Together with our community partners, we
are increasing accessibility resources and supporting the development of evolving employer practices on
Access and Disability Inclusion. As a member of Disability:IN’s Inclusion Works program, a national forum for
peer employers, Starbucks remains committed to Disability:IN’s pledge, Are You In — committing to advance
disability inclusion in the workplace.
% of U.S. workforce: People with disability (self-identification)
RETAIL CORPORATE MANUFACTURING
( 88% response rate) (60% response rate) (60% response rate)
14% 11% 13%
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
INVESTING IN
partner experience
OUR PARTNERS Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 16
Refugee Support Veterans & Military Families5
More than 1,100 refugees hired in the U.S., Canada and EMEA in Hired an additional 4,580 Veterans and military spouses.
FY22, bringing the total of refugees hired to more than 4,000 since
2017. More than $1.3 million donated to support nonprofits serving Our goal is to hire 5,000 military Veterans and military spouses annually, and in FY22 we hired more than
refugee communities from The Starbucks Foundation. 4,500 Veterans and military spouses across U.S. Starbucks roles. These intentional hiring commitments
are intended to welcome new partners from communities that may experience barriers to employment.
We have a longstanding history of creating opportunity and investing
Our support for Veterans and their families includes our partnerships with nonprofit organizations like
in the people who are a part of the communities where we do business.
Blue Star Families, which helped foster connections in over 200 military communities nationwide. In
While we did not meet our 2022 goal of hiring 10,000 refugees
partnership with Operation Gratitude, we donated more than 5,000 comfort items to our nation’s
globally, we remain committed to the refugee community and staying
Veterans and caregivers in military treatment facilities nationwide. And because coffee is at our core,
transparent with partners, customers and stakeholders on our progress.
Starbucks donated more than 6.8 million cups of coffee to our Veteran and military communities in FY22.
Our support goes beyond employment opportunities. In FY22, The
We also support our military partners and their families with Military Family Stores. Please refer to Our
Starbucks Foundation has awarded more than $1.3 million to support
Communities for more information on these specialized stores.
nonprofits providing humanitarian assistance and other programs to
help refugees find safety and rebuild their lives. This includes support
to more than 200 grassroots nonprofits across the U.S. and Canada
that provide resources and services for refugees and where Starbucks
partners are engaged.
5 In FY21, we reported that 7,720 Veterans and military spouses hired in FY21 across the U.S. We have identified an error in our data
collection process that led us to incorrectly report the data for FY21. The correct data point is: 4,704 Veterans and military spouses
were hired in FY21 across the U.S. The data collection error was identified and corrected for our FY22 reporting.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 17
INVESTING IN
partner OUR PARTNERS
Being a Starbucks partner means aspiring to become part of something
engagement
bigger: inspiring positive change in the world and growing in career and
in community. To make that vision a reality, we invest in our partners’
well-being, professional learning and community and civic engagement.
MMXXII
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
INVESTING IN
partner engagement
OUR PARTNERS Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 18
Partner Surveys6
43% of U.S. store partners, 54% of Canada store partners, and 86% of North
America non-store partners completed the Partner Experience survey.
Starbucks has a long history of direct engagement with our partners, and we
make it a priority to routinely create the space for open and honest two-
way conversations. We have established a cross-functional Support Partner
Experience team, made up of partners across business units. This team
focuses on key areas of opportunity that partners have shared and will host
design sprints on specific topics shared in collaboration sessions. The partner
surveys leverage a census approach, with all U.S. company-operated partners
invited to participate and paid time for hourly partners, including retail
partners, to complete the survey. The feedback from these surveys is used to
inform the partner experience.
6 T he geographic scope of this data point includes all company-operated stores in North America.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
INVESTING IN
partner engagement
OUR PARTNERS Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 19
STARBUCKS GLOBAL ACADEMY
Starbucks Global Academy is a To Be Welcoming7 Community Champions Course7
free, open-access platform for
Starbucks partners, customers, More than 21,000 people enrolled in the course with more than Developed and launched new, open-source Community Champion
suppliers and community 12,000 completions. Fundamentals course on Starbucks Global Academy.
members worldwide to access
top-quality educational content Our dedication to equal opportunity involves creating a workplace Starbucks empowers our partners, customers and communities to
centered around Starbucks where diversity is celebrated and establishing a workplace culture take action and make a difference at home and around the world as
areas of passion and expertise. that promotes inclusiveness. In 2018, we partnered with Arizona State Community Champions. Community Champions serve their communities
Developed in collaboration University to develop the To Be Welcoming anti-bias program for our in big and small ways to make a positive impact for people and the
with Arizona State University, partners. In 2020, we made this 15-course curriculum available to the planet. In FY22, we created a new Community Champion Fundamentals
the Starbucks Global Academy public for free. We exceeded our goal of enrolling 100,000 cumulative course on Starbucks Global Academy to help partners and community
offers learners the opportunity learners in FY22, reaching nearly 109,000 enrollments and more members understand how to identify community needs and then align
to expand their understanding than 45,000 total course completions. Because the course is open those needs with their own passions and motivators for doing good.
of key Starbucks initiatives to partners, customers and community members, our program helps
and select coursework from a individuals across our community engage with challenging subjects
collection of more than 100 through research-based content. We are excited to report that 81%
Starbucks Coffee Academy
carefully selected courses. of people who have completed the course since 2018 are Starbucks
partners and 19% are non-partner learners. Nearly 150,000 enrollments and more than 96,000 course
completions.
Greener Apron7 The Starbucks Coffee Academy offers an in-depth review of the coffee
industry and Starbucks pioneering role in responsible sourcing, roasting,
More than 15,500 partners enrolled in the course with nearly 9,000 blending, brewing and crafting. The modular learning format is open to
completions. everyone, and enables learners to select their coffee education journey.
Since its launch, more than 285,000 people have enrolled in Starbucks
The Greener Apron course is open to partners and the public and equips Coffee Academy with more than 160,000 course completions.
learners with the information they need to learn about sustainability
and the skills and tools to become changemakers at work, at home and
in their communities. In FY22, the course was updated in partnership
Third Place Development Series
with the World Wildlife Fund and Intersectional Environmentalists to be
shorter and more relevant and accessible to partners. Since its launch, Four sessions designed and implemented, with nearly 3,000 people
nearly 52,000 people have enrolled in the course, with nearly 25,000 enrolled and more than 300 course completions.
completions.
Starbucks seeks to create a third place — a warm and inviting place
where people can convene and connect. Through videos and discussion
prompts, the Third Place Development Series intends to spark insights
and confront biases as we strive to create more inclusive practices
in our communities. Starbucks collaborates with external experts to
discuss important issues and create a welcoming space for all to form
meaningful connections and challenge our own biases through diverse
lived experiences. Since its launch, nearly 3,000 people have enrolled in
the course with more than 300 completions.
7 The geographic scope of this data point includes globally company-operated markets and licensed markets.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
INVESTING IN
partner engagement
OUR PARTNERS Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 20
Partner Networks8
U.S. PARTNER NETWORKS
Partners are engaged in 12 Partner Networks and 114 regional
chapters across the U.S. 26 Partner Networks are available globally.
Our Partner Networks launched in 1996 with the Pride Alliance partner
affinity group. These partner-led groups bring together partners
and have been celebrated across the global business community as
a leading example of employee-led thought leadership. Through
shared power, shared accountability and shared success, Partner EST. 2007 EST. 2007 EST. 2006
Networks have helped us define the systems and programs that have Welcome, engage and empower Share the heritage of the African diaspora Foster a community of awareness,
Veterans, military spouses and to develop partners, advise our business inclusion and accessibility for partners
proven critical to advancing a culture of equity and belonging.
advocates in cultivating a strong and enrich Starbucks contribution to our with apparent and non-apparent
community that embraces Veterans customers and communities. disabilities.
in the workplace and enriches the
Starbucks Experience.
EST. 2006 EST. 2013 EST. 2020
Celebrate the Latinx culture, develop Develop a global community contributing Preserve and celebrate Indigenous
partners and positively impact our to the growth of the India market, cultural values and interweave
customers and communities. celebrate Indian culture and support the communities by teaching and
growth of partners from the region. understanding our heritage.
EST. 2015 EST. 2007 EST. 2021
Support and empower the next Foster meaningful connections and Educate, engage and empower partners
generation of Starbucks leadership. elevate the impact of Pan-Asian to drive sustainable change.
partners and allies within Starbucks
and the community.
EST. 1996 EST. 2018 EST. 2008
Strive to cultivate an equitable, dynamic Welcome, empower and advocate Ignite the power of women to make
and supportive environment for LGBTQ for refugee partners and allies while an impact through partners, allies
8 T he geographic scope of this data point includes globally company-operated markets partners, allies and customers. strengthening and enriching their and community.
and licensed markets. global Starbucks Experience.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
INVESTING IN
partner engagement
OUR PARTNERS Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 21
Civic Engagement Resources
In FY22, more than 600 people, including customers and partners,
accessed voter registration and election information (via Fuel Our
Democracy) while more than 17,000 partners used civic education
resources via Starbucks Partners Vote.
To fulfill our commitment to civic engagement, Starbucks offers various
tools and resources to our partners, enabling them to exercise their
right to vote in every election. We provide voter education resources to
help partners create a voting plan, and facilitate conversations between
managers and partners to ensure that partners can participate in elections.
Giving Match9
Nearly $1.5 million donated to nonprofit organizations.
Through the Starbucks Giving Match program, Starbucks recognizes
and supports partners’ individual contributions of eligible financial
donations and volunteer time to qualified nonprofit organizations. All
active Starbucks full- and part-time partners can request up to $1,000
in matching funds per fiscal year, using any combination of volunteer
hours and financial donations to qualified nonprofit organizations. At the
end of FY21 and into FY22, our policy was enhanced to allow more access
and equity to partners by reducing the minimum volunteering threshold
from five hours to one hour ($5 per hour in Giving Match) and more
recently, by reducing the financial giving minimum threshold from $25
to $5. This change reflects Starbucks desire to support all of our partners
in volunteering and giving whether their contributions are big or small.
Because of increased partner engagement and utilization of the Giving
Match, Starbucks donated nearly $1.5 million to nonprofit organizations
in the U.S. and Canada in FY22 — representing a nearly 50% increase in
Giving Match donations from FY21.
9 T he geographic scope of this data point includes all company-operated stores in North America.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
INVESTING IN
SECTION TITLE subsection title
OUR PARTNERS GGlloobbaall EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall && SSoocciiaall IImmppaacctt RReeppoorrtt 2222
Achieved an average national pay rate for all U.S. hourly partners of more than $17.50/hour,
fiscal 2023 with a range of $15 to $24/hour.
Partner Investment: Origin Experience
From January through March 2023, 800 Starbucks partners (employees) from the U.S. and
Canada were selected to travel to Hacienda Alsacia – the Starbucks research and development
highlights
farm in Costa Rica for Origin Experience.
Starbucks Origin Experience is an optional development incentive for eligible partners – Coffee
Masters who represent a variety of roles within the company, from barista to manufacturing to
operations leaders – to learn, see and experience the hard work, dedication and passion that
goes into producing the coffee we serve every day in our stores.
Partners see first-hand examples of how Starbucks is leading in the industry and hear from
experts in agronomy, processing, buying, farmer support, quality and more throughout a
learning visit during Costa Rica’s coffee harvest season.
Continued Commitment to Our Hometown
To help alleviate the burden on partners of trying to address some of the challenges facing
Seattle, Starbucks continued its commitment to a unique public-private partnership in Seattle –
Partnership for Zero.
Starbucks will offer some of its downtown stores to be a safe, clean and welcoming space
where Partnership for Zero System Advocates – case managers with lived experience being
homeless – can connect with those needing to navigate social services, fill out paperwork and
get on the path to permanent housing.
Expanding Mentorship Across Starbucks
Building on the initial success of Starbucks mentorship program, we announced the expansion
of mentorship opportunities to include over 400 U.S. based retail partners, bringing the total
number of participants to 1,395.
©© 22002233 SSttaarrbbuucckkss CCoorrppoorraattiioonn.. AAllll rriigghhttss rreesseerrvveedd..
SECTION II
Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 23
building a more equitable,
sustainable and resilient
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
OUR COMMUNITIES
AND OUR PLANET
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
OUR COMMUNITIES
AND OUR PLANET Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 24
We believe it is our responsibility to build a more
sustainable, equitable and resilient future for coffee,
our communities and our planet. We are working
to create the future we dream of through the lens of
humanity, with a deep commitment to global
human rights, responsible and ethical sourcing,
community leadership from our partners and a
focus on giving more than we take from the planet.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 25
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
our OUR COMMUNITIES
AND OUR PLANET
communities Every day, across the globe, Starbucks works to enhance the well-
being of all who connect with the brand, through actions and
programs rooted in opportunity and inclusion. Our work is informed by
our partners, who live and work in the communities we aim to support.
From service projects to spreading messages of hope, together we are
working to nurture the limitless possibilities of human connection.
MMXXII
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
OUR COMMUNITIES our communities
AND OUR PLANET Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 26
OUR STORES
Community Stores10 Military Family Stores Signing Stores
In the U.S., seven Community Stores opened in FY22, bringing our total Opened 33 Military Family Stores, bringing our total Military Family Five new Signing Stores opened
U.S. Community Stores to 28. In Asia, eight Community Stores opened Stores to 111 stores. globally, bringing our total to
in FY22, bringing our total international Community Stores to 19 stores. 16 Signing Stores.
Starbucks Military Family Stores serve as a central gathering place
Starbucks Community Stores are spaces that aim to help uplift for active military personnel, Veterans, their families and surrounding Starbucks Signing Stores are
communities in locally relevant ways. The stores are inclusive of several communities. These stores, located near major military bases, provide a staffed by store partners who are
store models from serving under-resourced and historically under- sense of connection and support for military families who are often far proficient in sign language. These
resourced communities, to empowering farmers, youth and women and from their loved ones. Additionally, the stores collaborate with Veterans stores provide a space for the Deaf
creating impact in partnership with local nonprofit organizations. Service Organizations to link local Veterans and their families with and hard of hearing community
important resources and services. At the end of FY22, 111 total Military to connect and celebrate Deaf
These store concepts — led by partners who directly connect to the
Family stores were open and serving our Veterans and their families. culture through sign language.
initiative or cause of that store — provide intentional and dedicated
While we did not meet our goal to open 132 stores by 2022, we will Starbucks opened 5 Signing Stores
programming and experiences that support economic opportunity in
continue to update on our progress annually and anticipate reassessing in FY22, and currently operates 16
communities, create pathways to opportunity for Starbucks partners and
this goal in the coming fiscal year. Signing Stores worldwide.
amplify the positive impact of Starbucks partners and the Third Place. In
FY22, 15 new Community Stores opened across the nation and around
the world. There are 28 Community Stores in the U.S. and 19 outside of
the U.S. These stores have provided approximately 175 job opportunities
in underserved communities in FY22, bringing overall employment in
Community Stores to nearly 700 job opportunities to date. Community
Stores also serve as a community gathering space. In FY22, our Community
Stores provided four new community rooms, adding to our total of 28
community spaces across all Community Stores. Our goal is to open 100
Community Stores by the end of 2025 in the United States.
10 T he geographic scope of this data point includes globally company-operated markets and licensed markets.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
OUR COMMUNITIES our communities
AND OUR PLANET Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 27
The Starbucks Foundation11 Origin Grants11 Youth Equity Grants
Provided $17.5 million in grants to nonprofit organizations. Achieved our goal of empowering 250,000 women and girls in coffee, 251,715 youth impacted and
tea and cocoa-growing communities, three years ahead of schedule. $1.2 million provided in grants.
Established in 1997, The Starbucks Foundation is a distinct Section Announced new goal to positively impact 1 million women and girls in
501(c)(3) charitable organization under U.S. law and receives funding coffee, tea and cocoa-growing communities by 2030. In FY22, The Starbucks Foundation
primarily from Starbucks Corporation. achieved its commitment to
Women play a vital role in their families, on farms and in communities, invest $5 million in organizations
With the mission to strengthen humanity by transforming lives
and they are disproportionately affected by challenges like the climate serving young people of color in
across the world, The Starbucks Foundation provided $17.5 million to
crisis. To support this effort, The Starbucks Foundation Origin Grants the U.S. Over the last two years,
over 3,000 nonprofit organizations to enable community resiliency
promote women’s leadership, advance economic opportunities The Starbucks Foundation’s Youth
and prosperity in FY22. The Starbucks Foundation makes strategic
and provide access to WASH in coffee-, tea- and cocoa-growing Equity Grants have supported
investments from the first 10 feet in coffee-growing communities to the
communities for women and girls. organizations delivering diversity,
last 10 feet in neighborhoods where coffee is served, with hyperlocal
equity and inclusion initiatives,
grants in partnership with partners and licensees, to youth-focused The Starbucks Foundation exceeded its original goal of empowering
youth mentorship and leadership
initiatives and in disaster response and resiliency efforts. In addition to 250,000 women and girls by 2025 and now aims to empower 1 million
development programs, and life
the grants made in these key areas, The Starbucks Foundation invested women and girls by 2030. Since announcing its original aspiration in
skills for youth through national-
in programs creating a positive impact for people and communities, 2018, the Foundation has positively impacted nearly 340,000 women
and local-level programs. In
such as water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) access, refugee support and girls in origin communities. In FY22, the Foundation awarded nine
partnership with organizations like
and to organizations delivering services in our hometown of Seattle. grants totaling nearly $3 million in seven countries, including its first-ever
Big Brothers Big Sisters of America,
origin grants focused on women farmers in Brazil and Mexico.
City Year, Covenant House and
YWCA USA, the Foundation’s
grants have supported more than
Neighborhood Grants12
375,000 youth since 2020.
Awarded $4.5 million in Neighborhood Grants bringing our total
invested in hyperlocal nonprofits to more than $10 million, thanks to
more than 45,000 nominations from partners since program launch.
The Starbucks Foundation provides Neighborhood Grants to nonprofit
organizations nominated by Starbucks partners from the U.S. & Canada to
help build sustained impact and inspire increased partner volunteerism
in our communities. In FY22, the Foundation received nominations from
nearly 30,000 partners and awarded $4.5 million through nearly 3,000
Neighborhood Grants to hyperlocal organizations making a difference in
the communities where our partners live and work. Since the launch of
the Neighborhood Grants program, the Foundation has awarded more
than $10 million to nonprofit organizations.
11 The geographic scope of this data point includes globally company-operated markets and licensed markets.
12 The geographic scope of this data point includes all company-operated stores in North America.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
OUR COMMUNITIES our communities
AND OUR PLANET Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 28
Global Community Impact Grants13
Awarded over $3.2 million to nearly 90 nonprofits across 42 markets.
In March 2022, The Starbucks Foundation announced a goal to invest $30 million by 2030 in a new Global
Community Impact Grants portfolio designed to drive locally relevant impact in the communities where Starbucks
operates around the world. To realize and scale the initiative, The Starbucks Foundation invites Starbucks licensees
that operate Starbucks stores across its three international regions — Asia Pacific; EMEA; and Latin America & the
Caribbean — to nominate local nonprofit organizations for grants and coinvest alongside the Foundation to drive
additional impact around the world at the local and regional level.
In FY22, The Starbucks Foundation grants and corresponding donations from licensees totaled over $3.2 million
to nearly 90 nonprofits across 42 markets. In Indonesia, The Starbucks Foundation and PT. Sari Coffee Indonesia,
which operates Starbucks stores in Indonesia, have worked with Prestasi Junior Indonesia since 2019 in support
of teaching youth about entrepreneurship through experiential learning. In 2021, more than 450 volunteers were
mobilized to conduct experiences with 1,250 students in six cities. Now one of the first recipients of a Global
Community Impact Grant in 2022, Prestasi Junior Indonesia will continue to deepen impact through a creative
youth entrepreneurship program that will support youth in gaining business skills and building their own micro-
enterprises over the coming school year.
Disaster Response13
Awarded $3.75 million in grants and activated more than $400,000 in customer donations.
As part of our mission to uplift communities affected by disaster, The Starbucks Foundation provides grants to
help communities prepare for and respond to disasters, as well as build long-term community resilience. This
includes national and global support to the American Red Cross and World Central Kitchen, along with local
investments based on community needs identified in partnership with Starbucks partners and community-based
nonprofits. In FY22, the Foundation responded to support impacted communities, ranging from the Jackson,
Mississippi water crisis to the Uvalde, Texas shooting, and engaged customers to join us in supporting hurricane
relief efforts in North America and the Caribbean and humanitarian relief efforts for Ukraine.
13 T he geographic scope of this data point includes globally company-operated markets and licensed markets.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
OUR COMMUNITIES our communities
AND OUR PLANET Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 29
Starbucks® FoodShare and Hunger Relief14
• N early 13 million pounds of food in the U.S. has been diverted from waste streams and donated to
hunger-relief organizations — which is the equivalent of nearly 11 million meals.15
• M ore than 1 million pounds of food in Canada has been diverted from waste streams and donated
to hunger-relief organizations — which is the equivalent of more than 1 million meals.
• M ore than $10 million re-invested into hunger relief efforts in communities.
Since 2016, Starbucks has been committed to supporting hunger relief through its innovative Starbucks
FoodShare food donation program in partnership with Feeding America®, Second Harvest Canada and
other hunger-relief organizations. Since then, Starbucks has invested more than $60 million into hunger
relief efforts in the U.S., and in FY21 made a commitment to reinvest $100 million by 2030 in hunger relief
initiatives.
Since Starbucks FoodShare was launched in the U.S. in 2016, 60 million pounds of food have been diverted
from waste streams and donated to hunger-relief organizations — which is the equivalent of 50 million
meals. Starbucks FoodShare in Canada launched in 2019, and cumulatively through the end of FY22,
nearly 2 million pounds of food have been diverted from waste streams and donated to hunger-relief
organizations—which is the equivalent of nearly 2 million meals. Programs to support hunger relief are also
operating in international markets including the Dominican Republic, India, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand,
Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and the United Kingdom.
In FY22, we furthered our commitments to help increase equitable access to nutritious food.
• S ince 2021, $3.3 million, including $1.6 million in FY22, has been invested with 16 Feeding America
partner food banks to implement initiatives that address equity in food access by supporting
households with individuals who are Black, indigenous, and people of color residing in communities
experiencing high food insecurity rates. These 16 food banks are in metropolitan areas with Starbucks
Community Stores.
• I n FY22, Starbucks made a $1 million investment with No Kid Hungry to support sustainable and
scalable solutions for schools and community organizations feeding children. The investment is aimed
at increasing equitable access to nutritious food in high need and historically underserved communities.
14T he geographic scope of this data point includes globally company-operated markets and licensed markets.
15 According to the USDA, 1.2 pounds is equivalent to one meal.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
OUR COMMUNITIES our communities
AND OUR PLANET Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 30
Community Resilience Fund Community Champions
$21 million invested through the Community Resilience Fund. Globally, more than 43,000 partners took action as Community
Champions, volunteering more than 143,000 hours in support of more
In 2021, Starbucks established the Community Resilience Fund with the goal to invest $100 million than 5,000 nonprofit organizations.
in the expansion of small businesses and the development of community projects in communities of
color. In December 2021 and January 2022, Starbucks invested $21 million in the first seven Community As Community Champions, Starbucks partners make a difference in the
Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) to receive funding from the Community Resilience Fund. The communities where they live and work. Community Champions cultivate
fund’s initial investments are centered around 12 metropolitan regions and their surrounding areas in connections in and out of stores and create a positive impact for people
the United States, including Atlanta, Detroit, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, Minneapolis, New Orleans, and the planet through volunteerism, donations, acts of kindness and by
New York City, Philadelphia, the San Francisco Bay Area, Seattle and Washington, D.C. learning more about ways to make a positive impact in their community.
Starbucks provides partners with tools to engage as Community
Champions, build local relationships with nonprofits and empowers
partners to grow their impact through resources like a newly launched
Outreach Worker Program
Community Champion course on Starbucks Global Academy, which is
Outreach workers across eight cities made more than 12,000 customer engagements and more than also open to the public. Every U.S. and Canadian partner can access the
1,800 referrals to a stabilizing program and resources. Community Champion Portal, an online platform that serves as a one-
stop-shop for volunteering, giving, requesting a Giving Match, learning
The Outreach Worker program was introduced as a pilot in FY20 to connect partners with local street about community engagement opportunities and tracking contributions.
outreach and social workers who are skilled in directing individuals to stabilizing programs and resources. Partners are taking action as Community Champions in 28 Starbucks
The program partners with local nonprofit organizations that specialize in connecting individuals facing markets outside of the U.S., up from five global markets reported in FY21.
homelessness, mental health issues and substance use disorders to relevant resources specific to In the U.S., nearly 17,000 partners took action as Community Champions,
their city. During FY22, the Outreach Worker program scaled to Denver and San Diego, in addition to volunteering more than 71,000 hours in support of nearly 4,000
continuing operations in Chicago, Los Angeles, New York City, Philadelphia, Seattle and Washington, D.C. nonprofits. Outside of the U.S., more than 26,000 partners took action as
Community Champions, volunteering more than 72,000 hours in support
In FY22, Starbucks announced nearly $500,000 in investments to advance solutions that support
of more than 1,000 nonprofits.
those experiencing chronic homelessness in our hometown - the greater Seattle region. These efforts
include partnering with the We Are In Coalition to support Partnership for Zero, led by the King County
Regional Homelessness Authority (KCRHA), expanding support for nonprofits providing dignified access
to basic needs including bathrooms, showers and laundry services for individuals experiencing chronic
homelessness, expanding its commitments to the chronically homeless population by supporting
Plymouth Housing and extending its investment in Northwest Harvest as part of our Starbucks
FoodShare program.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 31
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
our planet OUR COMMUNITIES
AND OUR PLANET
Starbucks strives to give more than we take from the planet and to
cut our climate, water and waste footprints by half by 2030. We do so
with a stronger than ever commitment to a more sustainable, resilient
future for our planet and for our communities. We are proud to partner
with global organizations like Conservation International, the World
Wildlife Fund and the United Nations. Feedback from these groups
is essential to our journey towards a sustainable future. To support
ongoing collaboration across sectors, Starbucks is a founding member
of Transform to Net Zero (TONZ), established in FY20. The initiative
works to accelerate the transition to a net zero global economy no
later than 2050 by developing and delivering research, guidance and
roadmaps to guide businesses in achieving net zero emissions.
MMXXII
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
OUR COMMUNITIES our planet
AND OUR PLANET Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 32
2030 GOALS
Climate Water Waste
50% absolute reduction in 50% of water withdrawals will be 50% reduction in waste sent to
scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse conserved or replenished across landfill from stores (including
(GHG) emissions representing Starbucks direct operations, stores, packaging that leaves stores)
all of Starbucks direct packaging and agricultural supply and direct operations, driven
operations and value chain. chain, prioritizing action in high- by a broader shift toward a
risk water basins while supporting circular economy.
watershed health, ecosystem
resilience and water equity.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
OUR COMMUNITIES our planet
AND OUR PLANET Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 33
2030 Goals
Driven by the passion of our partners, we have set ambitious goals to give
FY22 Results
back more than we take from the planet and to cut our climate, water
and waste footprints in half by 2030, working from a FY19 baseline. We
Starbucks is committed to cutting our climate, water and waste footprints in half by 2030.
are continuously working towards this bold promise in collaboration
with our stakeholders – partners, suppliers, non-profit organizations, We set ambitious goals because our commitment to building a more sustainable and resilient future for our planet
industry partners, government, farmers and customers. We are proud to and our communities is stronger than ever. As we reflect on progress toward our 2030 goals, we are at a crucial
partner with global organizations — such as Conservation International point on our journey to becoming a resource positive company. We remain dedicated to collaborating with
and the World Wildlife Fund — to accelerate collective action for industry experts to advance scalable solutions across our global business, innovating to drive solutions at scale
environmental stewardship. Through membership in the United Nations’ and working with our partners to engage our customers and communities in our efforts.
Water Resilience Coalition (WRC), we’re helping preserve freshwater Compared to our FY19 baseline, GHG emissions increased 6%*, water withdrawals increased by 15% and
globally and as a founding member of Transform to Net Zero (TONZ) we’re operational waste sent to landfill increased 5%. At this stage in our sustainability efforts, increases in GHG
collaborating across the private sector to drive the transition to a net zero emissions, water, and operational waste are expected as we see our business grow. We have seen positive
global economy no later than 2050. progress in our waste diversion rate from 26% in FY19 to 28% in FY22, driven by increased in-store recycling.
Grounded in Starbucks Mission and Values, our climate goal was validated Broadly, to drive progress towards our 2030 targets, we continue to identify, test, and scale innovative solutions
as science-based by the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) in FY21. across our global operations, while increasing engagement with our value chain partners and developing our
measurement systems. Please find Starbucks comprehensive environmental data and reporting on page 64.
We govern our sustainability commitments through the Starbucks Global
Environmental Council, which is comprised of senior leaders from across
Starbucks whose compensation is linked to the achievement of our
ambitious goals. We also receive input from our Board of Directors and
seek advice from external advisors who are experts and leaders in the
sustainability field.
*Progress against our GHG emissions target has been restated since original publication on April 20th, 2023 due to revised
calculations regarding nitrous oxide consumption data.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
OUR COMMUNITIES our planet
AND OUR PLANET Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 34
STRATEGIES FOR CHANGE
Using our test-and-learn approach, we set five key strategies to meet Renewable Energy and Clean Technology16
our 2030 goals that are rooted in science, grounded in Starbucks Mission
and Values and informed by our stakeholders, along with comprehensive In FY22, Starbucks in the U.S. and Canada maintained 100% renewable
research and trials: energy for company-operated retail operations. Starbucks U.K. company-
operated market has achieved the same since FY18. Renewable energy
1 Shift away from single-use to reusable packaging powered 72% of company-operated facilities globally.
2 Invest in regenerative agriculture, reforestation, forest Starbucks U.K. company-operated market has achieved the same since
conservation and water replenishment in our supply chain
FY18. For the first time in FY22, Starbucks achieved 100% renewable energy
for all North America company-operated facilities, including offices and
3 Invest in better ways to manage our waste
manufacturing facilities.
4 Innovate to develop more sustainable stores, operations, We remain committed to our effort to expand renewable energy projects
manufacturing and delivery in Starbucks markets. Starbucks continues to support the growth of green
energy through long-term electricity contracts, direct ownership and by
5 Expand plant-based menu options contracting for renewable energy certificates from new projects. In FY22,
Starbucks completed its investment in 20 new community solar projects
in New York, which are supplying solar energy to more than 24,000
households, small businesses, nonprofits, churches, universities and
Starbucks stores. By 2030, Starbucks aspires to lead the retail industry in
decarbonization solutions, including electric vehicle charging and onsite
solar availability at stores and in adjacent locations. For example, in FY22,
Starbucks launched a pilot-program with Volvo Cars to electrify the driving
route from the Colorado Rockies to the Starbucks Support Center in Seattle,
providing a string of familiar, reliable, clean and safe places to recharge
themselves and their battery-powered vehicles. Volvo-branded electric
vehicle chargers, powered by ChargePoint, will be available at up to 15
Starbucks stores, roughly every 100 miles on the route, with the first EV
chargers online at the Provo, Utah store.
16T he geographic scope of this data point includes globally company-operated markets and licensed markets.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
OUR COMMUNITIES our planet
AND OUR PLANET Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 35
Greener Stores17
More than 3,500 Greener Stores are certified, including four internationally.
The Starbucks Greener Stores Framework, which was announced in 2018 and developed in partnership with the
World Wildlife Fund, aims to drive the transformation of retail towards stores with lower environmental impact. The
framework includes performance-based standards that cover the entire lifecycle of a store and aim to reduce carbon
emissions, water usage and landfill waste. With a goal to build and operate 10,000 Greener Stores globally by 2025,
Starbucks verified 3,508 Greener Stores in FY22.
In FY22, our work also focused on continuous improvement in the program, launch of innovation measurements and
global expansion. Building on the success of our first Greener Store opening outside of North America in Shanghai, in
September 2021, we opened Japan’s first Greener Store in Tokyo in November 2021, which will help inform Starbucks
Greener Stores expansion across Japan, and the first Starbucks Greener Store opened in Chile in June 2022.
As part of our commitment to open-source educational materials, Starbucks launched the Greener Store Practitioner
course on Starbucks Global Academy in FY22 to make the Greener Stores program more accessible to retailers
around the world. The course features educational content on sustainability that is broadly applicable and shares the
fundamental structure of Greener Stores. Starbucks will translate the course into multiple languages through 2024
and is committed to sharing insights through the Starbucks Global Academy platform as we work to continue to grow
and scale the program globally.
Starbucks has opened 52 Greener Stores in Latin America and the Caribbean, five in Europe, the Middle East and
Africa, five in Asia-Pacific, 18 in Japan and eight in China.
The Greener Store of the Year is awarded annually to celebrate stores that work to meet the Greener Store
parameters for essential energy, water and waste reduction efforts, along with key initiatives to support
partners in their work and communities. The Starbucks Greener Store of the Year in FY22 was the Beverly
and Atlantic store in Los Angeles, which features 100% renewable energy coverage, landfill diversion
programming, solar panels water recycling and sustainable materials in its design.
17 The geographic scope of this data point includes globally company-operated markets and licensed markets. This figure has been
updated to reflect stores certified as of the end of FY22. A previous version of this report erroneously included stores certified in
FY23, which will be published in the FY23 Global Environmental and Social Impact Report.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
OUR COMMUNITIES our planet
AND OUR PLANET Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 36
Reducing Single-Use Plastics & Packaging Waste18
Starbucks continues its efforts to shift away from single-use plastics. As a founding member of the NextGen Consortium, Starbucks has been
In FY22, Starbucks expanded its test-and-learn strategy to help make working to address single-use food packaging alongside leading food
reusables more convenient for customers. The company piloted reusable or and beverage companies globally. In FY22, Starbucks and McDonald’s
returnable cup programs through 20 tests across North America, EMEA and announced a joint $10 million investment in the NextGen Consortium to
China Asia-Pacific. These tests focus on multiple reusable cup programs identify, accelerate and scale commercially viable, circular foodservice
or operating models including Starbucks “Borrow-A-Cup” program, 100% packaging solutions. Starbucks committed an additional $5 million with
reusable operating models, financial incentives and promotions, new NextGen Consoritum in FY22 to innovate to a more sustainable hot
customer experience upgrades and an emphasis on personal cups and for- cup. The consortium works together to do research and development
here ware. While COVID-19 challenged Starbucks aspirations to increase for more sustainable single-use cup options while also working with
the use of personal reusable cups in stores, the company remains on track waste infrastructure stakeholders to advance the recovery of foodservice
to meet its goal of ensuring customers have the option to use their own packaging. Starbucks has invested $15 million with NextGen Consortium
personal reusable cup for every Starbucks visit in the U.S. and Canada — since 2018.
including in café, drive-thru and mobile order and pay.
In FY22, Starbucks also launched a new Starbucks Partner Waste and
Recycling is a key component to reducing single-use plastics and remains Recycling App, developed by partners as part of the Greener Stores
a priority for the company. To support that effort, Starbucks works with Innovation Challenge, to help partners navigate complex and unique
recycling and municipal stakeholders across the country to advance store recycling guidelines. The app puts everything partners need to know
recycling access for our packaging. Through the NextGen Consortium to reduce waste and recycle in one place, and features store-specific
with Closed Loop Partners, the Foodservice Packaging Institute and The information and notifications, a sorting guide and the option to create
Recycling Partnership, we are increasing access to recycling and our work store-specific signage to help partners and customers reduce waste.
to find a more sustainable cup solution continues. In FY22, Starbucks As we work with stakeholders and continue to learn, we are working to
launched an improved and more sustainable hot cup that is easier to ensure our waste goals align with our industry-leading standards and
recycle, and beginning in FY22, customers in the U.S. can now recycle their meet the expectations of our partners, customers stakeholders.
hot cups in Columbus, Cleveland, Dayton, Memphis, Houston and Buffalo.
Starbucks is also working to add waste services to stores where possible,
ensuring we have recycling services where they are commercially available.
18T he geographic scope of this data point includes globally company-operated markets
and licensed markets.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
OUR COMMUNITIES our planet
AND OUR PLANET Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 37
Forest Conservation & Restoration Water Stewardship Plant-Based Menu
Our goal is to provide our
560 hectares of forest restored and 1,000 hectares of forest In FY22, we provided nearly $2 million to support new and ongoing
customers with a variety of food
protected in Peru and Colombia. water stewardship projects.
and beverage choices in addition
to sustainable dairy, and we have
Land-use change and deforestation are among the greatest climate As part of Starbucks holistic water strategy, we are investing in water
collaborated with plant-based
risks facing the coffee industry. We are committed to pursuing zero net replenishment and WASH projects in high-risk basins, to help support
innovators so that today nearly
deforestation across our coffee supply chain. Building on initiatives watershed health, ecosystem resilience and water equity. As part of
all stores across our markets offer
launched in FY21 with Conservation International in Huila, Colombia this strategy, our goal is to empower 5 million people with enhanced
plant-based food and beverage
and San Martin, Peru, Starbucks continued its efforts to protect and water access, sanitation and hygiene through community-driven
menu items. Our customers can
restore critical forests that coffee communities depend on in FY22. solutions with a focus on women, girls and marginalized groups. In
customize any beverage on the
Working with more than 16 coffee farming communities, Starbucks FY22, we provided nearly $2 million to support new and ongoing water
menu with a variety of plant-
and Conservation International supported training and education for replenishment and WASH projects in Brazil, Colombia, China, Ethiopia,
based dairy alternatives, including
farmers on more sustainable practices and helped farmers monitor Guatemala, Mexico, Peru and several projects in the United States.
soymilk, coconutmilk, almondmilk,
carbon and water impacts on and around their farms. The goal of these Because collective action is critical to supporting sustainable watershed
and oatmilk. There is currently no
projects is not only to achieve carbon neutrality, but also to enhance health and restoration, we continue to prioritize partnerships and
additional charge for customizing
freshwater ecosystems and biodiversity. Our support of farmers projects through the United Nations Water Resilience Coalition
beverages with plant-based dairy
extends into the community as we work together to build capacity of (UNWRC) where Starbucks serves as a leadership committee member.
alternatives in our Company-
local plant nurseries, advance community and stakeholder engagement, In this capacity, Starbucks is working closely with other peer companies
operated markets in the United
and work to improve the water quality in surrounding water sheds. and key NGO partners including Water.org, WaterAid, The Nature
Kingdom or Japan or licensed
Conservancy, and the World Wildlife Fund to accelerate progress in
Starbucks Farmer Support Centers also play an important role in coffee markets in France, Belgium, the
critical basins around the world.
communities to promote biodiversity and support restoration activities. Netherlands or Luxembourg.
For example, the Colombia Farmer Support Center distributed 38,000 Grants from The Starbucks Foundation support nonprofit organizations In the United States, adding a
native trees to farms in FY22. These trees are critical to restore working to expand access to clean water, hygiene and sanitation around splash of any plant-based dairy
conservation areas, support improved shade management systems, the world. In FY22, The Starbucks Foundation supported programs to alternative to Brewed Coffee, Iced
and to protect water resources. We also engaged customers in help expand household and community water access in coffee-growing Coffee, Cold Brew, and Americano
Colombia by offering a promotion that donated a portion of the sales communities, water towers installed by Starbucks partners in 10 beverages is offered to our
of packaged coffee to purchase tree seedlings for local coffee farmers. countries in Asia and Latin America, mobile shower programs that bring customers free of charge.
Through this promotion, 1,500 native trees were donated to farmers hygiene and sanitation services along with other wraparound services
located in Nariño, Colombia. to individuals experiencing homelessness in U.S. cities.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 38
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
coffee and OUR COMMUNITIES
AND OUR PLANET
our supply From the merchandise on our shelves, to the furniture in our stores and
the aprons worn by our baristas, Starbucks cares about the way in which
these products are made and about the workers who make them. Our
chain
sourcing teams work directly with a diverse set of suppliers who share
our commitment to ethical sourcing and social and environmental
standards. We are committed to conducting business responsibly and
supporting the communities where we operate, from sourcing beans
to delivering coffee to your cup. Helping people thrive helps ensure the
long-term sustainability of the premium products we provide. Whether
it’s arabica coffee, tea, cocoa or manufactured goods, we’re committed
to offering ethically purchased and responsibly produced products of
the highest quality.
MMXXII
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
OUR COMMUNITIES coffee and our supply chain
AND OUR PLANET Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 39
COFFEE
Ethical Sourcing Performance (C.A.F.E. Practices) Farmer Support Centers19
Starbucks operates 10 Farmer Support Centers (FSCs) as part of our
• 9 8.2% of coffee ethically sourced and verified through C.A.F.E.
work to assist farmers in coffee-producing countries and support the
Practices.
implementation of C.A.F.E. Practices across Starbucks coffee supply
• M ore than 31,000 people trained in best practices in agronomy chain globally. These centers offer free training directly to farmers and
and social responsibility as per C.A.F.E. practices program through to technical specialists through a train-the-trainer approach, benefiting
10 Farmer Support Centers globally. over 31,000 people worldwide in FY22. Farmers receive the latest insights
• M ore than 43,000 bags of coffee traced using the Digital from Starbucks agronomists, including techniques that support farmer
Traceability tool with more than 122,000 unique visitors accessing profitability and sustainable growing practices. To help demonstrate
the tool. farming best practices, in FY22, FSCs launched a program called Model
Farms, which serve as learning locations for the community to learn and
Launched in 2004 in collaboration with Conservation International, teach sustainable practices. In partnership with suppliers and farmers,
Coffee and Farmer Equity Practices (C.A.F.E. Practices) is a verification Starbucks FSCs have established more than 70 Model Farms. In FY22,
program that assesses the supply chain based on economic, social and the FSCs also developed an open-source manual on coffee quality to
environmental criteria, aimed at promoting sustainable, profitable and increase access to information on important practices after harvesting
transparent coffee-growing practices while ensuring the welfare of the coffee cherries to maintain quality. Starbucks FSCs are also supporting
coffee farmers, workers, their families and communities. Since 2004, the deployment of our environmental sustainability projects, like providing
program has grown to include the participation of more than 400,000 fertilizer recommendations based on soil analysis reports for optimized use
farmers in over 30 countries. Starbucks recently made several operational of fertilizers and providing training related to new processing equipment to
changes to strengthen the program’s verification approach, including significantly reduce the water used during coffee processing.
increasing the frequency of audits and incorporating unannounced audits.
Our goal is to source and verify 100% of Starbucks coffee through C.A.F.E.
Practices. In FY22, we achieved 98.2% ethically sourced coffee as verified Digital Traceability20
through C.A.F.E. Practices. Despite the easing of challenges brought on by
We know where our coffee comes from — from the farmers who grow
the pandemic to verify and transport coffee, we did see minor pandemic-
our coffee to the baristas who serve it with care — and we want to share
related impacts continue in FY22 though significant improvements were
that journey with our customers. In 2020, Starbucks introduced its Digital
seen from the previous year. In FY21, 95% of coffee was verified through
Traceability tool in North American retail stores, giving coffee enthusiasts
C.A.F.E. Practices.
an opportunity to learn the stories of the people and places who grow
and share the coffee we enjoy. Since the launch of our tool in 2020, nearly
400,000 unique users have visited our site to trace their coffee. Through
digital traceability we aim to empower partners and customers with
Learn more about ethically-sourced coffee and our work information about the people and places behind every cup.
with Conservation International.
19T he geographic scope of this data point includes globally company-operated markets and licensed markets.
20The geographic scope of this data point includes all company-operated stores in North America.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
OUR COMMUNITIES coffee and our supply chain
AND OUR PLANET Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 40
SUSTAINABLE FUTURE FOR COFFEE
Carbon Neutral Green Coffee by 2030 Climate-Tolerant Coffee Trees
• N early 14,000 additional soil samples were processed across More than 9.5 million climate-tolerant coffee trees distributed globally
six priority countries. through Starbucks 100 million tree commitment.
• T o date, contracted more than 1,300 eco-wet mills.
Starbucks committed to a 10-year, 100 million-tree initiative to boost the
To protect the resiliency of the coffee supply chain, the people that quality and output of coffee crops in El Salvador, Guatemala and Mexico by
make it possible and the planet we all share, Starbucks set goals to 2025. Starbucks has distributed nearly 70 million trees that are resistant
achieve carbon neutral green coffee and conserve water usage in green to rust, a disease linked to climate change. We are working to help farmers
coffee processing by 50% by 2030. In FY22, we worked to refine the improve their farms and increase their output and income.
methodology we use to calculate the carbon and water footprint of Since making the commitment in 2016, we have learned a lot along
green coffee. This work is foundational to begin reporting progress in the the way about deploying a program at this scale. One opportunity we
years to come and connects directly with industry efforts, including the identified was the material the containers are made of that are used to
Sustainable Coffee Challenge. grow the seedlings, so in 2019, we began exploring the use of reusable
Precision agriculture in coffee farming has great potential to reduce our and environmentally friendly pots for the coffee trees. Thanks to extensive
on-farm carbon footprint. Starbucks is working to identify innovative research and piloting, in FY22 more than 1 million trees were produced
ways to better understand the specific nutrients and fertilizer needed using paper pots, and 1.6 million trees were produced in reusable tubes.
to grow high-quality coffee while reducing carbon emissions. In FY22, Both the paper pots and reusable tubes protect seedling roots and are
we continued to provide financial support to promote soil analysis as more efficient for transporting trees to farms.
a mechanism for farmers to understand soil nutrition requirements,
replacing generic fertilizer recommendations with a specific
recommendation for producers. Building on our efforts last year, 13,811
additional soil samples were processed across six priority countries.
Wet mills are used in C.A.F.E. Practices supply chains to separate the
fruit of the coffee cherry from the coffee bean. By using eco-wet mills,
Starbucks has an opportunity to conserve water by ensuring farmers
have access to more environmentally-friendly machines, which also
standardizes quality and increases processing efficiency for farmers. In
FY22, Starbucks contracted additional centralized eco-mills, expanding
the scope of the effort to additional countries including Honduras and
Uganda. The preliminary results have demonstrated up to 90% water
savings is possible in coffee processing using the new equipment. In
FY22, we have been carefully studying and working with our suppliers
to evaluate any impact that changes to processing may have on quality.
Results are showing that eliminating traditional fermentation and the
use of water saving equipment is not impacting coffee quality in the
countries where we are deploying new equipment.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
OUR COMMUNITIES coffee and our supply chain
AND OUR PLANET Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 41
In addition to the 100 million tree commitment, Starbucks is focused on growing, transporting and distributing
Childcare Centers for Farming Families
the next generation of coffee trees with an eye on sustainability for the entire sector:
• I n FY21, we set a new target to distribute over 45 million coffee trees to C.A.F.E. Practice-verified farmers in Five new childcare centers opened in Guatemala.
Colombia by 2023. Working alongside the Colombian Federation of Coffee Growers (FNC), we provided more
Childcare centers help provide safe spaces for local and migrant workers’
than 19 million seedlings in FY22. We have also provided financial support to ensure nutritional needs for
children to continue their education during the coffee harvest season
seedlings are met when planted for early growth and tree success.
in Guatemala. For the 2022-2023 harvest season, we opened five new
• S tarbucks focus on sustainability for coffee trees goes beyond our supply chain to the entire coffee industry.
centers, bringing the total number of childcare centers supported by
We are developing and sharing research about coffee tree hybrids that provide resistance to pests and
Starbucks in Guatemala to 14.
disease, increase productivity and have a good cup profile to help farmers adapt to climate change and
support farmer profitability.
• U nder our open-source strategy, we are donating more than 3 million seeds per year from our core collection
Global Farmer Fund21
at Hacienda Alsacia to farmers globally to help the coffee sector adapt to the impacts of climate change while
we increase crop productivity and income for many coffee farming families.
Three new loans issued bringing total to $65.8 million in loans
deployed since FY18 and $80.8M since inception
The Starbucks Global Farmer Fund was established to enhance the
resilience of the supply chain and secure a long-term source of coffee
by addressing the unfulfilled business financing needs of farmers.
Farmers often cannot access traditional banking options for business
loans due to excessive interest rates and an inability to meet minimum
qualifications. The loans offered through our Global Farmer Fund enable
farmers to plant new trees, enhance their infrastructure and bolster
their financial stability in the face of changes in climate and markets.
Our goal is to supply $100 million in farmer loans by the end of 2025.
In FY22, we issued three new loans including a climate note to support
farmers to adapt to the impacts of climate change and another directed
to women in agriculture, both through Root Capital.
21 The geographic scope of this data point includes globally company-operated markets and licensed markets.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
OUR COMMUNITIES coffee and our supply chain
AND OUR PLANET Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 42
Responsible Sourcing for Tea Responsible Sourcing for Cocoa
99.7% of tea sourced by the global tea sourcing team was verified as The company’s global cocoa sourcing team directly purchased 12 million kilograms of Rainforest Alliance
responsibly sourced. certified, segregated cocoa beans from Côte d’Ivoire .
Our tea suppliers and tea gardens are audited against rigorous human Our approach to sourcing cocoa responsibly is built on a foundation of traceability, responsible purchasing
rights and environmental standards. In FY22, the global tea sourcing team practices and a commitment to supporting resilient livelihoods for cocoa producers and their families, including
sourced 99.7% of its tea from Rainforest Alliance Certified tea gardens. In reducing – and collectively working towards eliminating – the risks of child labor and cocoa-driven deforestation.
FY22, all of our tea suppliers were in the process of transitioning to the
We pay a sustainability premium per metric ton of cocoa sourced to implement activities with cocoa producers,
new Rainforest Alliance certification standard focused on greater impact,
cooperatives and communities. For example, in FY22 nearly 11,000 cocoa producers were trained in Good
increased transparency and stronger assurance that farms are working
Agricultural Practices and more than 2,800 cocoa producers were informed, trained and/or consulted on the
towards a more responsible and sustainable future of tea.
new forest code, law enforcement, forest protection and restoration. Four cocoa communities now have an
We are committed to transparency of our tea supply chain, and in FY22 we active forest restoration and protection program to promote forest protection and restoration. By conducting
released a complete list of the tea gardens that supply our tea. In addition deforestation risk assessments we are supporting no further conversion of any forest land for cocoa production.
to buying certified tea, Starbucks invests directly in tea communities Over 70,000 multi-purpose trees were distributed for on-farm planting to promote sustainable livelihoods and
in projects that support gender empowerment, water, sanitation and income diversification for cocoa producers. We supported 30 Village Savings and Loan Association groups to
hygiene (WASH), youth education and environmental sustainability, each promote financial inclusion and innovation to deepen farmer’s access to working capital and investments funds
responding to specific needs in tea communities. In FY22, we supported for production and farm renovation.
eight projects in Argentina, China, Indonesia, Kenya and Rwanda.
Addressing the salient challenges across the cocoa industry requires aligned collective action. In FY22, Starbucks
We also believe that by working with others in the tea industry we can became a signatory member of the Cocoa & Forest Initiative’s (CFI) framework to help end deforestation in Ivory
have greater impact. Starbucks has been a member of the Ethical Tea Coast and a member of the International Cocoa Initiative (ICI) and the Swiss Platform for Sustainable Cocoa
Partnership (ETP) for more than a decade. ETP’s mission is to create a (SWISSCO) to evolve and strengthen our approach to responsibly-sourced cocoa. By engaging in these sector
fairer, better and more sustainable tea industry for workers, farmers and initiatives, we are committed to working with stakeholders to advance effective solutions and strengthen our
the environment. Through the ETP platform, we engage with the global tea contribution to the cocoa sector.
sector, international brands and buyers.
In FY22, The Starbucks Foundation made its first grant to support cocoa communities in Côte d’Ivoire. The
grant to CARE aims to reach 2,000 women in cocoa communities in Côte d’Ivoire with economic opportunities,
increasing their access to resources and markets and integrating gender, nutrition, hygiene and sanitation.
In FY23, we will continue to support all these efforts that support a more equitable, sustainable and resilient
future for cocoa, communities and our planet.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
OUR COMMUNITIES coffee and our supply chain
AND OUR PLANET Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 43
Responsible Sourcing for Manufactured Goods and Services
• M aintained 97% transparency in factories assessed globally.
• I ncreased annual factory assessments to 306 from 213 in FY22.
Our ethical sourcing program includes our standards for manufactured goods and services, including
beverages, food, merchandise, equipment and furniture. We partner with manufacturing factories
in 40 countries globally and hold our suppliers and ourselves accountable for more than 87,000
workers through stringent worker welfare conditions. Commitment to continuous improvement is the
cornerstone of our program, and on-site factory assessments to identify potential or actual violations
to our standard have been a key part of our strategy since 2006. As factories focused on COVID recovery,
we increased our factory assessments from 213 in FY21 to 306 in FY22. We are proud that our third-party
auditors confirm that we maintained 97% transparency in factories we have audited around the world,
as defined by having full access to factory records, documents and operations. Please refer to our data
tables at the end of this report to review the number and type of non-compliant items identified in FY22.
Supplier Diversity and Inclusion22
Nearly $900 million spent with Tier 1 diverse suppliers.23
The Starbucks Supplier Diversity and Inclusion program drives inclusion of qualified businesses with a
focus on suppliers of all sizes and categories. In January 2022, we expanded our commitment. In FY22,
Starbucks spent nearly $900 million with Tier 1 direct diverse suppliers. In addition, our spending with
diverse suppliers supports more than 7,200 jobs in the U.S. and Canada.
Over the last two years we have expanded our program to include Tier 2 supplier24 program participation.
We will continue to work with all suppliers in our program to exponentially affect increased economic
impact and representation of diverse-owned suppliers in our supply chain.
We know that our commitment to diversity and inclusion includes the way we communicate with our
customers. In FY21, we committed to allotting 15% of our paid media budget to minority-owned and
targeted media companies. We are proud to share that we exceeded our goal in FY22, investing 18% of
our paid media budget to reach diverse audiences.
22T he geographic scope of this data point includes all company-operated stores in North America.
23T ier 1 suppliers are companies from whom Starbucks directly purchases a given product or service.
24T ier 2 suppliers supply goods and services to other suppliers.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
OUR COMMUNITIES coffee and our supply chain
AND OUR PLANET Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 44
ANIMAL WELFARE
Cage-Free Eggs Antibiotics Sow Housing Sustainable Dairy
In our North American company- 100% of poultry raised without 22% of pork is group-housed for • P iloted aspects of Starbucks new Sustainable Dairy Program across
operated stores 100% of eggs routine use of medically U.S. and Canada.26 the U.S., China, and U.K.-company-operated markets.
are cage-free, inclusive of important antibiotics. • I nvested $2 million in the U.S. Dairy Net Zero Initiative as part of its
branded products supplied to Group housing significantly reduces $10 million commitment.
our licensee business partners in Starbucks engaged with our a sow’s time in a gestation stall.
North America. In our EMEA and suppliers and set a goal to serve We aim to phase out the excessive As a company that works with and relies on the farming community every
U.K. company-operated markets, only poultry raised without the use of gestation stalls for mother day, it is Starbucks responsibility to help drive solutions that support both
99.9% of eggs are cage-free.25 routine use of medically important pigs (sows) in our supply chain by people and our planet and that help ensure a sustainable future of dairy.
antibiotics in all company- 2030. This includes stalls where In FY22, the United States, China and U.K. company-operated markets
In Asia markets where Starbucks operated U.S. stores by 2020. the pigs are unable to move freely. piloted key aspects of a new Sustainable Dairy Program to help refine and
operates, such as China and We met that goal in 2018 and This commitment extends to scale an approach to sustainable dairy and environmental stewardship
Japan, cage-free egg production is proudly continue to serve poultry all Starbucks branded products, for the betterment of people, planet and animals. These markets focused
limited and supply is not yet widely raised without the routine use of including those supplied to our primarily on baselining GHG emissions on several dairy farms within
available. We remain committed medically important antibiotics. licensee business partners in the their supply chains and piloted key aspects of a new on-farm holistic
to increasing cage-free egg supply U.S. and Canada. standard. Insights from these pilots will be applied in FY23 and FY24 as
in all company-operated stores To reach our goal of phasing out the the program rolls out to several global markets. As Starbucks continues
globally, in partnership with Broiler Chickens excessive use of gestation stalls, we to offer more plant-based options on our global menus, dairy remains
industry stakeholders. We are actively reviewing our will specify 100% “group housed” an important option for many customers. However, dairy is a significant
broiler chicken commitment to pork as a requirement of our pork contributor to our carbon and water footprints. To meet our 2030 planet
identify the best path forward for suppliers in the U.S. and Canada goals, we are working to source dairy in a responsible and sustainable way.
implementation within our supply and take steps to ensure a “group Starbucks is dedicated to providing farmers access to environmentally and
chain. Over the next year, we will housed” pork supply by 2024. economically sound practices and technologies, covering everything from
feed production to cow care and energy efficiency. Starbucks has invested
be setting baseline targets for
$4 million in the U.S. Dairy Net Zero Initiative since joining in FY21.27
implementation, which will be
included in the FY23 GESI report.
25 Cage-free egg data is as of November 2022.
26Sow housing baseline data is as of November 2022.
27 In FY21, we reported that Starbucks invested $10 million in U.S. Dairy Net Zero Initiative. Starbucks has committed to investing
$10 million to the U.S. Dairy Net Zero Initiative over five years and has cumulatively invested $4 million as of FY22. The data
collection error was identified and corrected for our FY22 reporting.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
FUTURE FOR COFFEE,
SOEUCRT ICOONM TMITULNEITIES subsection title
AND OUR PLANET GGlloobbaall EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall && SSoocciiaall IImmppaacctt RReeppoorrtt 4455
Reducing Single-Use Plastics & Packaging Waste
fiscal 2023 We are committed to achieving a 50% reduction in waste sent to landfill from stores (including packaging
that leaves stores) and direct operations, driven by a broader shift toward a circular economy by 2030. We
have deployed several initiatives as part of our test-and-learn model to reduce our waste footprint. For
example, in FY23, we launched the Borrow A Cup program in 60 stores in Taiwan to encourage customers
to shift away from single use cups. By the end of 2023 in the U.S., customers will be able to use their own
highlights
personal reusable cup for every Starbucks visit.
We also committed to ensuring that our hot cups contain 20% recycled content in FY23. We are proud to
have achieved that goal, and have achieved 30% recycled content in our new, more sustainable holiday
cups. Building on the success of the holiday cups, Starbucks North America has begun a transition to a more
sustainable hot cup that is light-weight and uses less plastic in the liner and less fiber in the cup.
Water Investment Fund with WaterEquity
In support of our expanded water commitment of 50% of water withdrawal conserved or replenished
across our direct operations, stores, packaging and agricultural supply chain by 2030, Starbucks announced
an initial anchor investment of up to $25 million into WaterEquity’s Global Access Fund IV.
This investment will support improvements in water access and quality for low-income populations in
countries across South and Southeast Asia, Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America through microfinance
loans for the purchase of WASH products and services.
$10M Waste Investment in Closed Loop Circular Services Waste Hauling
In another key step to reduce our environmental impact and bolster a more robust recycling industry,
Starbucks announced a $10 million investment in Circular Services to reduce landfill waste and drive
innovate efforts to shift towards a circular economy in the United States.
Circular Services is the largest privately held recycling company in the United States, helping major cities
meet their waste goals when other waste companies have not been moving fast enough. For Starbucks,
this investment will not only bring recycling access to Starbucks stores, but also create a partnership with
leading waste industry stakeholders to collaborate on recycling solutions for packaging types with limited
access to recycling programs such as Starbucks hot cup.
More Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Online
The first electric vehicle charging stations in partnership with Volvo and powered by ChargePoint were
installed at Starbucks stores in Provo, Twin Falls and Unitah, Utah, Hermiston and La Grande, Oregon,
and at the Starbucks Support Center in Seattle, Washington. This pilot plan, announced in March, is part
of Starbucks expansion of renewable energy and decarbonization projects in the U.S. Up to 60 DC fast
chargers will be built on the picturesque 1,350-mile route from Seattle to Denver, along I-90, I-84 and I-70.
©© 22002233 SSttaarrbbuucckkss CCoorrppoorraattiioonn.. AAllll rriigghhttss rreesseerrvveedd..
Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 46
STARBUCKS
accolades
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
STARBUCKS
ACCOLADES Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 47
We are proud of the recognition we
have received for our work to help our
partners, communities and planet thrive.
FY22
100% on the Disability Equality Index by Disability:IN
100% on the Human Rights Campaign Equality Index
World’s Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere
Fortune’s World’s Most Admired Companies
Grade A in Arjuna Capital’s Racial and Gender Pay Scorecard
100 Most JUST Companies by JUST Capital, ranked 1st in the
Restaurant and Leisure industry
Investor Relations Magazine’s Award for Best ESG
Engagement Program
Barron’s 100 Most Sustainable Companies
“Gold” rating by Newsweek as America’s Most Trusted
Brands, #1 in coffee shop category
FY23 TO DATE
Diversity First’s 2023 Top 50 Companies for Diversity
Newsweek’s 2023 America’s Greatest Workplaces for Diversity
Fortune’s 2023 World’s Most Admired Companies
World’s Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere
100% on the Human Rights Campaign Equality Index
100 Most JUST Companies by JUST Capital, #1 in the
Restaurant & Leisure industry
Diversity First’s 2023 Top 50 Companies for Diversity
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
SECTION III
Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 48
LEADERSHIP
and
GOVERNANCE
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
LEADERSHIP AND
GOVERNANCE Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 49
Board Oversight of ESG Issues Executive Compensation Tied to ESG Performance
Our ESG goals remain tightly tied to our company’s overall strategic In FY22, we continued implementation of our executive compensation
direction. Every year, our board considers our impact agenda in programs, which were updated in 2021 to prioritize sustainability and
connection with our strategic plan. The Nominating and Corporate creating inclusive and diverse teams. To align with our vision of giving back
Governance Committee is specifically responsible for overseeing the more than we take from the planet, and to ensure the sustainability of
effectiveness of our environmental and social responsibility policies, goals coffee and other materials that are vital to our business operations, the
and programs, including a review of our annual Global Environmental annual bonus program for FY22 included a 10% of the overall bonus payout
and Social Impact Report, and making recommendations as necessary. calculation for Starbucks senior vice president and above population is
Other board committees are also involved in assessing and managing our linked to planet-positive results and another 10% of the overall bonus
environmental and social priorities through their oversight responsibilities, payout calculation was tied to fostering an inclusive environment where all
such as risk management and talent management. Additionally, we employees feel valued and included, as we believe the strength, diversity,
regularly engage with sustainability experts and influencers as informal and inclusiveness of our workforce are integral to our global brand’s success.
advisors to further our environmental and social goals.
BOARD
Our board is responsible for ensuring ESG risks and opportunities are
integrated into Starbucks long-term strategy.
NOMINATING/GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE
Oversees, reviews and assesses the effectiveness of Starbucks ESG
strategies, policies, practices, goals and programs; annually reviews
Starbucks corporate political contributions and expenditures to ensure
alignment with Starbucks policies and values.
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE
Oversees the development, Oversees certain ESG risks, as part
implementation and effectiveness of overall risk management, and
of Starbucks practices, policies also reviews ESG disclosures for
and strategies relating to human future regulatory reporting.
capital management as they relate
to Starbucks workforce generally.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
LEADERSHIP AND
GOVERNANCE Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 50
Ethics & Compliance Speaking Up
Partners are empowered to ask for guidance and voice concerns when
Starbucks was recognized by Ethisphere as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies for the 15th year.
they experience or see conduct that is inconsistent with our Standards
of Business Conduct, company policies or Mission and Values. While
Starbucks Ethics & Compliance program supports our Mission and Values and helps protect our culture by
Starbucks receives concerns through various channels, including line
fostering an environment that is committed to ethical leadership and conducting business with integrity. The
managers, direct contact with Ethics & Compliance partners, and our
Ethics & Compliance program makes regular reports to the Board of Director’s Audit and Compliance Committee,
Partner Resources Support Center, the vast majority of concerns are
including formal sessions several times each year.
received via our Helpline and Webline. An independent third party
At Starbucks, our goal is to help our partners do the right thing the right way. Our strategy is to innovate, elevate manages our Ethics & Compliance Helpline and Webline, both of which
and educate as we increase awareness of Ethics & Compliance as a trusted resource for partners. The approach allow partners and others to ask questions and voice concerns 24 hours
to training and communications starts with onboarding new partners based on their role and level, followed by a day, seven days a week, with interpreters available. Reports may be
quarterly training for all partners on various Ethics & Compliance topics and risk areas, including but not limited to made anonymously and are treated in a confidential manner.
Anti-Harassment, Anti-Discrimination, Insider Trading and Conflicts of Interest. We employ leadership messages,
We are committed to providing safe, confidential, and accessible
our online community and other cross functional channels to regularly reinforce these topics. Throughout the
channels to all individuals connected to Starbucks, while maintaining a
year, we analyze results and behaviors and conduct benchmarking to continue to create innovative training and
strict Anti-Retaliation Policy in compliance with our Global Human Rights
communications that inform and inspire our partners globally.
Statement. Starbucks will not tolerate retaliation against anyone who
We provide all Starbucks partners with our Standards of Business Conduct, a framework to help them make ethical raises concerns or questions about a potential violation of the Standards
decisions at work. The Standards of Business Conduct are supported by other robust global company policies of Business Conduct or any Starbucks policy that they reasonably
and training for our partners. Our internal policies cover ethics and human rights issues such as Anti-Harassment, believe to have occurred. In addition, anyone else who participates in
Anti-Discrimination, Conflicts of Interest, Gifts & Entertainment, Anti-Bribery and Equal Employment Opportunity. the investigation of such concerns (for example, as a witness) is also
In 2022, we launched 23,774 online courses to our corporate partners in 13 countries, which included nine protected from retaliation.
different risk areas. All our corporate partners receive training annually on our Standards of Business Conduct and
Harassment Prevention to help them recommit to our company values and policies. The training is branched to
include individual contributor and manager-specific content. This year’s Standards of Business Conduct course Commitment to a Respectful Workplace
featured artificial intelligence that leveraged a learner’s previous score in the same course and then focused
At Starbucks, our Mission and Values are at the heart of everything that
training content on their individual areas of opportunity. Those who demonstrated proficiency received a tailored
we do. Partners treat each other with dignity and respect and connect
learning experience and were required to review and acknowledge the associated policies and standards.
with transparency. We embrace diversity and inclusion to create a place
Starbucks has a large retail partner audience. As part of retail onboarding, all partners discuss and acknowledge where each partner can be themselves. Discrimination, harassment,
the Standards of Business Conduct and Speaking Up resources in a one-on-one discussion with their manager. bullying and retaliation have no place at Starbucks, and no partner is
The retail management audience receives annual online renewal training of risk-relevant topics and in 2022 expected to tolerate such prohibited conduct while at work or when
achieved a 96% completion rate of our Standards of Business Conduct course. In 2022, we provided online engaged in work-related activities.
courses on five different topics to more than 105,000 of our retail partners. We continue to find new avenues
to reach and train our retail hourly audience, and in 2023 we will provide annual training to 180,000 additional
partners that cover Starbucks risks and policies.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
LEADERSHIP AND
GOVERNANCE Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 51
How We Conduct Investigations Responsible Tax Policies
Starbucks captures concerns from all channels in our case management As a socially responsible business, we strive to manage our global tax responsibilities in line with our mission
system, and cases are categorized and assigned by Ethics & Compliance and values. Our tax approach connects our requirements and long-term interests of all our stakeholders,
to the in-market investigations team best equipped to address the including governments, shareholders, partners and the communities where we operate and source products.
concern. If a concern was received that presented potential material In order to accomplish this, we follow several guiding principles:
financial or reputational risk, that matter would be assigned to specially
• W e always consider the company’s corporate and social responsibilities, brand and reputation when
trained and highly experienced Ethics & Compliance investigators.
considering tax affairs.
Concerns are addressed in a prompt, thorough, and respectful manner,
• W e aim for our tax affairs to be sustainable and equitable, and we recognize the importance of tax systems
with investigators reaching out to the reporter to gather information,
in helping governments fund policies and programs to meet the needs of their communities and residents.
relevant documentation, and witness names with knowledge of the
alleged incident. Interviews may be held with other partners, contractors, • W e ensure that the location in which our taxable profits are reported is aligned with the location of value
or individuals who are the subject of a reported concern to inform an creation as dictated by our business model.
impartial decision. • W e engage with all tax authorities in an open, transparent and respectful manner.
When an investigation is complete, Ethics & Compliance shares findings • W e support initiatives to improve transparency on tax matters, including Organisation for Economic
with the individual(s) who reported the concern. Depending on the Co-operation and Development (OECD) measures on country-by-country reporting and automatic
findings of the investigation and the severity of any substantiated exchange of information.
wrongdoing, there are a number of possible outcomes to an investigation, • W e comply with the financial and tax related disclosure and transparency requirements of the U.S.
including coaching, retraining, written documentation or separation from Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), as well as other government institutions that require financial
employment. and tax reporting in each jurisdiction where we have operations.
Stakeholder Engagement ESG Issue Prioritization Assessment
Our ESG goals are created and evaluated through a thorough review Starbucks presence in 84 markets globally means that our business is intrinsically linked to both global and
process that involves examining materiality and identifying critical issues local ESG issues. To meet the expectations of our partners, customers, shareholders, stakeholders and the
for our business. By engaging with both internal and external stakeholders Starbucks community, we work to align our business performance with our ESG impacts. Achieving this
throughout this process, we ensure that our strategy and goals are requires a comprehensive understanding of the key ESG issues that matter most to these groups.
tailored towards key areas where we can make the greatest impact and
In FY23, we undertook a robust, third-party evaluation process to identify and prioritize the ESG topics most
generate positive outcomes. This review process involves reaching out to
important to our stakeholders and which issues are essential for Starbucks to focus our strategy to advance our
stakeholders directly, hosting public forums and participating in industry
aspirations for our people, our planet and communities. Through this ESG Issue Prioritization Assessment, we
working groups. We intend to continue leveraging these channels on
conducted surveys and interviews across global stakeholder groups to understand the relative importance of
an ongoing basis. In addition, in FY23, we significantly bolstered our
ESG topics for Starbucks.
stakeholder engagement efforts through an ESG Issue Prioritization
Starbucks has an Enterprise Risk Management program (ERM) to assess risks to the organization across a broad
Assessment conducted with a third party.
spectrum of strategic, operational, financial, and regulatory risks which include financial, brand and other non-
At the local level, our operations teams — including regional, district
financial impacts and is further described on page 53. These risks incorporate the various ESG issues as part of
and store managers — are readily available and often actively respond
our comprehensive management of risks and opportunities which are assessed at a business unit, functional
to local stakeholder inquiries and concerns. If an issue goes beyond
and enterprise level.
their jurisdiction, they escalate it to the Starbucks Support Center (our
The purpose of this ESG assessment is to support the prioritization of the most critical ESG topics on which
headquarters). Any ESG-related concerns are directed to the Global Social
Starbucks should focus. In FY24, we will use the results of this assessment to further inform the Starbucks ERM
Impact and Global Public Policy team for a response or further action.
program, our ESG program strategies, and reporting priorities going forward to advance our leadership position
on the most critical ESG topics.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
LEADERSHIP AND
GOVERNANCE Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 52
Political Expenditures Global Human Rights
At Starbucks, we are dedicated to actively engaging with the At Starbucks, we are committed to respecting human rights, as outlined in our Global Human Rights
communities we serve, and this commitment extends to our approach Statement. In 2004, Starbucks joined the U.N. Global Compact — the world’s largest corporate sustainability
to public policy. We recognize that it is our responsibility to advocate initiative — with a commitment to implement universal sustainability principles and to support U.N. goals.
for policies that promote the well-being of our business, partners Throughout FY22, we continued to work diligently to demonstrate our commitment to human rights and
and communities. To better communicate these efforts, we have human rights due diligence, from ensuring that the coffee we serve to our customers is ethically sourced to
implemented a policy to increase transparency regarding our corporate advancing racial and social equity, LGBTQIA2+ rights and disability inclusion throughout our operations.
political contributions and expenditures. This policy serves our interests
For instance, within our coffee supply chain, we leveraged our flagship C.A.F.E. Practices program to
by allowing us to promote public policies that are important to our
identify and initiate corrective action plans for 268 non-conformances in FY22. With all actual or potential
company and to educate elected and public officials about our business.
violations that were brought to our attention through C.A.F.E. Practices, we swiftly addressed them by
It also provides important information to our partners, customers
working closely with our suppliers and our on-the-ground, third-party partners to pursue corrective
and shareholders. We are committed to conducting our business
actions, including, where appropriate, providing remedy for the impacted individuals. See our program
ethically and with integrity, in accordance with the law. As part of
scorecard for the full list of human rights topics we cover.
this commitment, we adhere to the rules, regulations and standards
governing our interactions with the government, including our disclosure On the manufactured goods side, whether it’s the merchandise on our shelves or the furniture we place in
and accountability regarding political contributions and expenditures. our stores, we continued to implement our ethical sourcing program and standards for manufactured goods
and services, which includes on-the-ground factory assessments and assurance measures to identify and
remediate potential and actual violations. While the COVID-19 pandemic limited our ability to conduct
these on-the-ground assessments, we were nevertheless able to achieve a significant milestone in FY22:
Public Policy Positions & Advocacy
the mapping of and transparency into 97% of our Tier 1 manufactured goods supply chain. Going forward,
Starbucks is committed to being a force for global good by advancing
we now have the transparency we need to influence, measure and report the performance of nearly our
equity and civic engagement so our partners can share their vision for
entire Tier 1 manufactured goods supply base.
stronger communities. We provide tools and resources to our partners in
the U.S. to help them participate in local and national elections. Globally, Throughout FY22, we also made significant strides in embedding human rights into our day-to-day
we work with partners, licensees and business partners to advocate for management, starting with developing a more standardized intake system for tracking and reporting
local and national policies that support our partners, the health of our human rights related concerns. These concerns can range from the items we proactively identify through
business and the communities we serve. Our work to advance equity our due diligence efforts to inquiries and grievances we receive from stakeholders and impacted individuals.
and civic engagement is always done through the lens of our Mission Going forward, this intake system will enable Starbucks to share more comprehensive information, trends
and Values. and insights to key internal and external stakeholders. In FY23, Starbucks is undertaking an independent,
third-party human rights impact assessment, which will include a deeper-level review of the principles
of freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining and is intended to help inform the
partner experience. We expect to make the results of the human rights impact assessment available to
shareholders, stakeholders, and other interested parties, subject to legal privilege considerations.
See data tables at the back of this report for FY22 performance results and trends.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
LEADERSHIP AND
GOVERNANCE Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 53
Enterprise Risk Management Information Security/Cybersecurity & System Availability
The Starbucks enterprise risk management (ERM) program assesses risks Our company is dedicated to ensuring the safety and security of our information assets. We have
to the organization across a broad spectrum of strategic, operational, implemented comprehensive technologies and programs to protect against data privacy and cybersecurity
financial, and regulatory risks which include financial, brand and other risks. Our security monitoring programs regularly oversee both internal and external threats to maintain the
non-financial impacts. These risks are assessed at a business unit, confidentiality, availability and integrity of our systems. We continually evaluate our security program and
functional, and enterprise level and are reviewed by the management- invest in our capabilities to ensure the safety of our customers, partners and information assets. Our chief
led Risk Committee and the executive leadership team. The Board of information security officer is responsible for implementing controls that align with industry guidelines,
Directors has overall responsibility for risk oversight and the Audit and statutes and regulations to identify threats, detect attacks and protect our information assets. Our security
Compliance Committee is specifically charged with overseeing the monitoring capabilities alert us to suspicious activity, and our incident response program is designed to
company’s risk assessment, risk management practices and policies, restore business operations quickly and efficiently in the event of a breach.
periodically reviewing major and emerging risks to the company, including
Additionally, our partners participate in mandatory annual trainings to increase awareness of the
financial, operational, legal and regulatory risks. The Audit and Compliance
cybersecurity environment throughout the company. Our Audit and Compliance Committee, composed
Committee reviews, with management, steps taken to monitor and
entirely of independent directors, oversees data privacy and cybersecurity risk matters. One member of the
control such risk exposures, including with respect to cybersecurity,
committee has significant work experience related to information security issues and oversight. We report
data privacy, ethics and compliance among others. The committee also
security instances to the Audit and Compliance Committee as they occur and provide multiple summaries
oversees various ESG risks including environmental and sustainability as
per year. The chief information security officer also meets with the Board of Directors or the Audit and
part of its overall risk management, and reviews various disclosures in SEC
Compliance Committee at least twice annually to brief them on technology and information security
filings. The committee regularly reports on the substance of its reviews
matters. We carry insurance to protect against potential losses from cybersecurity incidents. Over the last
and discussions with management to the full Starbucks Board of Directors.
three years, we have incurred immaterial expenses related to information security breach incidences and
no penalties or settlements.
Data Privacy
Starbucks has a global responsibility to ensure all personal data collected from customers or partners are
managed securely. Our Privacy Policy describes how Starbucks collects, uses and shares data, and outlines
the rights and choices partners and customers have with respect to their information. We leverage
Privacy Impact Assessments to ensure all data use is assessed by a cross-divisional team and that the data
collected is used appropriately. We also deploy global training programs to ensure that partners are trained
on the appropriate use of any data collected.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
LEADERSHIP AND
GOVERNANCE Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 54
Working Directly with Our Partners
Starbucks is working side-by-side with all partners to create meaningful change toward a better future
for each other, our customers and the communities we serve. For our stores that have elected union
representation, we respect that outcome and will continue to meaningfully and directly engage in the
National Labor Relations Board’s (NLRB) good faith collective bargaining process. Starbucks is proud to
announce a new nationwide labor relations team established to support our U.S. store managers and retail
leaders. The investments make sure operations and human resource leaders have access to a dedicated
labor relations team for real-time counsel and support, help reinforce best-practices and ensure our
adherence to company policies and compliance with applicable laws — including the National Labor
Relations Act (NLRA). As of FY22, 232 U.S. stores had certified union representation. The one.starbucks.com
website was created to help anyone receive up-to-date information and resources regarding labor activities.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
SAEBCOTUIOT NT HTIIST LREEPORT subsection title
GGlloobbaall EEnnvviirroonnmmeennttaall && SSoocciiaall IImmppaacctt RReeppoorrtt 5555
Scope Information Integrity actions; the conversion of certain market restrictions; the resurgence of COVID-19 and Analysis of Financial Condition and
operations to fully licensed models; our infections and the circulation of novel Results of Operations” sections of the
Our Global Environmental and Social Starbucks management is responsible plans for streamlining our operations, variants of COVID-19; fluctuations in company’s most recently filed periodic
Impact report for FY22 focuses on the for the preparation and integrity of the including store openings, closures and U.S. and international economies and reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q and
goals in our two key social impact areas: information reported for fiscal 2022. changes in store formats and models; the currencies; our ability to preserve, grow subsequent filings.
People and Planet. We’ve also included Through a system of internal controls, success of our licensing relationship with and leverage our brands; the ability of
links to information and resources including a comprehensive verification Nestlé, of our consumer packaged goods our business partners and third-party A forward-looking statement is neither
publicly available at stories.starbucks.com process involving internal subject matter and foodservice business and its effects providers to fulfill their responsibilities a prediction nor a guarantee of future
and starbucks.com regarding financial, experts, we believe this information on our Channel Development segment and commitments; potential negative events or circumstances, and those future
corporate governance work, workplace accurately represents our global results; tax rates; business opportunities, effects of incidents involving food or events or circumstances may not occur.
and diversity policies and performance, responsibility activities and performance expansions and new initiatives, including beverage-borne illnesses, tampering, You should not place undue reliance on
because these commitments are directly results for the fiscal year. External Starbucks Odyssey; strategic acquisitions; adulteration, contamination or the forward-looking statements, which
tied to our business. The geographic verification over specified metrics is our dividends programs; commodity costs mislabeling; potential negative effects speak only as of the date of this report.
scope of all data points in the report are provided by Moss Adams LLP and Burns & and our mitigation strategies; our liquidity, of material breaches of our information We are under no obligation to update
tracked against U.S. company operations McDonnell Engineering Inc. cash flow from operations, investments, technology systems to the extent we or alter any forward-looking statements,
unless otherwise noted. Starbucks is borrowing capacity and use of proceeds; experience a material breach; material whether as a result of new information,
committed to United Nations Sustainable Forward-Looking continuing compliance with our failures of our information technology future events or otherwise.
Development Goals and uses these covenants under our credit facilities and systems; costs associated with, and the
Statements
goals as a lens for our social impact commercial paper program; repatriation successful execution of, the Company’s Stay Up-to-Date
programs and collaborations with others. Our reporting on global responsibility of cash to the U.S.; the likelihood of the initiatives and plans; new initiatives and Visit stories.starbucks.com for the latest
Based on our stakeholder engagement for fiscal 2022 includes “forward- issuance of additional debt and the plans or revisions to existing initiatives or company information.
efforts, we also believe these areas are looking” statements within the meaning applicable interest rate; the continuing plans; our ability to obtain financing on
important to our customers, our partners, of applicable securities laws and impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on acceptable terms; the acceptance of the
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) regulations. Generally, these statements our financial results and future availability Company’s products by our customers,
and investors. can be identified by the use of words of governmental subsidies for COVID-19 evolving consumer preferences and
such as “aim,” “anticipate,” “believe,” or other public health events; our ceo tastes and changes in consumer spending
Reporting Year “continue,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” transition; our share repurchase program; behavior; partner investments, changes
“feel,” “forecast,” “intend,” “may,” “outlook,” our use of cash and cash requirements; in the availability and cost of labor
Starbucks fiscal year 2022 or “FY22” is
“plan,” “potential,” “predict,” “project,” the expected effects of new accounting including any union organizing efforts
October 4, 2021 through October 2, 2022,
“seek,” “should,” “will,” “would,” and pronouncements and the estimated and our responses to such efforts; failure
unless otherwise noted. similar expressions intended to identify impact of changes in U.S. tax law, to attract or retain key executive or
forward-looking statements, although not including on tax rates, investments employee talent or successfully transition
Currency all forward-looking statements contain funded by these changes and potential executives; significant increased logistics
All references to currency are in these identifying words. These statements outcomes; and effects of legal costs; inflationary pressures; the impact of
U.S. dollars, unless otherwise noted. may include statements relating to proceedings. Such statements are based competition; inherent risks of operating
trends in or expectations relating to the on currently available operating, financial a global business including any potential
effects of our existing and any future and competitive information and are negative effects stemming from the
Previous Reports
initiatives, strategies, investments and subject to various risks and uncertainties. Russian invasion of Ukraine; the prices
Starbucks has produced an annual global plans, including our Reinvention plan, Actual future results and trends may and availability of coffee, dairy and
social impact report since 2001. Previous as well as trends in or expectations differ materially depending on a variety other raw materials; the effect of legal
annual reports regarding our financial results and of factors, including, but not limited to: proceedings; and the effects of changes
are available on our website. long-term growth model and drivers; the continuing impact of COVID-19 on in tax laws and related guidance and
We also respond to key industry our operations in the U.S. and China; our our business; regulatory measures or regulations that may be implemented,
questionnaires such as the Dow Jones environmental, social and governance voluntary actions that may be put in place including the Inflation Reduction Act
Sustainability Index and the CDP efforts; our partners; economic and to limit the spread of COVID-19, including of 2022 and other risks detailed in our
Climate Change, Water and Forests consumer trends, including the impact of restrictions on business operations or filings with the Securities and Exchange
Questionnaires. inflationary pressures; impact of foreign social distancing requirements, and Commission, including in the “Risk
currency translation; strategic pricing the duration and efficacy of such Factors” and “Management’s Discussion
©© 22002233 SSttaarrbbuucckkss CCoorrppoorraattiioonn.. AAllll rriigghhttss rreesseerrvveedd..
Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 56
report appendix
SUPPORTING
DOCUMENTS &
DATA TABLES
57 Goals Summary Scorecard 64 Our Planet: Data 68 SASB Reporting 72 Human Rights
74 Occupational Health and Safety Standard 77 External Auditor Assurance Letters
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 57
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
goals & DATA TABLES
The following is a snapshot of our goals and progress for FY22.
summary
MMXXII
scorecard
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
goals summary scorecard
& DATA TABLES Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 58
INVESTING IN OUR PARTNERS
Partner Experience & Engagement
GOAL FY22 RESULT
Starbucks College Achievement Plan (SCAP) Nearly 2,150 partners graduated from college using Starbucks College Achievement Plan (SCAP), with more than
Graduate 25,000 Starbucks partners from Arizona State 23,000 partners participating in the program.
University (ASU) by the end of 2025.
Diverse Representation — R etail POC representation across retail roles: regional vice president (31%), regional director (32%), district manager (33%),
At least 40% POC representation and 55% women in all retail store manager (39%), shift supervisor (47%), and barista (53%).
roles by 2025 .
Women representation across retail roles: regional vice president (63%), regional director (50%), district manager
(61%), store manager (68%), shift supervisor (71%), and barista (73%).
Diverse Representation — Manufacturing POC representation across manufacturing roles: director (29%), manager (30%), and individual contributor (43%).
At least 40% POC representation and 30% women in all
Women representation across manufacturing roles: director (14%), manager (29%), and individual contributor (33%).
manufacturing roles (director, manager, individual contributor)
by 2025.
Diverse Representation — Corporate POC representation across corporate roles: senior vice president+ (27%), vice president (30%), director (27%),
At least 30% POC representation and 50% women for all manager (31%), and individual contributor (38%).
corporate roles by 2025.
Women representation across corporate roles: senior vice president+ (57%), vice president (55%), director (59%),
manager (55%), and individual contributor (55%).
Global Equity in Pay Starbucks has achieved and maintained 100% pay equity for women and men and people of all races performing
100% gender and racial pay equity in U.S.; 100% gender equity similar work in the U.S. and maintained gender equity in pay in our company-operated business in Canada.
in pay globally for company-operated markets.
Refugee Support More than 1,100 refugees hired in the U.S., Canada and EMEA. Donations from Starbucks enabled The Starbucks
Hire 10,000 refugees globally by 2022. Foundation to donate more than $1.3 million to support nonprofits serving refugee communities.1
Veterans and Military Family Support Hired an additional 4,580 Veterans and military spouses.
Hire 5,000 Veterans and military spouses annually in the U.S.
To Be Welcoming More than 21,000 people enrolled in the course with more than 12,000 completions.
100,000 total enrollees in To Be Welcoming to cultivate
inclusion, diversity and equity awareness.
1 While we did not meet our 2022 goal of hiring 10,000 refugees globally, we
remain committed to the refugee community and staying transparent with
partners, customers and stakeholders on our progress.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
goals summary scorecard
& DATA TABLES Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 59
BUILDING A MORE EQUITABLE, SUSTAINABLE AND RESILIENT FUTURE FOR COFFEE, OUR COMMUNITIES AND OUR PLANET
Our Communities
GOAL FY22 RESULT
Community Stores In the U.S., 7 Community Stores opened in FY22, bringing our total U.S. Community Stores to 28. In Asia,
Open 100 U.S. Community Stores by 2025; open or dedicate 8 Community Stores opened in FY22, bringing our total international Community Stores to 19 stores.
1,000 Starbucks Community Stores globally by 2030.
Military Family Stores Opened 33 Military Family Stores, bringing our total Military Family Stores to 111 stores.
Open 132 stores by 2022.
FoodShare and Hunger Relief • N early 13 million pounds of food in the U.S. has been diverted from waste streams and donated to hunger-relief
Reinvest $100 million into hunger relief efforts in the U.S. organizations — which is the equivalent of nearly 11 million meals.
by 2030.
• M ore than 1 million pounds of food in Canada has been diverted from waste streams and donated to hunger-
relief organizations.
• M ore than $10 million re-invested into hunger relief efforts in communities.
• P rograms to support hunger relief are operating in 9 international markets in addition to U.S. and Canada
Community Resilience Fund $21 million invested in 12 cities through the Community Resilience Fund.
Invest $100 million in 12 cities by 2025.
Our Communities: The Starbucks Foundation
GOAL FY22 RESULT
Origin Grants for Women and Families Achieved our goal of empowering 250,000 women and girls in coffee, tea and cocoa-growing communities, three
Empower 1M women and girls in coffee, tea and cocoa- years ahead of schedule. Announced new goal to positively impact one million women and girls in coffee, tea and
growing communities by 2030. cocoa-growing communities by 2030.
Neighborhood Grants Awarded $4.5 million in Neighborhood Grants bringing our total invested in hyper-local nonprofits to more than
Reach 25,000 hyperlocal nonprofits by 2030. $10 million, thanks to more than 45,000 nominations from partners since program launch.
Youth Equity Grants 251,715 youth impacted and $1.2 million provided in grants.
Commit $5M in grants to support BIPOC Youth.
Global Community Impact Grants Awarded over $3.2 million to nearly 90 nonprofits across 42 markets.
Reach 25,000 hyperlocal nonprofits by 2030 and commitment
to invest $30 million by 2030.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
goals summary scorecard
& DATA TABLES Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 60
BUILDING A MORE EQUITABLE, SUSTAINABLE AND RESILIENT FUTURE FOR COFFEE, OUR COMMUNITIES AND OUR PLANET
Our Planet
GOAL FY22 RESULT
Climate 2030 Goals 6%* increase compared to FY19. An increase at this stage in our journey towards significant reductions in our GHG
50% absolute reduction in scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse (GHG) emissions is expected. We are focused on identifying and testing innovative solutions that we can scale across our
emissions representing all of Starbucks direct operations and global operations and engaging with our value chain while improving our measurement systems.
value chain.
In March 2021, Starbucks GHG reduction goal was validated as science-based by the SBTi, which confirmed our
target is aligned with a 1.5 degree Celsius pathway.
Water 2030 Goals 14.8% increase compared to FY19. Water withdrawals increased in FY22 due to increased purchasing of key
50% of water withdrawals will be conserved or replenished commodities, including packaging, non-dairy milk products, food, and tea.
across Starbucks direct operations, stores, packaging and
In August 2021, we announced an expanded water target increasing the projected water conserved or replenished
agricultural supply chain, prioritizing action in high-risk water
and catalyzing holistic watershed health improvements in high risk basins. In FY22, Starbucks began a water
basins while supporting watershed health, ecosystem
replenishment program, funding eight projects in eight global priority watersheds. The eight projects will continue
resilience and water equity.
to be implemented throughout FY23. Starbucks will report on the volumetric water benefit associated with these
programs in our FY23 GESI report.
Waste 2030 Goals 4.7% increase in operational waste sent to landfill compared to FY19. In FY22, 28% of operational waste was
50% reduction in waste sent to landfill from stores (including diverted from landfill, a 2-percentage point increase over FY19.2
packaging that leaves stores) and direct operations, driven by
Additionally, 49% of Starbucks packaging, by weight, was reusable, recyclable, or compostable in FY22.
a broader shift toward a circular economy.
Strategies for Change
GOAL FY22 RESULT
Renewable Energy In FY22, Starbucks in the U.S. and Canada maintained 100% renewable energy for company-operated retail
100% renewable energy for global operations by 2020. operations. Starbucks U.K. company-operated market has achieved the same since FY18. Renewable energy
powered 72% of company-operated facilities globally.
Greener Stores 3,508 Starbucks stores were certified Greener Stores in FY22, including four internationally.
Build and operate 10,000 Greener Stores globally by 2025.
* Progress against our GHG emissions target has been restated since original
publication on April 20th, 2023 due to revised calculations regarding nitrous
oxide consumption data.
2O perational waste sent to landfill excludes packaging that leaves stores and is
disposed of by customers.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
goals summary scorecard
& DATA TABLES Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 61
BUILDING A MORE EQUITABLE, SUSTAINABLE AND RESILIENT FUTURE FOR COFFEE, OUR COMMUNITIES AND OUR PLANET
Strategies for Change
GOAL FY22 RESULT
Double the use of reusable cups from 2016- 2022. After the reintroduction of personal reusable cups in our stores in July 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, 1.2% of
beverages sold were in reusable cups in FY22, either a customer’s personal cup, “for here” ware, or a “borrow a cup”
in company-operated stores globally. We remain committed to reducing single-use plastics and packaging waste
and staying transparent with partners, customers and stakeholders on our progress.
20% recycled content in our hot cups by 2022. Completed innovation in order to roll out cups with 30% post consumer recycled fiber in FY23.3
100% compostable and recyclable hot cups developed Starbucks is continuing our work to develop compostable and recyclable hot cups in collaboration with Closed Loop
by 2022. Partners and the NextGen Consortium. In FY22, we added the following cities to our list of cities that accept cups in
their municipal recycling program: Columbus, Cleveland, Dayton, Memphis, Houston and Buffalo.4
Ellen MacArthur Foundation Global Commitment
GOAL FY22 RESULT
Take action to help eliminate problematic or unnecessary Building on Starbucks elimination of traditional plastic straws across retail stores globally in FY21, Starbucks
plastic packaging by 2025 . completed the roll-out of straws made from polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA), a non-fossil fuel derived plastic that is
home compostable, in the U.S. in FY22. In Canada, Starbucks rolled out wood cutlery and paper straws in FY22 and
continued research and development to bring new products to market in FY23-25.
Take action to move from single-use towards The company piloted reusable or returnable cup programs through 20 tests across North America, EMEA and China
reuse models where relevant by 2025. Asia-Pacific. These tests focus on multiple reusable cup programs or operating models including Starbucks Borrow
A Cup program, 100% reusable operating models, financial incentives and promotions, new customer experience
upgrades and an emphasis on personal cups and for-here ware.
Take action for 100% of plastic packaging to be reusable, 24.7% of plastic packaging was reusable, recyclable or compostable.
recyclable or compostable by 2025.
Use 5-10% recycled content across all plastic packaging 6.3% recycled content used across all plastic packaging.
by 2025 .
20% reduction of virgin plastic packaging by 5.6% decrease in virgin plastic packaging compared to FY19
2025 (compared to FY19).
3 FY23: Launched a more sustainable hot cup that uses 30% post consumer recycled fiber and less plastic in the liner in Q1 of FY23.
4 Due to infrastructure challenges, Starbucks is retiring this goal. We will continue to work to advance recycling access for our cups
through our NGO partners and the NextGen Consortium.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
goals summary scorecard
& DATA TABLES Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 62
BUILDING A MORE EQUITABLE, SUSTAINABLE AND RESILIENT FUTURE FOR COFFEE, OUR COMMUNITIES AND OUR PLANET
Coffee and Our Supply Chain
GOAL FY22 RESULT
C.A.F.E. Practices 98.2% of coffee ethically sourced and verified through C.A.F.E. Practices.7
Committed to source and verify 100% of Starbucks coffee
ethically through C.A.F.E. Practices.
Committed to 100% responsibly sourced tea. 99.7% of tea sourced by the global tea sourcing team was verified as responsibly sourced.
Committed to responsibly sourced cocoa. The company’s global cocoa sourcing team directly purchased 12 million kilograms of Rainforest Alliance certified
and segregated cocoa beans from Côte d’Ivoire (Ivory Coast).
Conserve water usage in green coffee processing by 50%. To date, contracted more than 1,300 eco-wet mills that separate the fruit of the coffee cherry from the coffee bean.
Sustainable Future of Coffee Continue working to refine the methodology we use to calculate the carbon and water footprint of green coffee.
Achieve Carbon-Neutral Green Coffee by 2030.
Climate-Tolerant Coffee Trees More than 9.5 million climate-tolerant coffee trees distributed globally through Starbucks 100 million tree
Provide 100 million trees to farmers by 2025. commitment.
Global Farmer Fund $80.8 million in loans deployed to date from Starbucks Group. FY21 results represent loans deployed from
Supply $100 million in farmer loans by the end of 2025. Starbucks Coffee Trading Company only.8
Supplier Diversity and Inclusion Nearly $900 million spent with Tier 1 diverse suppliers.
$1.5 billion in Tier 1 diverse supplier spend by 2030.
Diverse Media Spend 18% of paid media budget invested in minority-owned and targeted media companies.
Allocate 15% of paid media investment to minority-owned
and targeted media companies.
7 In FY21: Committed to 100% ethically sourced coffee in partnership with
Conservation International.
8M ethodology Update: For FY22, reporting loans deployed from Starbucks Group
(inclusive of SCTC). Expanded reporting scope from SCTC only (FY21) to reflect
the investments Starbucks has made to improve the working lives of farmers.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
goals summary scorecard
& DATA TABLES Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 63
BUILDING A MORE EQUITABLE, SUSTAINABLE AND RESILIENT FUTURE FOR COFFEE, OUR COMMUNITIES AND OUR PLANET
Animal Welfare
GOAL FY22 RESULT
Cage-Free Eggs In our North American company-operated stores, 100% of eggs are cage-free, inclusive of branded products
100% cage-free eggs and egg products in supplied to our licensee business partners in North America. In our EMEA and U.K. company-operated markets,
company-operated stores globally. 99.9% of eggs are cage-free.
Antibiotics 100% of poultry raised without routine use of medically important antibiotics.
Serve only poultry raised without the routine use of medically
important antibiotics in all company-operated U.S. stores
by 2020.
Sow Housing 22% of pork is group-housed for U.S. and Canada.
We will specify 100% “group housed” pork as a requirement
of our pork suppliers in the U.S. and Canada and take steps to
ensure a “group housed” pork supply by 2024; Phase out the
excessive use of gestation stalls for the sows in our supply
chain by 2030.
Broiler Chickens We are actively reviewing our broiler chicken commitment to identify the best path forward for implementation
We are committed to improve conditions for broiler chickens within our supply chain. Over the next year, we will be setting baseline targets for implementation, which will be
and are working with our suppliers, licensees, and others in included in the FY23 GESI report.
the industry to help ensure that by 2024 the chicken we buy
for our U.S. stores is produced in alignment with Global Animal
Partnership (GAP) standards as assessed by a third-party auditor.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 64
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
our planet: & DATA TABLES
Annual update of Planet Positive progress:1,2,3 The following metrics represent
data
detailed reporting of Starbucks environmental performance in FY19, the
baseline year for our 2030 environmental targets, FY21, and FY22. We
made significant updates to our inventory methodologies this year and
recalculated FY19 and FY21 results, which will differ from the FY19 and FY21
data previously reported. We did not update our FY20 calculations because
reduced business activity in FY20 from COVID-19 make this year difficult to
use for comparisons.4 In FY22, we were not expecting significant reductions
in our environmental impacts and progress towards our 2030 targets as we
are focused on identifying and testing innovative solutions that we can scale
across our global operations. We are committed to enhancing measurement
systems and coordination across Starbucks and our value chain, including
with our licensee partners.
MMXXII
1T he scope of this data is global unless otherwise noted. Direct operations refers to an operational control boundary, inclusive of company-
operated stores, corporate offices and manufacturing and distribution facilities. This includes global wholly-owned and partially-owned
subsidiaries over which Starbucks has management and operational control. Direct operations excludes licensed stores.
2W e have updated the methodologies used to develop our environmental inventories. These updates including improved data quality and
availability, changes to emissions and water factors, and other methodological changes.
3W here possible, reported data aligns with our fiscal year. In some cases, for example utility bills, the data aligns to the nearest month rather
than the exact fiscal year end and start dates.
4F Y20 environmental performance metrics are available in Starbucks FY20 Global Environmental and Social Impact Report Supplement.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
our planet: data
& DATA TABLES Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 65
ENERGY CONSUMPTION (MWh) FY19 FY21 FY22
Total Energy Consumption, direct operations5 2,524,818 2,491,543 2,596,498
5I n gigajoules, total energy consumption in FY22 equals
Total purchased electricity, direct operations 1,935,927 1,912,881 1,993,189 9,347,393 GJ, and total fuel consumed in FY22 equals
2,171,912 GJ.
Percent renewable 71% 69% 72% 6 Fuel types consumed include natural gas, stationary diesel
Total fuel consumed, direct operations6 588,891 578,662 603,309 and gasoline, propane, aviation fuel, and mobile vehicle
fuel.
7S tarbucks presents greenhouse gas emissions in
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (mtCO2e)7,8 FY19 FY21 FY22 accordance with the GHG Protocol and uses global warming
potential values from the IPCC Fourth Assessment.
Scope 19, a 336,124 350,424 358,500 8F Y22 data has been third-party verified by Burns and
McDonnell. Their report is available on p. 79.
Scope 2
9R efrigerant emissions from retail HVAC equipment
market-based 322,823 331,274 293,364 have only been estimated for China and the UK. Global
refrigerant emissions from non-retail facilities were not
location-based 805,258 778,002 789,349 estimated.
sub-total scope 1 + 2 market-based emissions 658,947 681,698 651,865 aS cope 1 emissions have been revised since original
publication on April 20th, 2023 to reflect corrections to
Scope 310 nitrous oxide consumption data.
10S cope 3 emissions utilize location-based values.
1 Purchased goods and services11,12 7,327,716 7,379,337 7,683,841
11C ategory 1 emissions includes land use change (LUC)
2 Capital goods 144,036 123,701 168,238 for purchases of coffee, tea, cocoa, and food and other
beverage ingredients and dairy and non-dairy milks. LUC is
3 Fuel- and energy-related activities 166,071 157,102 177,249
defined as a change from one land-use category to another
4 Upstream transportation and distribution 702,627 693,801 666,369 as a result of human activity. We use the Quantis LUC
methodology, which accounts for year-to-year, country-
5 Waste generated in operations 264,872 258,269 275,867 level LUC over 20-year intervals, including primary and
secondary forest loss; peatland drainage and degradation;
6 Business travel 29,343 4,027 12,914 and soil erosion and degradation.
7 Employee commuting 615,170 652,928 707,180 12C ategory 1 emissions include the emissions from the
purchased goods and services made by Starbucks
8 Upstream leased assets13 Not relevant Corporation. Purchases made by licensees for key
commodities are included in category 14 as recommended
9 Downstream transportation and distribution14 287,981 419,905 450,777 by the GHG Protocol.
1 0 Processing of sold products 159,018 147,834 160,043 13S tarbucks does not have significant upstream leased assets.
14D ownstream transportation emissions were calculated for
1 1 Use of sold products 59,772 55,725 56,766 the first time for FY19, FY21 and FY22. Sources of emissions
1 2 End-of-life treatment of sold products 160,929 168,997 186,837 include delivery and vehicle idling in drive-thru lines.
15S tarbucks does not act as a lessor.
1 3 Downstream leased assets15 Not relevant
16A methodology change was made to Category 14 to include
1 4 Franchises16, b 3,130,274 2,907,856 3,358,811 refrigerant, fugitive and process gas emissions for licensee
stores and to exclude transportation data (not paid for by
1 5 Investments 213,820 268,676 304,167 Starbucks) per the GHGP guidance.
bS cope 3, Category 14 emissions have been revised
subtotal scope 3 emissions 13,261,628 13,238,157 14,134,864
since original publication on April 20th, 2023 to reflect
Total emissions (scope 1 + 2 market-based + 3) 13,920,575 13,919,496 14,786,729 corrections to nitrous oxide consumption data.
* Progress against our GHG emissions target has been
Percent of total GHG emissions from fluid dairy purchases17 18% 17% 16% restated since original publication on April 20th, 2023
Percent of total GHG emissions from green coffee purchases18,19 14% 12% 13% due to revised calculations regarding nitrous oxide
consumption data.
Percent reduction of total emissions from FY19 baseline -6%*
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
our planet: data
& DATA TABLES Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 66
WATER WITHDRAWALS (megaliters)8,20 FY19 FY21 FY22
Total water withdrawal 4,258,690 4,009,991 4,888,900
17T otal GHG emissions from fluid dairy purchases is
Direct operations21,22 22,855 22,605 23,867 inclusive of fluid dairy categorized in scope 3 category 1
and category 14, and include estimated LUC associated
Percent water withdrawn from high-risk basins23 Not calculated 33% 29% with these purchases.
Indirect: licensed stores21 13,835 18,656 22,750 18T otal GHG emissions from green coffee purchases
is inclusive of estimated LUC associated with these
Percent water withdrawn from high-risk basins23 Not calculated 42% 45% purchases included in scope 3 category 1.
Indirect: packaging and agricultural commodities purchased24 4,222,001 3,968,730 4,842,283 19T otal FY21 GHG emissions from green coffee purchases
is estimated based on FY22 country-specific emission
Percent reduction of total water withdrawal from FY19 baseline -15% factors and total purchases from relevant countries.
20I n FY22, Starbucks began a water replenishment program,
funding eight projects in eight global priority watersheds.
Starbucks aims to report on the volumetric water benefit
OPERATIONAL WASTE (thousand metric tons)8,25 FY19 FY21 FY22
associated with these programs in our FY23 GESI report.
21W ater withdrawal from stores includes both primary
Total weight of non-hazardous operational waste 1,154 1,108 1,236 and estimated data. Where primary data is not available,
water withdrawal is estimated by applying an average
Direct operations generated26 824 836 903
water withdrawal factor derived from U.S. and Canada
Percent organic 54% 54% 54% company-owned stores.
22S tarbucks withdraws water strictly from local water
Percent diverted27 28% 30% 30%
utilities or similar relevant entities, and as such all of
Indirect: generated in licensed stores28 330 273 333 our water withdrawals are categorized as sourced from
third-party water.
Percent organic 56% 58% 55% 23H igh risk basins refers to water withdrawals from
facilities located in regions of high or extremely-high
Percent diverted27 21% 22% 22%
baseline water stress as defined by WRI Aqueduct tool,
Percent total non-hazardous operational waste, diverted27 26% 28% 28% which was used to conduct this assessment.
24W ater withdrawal from packaging and agricultural
commodities is estimated using country-level or
regional data from the World Food Lifecycle Database
(WFLDB). Reporting of this category aligns with our GHG
inventory, scope 3, category 1.
25A methodology change was made in the FY19 and
FY21 inventories to update operational waste values
and classifications to be consistent with internal data
tracking and estimation methodology improvements
established in FY22. We are not reporting on waste
discarded by customers out of stores and instead have
expanded our reporting of packaging materials.
26R eporting of this category aligns with the GHG
inventory, scope 3, category 5.
27W e measure diversion as waste materials recycled,
remarketed, composted, donated, or sold to be
processed in cattle feed. Diversion does not include
materials sent to landfill, incineration (with or without
energy recovery) or liquid waste sent down the drain
(excludes water).
28L icensed store non-hazardous waste is estimated
based on company-owned store information. This
does not include construction & demolition waste or
e-waste. Reporting of this category aligns with the GHG
inventory, scope 3, category 14.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
our planet: data
& DATA TABLES Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 67
PACKAGING MATERIALS29 (thousand metric tons) FY19 FY21 FY22
Total weight of packaging material30 389 387 400
29D ata represents packaging materials used in our direct
Percent of packaging made from recycled or renewable materials 30% 29% 31% operations and licensed stores and all other packaging
materials purchased by Starbucks Corporation. This
Percent of materials recyclable, compostable or reusable 45% 46% 49% aligns with our GHG Inventory and Ellen MacArthur
Foundation Global Commitment reporting boundaries.
Direct: total weight of packaging materials purchased by Starbucks
259 270 267 Starbucks branded products sold outside of our stores
Corporation31 is part of a licensed model of the Global Coffee Alliance
with Nestlé, while our global ready-to-drink businesses
Indirect: total weight of packaging materials purchased by licensees for 129 115 133 operate under collaborative relationships with PepsiCo
Starbucks retail operations32 and others. The Starbucks branded packaging used by
Channel Development business partners are part of their
Total weight of plastic packaging materials33 152 163 153 commitments and reporting.
Total weight of virgin plastic packaging materials 144 154 136 30D ata represents paper and plastic packaging materials,
our most significant sources of packaging materials.
Percent reduction of virgin plastic packaging materials from FY19 baseline 6% 31R eporting of this category aligns with packaging materials
reported in the GHG inventory under scope 3, category 1.
Percent of plastic packaging that is reusable, recyclable or compostable34 18% 18% 25%
32R eporting of this category aligns with packaging materials
Percent of post-consumer recycled content used in our plastic packaging 5% 5% 7% reported in the GHG inventory under scope 3, category 14.
33F Y19 and FY21 inventories have been recalculated to align
to methodology changes and data quality improvements
made as part of the FY22 inventory. These results may
differ from what has been previously submitted to Ellen
MacArthur Foundation Global Commitment and WWF
ReSource Plastic and we anticipate restating these
metrics in our 2023 reporting to these organizations.
34I n assessing the recyclability of our portfolio Starbucks
has aligned with the New Plastics Economy 2022
Recycling Rate Survey results.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 68
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
sasb & DATA TABLES
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Reporting
reporting
MMXXII
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
sasb reporting
& DATA TABLES Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 69
TOPIC & ACCOUNTING METRIC SASB CODE FY22 STARBUCKS RESPONSE
Energy Management
(1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity, (3) percentage renewable FB-RN-130a.1 See FY22 Global Environmental & Social Impact Report narrative, p. 34.
See Our Planet: Data, p. 64.
Additional information is available in our CDP Climate Change response.
Water Management
(1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed, percentage of each in regions FB-RN-140a.1 See FY22 Global Environmental & Social Impact Report narrative, p. 37.
with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress
See Our Planet: Data, p. 64.
Additional information is available in our CDP Water Stewardship response.
Total volume of water consumption is not monitored as we do not typically
have discharge meters in our stores and do not track how much water goes into
beverages. Therefore, we are disclosing on water withdrawn from regions with
high or extremely high baseline water stress.
Food & Packaging Waste Management
(1) Total amount of waste, (2) percentage food waste, and (3) percentage diverted FB-RN-150a.1 See FY22 Global Environmental & Social Impact Report narrative, p. 29 and 36.
See Our Planet: Data, p. 64.
(1) Total weight of packaging, (2) percentage made from recycled and/or renewable FB-RN-150a.2
materials, and (3) percentage that is recyclable, reusable, and/or compostable Additional information about our packaging is available via our reporting to
WWF ReSource and the Ellen MacArthur Foundation Global commitment.
Food Safety
(1) Percentage of restaurants inspected by a food safety oversight body, FB-RN-250a.1 Starbucks is always committed to the health and safety of our customers
(2) percentage receiving critical violations and partners. We regularly audit and review product quality and food safety
practices. We validate our policies and procedures to ensure they are effective
(1) Number of recalls issued and (2) total amount of food product recalled FB-RN-250a.2
and up to date. We actively communicate with our partners and customers
Number of confirmed foodborne illness outbreaks, percentage resulting in U.S. FB-RN-250a.3 through starbucks.com and other communication channels on product-related
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) investigation nutritional and safety information.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
sasb reporting
& DATA TABLES Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 70
TOPIC & ACCOUNTING METRIC SASB CODE FY22 STARBUCKS RESPONSE
Nutritional Content
(1) Percentage of meal options consistent with national dietary guidelines and FB-RN-260a.1 Starbucks provides transparent information to ingredients, calories and other
(2) revenue from these options nutritional information. Additional information is available on starbucks.com.
Starbucks reviews our marketing and advertising for compliance with all
(1) Percentage of children’s meal options consistent with national dietary FB-RN-260a.2
applicable laws, including the Federal Trade Commission’s truth-in advertising
guidelines for children and (2) revenue from these options
standards. We also design our digital content to be compliant with the
(1) Number of advertising impressions made on children and (2) percentage FB-RN-260a.3 Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA). Additional information is
promoting products that meet national dietary guidelines for children available in Starbucks Global Human Rights Statement.
Labor Practices
(1) Voluntary and (2) involuntary turnover rate for restaurant employees FB-RN-310a.1 Starbucks is committed to being an employer of choice and maintaining the
strength of our workforce. In FY22, the total partner turnover in North America
(1) Average hourly wage, by region and (2) percentage of restaurant employees FB-RN-310a.2 (U.S. and Canada) was nearly 65%, significantly lower than industry turnover rates.
earning minimum wage, by region
Starbucks makes available online our Commitment to Partners and our workforce
data for the U.S. business. There is additional information available on Human
Capital Management in our Form 10-K Filing, p. 2.
As of FY22, 100% of U.S. partners earn above minimum wage. As of FY22, Starbucks
hourly partners earn nearly $17/hour in the U.S. Additional information about
Starbucks labor practices is available at Starbucks Commitment to Partners.
Supply Chain Management & Food Sourcing
Percentage of food purchased that (1) meets environmental and social sourcing FB-RN-430a.1
standards and (2) is certified to third-party environmental and/or social standards
Starbucks ethical sourcing approach integrates social and environmental standards
Percentage of (1) eggs that originated from a cage-free environment and (2) pork FB-RN-430a.2 and is an expectation for suppliers and business partners. Additional information is
that was produced without the use of gestation crates available in the Starbucks Global Human Rights Statement, Our Supply Chain.
See FY22 Global Environmental & Social Impact Report narrative, p. 43.
Discussion of strategy to manage environmental and social risks within the supply FB-RN-430a.3
chain, including animal welfare
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
sasb reporting
& DATA TABLES Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 71
TOPIC & ACCOUNTING METRIC SASB CODE FY22 STARBUCKS RESPONSE
Activity Metrics
Number of (1) company-operated and (2) franchise locations FB-RN-000.A As of October 2, 2022, Starbucks operated 18,253 Company-Operated and
17,458 Licensed locations. Additional information is available in the Starbucks
Number of employees at (1) company-operated and (2) franchise locations FB-RN-000.B Fiscal 2022 Annual Report, p. 6 and p. 8.
As of October 2, 2022, Starbucks employed approximately 402,000 people
worldwide. Additional information is available in the Starbucks Fiscal 2022
Annual Report, p. 4
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 72
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
human & DATA TABLES
Coffee and Farmer Equity (C.A.F.E.) Practices is our ethical sourcing
rights
verification program with a comprehensive list of zero tolerance indicators
that measures farms against economic, social and environmental criteria,
designed to promote transparent, profitable and sustainable coffee growing
practices while protecting the well-being of coffee farmers and workers,
their families and their communities.
MMXXII
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
human rights
& DATA TABLES Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 73
Coffee
ZERO TOLERANCE INDICATOR # OF NONCOMFORMITIES % OF TOTAL NONCONFORMITIES
Starbucks ethical sourcing program is dedicated to
monitoring 100% of our C.A.F.E. Practices-approved
Nonconformities related to wage practices 89 34%
coffee supply chains, which today represents
Nonconformities related to traceability requirements 68 26% more than 400,000 farmers around the world.1 A
Nonconformities related to child labor 54 21% nonconformity as reported in this table is a breach
of any one of Starbucks zero tolerance indicators.
Nonconformities related to labor intermediaries 13 5%
Multiple nonconformities could be identified in
Nonconformities related to transparency requirements 1 0% a single location. In FY22, we verified or audited
644 coffee supply chains and identified 268 zero
Nonconformities related to banned pesticides3 23 9%
tolerance nonconformities in 83 supply chains.2 For
Nonconformities related to forced labor, abuse, or unethical each zero tolerance non-conformity brought to our
13 5%
recruitment practices attention through C.A.F.E. Practices, we swiftly address
Nonconformities related to deforestation 7 3% them by working closely with our suppliers and
our on-the-ground, third-party partners to pursue
268 100%
corrective actions, including, where appropriate,
% of nonconformities remediated or closed in FY22 84% providing remedy for the impacted individuals. At the
time of producing this report, 84% of zero tolerances
identified through audits that occurred during FY22
Manufactured Goods have been remediated. Due to the seasonal nature
of coffee production, some zero tolerance indicators
ZERO TOLERANCE INDICATOR # OF NONCOMFORMITIES % OF TOTAL NONCONFORMITIES may only be closed during the harvest period when
the majority of temporary workers are present and
Nonconformities related to wage practices 21 60%
therefore fully closing these indicators may require
Nonconformities related to transparency requirements 6 17% waiting until the next coffee harvest. In the event
a zero tolerance indicator cannot be resolved in a
Access denial into facilities for audits and inspections 1 3%
timely and comprehensive manner, a supply chain
Health and safety, including direct and immediate endangerment 0 0% will be considered Non Compliant and not eligible for
Environmental impact 0 0% C.A.F.E. Practices approval until resolution is possible.
For more information on our responsible sourcing
Forced labor 6 17%
practices for Manufactured Goods and Services, see
Child labor 1 3% page 43.
Abuse and harassment 0 0%
1A “coffee supply chain” is a network of farms, mills, and
35 100% warehouses. We work with more than 1,100 coffee supply chains,
which are made up of more than 400,000 individual farms.
% of nonconformities remediated or closed in FY22 67% 2A ll coffee supply chains are verified or audited at regular
intervals by approved verification organizations and with
oversight provided by SCS Global Services that includes
additional audits. While exceptions exist, as a general rule, we
audit all supply chains with large-scale farms every year and
supply chains with small and medium farms every two years.
3I ncludes pesticides classified as Type 1a or 1b by the World
Health Organization.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 74
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
occupational & DATA TABLES
Starbucks is committed to the safety of our partners, customers and
health
physical assets. The Global Safety and Security Policy provides the
structure for maintaining a safe and secure working environment.
The purpose of this Standard is to provide requirements in
and safety
alignment with occupational health and safety regulations.
standard
MMXXII
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
occupational health and safety
& DATA TABLES Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 75
Annually, Occupational Health and Safety (OH&S) program elements
Definitions
(written program, training, and assessments), are reviewed, edited,
and endorsed by Starbucks senior leadership. Adherence to this TERM DEFINITION
Standard ensures a current and compliant program defined under
OH&S Code expectations. Occupational Verification of the implementation of occupational safety, which may be self-
Safety Assessments administered, or externally completed.
Following this Standard reduces hazards, injuries, prevents physical and
psychological illnesses, and nurtures the core safety need for protection Written and publicly available regulation associated with injury prevention
from elements, security, order, law, stability, and freedom from fear. Code (e.g., Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), Worker Rights Act,
Health and Safety Executive, etc.)
This Standard applies to all employees (partners) of Starbucks
Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries in North America for
Hazard A danger or risk that could lead to an injury.
the following locations:
• A ll company-operated retail stores in the United States and Operational
Canada Daily Records Book, Duty Roster, and Safety Committees agendas.
Resources
• A ll Siren retail locations, which include Princi, and commissary
kitchens (excludes roasting facilities)
Safety The condition of being protected from, or unlikely to cause, danger, risk, or injury.
• S upport centers
• I t also applies to non-partner workers engaged by Starbucks,
Administrative groups which function to support the operations for retail locations
including vendors, suppliers, and professional service providers in Support Teams
(e.g., Facilities, Food Safety, Partner Resources, etc.).
these locations
Written reports from enforcement agencies (e.g., Ministry of Labour, OSHA) that document
Violations/
a case of non-compliance to the written Codes. In the U.S., severity of Violation is tiered:
Citations
General, Repeated, or Willful. Each tier has associated financial penalties.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
occupational health and safety
& DATA TABLES Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 76
Requirements
The below outlines expectations of partners for the purpose of maintaining an OH&S compliant program:
• P artners must complete occupational safety training comprised of new hire orientation, on-going
reiterative content, and other occupational safety training as determined by the Starbucks Global
Safety and Compliance team.
• P artners must utilize the occupational health and safety guidelines described in the Safety and
Security Manual.
• N on-Support Center partners are responsible for completing occupational safety self-assessments
as described in Operational Resources, as applicable.
• W hen hazards are identified, non-Support Center partners are required to report them using a self-
assessment, as referenced above.
• N on-Support Center partners have a duty to ensure that all Operational Resource documents are
archived per the Starbucks Record Retention Schedule.
• P artners must report incidents of workplace injury or illness to Starbucks third party administrator in
the U.S. and Canada, and/or harassment to the Ethics & Compliance team.
• P artners must follow the guidance of Store Evacuation/Shelter-in-Place Procedures available to
retail partners and Emergency Actions Plans available on the Partner Hub to Support Center partners,
and as described in the Safety and Security Manual.
• M anagers are responsible for ensuring partners are aware of and following the above requirements.
• F ailure to comply with this Standard and related governance tools may result in disciplinary action,
up to and including termination of employment. Decisions regarding corrective action, or immediate
termination, rests within the sole discretion of Starbucks management.
• T he OH&S program must strive for continuous improvement to ensure the safest working
environment for all partners, and program feedback should be addressed to the Global Safety &
Compliance team by email.
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
Global Environmental & Social Impact Report 77
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
external & DATA TABLES
MMXXII
auditor
assurance
letters
© 2023 Starbucks Corporation. All rights reserved.
Report of Independent Accountants
TotheStakeholders of Starbucks CoffeeCompany
We have examined the data identified below (the Data) contained within Starbucks Coffee Company’s
GlobalEnvironmental andSocial Impact Report (the Report)forthefiscal year endedOctober 2, 2022.
Starbucks Coffee Company’s management is responsible forpresentingthe Dataforthefiscal year ended
October 2, 2022 in accordance with the criteria contained in the respective sections of the Report indicated
below (the Criteria). Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Data based on our examination:
• 98.2% ethically sourced coffee purchases as contained in the Ethical Sourcing Performance
(C.A.F.E Practices)sectionon page 39of the Report;
• 99.7% ethically sourced tea purchases as contained in the Responsible Sourcing for Teasection on
page42ofthe Report;
• 12million kilograms of segregated cocoa beans purchased from Cargillas contained in the
Responsible Sourcing for Cocoasection on page 42 of the Report;
• Investment in farmer loanssince FY18of $65.8million as contained in the Global Farmer Fund
section on page 41ofthe Report.
Our examination was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants.Those standards require that weplan and perform the
examination to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Data is in accordance with the Criteria, in
all material respects.An examination involves performing procedures to obtain evidence about the Data.
Those procedures are described in more detail in the paragraph below. The nature, timing, and extent of
the procedures selected dependon our judgment, including an assessment of the risks of material
misstatement of the Data, whether due to fraud or error.We believe that the evidence we obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Our evidence-gathering procedures included, among other activities, the following:
• Testing the effectiveness of the internal reporting system used to collect and compile information on
the Data which is included in the Report;
• Performing specific procedures, on a sample basis, to validate the Data, through communications with
Starbucks Coffee Trading Company buying operations in Lausanne, Switzerland,and Corporate
headquarters in Seattle, Washington;
• Interviewing partners (employees) responsible for data collection and reporting;
• Reviewing relevant documentation, including corporate policies, management and reporting
structures;
• Performing tests, on a sample basis, of documentation and systems used to collect, analyze and
compile the Data that is included in the Report, and
• Confirming certain of the Data to third-party confirmations and reports.
We are required to be independent of Starbucks Coffee Company and to meet our other ethical
responsibilities, in accordance with relevant ethical requirements relating to our examination engagement.
In our opinion, the Data for the fiscal year endedOctober 2, 2022, is presented in accordance with the
Criteria, in all material respects.
Seattle, Washington
April17, 2023
Memorandum
Date: June 1, 2023
To: To the Board of Directors and Stakeholders of Starbucks Coffee Company
From: Emily Robbins – Burns & McDonnell
Subject: Verification Report for FY2022 Greenhouse Gas Inventory, Water Withdrawals
Inventory, and Operational Waste Inventory
Burns & McDonnell Engineering Company, Inc. (Burns & McDonnell) was retained by
Starbucks Corporation (Starbucks) to verify and provide a third-party assessment of the 2022
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Inventory, Water Withdrawals Inventory, and Operational
Waste Inventory for Fiscal Year (FY) 2022. The purpose of assessment was to verify that the
FY2022 GHG Emissions Inventory, Water Withdrawals Inventory, and Operational Waste
Inventory represents a reasonable and accurate account of Starbuck’s GHG emissions, water
withdrawals and operational waste.
Inventory Summary
Verified values for Starbucks’ FY 2022 GHG, Water Withdrawals, and Operational Waste
Inventories are shown below in Table 1.
Table 1: Verified Inventory Summary
Metric Total
Total GHG Emissions (Scope 1 + Scope 2 Market-based + 14,786,729 metric tonnes
Scope 3) CO2e
Total Water Withdrawal (from direct operations, licensed 4,888,900 megaliters
stores, and agricultural and packaging commodities purchased
by Starbucks)
Total Weight of Non-Hazardous Operational Waste 1,235,899 metric tonnes
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory
Burns & McDonnell reviewed Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 GHG emissions as presented in the
“FY22 SBUX Scopes 1 & 2 and Operational Water Inventory 10MAR2023.xlsx” and “FY22
SBUX Scope 3 and Indirect Water Inventory_15MAR202.xlsx” excel workbooks for the fiscal
period October 4, 2021 through October 2, 2022. The GHG emissions data included in the
emissions inventory that were subject to review consisted of the following for each Scope:
Scope 1: Direct GHG Emissions
• Fuel combustion (retail and non-retail facilities, roasting)
• Process emissions from roasting
• Refrigerant losses from stationary equipment
Memorandum (continued)
June 1, 2023
Page 2
• Process emissions of nitrous oxide (whipped cream chargers)
• Corporate jet fuel use
• Plant vehicle fuel use
Scope 2: Indirect GHG Emissions
• Purchased electricity usage (market based and location based)
• District heating and cooling
Scope 3: Corporate Value Chain
• Category 1 – Purchased Goods and Services
• Category 2 – Capital Goods
• Category 3 – Fuel- and Energy-Related Activities
• Category 4 – Upstream Transportation and Distribution
• Category 5 – Waste Generated in Operations
• Category 6 – Business Travel
• Category 7 – Employee Commuting
• Category 9 – Downstream Transportation and Distribution
• Category 10 – Processing of Sold Products
• Category 11 – Use of Sold Products
• Category 12 – End of Life Treatment of Sold Products
• Category 14 – Franchises
• Category 15 – Investments
It should be noted that this inventory is based on the Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) Global
Warming Potential Values developed by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)
Fourth Assessment Report.
The GHG inventory assurance review was conducted in accordance with the ISO 14064-3
Standard and World Resources Institute GHG Protocol based on evidence of the reliability of the
procedures undertaken to develop the GHG Emissions Footprint. To the best of our knowledge,
Burns & McDonnell has found with moderate assurance that Starbucks has satisfactorily
compiled a reasonable and fair account of their GHG emissions for FY 2022. The verified values
for Scope 1, 2 and 3 are shown below in Table 1.
Water Withdrawals Inventory
In order to complete this moderate assurance of Starbucks’ FY2022 Water Withdrawals
Inventory, Burns & McDonnell utilized the AA1000AS Quality Assurance Standard and
obtained, analyzed and verified data related to water withdrawals as described below. Data were
reviewed as presented in “FY22 SBUX Scopes 1 & 2 and Operational Water Inventory
Memorandum (continued)
June 1, 2023
Page 3
10MAR2023.xlsx” and “FY22 SBUX Scope 3 and Indirect Water Inventory_15MAR202.xlsx”
excel workbooks for the fiscal period October 4, 2021 through October 2, 2022. This review
included:
• A review of Starbuck’s operations and facility activities for the purposes of verifying the
water withdrawals.
• A qualitative review evaluating water withdrawals potentially omitted from the FY2022
Water Withdrawals Inventory and the impact on the overall inventory accuracy.
• A review of the processes and procedures utilized to gather data for and develop the
FY2022 Water Withdrawals Inventory.
• An examination of Starbucks’ 2022 Water Withdrawals Inventory report and electronic
workbook spreadsheets utilized to calculate water withdrawals.
Operational Waste Inventory
In order to complete this moderate assurance of Starbucks’ FY2022 Operational Waste
Inventory, Burns & McDonnell utilized the AA1000AS Quality Assurance Standard and
obtained, analyzed and verified data related to operational waste as described below. Data were
reviewed as presented in “FY19 - FY22 SBUX Global Operational Waste Inventory
13MAR2023.xlsx”. This review included:
1. A review of Starbuck’s operations and facility activities for the purposes of verifying the
operational waste inventory.
2. A qualitative review evaluating operational waste potentially omitted from the FY2022
Operational Waste Inventory and the impact on the overall inventory accuracy.
3. A review of the processes and procedures utilized to gather data for and develop the
FY2022 Operational Waste Inventory.
4. An examination of Starbucks’ 2022 Operational Waste Inventory report and electronic
workbook spreadsheets utilized to calculate operational waste for FY2022.
5. Burns & McDonnell generally assumed that raw source data provided were accurate.
Statement of Independence
This verification and third-party assessment was performed with no conflicts of interest in
relation to providing the assurance of the FY2022 Greenhouse Gas Inventory, Water
Withdrawals Inventory, and Operational Waste Inventory for Starbucks.
G LOBAL
E N V I R O N M E N TA L
STARBUCKS 2022
& S O C IAL I M PACT
report
our our our our
MMXXII
PARTNERS COFFEE COMMUNITIES PLANET
