FISCAL 2023
STARBUCKS GLOBAL
report
M
M
X
X
I
I
I
O U R
PA R T N E R
E N V I R O N M E N TA L
FA R M E R
C O M M U N I T Y
C U STO M E R
S H A R E H O L D E R
P R O M I S E S
2023 Global Impact Report 2
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
2023 Global Impact Report 3
MESSAGE FROM LAXMAN
Starbucks has always been a different
kind of company. We’re on a journey
to unleash the limitless possibilities of
As we report on the company’s
environmental and social impact in
human connection.
FY23, we are proud of the progress
we have made. More than ever, we
In fact, our new mission, launched in 2023, is centered on this – can be a force for positive action.
With every cup, with every conversation, with every community,
From investing in our partners
we nurture the limitless possibilities of human connection. through world-class benefits and
programs to making it easier for
In pursuit of this mission, we established ambitious promises to
our customers to use reusable
Our mission, these promises, and
all our critical stakeholders. These represent the mutual success cups and working with farmers to
our values all underscore our
we commit to, together. support a healthy coffee future, we
commitment to a new era of
see an opportunity to evolve and
Starbucks, which will go even
As this report details, when Starbucks is at its best, we promise: modernize the core of who we are
further to serve our partners and
as a brand and a business.
— To bridge to a better future for our partners. the world around us.
And an opportunity to better
— To uplift the everyday for our customers. For more than 20 years, we have
meet the needs of today — and
— To help ensure the future of coffee for all for our farmers. reviewed our performance with
of our future.
the Starbucks Global Impact
— To contribute positively to each of our communities.
Report. We approach this work With gratitude and optimism,
— To give more than we take from the environment. with the same commitment to Laxman
— To generate enduring long-term returns for our shareholders. transparency, intentionality, and
accountability our partners bring
Laxman Narasimhan
to their work every single day. chief executive officer
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
2023 Global Impact Report 4
OUR 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
This report provides an overview of our environmental and social impact strategies
and annual progress during fiscal year 2023 (FY23). While this report is not an
exhaustive summary of our efforts, it helps demonstrate the integration between
our business and our promises to our most important stakeholders: partners
(employees), the environment, farmers, communities, customers, and shareholders.
This report also includes data tables that reflect our progress against our goals.
A comprehensive view of our progress and reports since 2001 is available here.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
2023 Global Impact Report 5
TABLE OF CONTENTS
6 our partner promise
12 our environmental promise
Progress Report Data Tables 34
17 our farmer promise
Environmental Footprint Data Tables 47
Human Rights Data Tables 52
21 our community promise
Environmental, Social and Governance Priorities 55
25 our customer promise
About This Report 59
28 our shareholder promise External Verification Assurance Letters 61
2023 Global Impact Report 6
our
PA R T N E R
promise
G L O B A L
B R I D G E TO A B E T T E R F U T U R E
I M P A C T
FISCAL 2023
R E P O R T
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
S
T
A
R
B
U
C
K
S
S
T
A
R
B
U
C
K
S
2023 Global Impact Report 7
OUR PARTNER PROMISE
At our best, we are building a bridge to a better future for our We are committed to being a leading retail employer and to uplift,
inspire and engage our team members by supporting their careers
partners (employees) through thoughtful and intentional and lives — from industry-leading benefits to our expansive training
and development programs to our commitment to inclusion,
investments rooted in partner feedback and experiences. diversity and equity. Investing in our partners is what drives our
success. Creating opportunities for partners to grow is important to
We are furthering our mission, promises and values by the foundation of the Starbucks brand and builds long-term value
for all our stakeholders. And our top priority is to ensure partners
creating an elevated partner experience around the world. feel supported and empowered through robust safety trainings, clear
policies and procedures and by creating safe and welcoming stores.
In FY23, Starbucks took meaningful action to expand our partner
offerings. We continued to invest in world-class benefits, programs
and initiatives that reflect partner feedback and best support their
G L O B A L
individual well-being and goals. To build a more consistent and
high-quality work experience, we support internal growth, ensuring
our partners have flexibility and training to develop their careers,
supported by their managers. We want our partners to bring
their authentic selves to their work, so we strive for a diverse and
inclusive workplace that fosters a strong sense of belonging.
I M P A C T
Put simply, we help partners access quality healthcare, attend
college, contribute to their communities, plan for retirement, save
for emergencies, support their families and more. Our promise is
to offer a bridge to a better future that supports each partner’s
individual journey — at Starbucks and beyond. Together, we are
FISCAL 2023 creating the future of Starbucks, building on a long, rich heritage
R E P O R T that has endured for more than 50 years.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR PARTNER PROMISE
Bridge to a better future 2023 Global Impact Report 8
Benefits & Compensation
For decades, Starbucks has offered U.S. retail hourly partners We have made significant ongoing investments We also offer global Starbucks partners locally-
the best benefits and perks in the industry. For eligible part- of more than $1 billion since FY22 to uplift the relevant benefits that help address unique needs
time and full-time partners in company-operated U.S. stores,
overall partner and store experience. in different parts of the world.
this includes comprehensive medical, dental and vision
coverage for partners and their families, industry-leading
This investment includes bringing the average hourly pay at In 2017, Starbucks China introduced a first-of-its-kind
gender-affirming care, Family Expansion Reimbursement
Starbucks in FY23 to nearly $17.50/hour nationally with a range program to provide critical illness insurance for parents of
Assistance, free therapy sessions through Lyra Health, 100
of $15-23/hour, compared to a federal minimum wage of eligible partners. In 2022, it launched “14th Month Pay,” a
percent upfront tuition coverage for those seeking first-time
$7.25/hour and industry average hourly wage of $13.53/hour.** pioneering initiative giving retail partners an additional
bachelor’s degrees, equity in the company through annual Bean
Factoring in the value of Starbucks benefits, that number can month’s salary as a bonus on top of the 13th month pay they
Stock Awards and reimbursement of the biennial fee required
rise by up to $10 for a total compensation, with benefits, of are eligible for, to be paid out at the end of every financial
for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients to
approximately $27/hour, if our partners choose to participate year. Last year, in Japan, we increased wages and continue
stay in the DACA program.
in all of our benefits. Higher wages, expansion of hours and to offer unique healthcare benefits for partners. Key
increased benefits have resulted in an increased hourly total initiatives in the U.K. and Europe, Middle East & Africa (EMEA)
The comprehensive benefits package provided by Starbucks
cash compensation of nearly 50 percent since FY20, and a regions include free food on shift and an extra holiday.
goes well beyond the industry average* and is set apart by its
positive shift in hourly turnover rates, which are now below
accessibility to a broad subset of its retail hourly workforce —
Across our global markets, our licensed and joint venture
pre-pandemic levels. By the end of FY25, Starbucks in the U.S.
including anyone working an average of 20+ hours a week.
partners also provide locally-relevant benefits, including in
expects to double hourly income as compared to FY20 through
India, which became the first food and beverage company
more hours and higher wages.
to establish a company-wide, five-day work week for
all partners. The company also provides meaningful
COMPENSATION FY23
opportunities and comprehensive benefits for partners
Average hourly wage for U.S. hourly partners ($/hour) 17.42 including providing a graduation support program to all
full-time and part-time partners. The company offers many
% U.S. hourly partners earned above minimum wage 100%
health and wellness programs including free mental and
emotional counseling to partners and their family members,
TURNOVER FY23 FY22 and an optional company-subsidized parental insurance
program. In 2021, the Two-Wheeler Mobility Support
Total employee turnover (U.S. and Canada) 58% 65%
Program was inaugurated in India to help partners purchase
a two-wheeler vehicle for professional or personal use,
enhancing their independence and commuting experience.
* According to the results of a recent Benefit Index analysis conducted by Aon, Starbucks continues to deliver more valuable benefits for retail
hourly partners than any of the more than 50 other U.S. companies included in the study, inclusive of Fortune 200 and Fortune 500 companies.
**Fast Food and Counter Workers mean hourly wage, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, May 2022. ©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
B R I D G E T O
OUR PARTNER PROMISE
Bridge to a better future 2023 Global Impact Report 9
A B E T T E R
Benefits & Compensation
We offer several signature programs that The reason we are an industry leader in benefits
support our partners’ growth, development and compensation is because these investments
and long-term success. are informed by the feedback and ideas we
receive from our partners.
For example, through the Starbucks College Achievement Plan
(SCAP), partners can earn their bachelor’s degree online from In our constantly evolving economic and social landscape, we
F U T U R E
Arizona State University (ASU) — with 100 percent tuition prioritize direct engagement with our partners and routinely
coverage. In FY23, our largest Starbucks SCAP class graduated create the space for open and honest two-way conversations.
from ASU, and since the launch of the program, more than We have established a cross-functional Support Partner
10,000 partners have graduated with their bachelor’s degree Experience team, made up of partners across business units.
through SCAP. More than 23,400 partners participated in the This team focuses on key areas of opportunity that partners
program during FY23. have identified and deploy regular engagement surveys. The
team also hosts design brainstorms on specific topics shared
in collaboration and learning sessions. The partner surveys
The bridge to a better future includes our
leverage a census approach, with all U.S. and Canada company-
partners’ financial health.
operated partners invited to participate and paid time for retail
partners, including hourly partners, to complete the survey. The
Starbucks employees are called “partners” for a reason — we
feedback from these surveys is used to inform the overall partner
offer every eligible partner the opportunity to share in our
experience and create opportunities for partners to grow.
financial success through equity stock, company match for
retirement funds and access to financial wellness programs
to help manage student loan debt and save for short-term PARTNER ENGAGEMENT SURVEYS FY23
needs and long-term planning. Our competitive Future Roast
% partners completed the Partner Experience Survey
401(k) retirement plan includes a generous company match,
U.S. store partners 65%
and we offer partners discounted company stock (S.I.P.) as well
as participation in our equity reward program, Bean Stock. In Canada store partners 53%
addition, we help partners save for the unexpected with help North America non-store partners 92%
from My Starbucks Savings, with cash incentives for eligible
partners at key savings milestones.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR PARTNER PROMISE
Bridge to a better future 2023 Global Impact Report 10
Talent Attraction, Development & Training
Our training and educational resources are designed to Another big, recent investment is the return of
demonstrate Starbucks as one of the very best employers in our Coffee Master program for retail partners
the global retail industry. We are proud to attract, hire, develop
in North America.
and retain partners who are passionate about furthering our
mission, vision and values.
In the last year, more than 10,000 partners have earned the
coveted Black Aprons, which signifies their deep passion and
To ensure that our partners can thrive at work, we knowledge for coffee, and their completion of the Starbucks
provide extensive training programs including on Coffee Academy course. Coffee Masters in North America
who meet all eligibility requirements can apply for an Origin
the job training hours that support partners from
Experience trip in Costa Rica. Other Origin Experience
the moment they join our team.
opportunities include Rwanda and Indonesia. During these
trips, partners can fully immerse in the story of coffee “at
For example, the Barista First 30 program is a 41.5-hour
the first ten feet” on the farms.
training program that partners complete in the first 30 days
of employment. This training covers all the foundations of We focus on providing our partners with the training,
being a Starbucks partner, from mission and culture to the experiences, resources and autonomy that they need to
skills needed to serve customers in our stores. Continuous succeed, and we are proud that in FY23, 69% of U.S. retail
learning opportunities include 90- and 180-day check-ins leadership positions were filled by partners advancing in
that empower partners to succeed. their careers within Starbucks.
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT FY23
# training hours for baristas (“Barista First 30”) (hours
41.5
per barista)
% U.S. retail leadership roles filled from internal partners 69%
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR PARTNER PROMISE
Bridge to a better future 2023 Global Impact Report 11
Inclusion, Diversity & Equity
We pride ourselves in living our mission and values with a In the U.S., our goal is to achieve racial and ethnic diversity of at
REPRESENTATION IN
FY23
clear approach: real inclusion and belonging requires intent least 30 percent at all corporate levels and at least 40 percent ENTERPRISE ROLES (U.S.)
and is not defined only by metrics. at all retail and manufacturing roles by 2025. We also aim to Role POC Women
achieve at least 50 percent women working across all corporate
senior vice president+ 33% 47%
We’re on a journey to create environments globally where
levels, 55 percent women working across all retail roles and
everyone is welcome and feels a sense of belonging. Our vice president 33% 58%
30 percent women working in manufacturing roles.
culture has been built on the efforts of a long line of partners
director 29% 60%
who dared to make Starbucks a different kind of company. We are proud of the positive strides we’ve made but know
manager 32% 55%
Through their commitment to their communities and one we cannot lose momentum and must move faster to accelerate
another, partners have demonstrated anything is possible the changes necessary for Starbucks to remain a company individual contributor 41% 56%
when we nurture the limitless possibilities of human where everyone belongs. Goal: At least 30% POC representation and 50% women for all enterprise
connection. We continue to make improvements and roles (senior vice president+, vice president, director, manager, individual
contributor) by 2025
changes that are necessary to ensure Starbucks remains a
REPRESENTATION IN
FY23
diverse, inclusive, equitable and accessible company. RETAIL ROLES (U.S.)
Role POC Women REPRESENTATION IN
FY23
MANUFACTURING ROLES (U.S.)
regional vice president 38% 52%
Role POC Women
2 0 2 3 G L O B A L
regional director 37% 51%
director 14% 14%
I M P A C T R E P O R T district manager 36% 60%
manager 28% 27%
store manager 42% 68%
individual contributor 47% 33%
shift supervisor 48% 71%
Goal: At least 40% POC representation and 30% women in all manufacturing
barista 54% 73% roles (director, manager, individual contributor) by 2025
Goal: At least 40% People of Color (POC) representation and 55% women
in all retail roles (regional vice president, regional director, district manager,
store manager, shift supervisor, barista) by 2025 REPRESENTATION ON JANUARY 2024
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
% board members identifying as POC 55%
% board members identifying as female 27%
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
T W E N T Y 2023 Global Impact Report 12
STARBUCKS
T W E N T Y
our
E N V I R O N M E N TA L
T H R E E
promise
G I V E M O R E T H A N W E TA K E
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
P
R
O
G
R
E
S
S
U
P
D
A
T
E
T W E N T Y
STARBUCKS
T W E N T Y
T H R E E
P
R
O
G
R
E
S
S
U
P
D
A
T
E
2023 Global Impact Report 13
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PROMISE
At Starbucks, we promise to give more than we take from Our work to fulfill our promise includes driving key investments to
help farmers adapt to climate change impacts and conserving or
the planet. Our comprehensive approach is built on our replenishing water. Our global footprint requires a global approach
that leverages the expertise and experiences of our partners,
commitment to build a more sustainable, equitable and farmers, customers and stakeholders. It’s why we continue
our decades-long work with industry experts, leveraging their
resilient future for coffee, farmers, communities and our insights to create and propel scalable solutions across our global
operations, like in our efforts to support the long-term health of
planet. Across our company, we are testing and scaling the dairy industry. It’s why we are continuously working towards
our bold promise to our planet in collaboration with suppliers,
innovative solutions to support partners, farmers and
non-profit organizations, industry partners, government, farmers
and customers. And it’s why we take the lead of our partners who
communities in the face of global climate change.
carry forward our promise to the planet every day in our stores by
helping to make every single Starbucks store more sustainable by
addressing our climate, water and waste footprints.
To support ongoing collaboration across sectors, Starbucks is a
founding member of Transform to Net Zero, established in FY20.
The initiative works to accelerate the transition to a net zero
global economy no later than 2050 by developing and delivering
research, guidance and roadmaps to guide businesses in achieving
net zero emissions.
These efforts showcase our decades-long commitment to find
solutions to mitigate the impacts of climate change and ensure
a sustainable future of coffee for all.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PROMISE
Give more than we take 2023 Global Impact Report 14
2030 Goals Sustainable Future of Coffee
Our vision for the future is to become resource positive. We set ambitious goals because we’re committed to A healthy supply of coffee requires a healthy planet, but climate
From storing more carbon than we emit, to reducing and creating a more sustainable and resilient future for change is making it increasingly difficult for farmers to grow
conserving more freshwater than we use and eliminating high-quality coffee. To help ensure the sustainable future
the planet and the communities we serve.
waste, we set targets to cut our climate, water and waste of coffee, we are focusing on reducing our carbon footprint
footprints in half by 2030, compared to a FY19 baseline. and conserving water at “the first ten feet” – starting on
We are focused on identifying and testing innovative solutions
coffee farms. We do this by equipping farmers with precision
that we can scale across our global operations and engaging
agronomy tools that help reduce carbon and greenhouse gas
Our goals: with our value chain while improving our measurement systems.
emissions. We are also promoting and distributing climate-
resistant coffee tree varietals, while protecting and restoring
Climate: 50% absolute reduction in scope 1, 2
PROGRESS TOWARD 2030 CLIMATE, WATER
at-risk forests in key coffee landscapes. See Our Farmer
and 3 greenhouse (GHG) emissions representing AND WASTE/PACKAGING GOALS
Promise for more information about this work.
all of Starbucks direct operations and value chain. Climate Water Waste/Packaging
Water: 50% of water withdrawals will be 8% increase in 9% decrease 13% increase in 14% of customer
total emissions in total water waste sent to packaging
conserved or replenished across Starbucks direct
compared with withdrawal landfill compared is reusable,
operations, stores, packaging and agricultural FY19 baseline compared with with FY19 recyclable or
supply chain, prioritizing action in high-risk FY19 baseline baseline compostable
water basins while supporting watershed health, (20% decrease (33% decrease in (16% decrease
in emissions per water withdrawal in waste sent
ecosystem resilience and water equity.
$ of revenue* per $ of revenue** to landfill per $
compared with compared with of revenue***
Waste/Packaging: 50% reduction in waste sent
FY19 baseline) FY19 baseline) compared with
to landfill from stores and direct operations; FY19 baseline)
customer packaging to be 100% reusable,
recyclable or compostable. During the same time period (FY19 to FY23), Starbucks total net
revenues have increased by 36%.****
As part of our work to refine and update our 2030 goals in
FY23, we added specific targets for packaging, including
updating 100% of Starbucks customer packaging to be
reusable, recyclable or compostable.
* Calculated as total emissions per $ of consolidated net revenues, expressed as the percentage change from FY19 to FY23.
**Calculated as water withdrawal per $ of consolidated net revenues, expressed as the percentage change from FY19 to FY23.
***Calculated as waste sent to landfill per $ of consolidated net revenues, expressed as the percentage change from FY19 to FY23.
****Source: Starbucks 2023 10-K, Starbucks 2019 10-K. ©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PROMISE
Give more than we take 2023 Global Impact Report 15
Cups & Packaging
Starbucks is on a mission to lead the charge in reducing In addition to testing and implementing models for
single-use packaging, and we’re taking bold steps, leveraging reusable cups, we are making progress to improve
our test-and-learn approach to redefine convenience for
the sustainability of our single-use cups.
our customers. Our vision is clear: we aim to empower our
customers to make environmentally conscious choices during
In FY23, we launched a new hot cup in the U.S. that includes
every Starbucks visit around the world, whether they’re
30 percent post-consumer recycled fiber. Less paper is
enjoying their coffee in the café, zooming through the drive-
used to make the cup, and less plastic is used to line it. From
thru or using mobile order and pay.
recycling to reusables, our sustainability journey has been
driven by bold aspirations and a comprehensive approach.
Making it easier for customers to use reusable We’ve set an ambitious goal for our customer facing
cups is one of the ways Starbucks plans to reduce packaging to be 100% reusable, recyclable or compostable;
sourced from 50% recycled materials; and made using 50%
single-use cup waste in our stores.
less virgin fossil fuel derived sources by 2030.
We’re working towards a future where every Starbucks
Our ambitions, business and goals for reducing waste are
G I V E customer can order and enjoy a beverage served in a reusable
global. To bring about sustainable change for our planet, we
cup — either one they bring or one we provide. Starting
have joined the Business Coalition for a Global Plastics Treaty.
in 2024, customers in all Starbucks stores across the U.S.
The Coalition, led by World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and the Ellen
and Canada will be able to use their personal reusable cup
MacArthur Foundation, is supporting the development and
wherever they order, including in café, drive-thru or mobile
negotiations of a United Nations Global Plastics Treaty to
order and pay.
accelerate progress around the world.
Inspired and informed by partners around the world, Starbucks
M O R E T Hhas also conAducted reusabNle cup tests in more than 25 markets PROGRESS TOWARD SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING FY23
around the world with more planned in the year ahead. In
% of customer packaging that is reusable, recyclable or
14%
FY23, Starbucks tested a 100 percent reusable and returnable compostable
cup model in 12 stores in California. This program provides
% of customer packaging made from recycled or renewable
24%
customers with a store-issued returnable cup to enjoy their materials
drink wherever they wish, then return the cup to a kiosk at
% change in virgin fossil fuel derived materials in customer
11%
participating Starbucks locations. The cup will be professionally packaging from FY19 baseline
washed and sanitized, ready to be used again.
% post-consumer (PCR) fiber in hot cups (U.S.)* 30%
W E T A K E
*In FY23, we launched a new hot cup in the U.S. that includes 30 percent post-consumer
recycled fiber and will continue to roll out this hot cup across U.S. stores. ©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PROMISE
Give more than we take 2023 Global Impact Report 16
Greener Stores
A Starbucks store is certified as a “Greener Store” when it Our promise to support our planet goes beyond Renewable electricity projects at our Greener Stores
meets robust standards, as verified by a third-party auditor, our own business. represent just one way we are working to support
across eight environmental impact areas: water stewardship,
the growth of green energy.
partner engagement, energy efficiency, waste diversion, That’s why we launched the Greener Store Practitioner course
renewable energy, responsible materials and sites and on the Starbucks Global Academy to make the Greener We work to spur development of new renewable electricity
communities. The standards were developed in partnership Stores program accessible to retailers and the general public and energy storage facilities through direct investment and
with World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and SCS Global Services. In around the world. The course features educational content long-term contracts that ensure project financing. We also
FY23, we certified 6,091 Greener Stores. We are proud to on sustainability that is broadly applicable and shares the purchase renewable energy certificates from new and existing
announce significant international expansion of our Greener fundamental structure of Greener Stores. Starbucks will facilities. For example, in October 2023, Starbucks announced a
Store program in 2023, with the aim to have 10,000 Greener translate the course into multiple languages through 2024 and partnership with NineDot Energy in New York City in support of
Stores across our global business in 2025. is committed to sharing insights through the Starbucks Global the state’s goal to deploy 1,500 megawatts of battery storage
Academy platform as we continue to scale the program globally. by 2025. The projects will deliver cleaner air to the city’s
The inaugural global Greener Stores of the Year is awarded
communities by displacing generation from peaking power
across our six regions to celebrate stores exceeding in
plants. In FY23, Starbucks also expanded its roster of onsite
innovation and environmental impact. The 2023 regional
solar and hosted electric vehicle charging stations that provide
winners will be announced in the Spring of 2024.
familiar, reliable, clean and safe places to recharge for our
customers and their battery-powered vehicles.
PROGRESS OF GREENER STORES PROGRAM FY23
# Greener Stores certified in North America 5,488
# Greener Stores certified in international regions 603
# total Greener Stores certified globally 6,091
Goal: Build and operate 10,000 Greener Stores globally by 2025.
PROGRESS ON RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY USE* FY23
% renewable electricity use globally
77%
(company-operated facilities globally)
*In previous years, we reported this metric as “renewable energy”. We’ve updated to “renewable electricity” to clarify its original scope. ©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
G L O B A L
I M P A C T
R E P O R T
STARBUCKS
2023 Global Impact Report 17
F I S C A L 2 0 2 3
our
FA R M E R
promise
E N S U R E T H E F U T U R E O F C O F F E E F O R A L L
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
G L O B A L
I M P A C T
R E P O R T
STARBUCKS
2023 Global Impact Report 18
F I S C A L 2 0 2 3
OUR FARMER PROMISE
We work with more than 450,000 farms that grow the As we move to become a truly global company, we have a
unique opportunity to enhance lives by promoting ethical and
highest quality Arabica coffee in the world. Our promise sustainable practices globally. Driven by our industry-leading
Coffee and Farmer Equity Practices (C.A.F.E. Practices) verification
to farmers is that we will always work to ensure a program, with over 450,000 participating farms, we help
support farmers and their families and ensure that our supply
sustainable future of coffee for all, underscoring the chain promotes sustainable and transparent growing practices.
Coffee farmers and farming communities are already feeling
decades-long commitment that we’ve made to coffee
the impacts of climate change and our warming planet. We are
proud to invest in regenerative agriculture, reforestation, forest
farmers and farming communities.
conservation and water replenishment to support a healthy
coffee future. With that in mind, Starbucks is focused on helping
farmers get the financing they need to support their businesses
and families in rapidly changing conditions. We also provide
coffee trees that can help farmers adapt to the impacts of
climate change and increase their productivity over the long-
term. We are also working to conserve and restore the forests
that are critically important to agriculture systems.
At our best, we promise to ensure a sustainable future of coffee
for all through a comprehensive approach that centers and
respects our farming communities and the planet we share.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR FARMER PROMISE
Ensure the future of coffee for all 2023 Global Impact Report 19
Ethical Sourcing of Coffee Global Farmer Support
We are proud to have developed one of the coffee industry’s Starbucks future is directly linked to the livelihoods
first set of ethical sourcing standards in 2004 in collaboration of farmers, their families and their communities,
with Conservation International. C.A.F.E. Practices is a
so we take seriously our responsibility to care for
verification program that measures farms against economic,
the people who are part of the coffee journey.
social and environmental criteria, all designed to promote
transparent, profitable and sustainable growing practices while
Starbucks operates ten Farmer Support Centers in coffee-
also protecting the well-being of coffee farmers, their families
producing countries around the world. Our agronomists work
and their communities. C.A.F.E. Practices helps Starbucks work
with farmers to learn and implement the latest findings and
with farmers to create a long-term supply of high-quality
best practices in agronomy, quality and social responsibility.
coffee while positively impacting the lives of coffee farmers
Through the Farmer Support Centers, farmers gain access
and their communities.
to updated water conservation methods, new varietals of
disease-resistant coffee trees and advanced soil management
ETHICAL SOURCING OF COFFEE FY23 techniques, including promotion of coffee shade canopy.
% Starbucks coffee ethically sourced and verified through Working one-on-one with farmers in the field, supporting
99.7%
C.A.F.E Practices co-ops and suppliers, Starbucks agronomists build upon
traditional growing methods to help the next generation of
FARMER SUPPORT CENTERS FY23
farmers improve the quality, productivity and profitability of
# Farmer Support Centers 10
their crops while supporting the implementation of C.A.F.E.
Practices across Starbucks coffee supply chain globally. # people trained with advanced agronomy techniques >56,000
# Model Farms (cumulative as of FYE) >120
Since first offering financing in 2000, the Starbucks Global
Farmer Fund has supported the business financing needs of
farmers to help ensure a sustainable, long-term source of
GLOBAL FARMER FUND FY23
coffee. Farmers often cannot access traditional business loans
$ loans deployed from the Global Farmer Fund since
because of excessive interest rates and stringent minimum 80.8
inception (as of FYE) ($ millions)
qualifications. The loans offered through our Global Farmer
$ loans deployed from the Global Farmer Fund since FY18
Fund enable farmers to plant new trees, enhance their 65.8
(as of FYE) ($ millions)
infrastructure and bolster their financial stability in the face
of changes in climate and markets. Our goal is to supply $100
million in farmer loans by the end of 2025.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR FARMER PROMISE
Ensure the future of coffee for all 2023 Global Impact Report 20
Sustainable Future of Coffee
By 2030, Starbucks is aiming to achieve carbon-neutral green Water stewardship and soil health are important Protecting and restoring forests addresses a
coffee and conserve water usage in green coffee processing parts of our strategy. serious threat to coffee farms and communities
by 50%. Our work in FY23 focused on refining the methods we
around the world.
use to calculate the carbon and water footprint of green coffee. To achieve this, we are supporting the transition to sustainable
This foundational work is crucial for accurately tracking our eco-wet mills to separate the fruit of the coffee cherry from In FY23, Starbucks continued its efforts to protect and
progress in the years ahead. the coffee bean while conserving water and increasing restore forests that are impacted by land-use change and
efficiency for farmers. We are also working alongside deforestation. These agroforestry efforts will help remove
farmers to gain deeper knowledge about soil nutrition carbon and support a carbon neutral pathway while also
requirements by promoting soil sample analysis and tailoring benefiting freshwater ecosystems and coffee communities.
recommendations about soil nutritional needs. These efforts
have the potential to reduce on-farm carbon emissions and Sustainable agricultural practices include preserving and
increase the productivity of crops. enhancing biodiversity. To further advance our transparency,
we will conduct a material biodiversity impact assessment with
respect to our coffee supply chain, to be completed by the end
Climate-resistant coffee trees are a critical part of
of our 2025 fiscal year and performed in accordance with the
our effort to help farmers adapt to climate change.
Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures framework.
Since making the commitment to distribute 100 million coffee
SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE FY23
trees by 2025, Starbucks has now distributed more than 80
million of the next generation of climate-resistant coffee # soil samples processed (cumulative as of FYE) >30,800
trees in El Salvador, Guatemala and Mexico. Additionally, in
Goal: Achieve Carbon-Neutral Green Coffee by 2030.
Colombia, we provide coffee seedlings to farmers and have
# eco-wet mills contracted (cumulative as of FYE) <1,500
delivered more than 53 million seedlings as of FY23.
Goal: Conserve water usage in green coffee processing by 50% by 2030.
2 0 2 3 G L O B A L
I M P A C T R E P O R T
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
2 0 2 3
2023 Global Impact Report 21
R E P O R T
our
C O M M U N I T Y
promise
C O N T R I B U T E P O S I T I V E LY
PROGRESS UPDATE
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
S
T
A
R
B
U
C
K
S
PROGRESS UPDATE
S
T
A
R
B
U
C
K
S
2 0 2 3
2023 Global Impact Report 22
OUR COMMUNITY PROMISE
R E P O R T
Since the beginning, Starbucks has been about more Our new mission to nurture human connection recognizes
that connecting with each other is a fundamental human
than coffee. We are a people company, driven by need. Study after study indicates high rates of loneliness as
a public health concern, and there’s a desperate need for
our belief in the limitless power of human connection. togetherness. This promise comes to life in our communities
through our partners who know their neighborhoods best,
That’s why we have made a promise to contribute and our customers who bring their knowledge and ideas as
community members.
positively to every community we serve, through our
We support every partner to take action as a champion
in their communities, from serving and giving to learning 38,000 stores across 86 markets around the world.
and advocating - recognizing that our partners are
local community leaders who contribute positively and
meaningfully to thousands of communities around the world.
We remain committed to addressing food insecurity and
hunger. We build purpose-defined stores that reflect the
communities we serve and help uplift communities through
unique programming and in-store features. We support small
businesses by increasing access to capital and working with
diverse suppliers across our supply chain. And we invest in
The Starbucks Foundation to drive impact around the world.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR COMMUNITY PROMISE
Contribute positively 2023 Global Impact Report 23
Our Stores in the Community Community Champions & Food Waste Reduction &
Giving Match Hunger Relief
Community Stores sit at the heart of our mission to nurture
the limitless possibilities of human connection. These stores
Our partners are Community Champions who bring our Starbucks is committed to reducing food waste
are purpose-defined to better support our partners, our
Community Promise to life in and around our stores. Through within its operations and supporting hunger
customers and our communities in ways that meaningfully
civic engagement, volunteerism, community events, donations
drive lasting connection. To enhance the well-being of all who relief in communities.
and more, Starbucks partners work in big and small ways
connect within our stores, our goal is to reach 1,000 Starbucks
to make a positive impact for people and the planet. The
Community Stores globally by 2030. Starbucks FoodShare food donation program was launched
Starbucks Community Champion courses on the Starbucks
in the U.S. in 2016 and Canada in 2019, in partnership with
Global Academy help anyone interested in making a difference
Feeding America®, Second Harvest Canada and other hunger-
Community Stores provide economic opportunity, in their communities develop an action plan for good.
relief organizations. As part of our promises to give more than
empower farmers, youth and women as well as
we take and contribute positively to the communities we
create relevant community programming.
We aim to multiply the positive contributions our serve, we divert food from waste streams and donate it to help
partners make in their communities. alleviate hunger. We also work around the world to support
For example, our Military Family Stores aim to uplift the
innovations in food waste reduction and scalable sustainable
everyday for active military personnel, Veterans, their families
One way we do this is through the Starbucks Giving Match solutions that increase equitable access to nutritious food in
and surrounding communities. These stores are located on
program in the U.S. and Canada, which amplifies eligible high need and underserved communities.
or near major military bases and help provide a sense of
financial donations and volunteer time partners make to
connection and support for military families who are often far
community organizations. All active Starbucks full- and part-
from their loved ones.
time partners can request up to $1,000 in matching funds
In Starbucks Signing Stores, we work to ensure that our efforts per fiscal year, using any combination of volunteer hours and
to uplift the everyday and the Starbucks Experience are financial donations to qualified nonprofit organizations.
inclusive for our partners and customers. These stores are
run by store partners who are proficient in sign language and OPENED TOTAL OPEN
OUR STORES IN THE COMMUNITY
provide a space for the Deaf and hard of hearing community to IN FY23 AS OF FY23
connect and celebrate Deaf culture through sign language. # Community Stores (U.S.) 11 39
# Community Stores (international markets) 16 35
In India and Saudi Arabia, female-led stores are a part of our
ongoing work to provide opportunities for women. These stores # Military Family Stores (U.S.) 17 130
reaffirm the company’s ongoing commitment to promoting an # Signing Stores (globally) 4 20
inclusive and diverse workforce by empowering women leaders.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR COMMUNITY PROMISE
Contribute positively 2023 Global Impact Report 24
Economic Opportunity
We are working to advance economic opportunity in our In 2022, Starbucks continued to leverage the power of public-
communities by working with a diverse range of suppliers private partnerships and joined the Economic Opportunity
across our business, increasing access to capital for small Coalition to address economic disparities and accelerate
business owners and elevating public-private partnerships that economic opportunity in historically marginalized communities
address economic disparities. by developing and collaborating on new services, programs and
products that will support deploying resources where they are
most needed.
Since 1998, Starbucks has created an environment
where diverse suppliers have equal opportunity
The Starbucks Foundation
to compete for our business.
Established in 1997, The Starbucks Foundation is
Our sourcing teams engage with a diverse set of suppliers who The Neighborhood Grants and Global Community Impact
a distinct Section 501(c)(3) charitable organization
share our commitment to advancing ethical sourcing and social Grants programs accelerate hyper-local impact by inviting
and environmental standards. The Starbucks Supplier Diversity under U.S. law and receives funding primarily from Starbucks partners across North America and Starbucks
and Inclusion program drives inclusion of qualified businesses Starbucks Corporation. international business partners to nominate locally-relevant
with a focus on suppliers of all sizes and categories, including charities for grants, while inspiring additional support through
small businesses. The Starbucks Foundation’s mission is to strengthen humanity local connections, volunteerism and co-investment. Youth
by transforming lives across the world, with a focus on grants support underrecognized youth by investing in programs
In 2021, Starbucks invested $100 million to launch the
enabling community resiliency and prosperity, and uplifting focused on diversity, equity and inclusion; mentorship and
Community Resilience Fund to advance racial equity and
communities affected by disaster. Through this work, the career readiness opportunities; and addressing the current
environmental resilience in neighborhoods with historically
Foundation supports domestic and international nonprofit state of social and emotional health in young people. And when
limited access to capital. As of FY23, we have contributed
organizations that deliver impact to coffee growing regions, disaster strikes, from the earthquake in Türkiye to wildfires in
over $40 million to the fund. We are working with Community
in Starbucks local hometown of Seattle and in neighborhoods Maui, The Starbucks Foundation supports immediate relief and
Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) and other mission-
around the world where Starbucks partners live and work. longer-term recovery needs while also investing in resiliency
driven financial institutions because of their deep experience
efforts to ensure communities are prepared in advance of the
serving underserved communities. The Fund provides access In coffee-, tea- and cocoa-growing communities,
next storm. Learn more about The Starbucks Foundation’s work.
to long-term loans intended to support small businesses Foundation grants address critical needs such as access to
and neighborhood projects, including those addressing the water, sanitation and hygiene and economic opportunities.
THE STARBUCKS FOUNDATION FY23
inequitable impacts of climate change.
$ total grants awarded ($ millions) 24
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
2023 Global Impact Report 25
STARBUCKS FISCAL 2023
our
O U R
C U S T O M E R
promise
P R O G R E S S
U P L I F T T H E E V E R Y DAY
U P D A T E
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
2
0
2
3
STARBUCKS FISCAL 2023
O U R
P R O G R E S S
U P D A T E
2
0
2
3
2023 Global Impact Report 26
OUR CUSTOMER PROMISE
From the original third place to the newest Starbucks We celebrate our customers by offering a variety of drinks
and food choices that are as unique as every customer we
stores, we’re all about connecting and meeting our meet. Our global stores serve menus that reflect and respect
the people we serve and their beverage traditions. We
customers where they are. Our promise to our customers are building inclusive and accessible design elements in
our stores that help every customer enjoy their Starbucks
is to uplift the everyday, providing a superior coffee experience. And we are witnesses to countless moments of
kindness through the windows of more than 38,000 stores
and customer experience every time they visit us. around the world. We share these moments to uplift the
everyday, and to help build a kinder, braver world.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR CUSTOMER PROMISE
Uplift the everyday 2023 Global Impact Report 27
Uplifting the Every Day Third Place Inclusive & Accessible Design
Through Kindness
Our mission and promises come to life in our stores, Starbucks is committed to developing, testing and scaling
a third place where everyone is welcome, feels a inclusive design standards and experiences with and for
We aim to not only celebrate coffee, but also to foster
people who have lived experience with disability. We are
sense of belonging and where we can uplift one
positive connections in our communities. We have the
working to expand this effort across our store portfolio,
privilege to see our partners, customers and communities another over coffee.
starting in the U.S. and then globally, with the goal of
connect over everyday moments of kindness in ways both big
ensuring that physical and digital Starbucks environments
and small. To help communities recognize kindness that is all Our priority is to create environments in our stores that are
will meet an elevated standard of accessibility by 2030.
around them, while also reinforcing Starbucks commitment safe, welcoming and kind for our partners and customers.
to creating a culture of belonging where everyone is welcome, Through the Third Place Policy, we ask everyone in our
Starbucks invited customers and partners to uplift the stores to treat others with respect and dignity, free of bias Because we are in the business of fostering human
everyday through stickers, cards and kind notes in store and and discrimination. As a company, we routinely review the connection, we are regularly creating more ways
via an augmented reality experience. partner and customer experience in our stores, to ensure the for customers and partners to communicate both
store is thriving, partners are feeling supported, and that we
visually and audibly, while also offering more tools
are meeting customer and community needs.
to help customers and partners navigate our
physical store environments.
U P L I F T
For example, since 2021 Starbucks has offered the Aira
service free of charge to our customers who are blind or
have low vision. Customers can use the app to connect with
trained visual interpreters who provide visual information
about their surroundings. Starbucks also offers multiple
formats of the menu including large-print and Braille menus
in all stores in the U.S. and Canada.
T H E
E V E R Y D A Y
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
T W E N T Y
T W E N T Y
T H R E E
GLOBAL
IMPACT
REPORT
2023 Global Impact Report 28
our
S H A R E H O L D E R
promise
G E N E R AT E LO N G -T E R M R E T U R N S
S T A R B U C K S
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
T W E N T Y
T W E N T Y
T H R E E
GLOBAL
IMPACT
REPORT
2023 Global Impact Report 29
OUR SHAREHOLDER PROMISE
Our six promises guide our work at every level of the In doing all these things, we generate long-term returns for
our shareholders. Each of the six new promises is interrelated
company. It is our partner promise to help bridge to a and interchangeable, ensuring mutual success for all.
better future; for our customers, we promise to uplift
the everyday; for our farmers, we promise to ensure the
future of coffee for all; for our community, we promise
to contribute positively; for our environment, we
promise to give more than we take.
S T A R B U C K S
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR SHAREHOLDER PROMISE
Generate long-term returns 2023 Global Impact Report 30
Corporate Governance Stakeholder Engagement Global Human Rights
Our Environmental and Social Impact goals are closely tied to In FY23, we engaged in a comprehensive third-party For decades, Starbucks has committed to respecting and
our company’s overall strategy. Our Board of Directors assesses evaluation to identify and prioritize key environmental, protecting human rights. In 2004, Starbucks joined the U.N.
our impact agenda as part of their broader review and social and governance topics most important to the Global Compact — the world’s largest corporate sustainability
oversight of our business and strategy. In November 2023, we company and external stakeholder groups. This process initiative that commits signatories to implement sustainability
announced the formation of a new Environmental, Partner aimed to guide Starbucks in focusing our strategy to advance principles and support U.N. goals. We also remain committed
and Community Impact Board Committee (Impact Committee). our mission, promises and values. To do this, we conducted to the U.N. Guiding Principles on Business and Human
The Impact Committee will support the Board in fulfilling surveys and interviews across global stakeholder groups Rights; OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises;
its oversight responsibilities required to respond to shifting to assess the importance of environmental, social and International Bill of Rights; ILO Core Labor Standards; Women’s
regulations and standards, and drive accountability across governance topics for Starbucks. Empowerment Principles; Children’s Rights and Business
the environmental, partner, community impact, farmer and Principles; and Framework Principles on Human Rights and the
Rooted in our commitment to transparency, we are sharing
customer promises. The Impact Committee also has oversight Environment. In 2020, Starbucks released our Global Human
our environmental, social and governance priorities publicly
of internal and external reporting tools and assessments, Rights Statement, which informs the decisions we make that
with our stakeholders.
including the annual publication of this report, and initiatives to impact our relationships with each other, our customers, our
strengthen partner engagement and revitalize partner culture. business partners and our communities.
Understanding and addressing these key issues are integral
In conjunction with the Board and its other committees, the
to meeting the expectations of our stakeholders and
In FY23, Starbucks completed an independent, third-party
Impact Committee will oversee certain applicable risks. More
ensuring alignment between our business performance and
Human Rights Impact Assessment. Starbucks engaged Article
information about Corporate Governance on environmental
environmental, social and governance impacts. While there
One, a specialized strategy and management consultancy
and social topics is available online and in our Proxy Statement.
is work being done across all topics, these results will help
with expertise in human rights, responsible innovation,
inform our program strategies and ESG reporting priorities
In FY23, we continued implementing our executive and sustainability, to conduct the Human Rights Impact
going forward.
compensation programs, which were updated in 2021 to Assessment of Starbucks policies, procedures and initiatives
emphasize our focus on environmental sustainability and related to human rights. The results of that assessment are
building diverse teams. To align with our goal of giving back available here. This assessment represents the next step in
more to the planet, the FY23 annual bonus program allocated our journey to identify and assess salient human rights risks
7.5 percent of the overall bonus payout for senior vice and make key investments to support our partners, farmers,
presidents and above to results that indicate we are fulfilling our communities and the environment. As we have in the past, we
promise to the planet. Another 7.5 percent was tied to creating look forward to continuing to update our stakeholders on our
an inclusive environment across our company, emphasizing the human rights journey and human rights due diligence program
importance of diversity in our workforce for our global success. in the years to come.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR SHAREHOLDER PROMISE
Generate long-term returns 2023 Global Impact Report 31
Working Directly with our Partners
Starbucks is actively collaborating with all partners As of the end of FY23, 343 U.S. stores had certified union
to fulfill our Partner Promise to build a bridge to a representation. To provide timely and accurate information and
resources on labor activities, we launched the one.starbucks.com
better future.
website, which is designed to assist anyone seeking up-to-date
information and resources related to labor initiatives. In FY23,
As a company, we respect our partners’ right to organize,
Starbucks Board of Directors retained an independent third-
freely associate, engage in lawful union activities and bargain
party expert to complete an assessment of its adherence to
collectively without fear of reprisal or retaliation. Importantly,
the principles of Freedom of Association and the Right to
we are committed to engaging in good faith collective
Collective Bargaining. The assessment found that Starbucks has
bargaining for each store where a union has been appropriately
shown consistent progress since organizing began, and that
certified — and have shared our aim to reach ratified contracts
strategic investments in a stronger governance process, more
for union-represented stores in 2024.
on-the-ground support, a dedicated labor relations team and
As part of our commitment to our partners, all managers are more bespoke management training have had a tangible impact
provided training to help deepen their understanding of labor on the Company’s adherence to commitments made. The full
issues, National Labor Relations Act (NLRA) requirements and results of the assessment are available here.
the rights of our partners to engage in protected activities—and
are supported by a nationwide labor relations team established
in 2022 to reinforce best-practices and ensure our adherence
to company policies and compliance with applicable labor and
employment laws.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR SHAREHOLDER PROMISE
Generate long-term returns 2023 Global Impact Report 32
Ethics & Compliance
Starbucks Ethics & Compliance program aligns with our mission Starbucks Global Anti-Bribery Standard and related policies Starbucks captures concerns raised and assigns
and values by fostering an environment dedicated to ethical and procedures provide critical guidelines regarding doing cases to be investigated by or with the oversight of
leadership and business conducted with integrity. We created business with third parties, government officials, and state-
an Ethics & Compliance investigator.
our Ethics & Compliance program to ensure it is a trusted owned/controlled companies, and set forth clear expectations
resource for partners. regarding bribery and corruption. We reinforce this through
The Ethics & Compliance investigations team strives to bring
regular partner communications, and last year we provided
cases to closure within 45 to 60 days, based on complexity. In
online training to partners globally.
Our training and communications approach begins FY23, Ethics & Compliance completed investigations of 4,731
with onboarding new partners tailored to their role Partners are empowered to ask for guidance and voice concerns inquiries and concerns received primarily through our Helpline
and Webline. Of the investigations completed, 45 percent were
and level. when they experience or see conduct that is inconsistent with
substantiated as a violation of standard or policy. When an
our Standards of Business Conduct, company policies or Mission
investigation is complete, Ethics & Compliance shares findings
Quarterly training for all partners covers various Ethics & and Values. An independent third party manages our Ethics &
with the individual(s) who reported the concern. Depending
Compliance topics and risk areas, such as Anti-Harassment, Compliance Helpline and Webline, both of which allow partners
on the findings of the investigation and the severity of any
Anti-Discrimination, Insider Trading and Conflicts of Interest. and others to ask questions and voice concerns 24 hours a
substantiated wrongdoing, there are a number of possible
In FY23, we launched more than 60,000 online courses day, seven days a week, with interpreters available. Reports
outcomes to an investigation, including coaching, retraining,
to our corporate partners in 20 countries, which included may be made anonymously and are treated in a confidential
written documentation or separation from employment.
ten different risk areas. All corporate partners receive manner. We are committed to providing safe, confidential and
training annually on our Standards of Business Conduct accessible channels to all individuals connected to Starbucks,
Ethics & Compliance topics are regularly reinforced through
and Harassment Prevention. As part of retail onboarding, while maintaining a strict Anti-Retaliation Policy in compliance
leadership messages, our online community and other cross-
all partners discuss and review the Standards of Business with our Global Human Rights Statement.
functional channels. Regular reports are made to the Audit and
Conduct and Speaking Up resources in a one-on-one meeting
Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors, including
with their manager. Upon hire, all new retail management
formal sessions multiple times each year.
partners also receive Anti-Harassment training, which must
be completed in the first 30 days. Retail managers in the U.S.
and Canada receive annual online renewal training of risk-
relevant topics and in 2023 achieved a 99% completion rate
on a custom Harassment Prevention course. We also newly
launched training to partners in our Farmer Support Centers in
seven different countries.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
2023 Global Impact Report 33
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
G L O B A L
I M P A C T
R E P O R T
S
T
A
R
B
U
C
K
S
2023 Global Impact Report 34
progress report
data tables
FISCAL 2023
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR PARTNER PROMISE
progress report data tables
Bridge to a better future 2023 Global Impact Report 35
Benefits
COMPENSATION FY23 FY22 STARBUCKS GLOBAL ACADEMY | CONTINUED FY23 FY22
Average hourly wage for U.S. hourly partners ($/hour) 17.42 17.00 Community Champion
% U.S. hourly partners earned above minimum wage 100% 100% # course enrollments <1,600 —
STARBUCKS COLLEGE ACHIEVEMENT PLAN # course completions <400 —
# partners graduated with college degree (during FY) <2,300 >2,100 Greener Apron
Goal: Graduate 25,000 Starbucks partners from Arizona State University (ASU) by the end of 2025. # course enrollments >15,300 >15,000
# partners graduated with college degree (since program inception, as of FYE) <11,400 >9,100 # course completions <9,200 <9,900
# partners participating (as of FYE) >23,400 >23,000 Starbucks Coffee Academy
# course enrollments <153,500 <150,000
# course completions >94,900 >96,900
Training & Development
Third Place Development Series
TALENT ATTRACTION, DEVELOPMENT & TRAINING FY23 FY22
# course enrollments 2,600 <3,000
Total number of baristas hired in the U.S. <105,600 >160,000
# course completions <500 >300
% of U.S. retail leadership roles filled from internal partners 69% 60%
To Be Welcoming
Total employee turnover (U.S. and Canada) 58% 65%
Goal: 100,000 total enrollees in To Be Welcoming to cultivate inclusion, diversity and
# training hours for baristas (Barista First 30) (hours per barista) 41.5 42
equity awareness.
# partners selected to travel to Hacienda Alsacia for Origin Experience >900 800 # course enrollments <36,700 >21,000
STARBUCKS GLOBAL ACADEMY We exceeded our goal of enrolling 100,000 cumulative learners in FY22, and remain committed
to offering the course to partners, customers and community members through the Starbucks
Coffee Masters Global Academy.
# enrollments <7,000 <2,500 # course completions >25,600 >12,000
# course completions (earned the Black Apron) (during FY) <6,800 <1,500 % enrollees who are partners 61% 81%
# course completions (earned the Black Apron) (since inception, as of FYE) <10,100 >4,500
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR PARTNER PROMISE
progress report data tables
Bridge to a better future 2023 Global Impact Report 36
Partner Engagement Inclusion, Diversity & Equity
PARTNER ENGAGEMENT SURVEYS FY23 FY22 RACIAL & SOCIAL EQUITY GOALS & REPRESENTATION* FY23 FY22
% partners completed the Partner Experience Survey Representation of women in retail roles (U.S.)
U.S. store partners 65% 43% Goal: At least 55% women in all retail roles (regional vice president, regional director,
district manager, store manager, shift supervisor, barista) by 2025.
Canada store partners 53% 54%
regional vice president 52% 63%
North America non-store partners 92% 86%
regional director 51% 50%
PARTNER NETWORKS
district manager 60% 61%
# Partner Networks (globally) 32 26
store manager 68% 68%
# Partner Networks (U.S.) 13 12
shift supervisor 71% 71%
Active regional chapters (U.S.) 116 114
barista 73% 73%
CIVIC ENGAGEMENT RESOURCES
Representation of POC in retail roles (U.S.)
# partners using civic education resources
(via Starbucks FuelOurDemocracy.com site) <23,000 >17,000 Goal: At least 40% People of Color (POC) representation in all retail roles (regional vice president,
regional director, district manager, store manager, shift supervisor, barista) by 2025.
regional vice president 38% 31%
regional director 37% 32%
district manager 36% 33%
store manager 42% 39%
shift supervisor 48% 47%
barista 54% 53%
Our commitments to achieving diverse representation in our retail, manufacturing and corporate roles and
equity in pay across race and gender in the U.S. and globally in company-operated markets reinforce our
promises to build bridges and create environments where all are welcome. There is still more to be done,
and we are committed to taking further actions toward tangible and lasting change.
*Use our interactive tool to view additional demographic data of Starbucks partners.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR PARTNER PROMISE
progress report data tables
Bridge to a better future 2023 Global Impact Report 37
RACIAL & SOCIAL EQUITY GOALS & REPRESENTATION | CONTINUED FY23 FY22 RACIAL & SOCIAL EQUITY GOALS & REPRESENTATION | CONTINUED FY23 FY22
Representation of women in enterprise roles (U.S.) Representation of women in manufacturing roles (U.S.)
Goal: At least 50% women for all enterprise roles (senior vice president+, vice president, Goal: At least 30% women in all manufacturing roles (director, manager, individual contributor)
director, manager, individual contributor) by 2025. by 2025.
senior vice president+ 47% 57% director 14% 14%
vice president 58% 55% manager 27% 29%
director 60% 59% individual contributor 33% 33%
manager 55% 55% Representation of POC in manufacturing roles (U.S.)
individual contributor 56% 55% Goal: At least 40% POC representation in all manufacturing roles (director, manager, individual
contributor) by 2025.
Representation of POC in enterprise roles (U.S.)
director 14% 29%
Goal: At least 30% POC representation for all enterprise roles (senior vice president+, vice
president, director, manager, individual contributor) by 2025. manager 28% 30%
senior vice president+ 33% 27% individual contributor 47% 43%
vice president 33% 30% Our commitments to achieving diverse representation in our retail, manufacturing and corporate roles and
equity in pay across race and gender in the U.S. and globally in company-operated markets reinforce our
director 29% 27% promises to build bridges and create environments where all are welcome. There is still more to be done,
and we are committed to taking further actions toward tangible and lasting change.
manager 32% 31%
Representation of age in total workforce — retail (U.S.)
individual contributor 41% 38%
under 30 82% 82%
Our commitments to achieving diverse representation in our retail, manufacturing and corporate roles and
equity in pay across race and gender in the U.S. and globally in company-operated markets reinforce our 30–50 16% 15%
promises to build bridges and create environments where all are welcome. There is still more to be done,
and we are committed to taking further actions toward tangible and lasting change. above 50 2% 3%
Representation of age in total workforce — enterprise (U.S.)
under 30 9% 18%
30–50 70% 61%
above 50 22% 20%
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR PARTNER PROMISE
progress report data tables
Bridge to a better future 2023 Global Impact Report 38
RACIAL & SOCIAL EQUITY GOALS & REPRESENTATION | CONTINUED FY23 FY22 DISABILITY INCLUSION FY23 FY22
Representation of age in total workforce — manufacturing (U.S.) Score on the Disability Equality Index 100% 100%
under 30 17% 17% Representation of U.S. workforce self-identifying with disability
30–50 57% 52% retail % 14% 14%
above 50 26% 32% enterprise % 11% 11%
% board members identifying as POC 55% 38% manufacturing % 11% 13%
% board members identifying as female 27% 25% REFUGEE SUPPORT
GLOBAL EQUITY IN PAY Goal: Hire 10,000 refugees globally by 2022.
Goal: 100% gender and racial pay equity in the U.S.* # Refugees hired in U.S., Canada and EMEA (during FY) <1,100 >1,100
% gender pay equity in the U.S. (for similar work) 100% 100% # Refugees hired in U.S., Canada and EMEA (cumulative as of FYE) >5,500 >4,000
% racial pay equity in the U.S. (for similar work) 100% 100% While we did not meet our goal of hiring 10,000 refugees globally, we remain committed to the
refugee community and staying transparent with partners, customers and stakeholders on our progress.
% gender median pay ratio in the U.S. 96% 100% Our support goes beyond employment opportunities to include funding to support humanitarian
assistance, resources and services that help refugees find safety and rebuild their lives.
% racial median pay ratio in the U.S. 100% 100%
VETERANS & MILITARY FAMILIES
Goal: 100% gender equity in pay globally for company-operated markets.
Goal: Hire 5,000 Veterans and military spouses annually in the U.S.
% gender pay equity in global company-operated markets (for similar work) — —
# Veterans and military spouses hired >2,800 <4,600
In FY23, in our global company-operated markets, we have achieved gender equity in pay in Canada,
Japan, Switzerland and Austria. Our intentional hiring commitments are intended to welcome new partners across Starbucks roles
from communities that may experience barriers to employment. While we did not meet our goal of
SUPPORTING LGBTQIA2+ PARTNERS hiring 5,000 Veterans and military spouses in FY23, we continued our support of military and Veteran
communities through our donations to nonprofit organizations that serve these communities, and our
Representation of U.S. workforce self-identifying as LGBTQIA2+ Military Family Stores. We strive to meet our hiring commitments by fostering deep connections to the
military and Veteran communities.
retail % 37% 36%
enterprise % 18% 22%
manufacturing % 12% 11%
Score on the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index 100% 100%
*Pay metrics can fluctuate throughout the fiscal year. Our pay equity strategies go beyond compliance. Read more about how Starbucks
is addressing the gender pay gap here. ©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PROMISE
progress report data tables
Give more than we take 2023 Global Impact Report 39
2030 Goals Cups & Packaging
CLIMATE FY23 FY22 REDUCING PACKAGING WASTE FY23 FY22
Goal: 50% absolute reduction in scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse (GHG) emissions representing all of Goal: 20% recycled content in our hot cups by 2022.
Starbucks direct operations and value chain by 2030.
% post-consumer (PCR) fiber in hot cups (U.S.) 30% 10%
% change in total emissions from FY19 baseline 8% 9%
We exceeded this goal in FY23 with the launch of a more sustainable hot cup in the U.S. that uses
In March 2021, Starbucks GHG reduction goal was validated as science-based by the SBTi, which 30% post-consumer recycled fiber and less plastic in the liner.
confirmed our target is aligned with a 1.5 degree Celsius pathway.
Goal: Double the use of reusable cups from 2016–2022.
WATER
% beverages sold in reusable cups (global company-operated stores) 2% >1%
Goal: 50% of water withdrawals will be conserved or replenished across Starbucks direct operations,
stores, packaging and agricultural supply chain, prioritizing action in high-risk water basins while
Goal: Starbucks customer packaging will be sourced from 50% recycled materials by 2030.
supporting watershed health, ecosystem resilience and water equity by 2030.
% of customer packaging made from recycled or renewable materials 24% 23%
% change in total water withdrawal from FY19 baseline -9% -9%
Goal: 100% of Starbucks customer packaging will be reusable, recyclable, or compostable by 2030.
$ to support new and ongoing water stewardship projects ($ millions) >1.1 <2
% of customer packaging that is reusable, recyclable or compostable 14% 12%
In August 2021, we announced an expanded water target increasing the projected water conserved or
replenished and catalyzing holistic watershed health improvements in high risk basins. In 2022, Starbucks
Goal: 50% reduction in virgin fossil fuel derived sources for customer packaging from FY19 baseline
began a water replenishment program, funding eight projects in eight global priority watersheds.
by 2030.
WASTE % change in virgin fossil fuel derived materials in customer packaging from
11% 10%
FY19 baseline
Goal: 50% reduction in waste sent to landfill from stores and direct operations compared with FY19
baseline by 2030.
% change in waste sent to landfill from FY19 baseline 13% 5%
See page 47 for detailed environmental progress.
To meet our ambitious 2030 goals, we are focused on identifying and testing innovative solutions
that we can scale across our global operations and engaging with our value chain while improving our
measurement systems.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PROMISE
progress report data tables
Give more than we take 2023 Global Impact Report 40
Greener Stores
PLASTICS — ELLEN MACARTHUR FOUNDATION GLOBAL COMMITMENT FY23 FY22 GREENER STORES FY23 FY22
Goal: Take action to help eliminate problematic or unnecessary plastic packaging by 2025. Goal: Build and operate 10,000 Greener Stores globally by 2025.
Reducing plastic packaging — — # Greener Stores certified in North America 5,488 3,508
We have deployed several initiatives to reduce our waste footprint as part of the Ellen MacArthur # Greener Stores certified in international regions 603 4
Foundation Global commitment. Building on Starbucks elimination of traditional plastic straws across
retail stores globally in FY21, Starbucks completed the roll-out of straws made from polyhydroxyalkanoate # total Greener Stores certified globally 6,091 3,512
(PHA), a non-fossil fuel derived plastic that is home compostable, in the U.S. in FY22. In Canada, Starbucks
rolled out wood cutlery and paper straws in FY22 and continued research and development to bring new RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY USE*
products to market in FY23-25.
Goal: 100% renewable electricity for global operations by 2020.
Goal: Take action to move from single-use towards reuse models where relevant by 2025.
% renewable electricity use globally (company-operated facilities globally) 77% 71%
Moving from single-use towards reuse models — —
% U.S. company-owned facilities powered by renewable electricity 100% 100%
Goal: Take action for 100% of plastic packaging to be reusable, recyclable or compostable by 2025.
% Canada company-owned facilities powered by renewable electricity 100% 100%
% of plastic packaging reusable, recyclable or compostable 27% 22%
% EMEA company-owned stores powered by renewable electricity 100% 100%
Goal: Use 10% recycled content across all plastic packaging by 2025.
% Japan company-owned facilities powered by renewable electricity 100% —
% post-consumer recycled content used in plastic packaging 4% 4%
*In previous years, we reported this metric as “renewable energy”. We’ve updated to “renewable electricity” to clarify its original scope.
Goal: 20% reduction of virgin plastic packaging by 2025 (compared to FY19).
% change in virgin plastic packaging materials from FY19 baseline 3% -1%
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR FARMER PROMISE
progress report data tables
Ensure the future of coffee for all 2023 Global Impact Report 41
Coffee
FARMER SUPPORT CENTERS FY23 FY22 DIGITAL TRACEABILITY FY23 FY22
# Farmer Support Centers 10 10 # bags of coffee traced using online traceability tool <211,000 >43,000
# people trained with advanced agronomy techniques >56,000 >31,000 # unique visitors accessing online traceability tool <102,000 >122,000
# Model Farms (cumulative as of FYE) >120 >70 ETHICAL SOURCING OF COFFEE
CLIMATE-RESISTANT COFFEE TREES Goal: Committed to source and verify 100% of Starbucks coffee ethically through C.A.F.E. Practices.
Goal: Provide 100 million trees to farmers by 2025. % Starbucks coffee ethically sourced and verified through C.A.F.E. Practices 99.7% 98.2%
# climate-resistant coffee trees distributed globally (millions) <11.1 <10 Average # farms participating in C.A.F.E. Practices >450,000 >400,000
# seedlings provided for farmers (millions) (cumulative as of FYE) >53 <33.6* CARBON REDUCTION IN GREEN COFFEE
Goal: Achieve carbon-neutral green coffee by 2030.
CHILDCARE CENTERS FOR FARMING FAMILIES
# new childcare centers opened (during FY) 5** 5 # soil samples processed (cumulative as of FYE) >30,800 <14,700
GLOBAL FARMER FUND We continue to refine the methodology we use to calculate the carbon and water footprint of green
coffee. This work is critical to our goals and connects directly with industry efforts to reduce carbon
Goal: Supply $100 million in farmer loans by the end of 2025. and water use in coffee processing.
$ loans deployed from the Global Farmer Fund (cumulative as of FYE) WATER CONSERVATION IN GREEN COFFEE
80.8 80.8
($ millions)
Goal: Conserve water usage in green coffee processing by 50% by 2030.
$ loans deployed from the Global Farmer Fund (since FY18) (as of FYE)
65.8 65.8
($ millions) # eco-wet mills contracted (cumulative as of FYE) <1,500 >1,300
SUPPLIER LISTS We continue to refine the methodology we use to calculate the carbon and water footprint of green
coffee. This work is critical to our goals and connects directly with industry efforts to reduce carbon
List of coffee suppliers and water use in coffee processing.
List of tea suppliers FOREST CONSERVATION & RESTORATION
List of cocoa suppliers Hectares of forests protected <1,300 1,000
To advance our transparency, for the first time, Starbucks has published its coffee, tea and cocoa supplier Hectares of forests restored >300 >200
lists. The lists represent suppliers that supplied to Starbucks during FY23.
# native trees distributed by Global Farmer Support Centers >156,200 38,000
*FY22 value has been restated.
**FY23 value represents new centers operating during FY23.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR FARMER PROMISE
progress report data tables
Ensure the future of coffee for all 2023 Global Impact Report 42
Other Goods & Services
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING FOR TEA FY23 FY22 ANIMAL WELFARE FY23 FY22
Goal: Committed to 100% responsibly sourced tea. Goal: 100% cage-free eggs and egg products in company-operated stores globally.
% tea sourced by the global tea sourcing team that is Rainforest Alliance % cage-free eggs (U.S. and Canada company-operated stores, inclusive
99.7% 99.7% 100% 100%
certified of branded products supplied to licensee business partners)
As our sustainability journey continues, 99.7% of Tea (Camelia Sinensis) sourced by our global tea sourcing % cage-free eggs (EMEA and U.K. company-operated stores) 99.9% 99.9%
team was from Rainforest Alliance Certified tea gardens, while investing directly in projects in tea
communities that support gender empowerment, water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH), youth In Asia markets where Starbucks operates, such as China and Japan, cage-free egg production is limited
education and environmental sustainability. and supply is not yet widely available. Starbucks remains committed to increasing cage-free egg supply
in all company-operated stores globally, in partnership with industry stakeholders.
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING FOR COCOA
Goal: Serve only poultry raised without the routine use of medically important antibiotics in all
Goal: Committed to responsibly sourced cocoa. company-operated U.S. stores by 2020.
Total weight of Rainforest Alliance certified and segregated cocoa beans % poultry raised without routine-use of medically important antibiotics
21,790 12,000* 99.9% 100%
sourced directly from Cargill and indirectly through OFI (metric tons) (U.S. company-operated stores)
We are proud to increase the amount of responsibly sourced cocoa in our supply chain in FY23. We remain Goal: We anticipate meeting our stated goal of 100% group-housed pork by 2024 for Starbucks-
committed to supporting resilient livelihoods for cocoa producers and their families, and collectively branded products in the U.S. and Canada, including those supplied to our licensee business partners
working towards eliminating the risks of child labor and cocoa-driven deforestation. in the U.S. and Canada. Starbucks is phasing out the excessive use of gestation stalls for the sows
(mother pig) in our supply chain by 2030.
Read more about Starbucks cocoa sustainability efforts here.
% pork defined as “group housed” (U.S. and Canada company-operated
76% 22%
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING FOR MANUFACTURED GOODS & SERVICES stores, inclusive of branded products supplied to licensee business partners)
# factory assessments conducted 400 >300 We are committed to making progress in service of our animal welfare-friendly practices and aspirations and
will continually reevaluate our sow housing commitment with key stakeholders in support of our 2030 goal.
# factories in program <1,500 —
Goal: We are committed to improving conditions for broiler chickens and are working with our
suppliers, licensees, and others in the industry to help ensure that by 2024 the chicken we buy for
% transparency into factories assessed 95% 97%
our U.S. stores is produced in alignment with Global Animal Partnership (GAP) standards as assessed
# factory workers <121,300 >87,000 by a third-party auditor.
Broiler chickens — —
SUSTAINABLE DAIRY
We are actively reviewing our broiler chicken commitment to identify the best path forward for
$ invested in U.S. Dairy Net Zero Initiative (during FY) ($ millions) 2 2
implementation within our supply chain.
$ invested in U.S. Dairy Net Zero Initiative (cumulative as of FYE) ($ millions) 6 4
Starbucks is committed to invest $10 million in the U.S. Dairy Net Zero Initiative.
*Reported value for FY22 includes volumes sourced directly from Cargill.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR COMMUNITY PROMISE
progress report data tables
Contribute positively 2023 Global Impact Report 43
The Starbucks Foundation
OVERALL GRANTS FY23 FY22 GLOBAL COMMUNITY IMPACT GRANTS FY23 FY22
$ total grants awarded ($ millions) 24 17.5 Goal: Award 25,000 hyperlocal grants to support nonprofits by 2030 through the Neighborhood
Grants and Global Community Impact Grants portfolios.
ORIGIN GRANTS
# hyperlocal grants made to nonprofits (cumulative as of FYE) <190 <90
Goal: Empower 1 million women and girls in coffee, tea and cocoa growing communities by 2030.
$ grants awarded to impact communities that we serve outside of the U.S.
>3.9* >3.2
# women and girls in origin communities positively impacted and Canada ($ millions)
>474,000 <340,000
(cumulative as of FYE)
# international markets reached 46 42
$ grants awarded in support of women and girls in origin communities
<7 <3
($ millions) DISASTER PHILANTHROPY
# countries reached by origin grants 9 7 $ grants awarded to promote resilience and uplift communities impacted by
4.6 <3.8
disaster ($ millions)
NEIGHBORHOOD GRANTS
OTHER GIVING
Goal: Award 25,000 hyperlocal grants to support nonprofits by 2030 through the Neighborhood
Grants and Global Community Impact Grants portfolios. $ donations to support refugees ($ millions) >1.1 >1.3
# hyperlocal grants made to nonprofits nominated by Starbucks partners These donations reflect support for refugee communities which are included in the overall grant total.
>10,000 >6,000
(cumulative as of FYE)
$ donations to support LGBTQIA2+ communities >700,000 >700,000
$ hyperlocal grants awarded to nonprofits nominated by Starbucks partners
>5.1 4.5
($ millions)
These donations reflect support for LGBTQIA2+ communities which are included in the overall grant total.
# nominations by Starbucks partners >39,000 >29,000
*This value includes donations from licensee business partners amounting to $900,000.
YOUTH GRANTS
# youth impacted (cumulative as of FYE) <700,000 >375,000
$ grants awarded to U.S. organizations serving youth nationally ($ millions) 3 1.2
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR COMMUNITY PROMISE
progress report data tables
Contribute positively 2023 Global Impact Report 44
Company Programs for Community Support
COMMUNITY STORES FY23 FY22 FOOD WASTE REDUCTION & HUNGER RELIEF | CONTINUED FY23 FY22
Goal: Open 100 U.S. Community Stores by 2025. weight of food diverted from waste streams in Canada (millions lbs) >1.3 >1
# Community Stores in the U.S. opened in FY 11 7 # meals donated in Canada (millions) (1 lb = 1 meal) >1.3 >1
# Community Stores in the U.S. opened cumulatively as of FYE 39 28 Goal: Reinvest $100M into hunger relief efforts by 2030.
# Community Stores in International Markets opened in FY 16 8 $ invested in hunger relief efforts in FY ($ millions) >11.6 >10
# Community Stores in International Markets opened cumulatively as of FYE 35 19 $ invested in hunger relief efforts cumulatively since FY16 (as of FYE) ($ millions) <72.6 >60.9
MILITARY FAMILY STORES COMMUNITY RESILIENCE FUND
Goal: Open 250 Military Family Stores by 2025 with 100 of these new stores on military bases (U.S.). Goal: Invest $100 million in 12 cities by 2025.
# Military Family Stores opened in FY 17 33 $ invested in the Community Resilience Fund (cumulative as of FYE) ($ millions) 40 21
# Military Family Stores opened cumulatively as of FYE 130* 111 OUTREACH WORKER PROGRAM
SIGNING STORES # cities (cumulative as of FYE) 8 8
# Signing Stores globally opened cumulatively as of FYE 20 16 # customer engagements <15,800 >12,000
FOOD WASTE REDUCTION & HUNGER RELIEF # referrals to stabilizing programs >2,600 >1,800
Goal: Reduce food waste by 50% by 2030.
% company-operated stores in the U.S. with FoodShare food donation
100% 100%
program available
% company-operated stores in Canada with FoodShare food donation
100% 100%
program available
weight of food diverted from waste streams in the U.S. (millions lbs) 9.4 <13
# meals donated in the U.S. (millions) (1.2 lbs = 1 meal) 7.8 <11
*Two additional stores opened prior to FY23, that were not previously accounted for, have now been captured in count.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR COMMUNITY PROMISE
progress report data tables
Contribute positively 2023 Global Impact Report 45
COMMUNITY CHAMPIONS PROGRAM FY23 FY22
# partners engaged as Community Champions (U.S. and Canada)* <17,000 <17,000
# community events participated in (U.S. and Canada) <5,400 <4,000
# partner volunteer hours (U.S. and Canada) >153,800 >71,000
# partners engaged as Community Champions (international) >21,300 >26,000
# community events participated in (international) <600 >1,000
# partner volunteer hours (international) <253,700 >72,000
GIVING MATCH PROGRAM
$ donated by Starbucks to nonprofit organizations through the Giving Match
>1.8 <1.5
program ($ millions)
SUPPLIER DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
Goal: $1.5 billion in Tier 1 diverse supplier spend by 2030.
$ spend with Tier 1 diverse suppliers during FY ($ billions) >1 0.9
$ spend with Tier 1 diverse suppliers - cumulative since 2000, as of FYE
>10 <9
($ billions)
# jobs supported by supplier diversity program during FY >8,600 >7,200
$ labor income: total direct, indirect and induced economic impact from
<1.8 >1.5
supplier diversity program ($ billions)
Goal: Allocate 15% of paid media investment to minority-owned and targeted media companies.
% of paid media investment with minority-owned and targeted media
22% 18%
companies
*In the U.S. and Canada, engaging as a Community Champion is defined as taking action by participating in a community event,
volunteering time or making a personal financial donation to a nonprofit.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
OUR SHAREHOLDER PROMISE
progress report data tables
Generate long-term returns 2023 Global Impact Report 46
COMPANY POLICIES & RESOURCES
For additional company policies and resources, please visit the ESG Reporting Hub.
ETHICS & COMPLIANCE FY23 FY22
% completion of Harrassment Prevention training by retail management
99% 96%
(U.S. and Canada)
# completed investigations of inquiries and concerns >4,700 —
% investigations substantiated as a violation of standard or policy 45% —
WORKING DIRECTLY WITH OUR PARTNERS
# union represented stores (U.S.) 343 232
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
G L O B A L
2023 Global Impact Report 47
I M P A C T
R E P O R T
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
S
T
A
R
B
U
C
K
S
environmental
footprint
data tables
FISCAL 2023
environmental footprint data tables
2023 Global Impact Report 48
Annual update of environmental performance:1, 2, 3 The following metrics represent detailed reporting of
Starbucks environmental performance in FY19, the baseline year for our 2030 environmental targets, FY22, and
FY23. Methodological updates and data improvements reflected in the FY23 metrics were applied to the FY19 and
FY22 results, which will differ from the data previously reported.
1 The scope of these data is global unless otherwise noted; Direct operations refers to an
ENERGY CONSUMPTION (MWh) FY19 FY22 FY23
operational control boundary, inclusive of company owned stores, corporate offices,
and manufacturing and distribution facilities; This includes global wholly-owned and
Total Energy Consumption, direct operations4 2,528,246 2,590,598 2,695,583
partially-owned subsidiaries over which Starbucks has management and operational
control. Direct operations excludes licensed stores.
Total purchased electricity, direct operations 1,938,962 1,993,936 2,095,815
2W e have updated the methodologies used to develop our environmental inventories;
Percent renewable 71% 71% 77% These updates included improved data quality and availability, changes to emissions
and water factors, and other methodological changes.
Total fuel consumed, direct operations5 589,284 596,662 599,768 3W here possible, reported data aligns with our fiscal year. In some cases, for example
utility bills, the data aligns to the nearest month rather than the exact fiscal year end
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (MTCOe)6, 7 FY19 FY22 FY23 and start dates.
2
4 In gigajoules, total energy consumption in FY23 equals 7,544,934 GJ, and total fuel
Scope 18 376,745 404,148 401,722
consumed in FY23 equals 2,159,164 GJ.
Scope 2 5F uel types consumed include natural gas, stationary diesel and gasoline, propane,
aviation fuel, and mobile vehicle fuel.
market-based 324,451 294,242 285,989 6S tarbucks calculates greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with The Greenhouse Gas
Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (The GHG Protocol) and uses
location-based 806,148 789,425 835,477 global warming potential (GWP) values from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC) Fourth Assessment Report (AR4); Some Scope 3 GHG emission factor
sub-total scope 1 + 2 market-based emissions 701,196 698,390 687,711 sources utilize IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) GWP values. More detailed climate-
related disclosures are available in Starbucks CDP Report.
7F Y23 data have been third-party verified by Burns and McDonnell; Their report is
available on page 62.
8G lobal refrigerant emissions exclude emissions associated with global offices and non-
retail facilities outside the United States and Canada.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
environmental footprint data tables
2023 Global Impact Report 49
9Scope 3 emissions utilitize Scope 2 location-based emissions values.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (MTCOe)6, 7 | CONTINUED FY19 FY22 FY23
2 10C ategory 1 emissions include land use change (LUC) emissions for purchases of coffee,
Scope 39 tea, cocoa, dairy, food, and other beverage ingredients.
11C ategory 1 emissions include the emissions from the goods and services purchased
1 – Purchased goods and services10 ,11 7,630,113 7,830,633 7,580,045 by Starbucks Corporation; Purchases made by licensees for key commodities are
included in category 14 as recommended by the GHG Protocol.
2 – Capital goods 144,036 168,238 188,855
12 Category 6 emissions increased between FY22 and FY23 as global business travel
began to rebound to pre-pandemic levels.
3 – Fuel- and energy-related activities 176,953 175,861 195,153
13Starbucks upstream leased assets are considered de minimis.
4 – Upstream transportation and distribution 640,946 683,336 659,692 14Starbucks downstream leased assets are considered de minimis.
15T otal GHG emissions from fluid dairy purchases are inclusive of fluid dairy categorized
5 – Waste generated in operations 262,850 275,811 299,098
in scope 3 category 1 and category 14, and include estimated LUC GHG emissions
associated with these purchases.
6 – Business travel12 29,343 13,292 26,566
16T otal GHG emissions from green coffee purchases are inclusive of estimated LUC GHG
7 – Employee commuting 615,170 707,180 579,557 emissions associated with these purchases included in scope 3 category 1.
8 – Upstream leased assets13 Not relevant
9 – Downstream transportation and distribution 293,096 510,801 542,480
10 – Processing of sold products 167,793 162,823 175,815
11 – Use of sold products 59,772 57,817 46,075
12 – End-of-life treatment of sold products 175,345 167,255 170,090
13 – Downstream leased assets14 Not relevant
14 – Franchises 2,355,277 2,928,468 3,084,939
15 – Investments 213,820 304,167 343,722
subtotal scope 3 emissions 12,764,514 13,985,681 13,892,085
Total emissions (scope 1 + 2 market-based + 3) 13,465,710 14,684,071 14,579,796
Percent of total GHG emissions from fluid dairy purchases15 18% 16% 18%
Percent of total GHG emissions from green coffee purchases16 15% 13% 11%
Percent change in total emissions from FY19 baseline 8%
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
environmental footprint data tables
2023 Global Impact Report 50
17 Water withdrawal from stores is calculated using both primary data and estimations;
WATER WITHDRAWALS (MEGALITERS)7 FY19 FY22 FY23
Where primary data are not available, water withdrawal is estimated by applying
an average water withdrawal factor derived from withdrawal at U.S. and Canada
Total water withdrawal 5,634,337 5,113,174 5,132,983
company-owned stores.
Direct operations17, 18 22,853 23,818 24,021 18S tarbucks withdraws water strictly from local water utilities or similar relevant entities,
and as such, all of our water withdrawals are categorized as sourced from third-party
Percent water withdrawn from high-risk basins19 Not calculated 29% 30% water.
19R efers to water withdrawals from facilities located in regions of high or extremely-high
Indirect: licensed stores17 17,525 22,245 24,484 baseline water stress as defined by WRI Aqueduct tool, which was used to conduct our
global water risk assessment.
Percent water withdrawn from high-risk basins19 Not calculated 45% 46%
20W ater withdrawal from packaging and agricultural commodities is estimated using
country-level or regional water scarcity data from the World Food Lifecycle Database
Indirect: packaging and agricultural commodities purchased20, 21 5,593,958 5,067,111 5,084,478 (WFLDB). Reporting of this category aligns with our GHG inventory, scope 3, category 1.
21W ater withdrawals for green coffee are based on direct water withdrawals and water
Percent change in total water withdrawal from FY19 baseline -9%
consumption factors from WFLDB.
OPERATIONAL WASTE (THOUSAND METRIC TONS)7, 22 FY19 FY22 FY23 22W e are not reporting on waste discarded by customers out of our stores and instead
have expanded our reporting of packaging materials.
Total weight of non-hazardous operational waste 1,163 1,236 1,367
23Reporting of this category aligns with the GHG inventory, scope 3, category 5.
Direct operations generated23 845 916 1,018 24W e measure waste diverted away from landfill or incineration as waste materials
recycled, remarketed, composted, donated, or sold to be processed into animal feed.
Percent organic 52% 53% 52% 25 Licensed store non-hazardous waste generation is estimated based on company-
owned store information; This does not include construction and demolition waste
Percent diverted24 28% 29% 31% or electronic waste; Reporting of this category aligns with the GHG inventory, scope 3,
category 14.
Indirect: generated in licensed stores25 318 320 349
Percent organic 56% 57% 58%
Percent diverted24 20% 21% 22%
Percent total non-hazardous operational waste, diverted24 26% 27% 28%
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
environmental footprint data tables
2023 Global Impact Report 51
26D ata represent packaging materials used in our direct operations and licensed stores
PACKAGING MATERIALS (THOUSAND METRIC TONS)26 FY19 FY22 FY23
and all other packaging materials purchased by Starbucks Corporation. This aligns with
our GHG Inventory and Ellen MacArthur Foundation Global Commitment reporting
Total weight of packaging material 319 330 345
boundaries. Starbucks branded products sold outside of our stores is part of a licensed
model of the Global Coffee Alliance with Nestlé, while our global ready-to-drink
Percent of packaging made from recycled or renewable materials 25% 29% 28%
businesses operate under collaborative relationships with PepsiCo and others. The
Starbucks branded packaging used by Channel Development business partners are part
Percent of materials recyclable, compostable or reusable 48% 47% 49% of their commitments and reporting.
27R eporting of this category aligns with packaging materials reported in the GHG
Direct: total weight of packaging materials purchased by Starbucks Corporation27 208 220 226
inventory under scope 3, category 1.
Indirect: total weight of packaging materials purchased by licensees for Starbucks 28R eporting of this category aligns with packaging materials reported in the GHG
110 109 119
retail operations28 inventory under scope 3, category 14.
29F Y19 and FY22 inventories have been recalculated to align with methodology changes
Total weight of plastic packaging materials29 125 130 137
and data quality improvements made as part of the FY23 inventory; These results may
differ from what has been previously submitted to Ellen MacArthur Foundation Global
Total weight of virgin plastic packaging materials 118 117 122
Commitment and WWF ReSource Plastic and we anticipate restating these metrics in
our 2023 reporting to these organizations.
Percent change in virgin plastic packaging materials from FY19 baseline 3%
30I n assessing the recyclability of our portfolio, Starbucks has aligned with the New
Percent of plastic packaging that is reusable, recyclable or compostable30 30% 22% 27% Plastics Economy 2022 Recycling Rate Survey results.
31Customer packaging is packaging designed to accompany a customer transaction.
Percent of post-consumer recycled content used in plastic packaging 3% 4% 4%
32I n reporting for this category, “other” material includes aluminum, steel, glass, textile,
Total weight of customer packaging31 145 167 172 and wood.
33S tarbucks defines virgin plastic packaging material as any plastic material that is neither
Total weight of customer packaging - paper 70 77 78 biobased nor made with recycled content.
Total weight of customer packaging - plastic 75 89 92
Total weight of customer packaging - other32 0 1 1
Percent of customer packaging that is reuseable, recyclable, or compostable 10% 12% 14%
Percent of customer packaging made from recycled or renewable materials 19% 23% 24%
Percent change in virgin fossil fuel derived materials in customer packaging
11%
from FY19 baseline33
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
2023 Global Impact Report 52
G L O B A L
I M P A C T
R E P O R T
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
S
T
A
R
B
U
C
K
S
human rights
FISCAL 2023
data tables
human rights data tables
2023 Global Impact Report 53
Coffee
Starbucks ethical sourcing program for coffee, C.A.F.E. Practices, requires each supply
ZERO-TOLERANCE INDICATOR FY23 FY22
chain to undergo reverification regularly. Today the program represents more than
# Nonconformities related to wage practices 89 89
450,000 farms around the world. A nonconformity as reported in this table is a
breach of any one of Starbucks zero tolerance indicators. Multiple nonconformities # Nonconformities related to traceability requirements 42 68
could be identified in a single location. The number of participating entities change # Nonconformities related to child labor 59 54
year to year, which may impact the number of reported nonconformities on an
# Nonconformities related to labor intermediaries 4 13
annual basis. For each zero tolerance non-conformity brought to our attention
# Nonconformities related to transparency requirements 2 1
through C.A.F.E. Practices, we require swift action by our suppliers and our on-
the-ground, third-party partners to pursue corrective actions, including, where # Nonconformities related to banned pesticides 56 23
appropriate, providing remedy for the impacted individuals. Due to the seasonal # Nonconformities related to forced labor, abuse, or unethical recruitment
5 13
practices
nature of coffee production, some zero tolerance indicators may only be closed
during the harvest period when the majority of temporary workers are present and # Nonconformities related to deforestation 12 7
therefore fully closing these indicators may require waiting until the next coffee Total # nonconformities 269 268
harvest. In the event a zero tolerance indicator cannot be resolved in a timely and
% of FY22 nonconformities that have been remediated or closed by the
88% 30%*
comprehensive manner, a supply chain will be considered Non Compliant and not end of the fiscal year
eligible for C.A.F.E. Practices approval until resolution is possible. *The FY22 remediation % has been restated to align with fiscal year dates.
% of FY23 noncomformities that have been remediated or closed by the
34% —
end of the fiscal year
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
human rights data tables
2023 Global Impact Report 54
Manufactured Goods & Services
Our ethical sourcing program includes our standards for manufactured goods and
ZERO-TOLERANCE INDICATOR FY23 FY22
services, including beverages, food, merchandise, equipment, furniture and logistics
# Nonconformities related to wage practices 20 21
providers. Our program includes on-site factory assessments to identify potential or
actual violations. Commitment to continuous improvement is the cornerstone of our # Nonconformities related to transparency requirements 6 6
program and we work with our suppliers to remediate identified violations. # Nonconformities related to access denial into facilities for audits and
2 1
inspections
# Nonconformities related to health and safety, including direct and
0 0
immediate endangerment
# Nonconformities related to environmental impact 2 0
# Nonconformities related to forced labor 1 6
# Nonconformities related to child labor 5 1
# Nonconformities related to abuse and harassment 0 0
Total # nonconformities 36 35
% of FY22 nonconformities that have been remediated or closed by the
80% 26%*
end of the fiscal year
*The FY22 remediation % has been restated to align with fiscal year dates.
% of FY23 noncomformities that have been remediated or closed by the
42% —
end of the fiscal year
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
2023 Global Impact Report 55
G L O B A L
I M P A C T
R E P O R T
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
S
T
A
R
B
U
C
K
S
FISCAL 2023
environmental,
social and
governance
priorities
environmental, social and governance priorities
2023 Global Impact Report 56
In FY23, we engaged in a comprehensive third- While Starbucks believes that the environmental, social Our Priorities
party evaluation to identify and prioritize key and governance issues described in this Impact Report are
important, we currently do not believe that such issues are Climate strategy and resilience
environmental, social and governance topics
material to our financial results and results of operations, Environmentally-responsible sourcing practices
most important to the company and external
except to the extent referenced in our Annual Report on Greenhouse gas emissions and energy efficiency
stakeholder groups.
Form 10-K and subsequent 10-Q filings. This Impact Report Packaging
also contains human capital measures or objectives that Waste
This process aimed to guide Starbucks in focusing our
may be different from or are in addition to the human Water stewardship
strategy to advance our mission, promises and values.
capital measures or objectives that Starbucks is required to
disclose in its Annual Report on Form 10-K. For a discussion Community support and engagement
To do this, we conducted surveys and interviews across
on human capital measures or objectives that Starbucks Diversity, equity and inclusion
global stakeholder groups to understand the importance of
focuses on in managing its business, please see the Human rights within Starbucks operations
environmental, social and governance topics for Starbucks.
“Human Capital Management” section in our most recent Human rights within Starbucks supply chain
The assessment was conducted in addition to Starbucks Annual Report on Form 10-K. Nutrition and transparency
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program. While Partner attraction, development and culture
stakeholders’ viewpoints on the relative importance of Partners (OHS), community and customer safety
Understanding and addressing these key issues
environmental, social and governance issues may be Partner relations
are integral to meeting the expectations of our
informed in part by risks for Starbucks to manage, the Product quality and safety
stakeholders and ensuring alignment between
purpose of this assessment is to identify priority topics on
which Starbucks should focus. our business performance and environmental, Corporate governance
social and governance impacts. Cybersecurity and data privacy
Ethics and compliance
While there is work being done across all topics, these Research, development and innovation
results will help inform our program strategies and Transparency and stakeholder communication
reporting priorities going forward.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
environmental, social and governance priorities
2023 Global Impact Report 57
Environmental Topics Social Topics
TERM DEFINITION TERM DEFINITION
Forecasting and adapting to physical transition risks and opportunities Fostering relationships and promoting social vitality in communities
posed by climate change (such as disruptions to supply chain, physical by investing in community-based initiatives such as corporate
Climate strategy and resilience
risk, price of carbon and natural resource availability) and to help Community support and giving and community service. Managing relations and engaging
ensure a sustainable future for coffee. engagement with communities that are impacted economically, socially and/or
environmentally by our operations in an effort to provide benefits to
Engaging with suppliers, including coffee farmers we source from, to
local communities, including minority groups.
manage planetary impacts within the supply chain, including: coffee,
Environmentally-responsible
fairly produced materials (consider including specific topics - e.g., Attract and retain a diverse workforce and create an inclusive
sourcing practices
cocoa, timber), reforestation, regenerative agriculture, waste workplace culture to foster a sense of value and belonging for all
reduction, and carbon footprint. partners, including those who have been historically excluded or
underrepresented (on the basis of race/ethnicity, gender & gender
Managing energy efficiency throughout the value chain through
identify, LGBTQIA2+, Veteran status, disability status, socioeconomic
Greenhouse gas emissions and processes and operations and utilizing renewable energy; managing,
Diversity, equity and inclusion background, and other diverse identities and lived experiences).
energy efficiency measuring and reducing greenhouse gas emissions across production,
Ensure fair and equitable opportunities for all partners to reach their
operations, facilities and supply chains.
full potential throughout their career journey (hiring, development,
Improving the sustainability of packaging by transitioning to packaging placement, pay, promotion, etc.) Leverage a range of backgrounds,
that is reusable, recyclable, compostable, or contains recycled content. perspectives, and skills to enhance creativity, innovation, and
This also includes partnering with suppliers and industry organizations problem solving.
Packaging
to develop innovative solutions to reduce or eliminate single-use
Supporting compliance with labor laws in our global operations,
packaging and improve end-of-life treatment and adapt to local
owned operations, and licensed stores, including with respect to
packaging and circularity regulations. Human rights within Starbucks
human rights (e.g. anti-slavery, no child labor, anti-trafficking), fair
operations
Managing the waste generated as a result of our operations, and use labor practices, traceability, fair purchase practices and diverse
Waste of products, maximizing the recycling and reuse of materials, and sourcing.
reducing food waste in our operations.
Assessing and managing human rights issues throughout our supply
Water stewardship is a set of practices – to be used by businesses, chain, including coffee farms we source from and our manufactured
utilities, communities, and others – that promotes and fosters the Human rights within Starbucks goods supply chain. Work with supply chain partners to adhere to
sustainable and equitable management of freshwater resources. supply chain our standards for supply chain including respect for human rights
Water stewardship Water stewardship practices range from water use efficiency at an (e.g. anti-slavery, no child labor, anti-trafficking), fair labor practices,
organization’s own operations, to engagement with suppliers, to long- traceability, fair purchase practices and diverse sourcing.
term multi-stakeholder river basin projects, and beyond (UN CEO
Assessing products for health and nutrition impacts, providing customers
Water Mandate). Nutrition and transparency
with information about products in an understandable format.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
environmental, social and governance priorities
2023 Global Impact Report 58
Social Topics Governance Topics
TERM DEFINITION TERM DEFINITION
Attracting and retaining a wide range of talent. This includes Providing strong risk management structure and environmental, social
Partner (employee) attraction, providing benefits, training and education opportunities, and career and governance oversight that enables fair and effective governance
development and culture opportunities to partners and enabling programs that incentivize Corporate governance – including over global markets, licensees, and business partnerships –
greater employee wellbeing appropriate oversight, transparency, fair executive compensation, and
clear accountability.
Keeping partners, customers and community members healthy and
Partner (OHS), community and
safe and ensuring compliance with regulations as well as conformance Safeguarding against cyber-attacks, operational disruptions, data
customer safety
with company policies. breaches of customer and employee data and security threats.
Managing and protecting personal and financial data by identifying
Managing relations between Starbucks and its workers through Cybersecurity and data privacy
and proactively addressing vulnerabilities in information systems that
fair labor practices that are in compliance with local, regional and
could pose a data breach risk and ensuring appropriate safeguards are
national laws that govern fair pay, working conditions and freedom of
in place.
Partner relations association/collective bargaining by consulting and collaborating with
relevant internal and external stakeholders, and minimizing workflow Operating with integrity and complying with relevant regulations and
disruptions related to issues such as labor unrest or poor the highest standards of ethical and lawful conduct with effective
job satisfaction. Ethics and compliance management systems. Developed, documented and implemented
policies and procedures that prohibit bribery and other forms of
Ensuring the food we serve has been handled in accordance with
corruption by employees and contractors.
food safety regulations and industry standards and meets our quality
Product quality and safety standards. Includes continuously improving food safety management Remaining competitive in the marketplace through innovative
Research, development and
systems in our operations, and consistently employing safe-food products and technologies, automation, plant-based substitutes,
innovation
practices in preparing food in stores. traceability, etc.
Engaging with stakeholders through sharing open information on
Transparency and stakeholder our business practices, work in sustainability, our progress against
communication our ambitious environmental, social and governance goals, and our
commitment to the communities we serve.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
2023 Global Impact Report 59
ABOUT THIS REPORT
Scope Currency
This report provides an overview of our environmental and All references to currency are in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise
social impact strategies and annual progress during fiscal year noted.
2023 (FY23). While this report is not an exhaustive summary of
our efforts, it helps demonstrate the integration between our
Previous Reports
business and our promises to our most important stakeholders:
partners (employees), the environment, farmers, communities,
Starbucks has produced an annual impact report since 2001.
customers, and shareholders. This report also includes data
Previous annual reports and additional resources are available
tables that reflect our progress against our goals.
on our website.
We’ve included links to information and resources publicly
available at stories.starbucks.com and starbucks.com regarding Information Integrity
financial, corporate governance work, workplace and diversity
policies and performance, because these commitments are Starbucks management is responsible for the preparation and
directly tied to our business. The geographic scope of all integrity of the information reported for FY23. Through a system
data points in the report are tracked against U.S. company of internal controls, including a comprehensive verification
operations unless otherwise noted. Starbucks is committed process involving internal subject matter experts, we believe
to United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and this information accurately represents our global responsibility
uses these goals as a lens for our social impact programs activities and performance results for the fiscal year. External
and collaborations with others. Based on our stakeholder verification over specified metrics is provided by Moss Adams
engagement efforts, we also believe these areas are important LLP and Burns & McDonnell Engineering Inc.
to our customers, our partners, nongovernmental organizations
(NGOs) and investors.
Stay Up-to-Date
Reporting Year Visit stories.starbucks.com for the latest company information.
Starbucks fiscal year 2023 or “FY23” is October 3, 2022 through
October 1, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
2023 Global Impact Report 60
ABOUT THIS REPORT
Forward-Looking Statements
Our reporting on global responsibility for FY23 includes • t he costs associated with, and the successful execution and effects of, our • r isks associated with acquisitions, dispositions, business partnerships, or
“forward-looking” statements within the meaning of applicable existing and any future business opportunities, expansions, initiatives, investments - such as acquisition integration, termination difficulties or costs,
strategies, investments, and plans, including our Triple Shot Reinvention with or impairment in recorded value;
securities laws and regulations. Generally, these statements
Two Pumps Plan (“Reinvention”);
• t he impact of foreign currency translation, particularly a stronger U.S. dollar;
can be identified by the use of words such as “aim,” “anticipate,”
• t he impacts of partner investments and changes in the availability and cost of
• t he impact of substantial competition from new entrants, consolidations
“believe,” “continue,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “feel,” labor including any union organizing efforts and our responses to such efforts;
by competitors, and other competitive activities, such as pricing actions
“forecast,” “intend,” “may,” “outlook,” “plan,” “potential,”
• t he ability of our business partners, suppliers, and third-party providers to (including price reductions, promotions, discounting, couponing, or free
“predict,” “project,” “seek,” “should,” “will,” “would,” and similar fulfill their responsibilities and commitments; goods), marketing, category expansion, product introductions, or entry or
expansion in our geographic markets;
expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements, • h igher costs, lower quality, or unavailability of coffee, dairy, energy, water, raw
although not all forward-looking statements contain these materials, or product ingredients; • t he impact of changes in U.S. tax law and related guidance and regulations
that may be implemented, including on tax rates;
identifying words. By their nature, forward-looking statements • t he impact of significant increases in logistics costs;
• t he impact of health epidemics, pandemics, or other public health events
involve risks, uncertainties, and other factors (many beyond • a worsening in the terms and conditions upon which we engage with our
on our business and financial results, and the risk of negative economic
manufacturers and source suppliers, whether resulting from broader local or
our control) that could cause our actual results to differ impacts and related regulatory measures or voluntary actions that may be
global conditions, or dynamics specific to our relationships with such parties;
materially from our historical experience or from our current put in place, including restrictions on business operations or social distancing
• u nfavorable global or regional economic conditions and related economic requirements, and the duration and efficacy of such restrictions;
expectations or projections. Our forward-looking statements,
slowdowns or recessions, low consumer confidence, high unemployment,
• f ailure to comply with anti-corruption laws, trade sanctions, and restrictions
and the risks and uncertainties related thereto, include, but are weak credit or capital markets, budget deficits, burdensome government
or similar laws or regulations; and
debt, austerity measures, higher interest rates, higher taxes, political
not limited to, those described under the “Risk Factors” and
instability, higher inflation, or deflation; • t he impact of significant legal disputes and proceedings, or government
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
investigations.
• i nherent risks of operating a global business including geopolitical instability;
and Results of Operations” sections of our most recently filed
10-K and 10-Q and in other filings with the SEC, as well as: • f ailure to attract or retain key executive or partner talent or successfully In addition, many of the foregoing risks and uncertainties are, or
transition executives;
could be, exacerbated by any worsening of the global business
• o ur ability to preserve, grow, and leverage our brands, including the risk of • t he potential negative effects of incidents involving food or beverage-borne
and economic environment. A forward-looking statement
negative responses by consumers (such as boycotts or negative publicity illnesses, tampering, adulteration, contamination, or mislabeling;
campaigns) or governmental actors (such as retaliatory legislative treatment) is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future events or
• n egative publicity related to our Company, products, brands, marketing,
who object to certain actions taken or not taken by the Company, which circumstances, and those future events or circumstances
executive leadership, partners, Board of Directors, founder, operations,
responses could adversely affect our brand value;
business performance, or prospects; may not occur. You should not place undue reliance on the
• t he acceptance of the Company’s products and changes in consumer • p otential negative effects of a material breach, failure, or corruption of our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date
preferences, consumption, or spending behavior and our ability to anticipate
information technology systems or those of our direct and indirect business of this report. We are under no obligation to update or alter
or react to them; shifts in demographic or health and wellness trends; or
partners, suppliers, or third-party providers, or failure to comply with
unfavorable consumer reaction to new products, platforms, reformulations, or any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
personal data protection laws;
other innovations;
information, future events, or otherwise.
• o ur environmental, social, and governance (“ESG”) efforts and any reaction
• o ur anticipated operating expenses, including our anticipated total capital
related thereto, such as the rise in opposition to ESG and inclusion and
expenditures;
diversity efforts;
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
2023 Global Impact Report 61
G L O B A L
I M P A C T
R E P O R T
©2024 Starbucks Corporation.
S
T
A
R
B
U
C
K
S
FISCAL 2023
external
verification
assurance
letters
Memorandum
Date: January 30, 2024
To: To the Board of Directors and Stakeholders of Starbucks Coffee Company
From: Emily Robbins – Burns & McDonnell
Subject: Verification Report for FY2023 Greenhouse Gas Inventory, Water Withdrawals
Inventory, and Operational Waste Inventory
Burns & McDonnell Engineering Company, Inc. (Burns & McDonnell) was retained by
Starbucks Corporation (Starbucks) to verify and provide a third-party assessment of the 2023
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Inventory, Water Withdrawals Inventory, and Operational
Waste Inventory for Fiscal Year (FY) 2023. The purpose of assessment was to verify that the FY
2023 GHG Emissions Inventory, Water Withdrawals Inventory, and Operational Waste
Inventory represents a reasonable and accurate account of Starbuck’s GHG emissions, water
withdrawals and operational waste.
Inventory Summary
Verified values for Starbucks’ FY 2023 GHG, Water Withdrawals, and Operational Waste
Inventories are shown below in Table 1.
Table 1: Verified Inventory Summary
Metric Total
Total GHG Emissions (Scope 1 + Scope 2 Market-based + 14,579,796 metric tonnes
Scope 3) CO2e
Total Water Withdrawal (from direct operations, licensed 5,132,983 megaliters
stores, and agricultural and packaging commodities purchased
by Starbucks)
Total Weight of Non-Hazardous Operational Waste 1,366,813 metric tonnes
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory
Burns & McDonnell reviewed Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 GHG emissions as presented in the
“FY23 SBUX Scopes 1 & 2 and Operational Water Inventory 05JAN2024.xlsx”, “FY23 SBUX
Scopes 1 & 2 and Operational Water Inventory 24JAN2024.xlsx”, “FY23 SBUX Scope 3 and
Indirect Water Inventory_05JAN24.xlsx”, and “FY23 SBUX Scope 3 and Indirect Water
Inventory_24JAN24.xlsx” excel workbooks for the fiscal period October 3, 2022 through
October 1, 2023. The GHG emissions data included in the emissions inventory that were subject
to review consisted of the following for each Scope:
Scope 1: Direct GHG Emissions
• Fuel combustion (retail and non-retail facilities, roasting)
• Process emissions from roasting
• Refrigerant losses from stationary equipment
Memorandum
(continued)
January 30, 2024
Page 2
• Process emissions of nitrous oxide (whipped cream chargers)
• Corporate jet fuel use
• Plant vehicle fuel use
Scope 2: Indirect GHG Emissions
• Purchased electricity usage (market based and location based)
• District heating and cooling
Scope 3: Corporate Value Chain
• Category 1 – Purchased Goods and Services
• Category 2 – Capital Goods
• Category 3 – Fuel- and Energy-Related Activities
• Category 4 – Upstream Transportation and Distribution
• Category 5 – Waste Generated in Operations
• Category 6 – Business Travel
• Category 7 – Employee Commuting
• Category 9 – Downstream Transportation and Distribution
• Category 10 – Processing of Sold Products
• Category 11 – Use of Sold Products
• Category 12 – End of Life Treatment of Sold Products
• Category 14 – Franchises
• Category 15 – Investments
It should be noted that this inventory is based on the Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) Global
Warming Potential Values developed by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)
Fourth Assessment Report.
The GHG inventory assurance review was conducted in accordance with the ISO 14064-3
Standard and World Resources Institute GHG Protocol based on evidence of the reliability of the
procedures undertaken to develop the GHG Emissions Footprint. To the best of our knowledge,
Burns & McDonnell has found with moderate assurance that Starbucks has satisfactorily
compiled a reasonable and fair account of their GHG emissions for FY 2023. The verified values
for Scope 1, 2 and 3 are shown in Table 1.
Water Withdrawals Inventory
In order to complete this moderate assurance of Starbucks’ FY 2023 Water Withdrawals
Inventory, Burns & McDonnell utilized the AA1000AS Quality Assurance Standard and
obtained, analyzed and verified data related to water withdrawals as described below. Data were
reviewed as presented in “FY23 SBUX Scopes 1 & 2 and Operational Water Inventory
05JAN2024.xlsx”, “FY23 SBUX Scopes 1 & 2 and Operational Water Inventory
Memorandum
(continued)
January 30, 2024
Page 3
24JAN2024.xlsx”, “FY23 SBUX Scope 3 and Indirect Water Inventory_05JAN24.xlsx”, and
“FY23 SBUX Scope 3 and Indirect Water Inventory_24JAN24.xlsx” excel workbooks for the
fiscal period October 3, 2022 through October 1, 2023. This review included:
• A review of Starbuck’s operations and facility activities for the purposes of verifying the
water withdrawals.
• A qualitative review evaluating water withdrawals potentially omitted from the FY 2023
Water Withdrawals Inventory and the impact on the overall inventory accuracy.
• A review of the processes and procedures utilized to gather data for and develop the FY
2023 Water Withdrawals Inventory.
• An examination of Starbucks’ 2023 Water Withdrawals Inventory report and electronic
workbook spreadsheets utilized to calculate water withdrawals.
Operational Waste Inventory
In order to complete this moderate assurance of Starbucks’ FY 2023 Operational Waste
Inventory, Burns & McDonnell utilized the AA1000AS Quality Assurance Standard and
obtained, analyzed and verified data related to operational waste as described below. Data were
reviewed as presented in “FY19 - FY23 SBUX Global Operational Waste Inventory
17JAN2024.xlsx”. This review included:
1. A review of Starbuck’s operations and facility activities for the purposes of verifying the
operational waste inventory.
2. A qualitative review evaluating operational waste potentially omitted from the FY 2023
Operational Waste Inventory and the impact on the overall inventory accuracy.
3. A review of the processes and procedures utilized to gather data for and develop the FY
2023 Operational Waste Inventory.
4. An examination of Starbucks’ 2023 Operational Waste Inventory report and electronic
workbook spreadsheets utilized to calculate operational waste for FY 2023.
5. Burns & McDonnell generally assumed that raw source data provided were accurate.
Statement of Independence
This verification and third-party assessment was performed with no conflicts of interest in
relation to providing the assurance of the FY 2023 Greenhouse Gas Inventory, Water
Withdrawals Inventory, and Operational Waste Inventory for Starbucks.
Report of Independent Accountants
To the Stakeholders of Starbucks Coffee Company
We have examined the data identified below (the Data) contained within Starbucks Coffee Company’s
Impact Report (the Report) for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2023. Starbucks Coffee Company’s
management is responsible for presenting the Data for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2023 in
accordance with the criteria contained in the respective sections of the Report indicated below (the
Criteria). Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Data based on our examination:
• 99.7% ethically sourced coffee purchases as contained in the Ethical Sourcing Performance
(C.A.F.E Practices) section on page 19 of the Report;
• 99.7% ethically sourced tea purchases as contained in the Responsible Sourcing for Tea section on
page 42 of the Report;
• 21,790 metric tons of segregated cocoa beans purchased directly from Cargill and indirectly through
OFI as contained in the Responsible Sourcing for Cocoa section on page 42 of the Report;
• Investment in farmer loans since FY18 of $65.8 million as contained in the Global Farmer Fund
section on page 19 of the Report.
Our examination was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Those standards require that we plan and perform the
examination to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Data is in accordance with the Criteria, in
all material respects. An examination involves performing procedures to obtain evidence about the Data.
Those procedures are described in more detail in the paragraph below. The nature, timing, and extent of
the procedures selected depend on our judgment, including an assessment of the risks of material
misstatement of the Data, whether due to fraud or error. We believe that the evidence we obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Our evidence-gathering procedures included, among other activities, the following:
• Testing the effectiveness of the internal reporting system used to collect and compile information on
the Data which is included in the Report;
• Performing specific procedures, on a sample basis, to validate the Data, through communications with
Starbucks Coffee Trading Company buying operations in Lausanne, Switzerland, and Corporate
headquarters in Seattle, Washington;
• Interviewing partners (employees) responsible for data collection and reporting;
• Reviewing relevant documentation, including corporate policies, management and reporting
structures;
• Performing tests, on a sample basis, of documentation and systems used to collect, analyze and
compile the Data that is included in the Report, and
• Confirming certain of the Data to third-party confirmations and reports.
We are required to be independent of Starbucks Coffee Company and to meet our other ethical
responsibilities, in accordance with relevant ethical requirements relating to our examination engagement.
In our opinion, the Data for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2023, is presented in accordance with the
Criteria, in all material respects.
Seattle, Washington
February 13, 2024

