2023 Global Impact Report
Advancing sustainable healthcare by focusing on our
products, patients, people and the environment.
1 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Welcome
Welcome 3
Teleflex at A Glance 7
Corporate Social Responsibility 16
Ethics & Governance 25
Planet & Environment 34
People 41
Community & Sustainable Healthcare 57
Appendix 77
2 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Welcome to the Teleflex
2023 Global Impact Report.
Here you will find information
on how Teleflex is advancing
sustainable healthcare by
focusing on our products,
patients, people and the
environment.
Welcome 3
About this Report 4
CEO Message 5
Corporate Social Responsibility Chair Message 6
3 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
About this Report
The Teleflex Incorporated fourth annual Global Impact Report details Unless otherwise noted, this report provides information for the year
our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program and encompasses ended December 31, 2023 and includes information from our owned and
our current progress and future aspirations as a company. This report operated facilities globally. While we have internal processes in place to
also showcases practical ways in which we seek to address evolving ensure that our reporting is accurate and as robust as possible, the data
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) standards to identify and in this report has not been externally assured. Teleflex is considering
quantify the measures of our sustainability and societal impact. external assurance in the future.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting We value feedback from all of our stakeholders. You can contact us
Initiative (GRI) 2021 Standards, the Sustainability Accounting Standards regarding this report or our CSR Program at
Board’s (SASB) industry-specific standards for medical equipment, and CSR@teleflex.com.
the guidelines of the Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures
(TCFD). Tables providing relevant information and mapping of applicable
reporting standards to relevant information included elsewhere in this
report are included at the end of this report.
44 TTEELLEEFFLLEEXX 22002233 GGLLOOBBAALL IIMMPPAACCTT RREEPPOORRTT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
CEO Message
I am pleased to present the Teleflex 2023 Global Impact Report, ■ Improved our ESG ratings: We improved our ratings in three
which provides an update on our Corporate Social Responsibility of the industry’s recognized reporting agencies, earning us
(CSR) progress. In 2023, we continued to implement new projects an AA rating for MSCI; a 3, 1, and 6 respectively on the ISS ESG
and execute on existing initiatives to further our CSR efforts, as QualityScore for each relative topic area; and an ESG Risk Rating
of 24.6 from Morningstar Sustainalytics.
we remained focused on our products, patients, people and the
■ Generated Renewable Energy at our Manufacturing Sites.
environment.
We have 7 manufacturing sites equipped with solar photovoltaic
(PV) installations. During 2023, those sites generated over
As an organization, we have a 3-year Growth Strategy to drive long-
7.5 GWh (gigawatt hours) of renewable electricity.
term durable growth and we will achieve this growth by staying focused
■ Continued our focus on advancing independent research:
on four strategic priorities: We will drive sustainable constant currency
In 2023, we issued 12 directed grants totaling nearly $4.8 million
revenue growth, achieve margin and earnings expansion, optimize our
and 20 Investigator Initiated Study (IIS) grants worth over
product portfolio, and advance corporate social responsibility and
$3.7 million for a total of $8.5 million in clinical research grants.
an inclusive culture.
By strengthening our sustainability efforts as a company, we can
The integration of CSR into our 3-year Growth Strategy reaffirms our
become a better partner to all of our key stakeholders and a better
commitment to sustainability, corporate responsibility and inclusivity.
steward of the environment.
While this report shares many examples of our progress, I would like to
Around the globe, over 14,500 Teleflex employees are united in the
highlight a few key initiatives. In 2023, Teleflex:
understanding that what we do every day makes a difference and
■ Committed to reaching net-zero greenhouse gas emissions together we can achieve our purpose to improve the health and quality
across its value chain by 2050: The Science Based Targets of people’s lives.
initiative (SBTi) has validated our commitment for both near-
term and long-term emissions reduction targets for scope Thank you,
1, 2, and 3 emissions. Liam Kelly
Chairman, President and CEO
Liam Kelly
Chairman, President and CEO
55 TTEELLEEFFLLEEXX 22002233 GGLLOOBBAALL IIMMPPAACCTT RREEPPOORRTT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Corporate Social Responsibility Chair Message
I am very honored to be the new Chair of our CSR Steering global risk that we must manage closely, and so we conducted our first-
Committee and excited to continue the growth of our CSR ever climate risk assessment with a third-party consulting agency.
program. I am responsible for Teleflex’s overall CSR program
and performance. I know that the efforts we make in our CSR We also made leaps in our ESG ratings in 2023 with a large
program are important to our organization and success will improvement in our ISS ESG QualityScore, Sustainalytics, EcoVadis
require all of our employees to be CSR champions to ensure that ratings, and our MSCI AA ESG rating. We are very satisfied with our CSR
we are moving our initiatives forward. I am fortunate to have progress and look forward to our continued journey.
amazing colleagues and leaders globally who work diligently on
each CSR pillar and are passionate about our CSR program. CSR is also an ongoing opportunity to attract and retain great talent,
engage with our stockholders, and improve our relationships with
Our fourth annual report provides the most comprehensive review thus our customers and patients. We believe that our CSR journey can be a
far of the great work we have done globally to improve our corporate competitive advantage for Teleflex in all of these areas.
social responsibility. I am extremely proud of the significant progress
our team has made regarding CSR. In 2023, we continued to formally
engage more employees in our CSR program, continued to expand our Sincerely,
sustainable healthcare work, and grew our advocacy efforts to ensure
more patients have access to essential healthcare. In 2022, we shared
that we had committed to setting Science Based Targets for our climate
change goals, and in 2023 we have created and received validation of Cam Hicks
our near-term and long-term Net Zero Science Based Targets. We know Corporate VP & Chief Human Resources Officer
that climate change is more than just a regulatory hurdle, but rather a
Cam Hicks
Corporate VP & Chief Human
Resources Officer
66 TTEELLEEFFLLEEXX 22002233 GGLLOOBBAALL IIMMPPAACCTT RREEPPOORRTT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Teleflex at a Glance
Our Core Values 8
The Teleflex Purpose 9
Snapshot 10
Map of our Global Sites 11
Our Products 12
Our Products Impact 15
7 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Teleflex at a Glance
Teleflex is a global provider of medical technologies expanding our presence in the medical device industry,
that are designed to enhance clinical benefits, improve while divesting all our other businesses, which served the
Building Trust Entrepreneurial Spirit
patient and provider safety, and reduce total procedural aerospace, automotive, industrial, and marine markets.
costs. We primarily design, develop, manufacture, and Following the divestitures of our marine business and cargo Establishing trust is an important and Teleflex is a highly entrepreneurial workplace,
continuous process that has many different and much of our company’s growth has come
supply single-use medical devices used by hospitals and container and systems businesses in 2011, we became
levels and meanings. Trust defines our from this trait. We continuously encourage our
healthcare providers for diagnostic and therapeutic exclusively a medical device company. Since then, we have
relationships as individuals, teams, and people to find new and innovative ways to
procedures. We are home to industry-leading brands continued to expand our business through a combination of as a company. Our employees trust demonstrate their entrepreneurial
with solutions in the fields of vascular access, internal research and development, external partnerships, us to give them the tools that they spirit and add value to their jobs.
need to succeed, we trust them
interventional cardiology and radiology, anesthesia, and strategic acquisitions.
to be accountable, and they
emergency medicine, surgical, and urology. We market trust one another to create a
and sell our products to hospitals and healthcare Our Core Values positive work environment.
providers worldwide through a combination of our
Our Core Values define our company, shaping our corporate
direct sales force and distributors.
culture, guiding our business practices, and directing the People Make it Fun
way we interact with our stakeholders. Our Core Values
Throughout our history, we have continually focused
People are at the center of We are committed to
revolve entirely around people - from our patients and
on providing innovative, technology-driven, specialty-
everything we do, and as a helping our employees to find
healthcare professionals to our employees and stockholders,
engineered products that help our customers meet their result, they are at the heart of our fulfillment and enjoyment in their
to our suppliers and distributors, to the countless individuals Core Values. Our commitment to jobs by achieving new things, taking
business requirements. Beginning in 2007, we significantly
people encompasses being mindful of pride in their work, and taking time
who make up the communities we serve around the world.
changed the composition of our portfolio of businesses,
others and prioritizing respect in every out to celebrate their successes.
interaction.
88 TTEELLEEFFLLEEXX 22002233 GGLLOOBBAALL IIMMPPAACCTT RREEPPOORRTT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
The Teleflex Purpose
English: Improve the health and quality of people’s lives.
Español (Spanish): Mejorar la salud y la calidad de vida de las personas.
Português (Portuguese): Melhorar a saúde e a qualidade de vida das pessoas.
Deutsch (German): Die Gesundheit und Lebensqualität der Menschen verbessern.
Français (French): Améliorer la santé et la qualité de vie des gens.
Italiano (Italian): Migliorare lo stato di salute e la qualità di vita delle persone.
Cestina (Czech): Pomáhat lidem ke zdravějšímu a spokojenějšímu životu.
Nederlands (Dutch): De gezondheid en kwaliteit van mensenlevens verbeteren.
中國的 (Chinese): 提高人民的健康和生活水平。
日本語 (Japanese): 人々の健康と生活の質を改善します。
9 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Snapshot 2023 Revenues:
Headquartered in Wayne, Pennsylvania, U.S. with operations in 35 countries
and serving healthcare providers in more than 150 countries
Americas: $1,715.4 million
By the Numbers:
Revenues Asia: $346.9 million
by Reporting
Segment
14,500 employees EMEA: $586.2 million
OEM: $326.0 million
2023 Consolidated Revenue: Vascular: $708.0 million
Interventional: $511.4 million
Interventional Urology: $319.8 million
Revenues
by Global Anesthesia: $390.0 million
Product Category
Surgical: $427.4 million
OEM: $326.0 million
$2.974
Other: $291.9 million
billion
Hospitals/Healthcare Providers: 87%
Revenues
Medical Device Manufacturers: 11%
by End Market
Home Care: 2%
You can find more information about Teleflex in our Annual Report.
1100 TTEELLEEFFLLEEXX 22002233 GGLLOOBBAALL IIMMPPAACCTT RREEPPOORRTT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Map of our Global Sites1
Maple Grove Chelmsford
Plymouth Jaffrey
Mansfield
NETHERLANDS
Reading Wallingford
Vianen
Wyomissing Coventry
Cincinnati Wayne
GERMANY
Asheboro Morrisville
Bad Liebenzell
Trenton Fellbach
Kernen
Olive Branch
CANADA UK CZECH REPUBLIC
Beaconsfield Hradec Králové
Žďár nad Sázavou
CHINA
Athlone AUSTRIA Beijing
Limerick Vienna Shanghai JAPAN
IRELAND Tokyo
USA
Pleasanton Varedo
ITALY
Santa Barbara Athens INDIA
Seoul
GREECE Bengaluru
SOUTH KOREA
Chandigarh
Madrid Le Faget Puducherry
Chihuahua SPAIN FRANCE
Taipei
Mexico City
Nuevo Laredo TAIWAN
Tecate SINGAPORE
MEXICO Singapore
Kamunting
Kulim
SOUTH AFRICA
MALAYSIA
Johannesburg
AUSTRALIA
Sydney
1 L ocations with 25 or more employees as of December 31, 2023.
1111 TTEELLEEFFLLEEXX 22002233 GGLLOOBBAALL IIMMPPAACCTT RREEPPOORRTT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Our Products
Vascular Access Interventional Anesthesia
Our Vascular Access product category offers devices that facilitate a Our Interventional product category offers devices that facilitate a Our Anesthesia product category is comprised of airway, pain
variety of critical care therapies and other applications with a focus on variety of applications to diagnose and deliver treatment of coronary management and hemostatic product lines that support hospital,
helping reduce vascular-related complications. These products primarily and peripheral vascular disease. These products primarily consist of a emergency medicine and military channels.
consist of our Arrow™ branded catheters, catheter navigation and tip variety of coronary catheters, structural heart support devices, peripheral
Our airway management products and related devices are designed to
positioning systems and our intraosseous, or in the bone, access systems. intervention products and mechanical circulatory support platform used
enable use of standard and advanced anesthesia techniques in both
by interventional cardiologists, interventional radiologists and vascular
Our catheters are used in a wide range of procedures, including pre-hospital emergency and hospital settings. Our key products include
surgeons. Clinical benefits of our products include increased vein and
the administration of intravenous therapies, the measurement of laryngoscopes, supraglottic airways, endotracheal tubes and atomization
artery access, post-procedure closure, and increased support during
blood pressure and the withdrawal of blood samples through a devices, which are branded under our LMA™, Rusch™ and MAD™ trade names.
complex medical procedures. Our primary product offerings consist of a
single puncture site. Many of our catheters provide antimicrobial and
portfolio of Arrow™ branded intra-aortic balloon pumps and catheters,
Our pain management product line includes epidurals, catheters and disposable
antithrombogenic protection technology that has been shown to
GuideLiner™, Turnpike™ and TrapLiner™ catheters, the MANTA™ Vascular
pain pumps for regional anesthesia, designed to improve patients’ post-
reduce the risk of catheter related bloodstream infections and microbial
Closure device and Arrow™ OnControl™ powered bone biopsy system.
operative pain experience, which are branded under our Arrow™ trade name.
colonization and thrombus accumulation on catheter surfaces.
Our hemostatic products accelerate the body's natural clotting cascade
Our intraosseous access systems are designed for the delivery of medications
and are used in trauma situations where bleeding is difficult to control.
and fluids when intravenous access is difficult to obtain in emergent, urgent
The portfolio consists of external hemostats used by first responders,
or medically necessary cases. Our products offer a method for vascular
interventional products used in the catheter lab, and trauma products used
access that can be administered quickly and effectively in the hospital and
pre-hospital environments and include the EZ-IO™ Intraosseous Vascular by trauma surgeons, which are branded under our QuikClot™ trade name.
Access System and Arrow™ FAST1™ Sternal Intraosseous Infusion System.
12 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Surgical Interventional Urology Respiratory
Our Surgical product category consists of single-use and reusable Our Interventional Urology product category includes the UroLift™ Our Respiratory products are used in a variety of care settings and
devices designed for use in a variety of surgical procedures. These System, a minimally invasive technology for treating lower urinary tract primarily consist of humidification and oxygen therapy products. This
products primarily consist of metal and polymer ligating clips, fascial symptoms due to benign prostatic hyperplasia, or BPH. The UroLift™ product category previously included aerosol therapy, spirometry 6 and
closure surgical systems used in laparoscopic surgical procedures, System involves the placement of permanent implants, typically through ventilation management products, as well as certain other oxygen therapy
percutaneous surgical systems, a powered bariatric stapler, and other a transurethral outpatient procedure, that hold the prostate lobes products, all of which were included in the Respiratory business divestiture.
surgical instruments used in Ear, Nose and Throat and Cardio-Vascular apart to relieve compression on the urethra without cutting, heating or
and Thoracic procedures. Our significant surgical brands include Weck™, removing prostate tissue. In 2023, we expanded our product portfolio
MiniLap™, Pleur-Evac™, Deknatel™, KMedic™, Pilling™ and Titan SGS™. with the acquisition of Palette Life Sciences AB (“Palette”), which adds a
portfolio of hyaluronic acid gel-based products primarily utilized in the
treatment of urological diseases, including Barrigel, a rectal spacing
product used in connection with radiation therapy treatment of prostate
cancer. Our Interventional Urology product portfolio is most heavily
weighted in our Americas segment.
13 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Urology OEM (Original equipment manufacturer)
Our Urology product portfolio provides bladder management for Our OEM segment designs, manufactures and supplies devices and
patients in the hospital and individuals in the home care markets. instruments for other medical device manufacturers. Our OEM division,
The product portfolio consists principally of a wide range of catheters which includes the TFX Medical OEM, TFX OEM, Deknatel™ and HPC
(including Foley and intermittent), urine collectors, catheterization Medical brands, provides custom extrusions, micro-diameter film-cast
accessories and products for operative endourology, which are tubing, diagnostic and interventional catheters, balloons and balloon
marketed under the TeleflexTM and Rusch™ brand names. Our Urology catheters, film-insulated fine wire, coated mandrel wire, conductors,
product portfolio is most heavily weighted in our EMEA segment. sheath/dilator introducers, specialized sutures and performance fibers,
bioabsorbable sutures, yarns and resins.
14 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Our Products Impact
Making a Difference Teleflex products are used globally every day:
53,000 5,000
In over 53,000 surgical procedures By Interventional Cardiologists, Radiologists, and Vascular
Surgeons in over 5,000 patients who require various
percutaneous diagnostics interventions
12,000 4,000
To care for more than 12,000 patients in the By emergency responders to treat 4,000 patients in
Intensive Care Unit from neonates to adults the field, including more than 1,000 cardiac arrests
300 7,000
To treat nearly 300 men with benign prostatic By Interventional Cardiologists to treat over
hyperplasia (BPH) and prostate cancer 7,000 Interventional Cardiology procedures
Note: Statistics included in the graphic above were calculated based on 2023 global sales data, management assumptions and estimates.
1155 TTEELLEEFFLLEEXX 22002233 GGLLOOBBAALL IIMMPPAACCTT RREEPPOORRTT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Corporate Social Responsibility
CSR Strategy and Approach 18
Corporate Social Responsibility Governance 19
ESG Ratings 20
Meet our Corporate Social Responsibility Leaders 21
CSR Materiality Assessment 22
Stakeholder Engagement 23
CSR Highlights from 2023 24
16 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is
how a business holds itself accountable
in areas such as environmental
stewardship, ethics, employee
engagement, community involvement,
and economic responsibility. Successful
CSR programs are instrumental in
boosting brand perception and are
taking a more prevalent place in
customer buying habits, investor interest,
and talent management. You can learn
more about our CSR program here.
When Teleflex developed our 2023-2025 3-year Growth Strategy,
it was important that CSR was one of the four main corporate objectives
to deliver long-term durable growth. The integration of CSR into our
3-year Growth Strategy demonstrates our commitment and efforts in
working towards a more sustainable and inclusive society. We don’t just
view CSR as the right thing to do, we also view it as the right thing to
do for business. CSR is necessary for companies to continue to conduct
business and to keep their “social license to operate.” Our employees,
customers, patients, and stockholders continue to support us in our
CSR journey, keeping us motivated to innovate and forge ahead.
17 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
CSR Strategy and Approach
At Teleflex, our Core Values put people at the center ■ Continued expansion of our learning and
of all that we do. In consulting and engaging our development programs Ethics Planet &
people, we defined a CSR strategy and structure ■ Focused on our sustainable healthcare program
& Governance Environment
that reflects the specific topics and priorities of CSR to expand its impact
stakeholders across our organization. ■ Improved in all major ESG ratings
■ Corporate Governance ■ GHG Emission Reduction
CSR in Teleflex is structured based on four strategic pillars, In 2022, we initiated the process for developing our ■ Public Policy ■ Sustainable Procurement
each responsible for key focus areas for our people, business, CSR Roadmap. This roadmap incorporates programs, ■ Compliance, Integrity and Ethics ■ Logistics and Distribution
and stakeholders. Each pillar focuses on a set of specific initiatives, and activities we plan to work towards in our
■ Enterprise Risk Management ■ Responsible Consumption
topics and priorities. We developed these pillars based on CSR journey. This roadmap is reviewed throughout the
■ Sales & Marketing Practices
a number of internal and external factors and through year to ensure each pillar is on the right path and is
input from various functions within the organization. adjusted as needed. This roadmap is not just for the year ■ Information Security and
ahead but for years out with some items all the way out Data Privacy
In 2023, these pillars have been updated to reflect to 2030. In 2023, we continued building this roadmap
the ongoing evolution of our business and strategic out in more detail and use this as our north star.
priorities. As such, our fourth and final pillar has been
updated to Community & Sustainable Healthcare, in In 2024, we have, or are planning to add, three
Community &
recognition of the important role Community plays in our additional resources to the Teleflex CSR team. We hired People
Sustainable Healthcare
JOIN Act with Purpose initiative, the Teleflex Foundation, a Sustainability Analyst who is a key member of the team
Clinical Research and Medical Education Grants, and our supporting the management of corporate sustainability
ongoing commitment to our local communities. initiatives from our CSR pillars, data analysis, and ESG ■ Employee Engagement ■ Philanthropy
reporting. We also hired a Manager, ESG Reporting and Communication ■ Community Engagement
We continue to mature in our CSR efforts and below are a few who will support our mandatory ESG reporting such ■ Learning and Development ■ Grants
key highlights for 2023: as the new E.U. Corporate Sustainability Reporting
■ Benefits and Family Support ■ Product Training and Education
Directive (CSRD) requirements and any other mandatory
■ Increased diversity on our Board of Directors requirements. In addition, we plan to hire a Sustainable ■ Diversity, Equity and Inclusion ■ Sustainable Products
■ Announced near-term and long-term Net Zero Procurement Analyst to support Global Procurement in ■ Employee Recognition ■ Healthcare Access and Equity
targets for climate action which were validated by managing sustainability risks and prepare data for all ■ Employee Health and Safety ■ Product Safety and Quality
the Science-Based Targets Initiative
external regulatory and internal reporting requirements.
■ Conducted our first climate change risk and
They will also manage data integrity within our third-
opportunity assessment
party sustainability software platforms.
18 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Corporate Social Responsibility Governance
Our CSR Steering Committee is made up of about the progress and status of our CSR program. The
Nominating and Governance Committee of the Teleflex Board of Directors
executive and senior-level leaders within the Chair also provides an update to Executive Management2
company and provides oversight and management on a periodic basis during their larger leadership
of Teleflex’s CSR program. We created a CSR meetings. The Senior Manager and CSR Chair provide
Working group, which is a subset of the Steering reports on our CSR program to the Nominating and
Chairman, President and CEO
Committee adding other internal functions that Governance Committee of the Teleflex Board of Directors
are critical to moving our agenda forward. on a quarterly basis and to the full Board of Directors at
least once a year.
This group meets regularly to discuss action items and
Chair of CSR Steering Committee
more detailed program development and execution. The members of the Steering Committee consist of
Our Pillar Leads are senior-level leaders who are senior leaders across most company functions, including:
Senior Manager, Sustainability
responsible for the day-to-day improvements and
■ Compliance Strategy and Reporting
management for each pillar and our Pillar Sponsor is
■ Clinical and Medical Affairs
an executive-level member who provides oversight and
strategic guidance. Our Senior Manager, Sustainability ■ Global Manufacturing and Supply Chain CSR Steering Committee
Strategy and Reporting manages our CSR program from ■ Commercial
a day-to-day standpoint and is responsible for the larger ■ R&D
program process. ■ Investor Relations
■ Global Brand, Digital and Communications
The Senior Manager meets with the Pillar Leads on a ■ Human Resources Ethics Planet People Community
& Governance & Environment & Sustainable
monthly, if not more frequent, basis to align on program ■ Legal Pillar Pillar Pillar Healthcare Pillar
and pillar strategy and progress. The Senior Manager ■ Finance Sponsor Sponsor Sponsor Sponsor
reports directly to the Chair of the Steering Committee ■ Sustainability Lead Lead Lead Lead
Subcommittee Subcommittee Subcommittee Subcommittee
who reports into our CEO and provides monthly updates
2 E xecutive Management Team is defined as a smaller subset of the Senior Management Team
19 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
ESG Ratings
One of the ways that Teleflex can demonstrate MSCI ESG Rating3 ISS ESG QualityScore4 Sustainalytics5
our advancements in our CSR program is through
external ESG ratings. These organizations review We are proud to share that in 2023, Teleflex received We have obtained a 3, 1, and 6 ratings on the ISS Teleflex received an ESG Risk Rating of 24.6 from
and rate Teleflex based on our level and quality of a rating of AA (on a scale of AAA-CCC) in the MSCI ESG QualityScore for the environmental, social, and Morningstar Sustainalytics and was assessed to be at
reporting and disclosure as it relates to ESG topics. ESG Ratings assessment. This shows tremendous governance categories respectively. In 2023, we have medium risk of experiencing material financial impacts
improvement from BB in 2020 and puts us in the top seen a 3-point improvement in our Governance Score from ESG factors. The ESG Risk Rating has a score
38% of all companies in the medical equipment and and maintained our E&S scores. This scoring system range from 0 to 40+, with 0 representing the lowest
supplies sub industry.3 is based on 1-10 (1 being lower governance risk and ESG risk. This is an improvement from 29.4 in 2022 and
higher governance risk = 10 as well as higher E&S puts Teleflex in the 19th percentile of medical device
disclosure = 1 and lower E&S disclosure = 10). companies (the lower percentile the better).6
M S C I
AA
ESG RATINGS
CCC B BB BBB A AA AAA
3 T he use by Teleflex of any MSCI ESG Research LLC or its affiliates (“MSCI”) data, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not constitute
a sponsorship, endorsement, recommendation, or promotion of Teleflex by MSCI. MSCI services and data are the property of MSCI or its information providers, and are
provided ‘as-is’ and without warranty. MSCI names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI.
4 T hese scores are as of January 31, 2024 and may have changed. To learn more about the ISS ESG ratings please visit https://www.issgovernance.com/esg/ratings/
5 C opyright ©2023 Morningstar Sustainalytics. All rights reserved. This publication contains information developed by Sustainalytics (www.sustainalytics.com). Such information
and data are proprietary of Sustainalytics and/or its third party suppliers (Third Party Data) and are provided for informational purposes only. They do not constitute an
endorsement of any product or project, nor an investment advice and are not warranted to be complete, timely, accurate or suitable for a particular purpose. Their use is
subject to conditions available at https://www.sustainalytics.com/legal-disclaimers.
6 T his rating is as of January 31, 2024 and in no event the report shall be construed as investment advice or expert opinion as defined by the applicable legislation
20 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Meet our Corporate Social Responsibility Leaders
What do you do in your role at Teleflex? What do you do in your role at Teleflex?
I work directly with the Chair of our CSR Steering I manage our environmental sustainability efforts
Committee to manage our CSR program, support as the Pillar Lead for Planet & Environment. I also
our pillars, and develop our long-term CSR support the wider sustainability agenda through
strategy. I also lead the development of our Global the CSR committee and various working groups.
Impact Report and ensure alignment with industry
standards and reporting frameworks. Additionally, What win from 2023 are you most proud of?
I assist in providing information and education to I am extremely proud of the leadership and
our employees, investors, customers, patients, and collective efforts of Teleflex that resulted in us
other key stakeholders about CSR matters. having validated near- and long-term Net Zero
Science-Based Targets. I am also grateful for
Why did you join Teleflex in this role? the many business leaders that over the course
Derek Noah David O’Flynn
This is not just a job for me. To me, this is a purpose of 2023 have increased their commitment to
Senior Manager, Sustainability Director
in life – to push the boundaries and help to make sustainability in support of these targets.
Sustainability Strategy
the world a better place for people and the planet. I
and Reporting
have been lucky to have found an organization that
truly believes in CSR and making the commitments
that are needed to move things forward. With over 9
billion people in the world, it is not good enough to
sit on the sidelines, action is needed.
2211 TTEELLEEFFLLEEXX 22002233 GGLLOOBBAALL IIMMPPAACCTT RREEPPOORRTT
CSR Materiality Assessment
We conducted a third-party materiality assessment We shared this materiality assessment with the CSR
with Nasdaq Corporate Solutions, LLC in 2022. To Steering Committee and presented it to Executive
ensure we are focusing our efforts and reporting on Management within Teleflex. We used the results of the
what are the most important and relevant topics materiality assessment to inform any changes, updates,
for Teleflex, we had all of our key stakeholders top or adjustments to our CSR strategy. We have also used Product Quality
Product Lifecycle Business Ethics
& Safety
of mind and used various strategies to learn what the results to advise any new areas of disclosure in our Management
specific issues or topics each of these stakeholders Global Impact Report or other avenues of CSR reporting.
Access to
held as most important. We plan to conduct a materiality assessment periodically
Healthcare
Supply Chain
to ensure we are continuing to update our top key
Ethical Management
The assessment included, but was not limited to, a review topics based on evolving stakeholder feedback and Marketing
GHG Emissions
of our top investor policies, voting patterns, and holdings priorities. Our next assessment will begin in 2024, and
focused on ESG; analysis of three major ESG rating we will expand the scope of the assessment to include Shareholder... Executive
agencies; review of multiple major sustainability reporting “double materiality,” which considers both impact and Remuneration Health & Safety Bribery &
Climate Change Corruption
frameworks; panel interviews with 20 internal employees financial materiality in accordance with the new global
Strategy
Environmental
and executives; internal employee surveys sent to 80 sustainability reporting frameworks and requirements.
Management
employees; and a peer benchmarking exercise.
Board Diversity Energy Use &
Compliance
Priority topics across internal & external stakeholders: Management
A key finding was that our internal stakeholders found Procedures
Board Oversight
social and governance topics more important compared ■ Product Quality & Safety of ESG Engagement
Diversity,
to environmental topics, whereas external stakeholders ■ Business Ethics & Satisfaction Equity
found all three topic areas roughly equally as important. ■ Product Lifecycle Management Board & Inclusion
Water Use &
We would also like to note that even though GHG ■ Access to Healthcare Management Independance
emissions and climate change strategy was not above ■ Ethical Marketing Human Capital
Management
the line on our materiality matrix, at Teleflex, we still find ■ Supply Chain Management Human Capital
Development
this to be an extremely important topic for us to focus on ■ Bribery & Corruption
Waste
and thus you will see throughout the report our work and ■ Health & Safety Management Whistleblower Data Privacy
progress on climate change action, which is demonstrated ■ Compliance Procedures Program & Cybersecurity
by our recent announcement on our climate action targets.
Internal Business Perspective Increasing
(Impact on Business) Importance
22 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
gnisaercnI
evitcepsreP
redlohekatS
lanretxE
ecnatropmI
)nrecnoc
redlohekats
fo
eergeD(
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Stakeholder Engagement Example methods of engagement with select stakeholders groups:
It is important for Teleflex to interact with all the stakeholders
Stakeholder Group Methods
that our company may impact or who may impact us. It is
necessary for us to be proactive in these activities so that Stockholders and Analysts ■ Routine attendance at various investor conferences hosted by investment firms
we can promptly address any concerns or issues. As a global ■ Established proactive outreach strategy to stockholders
company, our stakeholders are global in nature and can range ■ Inbound request for information which are answered by our VP, Investor Relations
from local, regional, and global organizations or groups. We
■ Publications such as our Annual report, proxy statement, and other financial filings
use various methods of communication and engagement with
■ Annual General Meeting
our key stakeholders, which provides both one- and two-way
■ Analyst and investor days hosted by Teleflex
communication channels.
Employees ■ Townhalls (in person and virtual): corporate-wide, regional, and business unit or functional area
Key Stakeholders: ■ Annual employee engagement survey
■ Employees ■ Onsite screens and monitors
■ Governments and Policymakers ■ Email communications (company newsletters and various updates from senior management)
■ Group Purchasing Organization (GPOs) and Integrated Delivery ■ Company trainings
Network (IDNs) ■ Publications such as our Annual Report and Global Impact Report
■ Healthcare Professionals and Healthcare Organizations
■ Industry Associations and Nongovernmental Organizations (NGOs) Industry Associations ■ Attending organizational meetings
■ Local Communities ■ Participation through direct engagement on a workstream within the organization
■ Patient and Advocacy Groups ■ Attending conferences, webinars, or other events
■ Regulatory and Certified Bodies ■ Cross-industry collaboration
■ Stockholders
Governments ■ Senior leaders conduct in-person meetings with U.S. Senators and Representatives on an
■ Suppliers
ongoing basis
■ Wholesalers and Distributors
■ Providing public comments to rules, legislation, or changes to law as needed
Healthcare Professionals ■ Sales representatives and sales team
■ Customer service representatives
■ Medical education
■ Tradeshows and other product demos
23 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
CSR Highlights from 2023
n
in
c
l
e i
v n
i
i
G c
$8.5a
l
22% 33%
35% 59%
s
r million
t
e n
s a
e r
of our U.S. employees
of our global workforce of new U.S. hires came via of our Board members arch g
is female employee referral are women
are non-white
Sustainability Medical Advisory Board Zero Dollars spent in
direct political donations
is launched in 2023
e
d in
d
m
i
v e
o
d Nearly
r i
P c
a 100% 50%
l
$700,000+ 250,000+
97%
of U.S. employees
s returned to work after of new U.S. hires
e t
n healthcare providers parental leave were non-white
d
a
u r educated on safe and effective
c g Completion rate of
ation
use of our products
Global Code of Ethics Training
24 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Ethics & Governance
Executive Sponsor: Howard Cyr - Corporate Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer
Pillar Lead: Roberta Griggio - Deputy Compliance Officer, EMEA
Corporate Governance 27
Public Policy 28
Industry Groups and Trade Associations 28
A Culture of Compliance 29
Enterprise Risk Management 31
Sales and Marketing Practices 31
Information Security and Data Privacy 32
25 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
It is of the utmost importance that
2023 2023
Teleflex conducts its business with
Average
strong corporate governance and 33% 62.8
of Board members age of
robust ethics in order to maintain the who were women Board members
trust of our employees, customers,
investors, patients, and society at large.
2023 2023
Average
6.6 $0
tenure of Direct political
Board members donations
2023 2023
Completion rate Completion rate
97% 98%
of Global Code of Conflict-of-
of Ethics Training Interest Training
26 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Corporate Governance
Our Corporate Governance Principles address the
The roles and responsibilities of each committee are set forth in each continuous year, at least 20% of the voting power entitled to vote generally
responsibilities, composition and operation of our Board of
committee’s charter, which can be found on the investor page of our website. in the election of directors the right to call a special meeting of stockholders,
Directors, director selection, independence, conflicts of interest,
subject to the requirements and procedures set forth in our bylaws.
compensation and equity ownership, and succession planning. Board Refreshment
Executive Compensation
Board of Directors Teleflex is currently in the process of a phased-in declassification
of the Board over a three-year period. We implemented the first We feel it is important for Teleflex to align our executives’ interests
Our Board of Directors currently consists of nine total members, eight year of declassification of the Board at our 2023 Annual Meeting of with those of our stakeholders. Our executive compensation program
of whom are independent with an independent Lead Director. We have Stockholders and commencing with our 2025 Annual Meeting of includes both short-term (annual) and long-term goals, which are
three standing committees, each of which is chaired by an independent Stockholders, all Teleflex directors will be elected for a one-year term designed by our executive management team under the governance
director. At the end of 2023, 33% of our Board members were women, expiring at the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders. and approval of the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors.
Our annual incentive plan includes a component of pay that measures
the average age of our Board members was 62.8 and the average
tenure of our Board members was 6.6 years. The Nominating and Governance Committee is responsible for individual performance against several established objectives. All
identifying qualified individuals to be considered for election to our members of the Teleflex Executive Management2 team have at least
■ Nominating and Governance Board. Each search is unique, and we look for specific skills and one ESG-specific objective included in their individual performance
Provides oversight of corporate governance generally, oversees our backgrounds for each new board candidate. Directors are expected objectives. There are four ESG-specific objectives that members of
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) strategy and practices, to possess the highest character and integrity, and to have business, the Executive Team can choose from, and these align directly with
reviews size, structure and composition of Board committees, reviews professional, academic, government or other experience which is each of our four CSR pillars. You can read more about our executive
Board compensation and identifies and recommends to the relevant to our business and operations. In addition, we also seek compensation program in our annual proxy statement.
Board individuals qualified to become directors. candidates with the potential to contribute to the diversity of the
■ Audit Board, including with respect to gender, race, ethnicity, national origin,
Provides oversight of financial statements, internal controls and other differentiating characteristics. More selection details and
compliance, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, information can be found in our Corporate Governance Principles.
the independent auditor’s qualifications, independence and
performance, the performance of the internal audit function, the Shareholder Rights
risk management process, and the oversight of our reporting on
ESG matters to internal and external stakeholders. As part of our ongoing stockholder engagement process, in 2022, we engaged
■ Compensation with holders of approximately 50% of our outstanding common stock on
Assists the Board in its responsibilities relating to the governance matters. During this process, when asked about the advisability
compensation of the Company’s executives, reviews and makes
of providing stockholders the right to call a special meeting of stockholders,
recommendations to the Board with respect to compensation
all of the investors with whom management engaged supported such a
plans, and provides compensation committee report required to
right. In light of this feedback, in February 2023, the Board amended and
be included in the Company’s annual proxy statement.
restated our bylaws to allow stockholders holding, for not less than one
27 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Public Policy Industry Groups and Trade Associations
The healthcare industry is very heavily influenced by local, Industry groups and trade associations provide Teleflex with
regional, and national public policy. We believe it is our obligation an effective way to engage with peer companies and other
as a corporate citizen to voice our opinions and views as a medical organizations in the industry in a precompetitive landscape.
technology expert on public policy that may affect the larger These groups help Teleflex to remain up to date on any changes,
society and communities. We monitor ongoing regulatory and challenges, or other note-worth information for medical
legal requirements in the countries in which we operate and technology and healthcare. We voice our opinions, pose
when we see fit, take a position on a specific issue. Teleflex may questions, and raise concerns through these organizations.
engage in public policy when we think it may directly affect our
business, impact public health, or limit access to healthcare.
2023 Teleflex Industry Groups and Trade Associations7:
Teleflex does not provide any direct political donations or advocacy on ■ AdvaMed
behalf of a specific candidate, campaign, party, or committee, nor do
■ APACMed
we provide contributions to any groups such as governors’ associations,
■ BVMed
political action committees or other section 527 entities. We also do not
■ Confindustria Dispositivi Medici
have or offer any employee-funded political action committees.
■ IBEC Trade Association
We have worked with a third-party adviser to assist in direct lobbying ■ Medical Device Manufacturers Association
on several key areas that Teleflex finds most important, such as patient ■ MedTech Europe
access. In 2023, Teleflex leaders met with congressional members, staff ■ SNITEM
and committee members both directly and as participants in trade ■ South African Medical Device Industry Association (SAMED)
associations. We have expanded this work to include environmental
and patient safety initiatives. You can read more about this work in the
Many of our membership-based organizations have dedicated
Sustainable Healthcare section of this report.
committees or groups related to CSR and sustainability. We are a part
In 2023, we received a 44 out of 70 score on the CPA-Zicklin Index of of the AdvaMed Environmental, Health and Safety Awareness Working
Corporate Political Disclosure and Accountability rating which is the Group as well as a number of working groups from MedTech Europe.
only measure of electoral spending transparency and accountability These working groups focus on areas such as circular economy,
among the country’s largest public corporations. This score highlights chemicals, environment and sustainability, and corporate governance.
our 41-point increase since 2020 which now puts us in the 2nd tier of
companies and ahead of many of our healthcare industry peers.
Please see our Statement on Engagement on Public Policy Issues
for more information.
7 I ncludes industry and trade groups of which Teleflex is a member and for which Teleflex pays at least $25,000 per year in membership dues or fees.
28 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
A Culture of Compliance Compliance Management Structure
Our Global Compliance Program is a key component of running
Business Ethics and Compliance Committee Members:
an ethical company. Our Global Compliance Team implements and Audit Committee
CEO of the Board
oversees policies and programs related to our legal, compliance ■ Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer (Chair) of Directors
and ethical obligations. ■ Chief Compliance Officer and Corporate VP
■ Chief Financial Officer and Executive VP BECC
Our Program is headed by our Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) in ■ Corporate VP of Commercial Finance
conjunction with our Business Ethics and Compliance Committee (BECC), ■ Chief Medical Officer and Corporate VP
which consists of members of the Executive Management team. Our ■ General Counsel and Corporate VP CCO
CCO reports directly to our CEO with a dotted line to the Chairperson of ■ Chief Human Resources Officer and Corporate VP
the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors – this allows for complete ■ VP of Internal Audit Compliance Officer, Compliance Officer,
IU & Americas North America
independence of the Compliance Department. Our Compliance team also
■ Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate VP
has a dedicated group focused on auditing, monitoring, and investigations.
■ President Global Commercial and Corporate VP Deputy
This structure allows our compliance officers to focus day to day on Compliance Compliance Officer,
Officer, APAC
EMEA
business counseling as well as helping to ensure consistency in our
auditing and monitoring and investigations activities. We also retain outside Teleflex has several policies that guide how we operate and do business.
counsel to periodically review and harmonize policies and to ensure our These policies set the foundation for our culture of ethical behavior
policies are up to date based on local, regional, and national requirements. and good corporate conduct and are accessible for all employees and
relevant for everyday work. To learn about Teleflex policies, you can find
this information in the appendix of this report under Teleflex Policies.
“Successful and sustainable businesses
Along with our enterprise-wide policies, each region/country and
are built on strong ethical and specific business units have their own set of Integrity Policies and
governance systems. It is through our Procedures (IPPs) which are readily available on our intranet to our
employees in the languages in which Teleflex operates. These separate
purpose and strategy that we address
IPPs provide more specific guidelines on topics such as business meals,
ESG issues, fully integrating them into
educational grants, HCP consultant engagement, market research and
our systems and processes.”
product samples.
Roberta Griggio
Deputy Compliance Officer, EMEA
29 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Training and Communication
Teleflex utilizes various formats, tools, and methods of communication We use interactive training modules for our Integrity Policies and
to train and communicate our policies and procedures to our employees Procedures (IPP), and these modules were developed in collaboration
Corporate Compliance and
and to certain Third-Party Representatives. These training tools include live with a third-party training vendor, and the content is tailored to each
interactive group training, one-on-one training, interactive online modules, learner’s job responsibilities and demonstrated understanding of the Ethics Week
and videos which are available in multiple languages. We also utilize material. Recognizing that learners have varying levels of knowledge,
email communication and our internal employee newsletter to provide the training is delivered in a personalized and purposeful manner,
We held our annual Corporate
relevant updates or reminders about specific content. Teleflex is proactive optimizing the learning experience for each individual. As of December
Compliance and Ethics Week in
in identifying any trends where training may be helpful in providing our 2023, we had achieved a 96% completion rate.
November, which included
employees with more clarity or guidance to mitigate any compliance risks.
Auditing and Monitoring
communications each day of the
We conduct annual training on our Code of Ethics, and we track
week about different parts of our
We have an auditing and monitoring program in place at Teleflex to ensure
employee completion rates for both new and current employees. Our
compliance with all Teleflex policies and ethics. Our auditing and monitoring compliance and ethics programs.
training modules highlighted the changes and updates we made to
our Code of Ethics in 2023. We achieved a 97% completion rate for our efforts include activities such as employee expense audits focused on We sent employees policy documents,
transactions with HCPs, in-person distributor compliance reviews, third-party
2023 Global Code of Ethics Training. While 100% completion may not be
guides, and other links to help
distributor audits and continuing usage of a leading third-party due diligence
obtainable due to the nature of employee turnover, family or personal
understand our compliance programs.
software platform. Teleflex’s Compliance Department provides the BECC with
leave, and other reasons, we are very proud of our high completion rate
and continue to remain focused on achieving high completion rates each quarterly reports on its auditing and monitoring activities and findings. We also hosted a meet and greet
year and getting as close to 100% as possible. event at our HQ and regional offices
Reporting and Investigations
with Compliance leadership.
Teleflex also provides specific training for various other policies and
Our policy on Reporting Non-Compliance and Enforcement demonstrates
programs including at our regional and country kick-off meetings, as
our commitment to doing business with integrity. In this policy, we
well as periodic trainings for our Integrity Policies and Procedures and
encourage all our employees and third-party representatives to report
other relevant topics such as identifying and preventing financial crimes,
any concerns about potential misconduct and violations of the law and
sexual harassment, and data protection.
our policies. People can utilize various outlets to report concerns or seek
guidance from their direct manager, HR, Legal, Compliance, or utilize the
2023 COMPLETION Teleflex Ethics Line in which anyone can report issues anonymously.
GLOBAL CODE RATE ACHIEVED Teleflex encourages people to freely voice their concerns and maintains
a strict policy of non-retaliation. The Ethics Line is managed by an
OF ETHICS 97%
independent third party, and all reports are investigated thoroughly, and
TRAINING
corrective actions are implemented, if needed. Our CCO provides both
the BECC and the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors with reports
regarding Ethics Line activities on not less than a quarterly basis.
30 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Enterprise Risk Management Crisis Management Team Sales and Marketing Practices
Teleflex utilizes enterprise risk management (ERM) to deploy Our Global Crisis Management Team (GCMT) provides leadership and Being in the medical technology industry, we consider ethical
a systematic approach to identify, assess, prioritize, and oversight with respect to global crisis management at Teleflex. The and responsible sales and marketing of our products to be a top
manage the various risks faced by the Company which can have GCMT follows a playbook which outlines Teleflex’s crisis management priority. When our sales or marketing teams are creating new
significant financial, regulatory, and reputational implications. approach and outlines a high-level process for the management of content or materials, they are entrusted to highlight the features,
ERM in this context involves risk identification, risk assessment, crisis incidents. The playbook outlines several crisis scenarios and benefits, quality, and value of our products clearly and truthfully
and risk mitigation. the approach, actions, and communications required. The Global to the healthcare community.
Crisis Management Team may engage with local site management
and/or local crisis management teams as applicable and dependent
Enterprise Risk Assessment Prohibition of Off-Label Use Promotion
on the crisis scenario. The GCMT managed our global approach to
the COVID-19 pandemic and our response. The team worked with
As a part of our larger Enterprise Risk Management process at Teleflex, We strictly prohibit the promotion of a product for off-label use, as well as
local crisis management teams on site to roll out site-specific rules,
we conduct an annual Enterprise Risk Assessment (ERA) where key risks soliciting requests for information on off-label use. Teleflex has a global
recommendations, and actions.
are identified, compiled, and categorized into a report that is presented off-label use response program designed to mitigate the risk of off-label
to Executive Management and the Board of Directors. The top risks and promotion and to handle off-label use inquiries in accordance with current
associated mitigation efforts that were identified are then monitored by FDA and other global regulatory agency requirements, without inhibiting
The GCMT is composed of:
Executive Management throughout the year. In 2023, 157 employees lawful scientific exchange. Importantly, in adherence to FDA guidance, our
■ Global Crisis Lead – Corporate VP, Strategic Projects
and executives identified and ranked the top risks based on their off-label use response activities are managed by our medical and scientific
roles and/or areas of expertise and were asked to describe existing or ■ Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer personnel, independent from our sales and marketing departments.
planned mitigation efforts for these specific risks. We then conducted ■ Corporate VP, Manufacturing and Supply Chain
interviews with Executive and Senior Management to further discuss the ■ Corporate VP, General Counsel
As part of our off-label use response program, unsolicited off-label
identified risks and determine next steps. ■ Corporate VP and Chief Compliance Officer
use inquiries and subsequent responses are reviewed and tracked in a
■ Corporate VP, Quality Assurance/Regulatory Affairs
database maintained by the response program coordinator and Clinical and
Since 2022, Teleflex has included a dedicated section of the ERA focused ■ Corporate VP and Chief Human Resources Officer Medical Affairs (CMA) personnel. Responses to these inquiries are handled
on corporate social responsibility risks, reiterating to our employees that ■ Corporate VP and Chief Medical Officer by trained CMA representatives and follow FDA or other global regulatory
we take CSR seriously. The topics included areas such as climate change, ■ Corporate VP and President, Global Commercial agency guidance. Per FDA guidance, this policy requires these responses
DEI, product sustainability, and impending CSR regulations. In 2023, we ■ VP, Global Brand, Digital and Communications to be truthful, balanced, non-misleading, and provide independent,
took a more holistic approach to the questions we asked and the ways non-promotional scientific or medical information that is responsive to
we posed the questions. In our first year of the CSR section in the ERA, the specific off-label use request. In addition, the CMA representative
we were focused on getting a baseline. In 2023, we added more pointed is required to provide a private response, sent only to the individual
and direct questions on specific topics we were more interested in requesting the information, and must include appropriate statements
knowing about. We will continue to evolve this section of the ERA as we and disclosures, as well as a copy of the product’s current labeling.
grow in our CSR efforts.
31 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Employee Training Information Security and Data Privacy
Teleflex new hires and current employees receive annual training on Teleflex relies on our information systems to process, transmit, In July 2023, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted
Conflict of Interest and must fill out a conflict of interest form to disclose and store electronic information in our day-to-day operations. a final rule requiring public companies to provide enhanced and
any important relationships that may exist that Teleflex should know about. Disruption to critical information systems or material breaches in standardized disclosures regarding cybersecurity risk management,
At the end of December 2023, we achieved a completion rate of 98%. the security of our systems may adversely affect our business and strategy, governance, and incidents. The new rule requires companies
to include disclosure in their annual report on Form 10-K describing the
that of our external business partners.
Relevant employees also receive training on off-label promotion,
organization’s cybersecurity program. The rule also requires companies
recognizing off-label use inquiries, and the potential consequences
to report material cybersecurity incidents through current reports on
This is why we have developed a global information security and
of off-label promotion. Training is tracked by the response program
Form 8-K. We have included the required disclosures in our Form 10-K
data privacy program, under the management of our Vice President
coordinator and CMA personnel, who receive additional in-depth
for the year ended December 31, 2023, and we are implementing
of Information Security and Privacy reporting into our Chief Information
training on Teleflex’s procedure for responding to unsolicited off-label
revisions to our security incident response procedures to align with the
Officer (CIO). The program is focused on ensuring the confidentiality,
use inquiries. Failure to maintain current training certification or any
new 8-K requirements.
integrity and availability of Teleflex’s information assets and compliance
violations of the off-label use promotion policy may result in disciplinary
with data privacy requirements. Our program is aligned to industry
action per Teleflex Human Resources policy.
standards, including the National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST), ISO/IEC 27001 and the Center for Internet Security
2023 COMPLETION (CIS) Critical Controls. “An Information Security and Privacy
CONFLICT RATE ACHIEVED Program focused on continuous
OF INTEREST 98% Our Global IT leadership team meets on a weekly basis, which includes a improvements based on risk is
standing agenda item to review new trends and risks relative to security
TRAINING imperative to our success. This allows
as needed. Our CIO and Vice President of Information Security and
us to build trust with our stakeholders
Privacy provide updates on the security posture of the organization to
and demonstrates our commitment to
the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors on an annual basis, if
Sales and Marketing Policies
not more often based on the need. We work with a third-party firm to being a good corporate citizen.”
perform an annual external security assessment of select information
We have several policies to ensure our marketing and sales processes Chuck Fliehman
security controls from the perspective of an attacker. We have a master
and procedures are best practice and in compliance with all applicable
VP, Information Security and Privacy
Global IT and Cybersecurity Policy with several additional internal
legal and regulatory standards. The listing of several of these policies
policies that govern specific topics including mobile computing, access
can be found in the Policy Appendix.
management, disaster recovery, and vulnerability management which
Our various business units and other functional departments work together are foundation to an effective cybersecurity program. Our Global IT
very closely when reviewing, revising, and approving our marketing materials leadership team continues to monitor information security and data
before they are available. Our sales and marketing practices are continually privacy risks as well as regulatory requirements to ensure we have the
evolving based on best practice and ever-changing business standards. We appropriate risk mitigation measures in place to meet the expectations
do not see this as just a legal or compliance requirement but rather how of our internal and external business partners.
we operate as a healthcare company with high ethical standards.
32 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Protect Our Systems and Our Response
Teleflex has implemented a number of initiatives to protect our systems and
data, while supporting our most important asset - our employees - when
working either at a Teleflex location or remotely. We have implemented
controls to protect our systems and data when Teleflex devices are used
outside of a Teleflex facility or employees are working remotely. Our 24/7
Security Operations Center (SOC) monitors and alerts us based on abnormal
system activity or user behavior which may be indicative of an attack. We
continue to refine our security incident response procedures and perform
various types of simulations in preparations of a cyberattack. We also have an
Acceptable Use and Responsibilities Policy which outlines the requirements,
prohibitive activities, and company practices that apply to the use of Teleflex’s
Systems, Information Assets, and Third-party systems supporting Teleflex
business activities by employees and authorized agents of Teleflex.
In the last three years, we have experienced one immaterial data breach
relating to non-sensitive information impacting approximately 130 data
subjects with no loss/damage associated with the breach. All reporting and
notification requirements were adhered to in responding to the breach,
and remediation activities to minimize the likelihood of future occurrences
have been completed.
Training, Education, and Simulations
Our information security and data privacy program can have all of the
training on our Global IT Knowledge Base which is hosted on our have policies and procedures in place to review the internal controls
technical components, software, and systems, but if our employees are
intranet. Each year, we highlight cybersecurity and data privacy through associated with proposed new software or hardware solutions and third-
not fully educated then we still face a significant risk and threat. Security
our Cybersecurity Awareness Month in which employees receive a series party managed technology as part of our vendor selection process. We
awareness training is provided to all employees multiple times throughout
of communications on the latest threats and actions they should take to evaluate solutions and providers from a security and privacy perspective
the year along with periodic security update communications and targeted
reduce the likely of a security incident. to ensure the proper controls are in place to comply with privacy
training for select groups based on job responsibility. Recent training has
requirements and promote the confidentiality, integrity and availably of
included an emphasis on social engineering as this has been one of the
Teleflex systems and data.
primary sources of recent attacks. Phishing simulations are an important Third-Party Risk
element of an effective information security program. We perform phishing
simulations throughout the year to better understand areas for increased Like other organizations, we face growing risks from third-party systems,
training and awareness. We also provide online resources and additional and managing these risks is a critical component of our program. We
33 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Planet & Environment
Executive Sponsor: James Winters - Corporate Vice President, Manufacturing & Supply Chain
Pillar Lead: David O’Flynn - Sustainability Director
Environmental Management and Governance 36
Data Management 36
Responsible Production 36
Climate Action 38
Energy 39
Sustainable Procurement 40
34 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
As a healthcare company, we are
focused on having a positive impact
on both human health and the
environment. Our responsibility starts
before our products are in the hands
of clinicians and patients. People’s
health will be better if we have a
healthy planet. This requires businesses
such as Teleflex to reduce emissions
and to use resources responsibly.
You can read about our commitments in our Environmental Statement.
35 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Environmental Management and
Governance At the end of 2023, we had 3 sites that were ISO 14001 Water Efficiency
certified, and we will look to add more in the future. This
Our Planet & Environment pillar is structured similar to our other image is of our Czech Republic sites being recognized for At our Kulim, Malaysia manufacturing location,
pillars and is led by our Sustainability Director, and sponsored by receiving both ISO 14001 & 45001 certification.
we implemented several improvements to
our Corporate VP, Manufacturing and Supply Chain. The pillar has a
decrease our water usage on site. After
subcommittee with leadership from our corporate functions such
conducting a thorough assessment, the facility
as logistics, procurement, HR and finance. The subcommittee meets
was able to lower water pressure settings to
monthly to plan and provide updates on project deliverables, and
ensure they were appropriate for general
activities are tracked centrally on our project management platform.
Additionally, leaders from many of our major manufacturing and areas and facilitated higher pressure where
operations locations meet monthly to help drive sustainability on site. required for specific equipment. In addition,
we installed automatic sensor faucets and
Collaboration Among Facility Professionals
toilet flushing technology to be more water-
efficient. The site also implemented a regular
With a variety of manufacturing, research and design, office, and
monitoring program to detect and address
logistical sites throughout the world, sharing of knowledge has
Responsible Consumption
water leaks. These measures helped us to
allowed us to learn from each other and adopt best practices. With
the creation of a Virtual Facilities Team, which has been organized by reduce the facility’s daily water use by 21%.
Water
our Sr. Director of Technical Services, the sharing of ideas from site to
site gives us a vehicle for continual improvement. Subjects such as the Water is essential for all life, human and planetary health. While Teleflex
use of automated monitoring techniques, equipment procurement, may not be a large water consumer, we do use water in our manufacturing
maintenance procedures and utility optimization will lead the facility process and in our offices. Many of our manufacturing sites measure and
professionals at our various locations to learn from each other thus monitor the water quality on site and manage any wastewater we may be
improving site performance and minimizing waste. releasing from our processes. This could include parameters such as pH,
nitrogen, phosphorus, and suspended solids. We have installed low-flow
Data Management
water fixtures and motion sensor faucets on site to help conserve water use.
At some sites, we have water recycling systems to reduce our usage, and
At Teleflex, we use a software provider to help manage our water, waste,
we also have implemented rainwater harvesting at several sites. Last year,
energy, and scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions data across our
across the highest water use site, we invested in replacing some of the old
business globally. As part of our data governance process, we continue
underground water main piping with a new main piping above ground, to
to analyze and refine historical data inputs as well as look at the usage
reduce the risk of future leaks and to aid monitoring.
of this software to increase the capability, completeness and accuracy of
our data analytics, reporting and disclosure.
36 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Waste Emissions and Pollution
Blade Recycling
The facilities team at our Annacotty, Ireland site realized that we had a
Reducing our waste is a business and environmental goal. Teleflex has Teleflex manufacturing sites are subject to our Global Environmental,
large number of cutting blades that were being incorrectly categorized
made significant improvements over the years to reduce material loss Health and Safety Management System requirements and are subject
as hazardous waste. As non-hazardous waste, these were sent for
during the production process and increase engagement with our to regulatory requirements relating to emissions. These Management
recycling which will not only save tens of thousands of dollars each
waste collection partners. Our reuse program includes initiatives such System requirements include identification of all environmental
year but will also divert almost 3,000 kg of blades from disposal.
as solvent distillation, and our recycling programs include initiatives emissions or pollutants (e.g. ground/water dischargers and air
focused on paper, metals and plastic. This also includes education and emissions) with implementation of risk controls. Also, via our Performance
resources at our sites for employees, such as the program at our Kulim, Evaluation Program, each site is required to have ongoing Monitoring,
Solvent Recycling
Malaysia location which focused on reducing food waste. Inspections and Internal Audits of how those risk controls perform. For
air emissions, this can include various layers of scrubbing and other
An important solvent utilized at our Trenton, Georgia, U.S. site was in
air quality improvement arrangements for emissions such as NOx,
Reuse Recycling Reducing
short supply, and an employee recommended a solvent recycling unit he
SOx, particulate matter, VOCs, or other such emissions with on-site
Program Program Food Waste
had prior experience with to solve the issue. The recycling unit not only
Solvent Distillation Plastic, Paper, Metals Composting monitoring and measurement via air quality assessment programs.
alleviated supply concerns and reduced cost associated with production
of left-over food Defined mechanisms are in place to capture and address any potential
setups, but also reduced our waste generation. The employee was awarded
non-conformities via global tracking systems, remediating concerns as
an IMPACT Award for demonstrating behaviors in line with our Core Values.
quickly as feasible. Lastly, all such sites are also subject to our Global
Conformity Assurance Plan (CAP) Audit Program driving audits by third
parties to help ensure compliance with local and regional requirements.
Wastewater Management
We plan to report on our air emissions in future reports.
Our Kamunting, Malaysia facility undertook extensive studies to
Logistics and Distribution
determine if hazardous wastewater could be effectively treated on
site to allow for its disposal as non-hazardous. A study was initiated
Logistics and distribution are key components in our value chain, and
with a third-party accredited laboratory by the Malaysia Department
are also one of our larger sources of carbon emissions. We are engaging
of Environment to carry out the analysis. The study confirmed the
with our key carriers to better understand their decarbonization plans
ability of the wastewater to be treated internally. A consultant was
and to push for increased ambition. For our sea and air freight, we now
hired to further study and re-engineer the current wastewater
capture over 75% of primary carbon emissions data. During 2024 and
treatment plant to suit the treatment of the additional wastewater
beyond, we will be targeting further reduction in carbon footprint with
without altering the existing manufacturing process. This resulted
a focus on route planning, freight consolidation, mode optimization and
in the addition of a mini clarifier, filter press unit, and water tanks.
increasing the weight attributed to sustainability for carrier selection.
An in-house laboratory was also built to monitor the plant’s daily
Progress will be reported annually as part of our commitment under
performance, and effluent is tested to ensure it meets the local
Science-Based Targets.
standard prior to discharge. This has resulted in a 30-40% reduction
in hazardous waste disposed during 2023.
37 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Climate Action Climate Action Governance
Teleflex sees climate change as a global challenge and believes it will of our annual enterprise risk assessment for CSR with a focus on climate The Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors
continue to grow as a risk for society and businesses. We have taken a change. We want to know how employees and leaders assess climate has oversight on all ESG and CSR matters which includes oversight on
number of actions over the past few years to improve our climate action risks and our climate action strategy from a topline perspective. You can our climate action program. In the previous quarterly briefings to the
program, including setting Science-Based Targets. read more about the enterprise risk assessment in the Enterprise Risk Committee, we have included updates on our climate action program
Management section of this report. including our emission data reporting, emission reduction targets and
Climate Action Strategy
climate risk assessment. The Committee will continue to review and
Localized climate-related risks are identified regionally or by sites and can provide oversight with respect to our plans for achieving Net Zero and
We are developing a strategy for climate action at Teleflex which will be addressed through Business Continuity Plans (BCPs). Our BCPs are managing climate change risks.
both target a carbon footprint reduction and also prepare Teleflex for managed via our Global Supply Chain team and are formal documents
a world experiencing greater climate change. We have implemented and plans maintained with respect to each of our manufacturing sites Our senior leadership is involved directly in our climate action
several projects that have helped reduce our greenhouse gases, and we which outlines the procedures for responding to disruptive incidents as governance internally at Teleflex. Based on our overall CSR governance
continue to evaluate additional options to continue further reductions. well as how to continue (or recover) its activities within a predetermined structure, climate change is managed through our CSR Steering
timeframe. These BCPs are not meant to manage climate-related risks Committee, which is made up of senior leaders within the organization
We are developing a plan as it relates to clean energy which may include only but they can include risks such as severe weather and flooding and and is chaired by our Corporate VP & Chief Human Resources Officer.
actions such as additional on-site renewables, renewable energy power are determined and created by each site. Our climate action strategy is managed under the Planet & Environment
purchase agreements (PPAs), and securing energy attribute certificates pillar of our CSR program which is directly led and managed by our
such as renewable energy certificates. We continue to review options and Our Global Crisis Management Team (GCMT) and crisis management Sustainability Director with sponsorship and oversight from our
implement actions to reduce the climate and ozone risk from refrigerant playbook are also a key component of our management of climate- Corporate VP, Manufacturing and Supply Chain. As needed, climate
gases leaking into the atmosphere such as replacing and upgrading related incidents. Similar to our BCPs, the crisis management process change-related risks and opportunities will be brought to the CSR
HVAC units as we did in three of our manufacturing sites in 2023. is meant to handle multiple types of crises, of which, severe weather or Steering Committee for larger discussion.
natural disasters are a component. The GCMT will engage with local site
Teleflex, in partnership with its insurance provider, has engaged in climate management and/or a local crisis management team, as applicable. Greenhouse Gas Emissions
resilience efforts at our various sites. Utilizing their engineering resources has
enabled our organization to strategically identify and execute improvements In 2023, we kicked off our first climate risk assessment with an independent We collect and organize our scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions
which will help reduce the risk of future impacts to our business. provider and was completed in early 2024. This assessment included a data in our sustainability software solution and have engaged an external
number of different engagements internally with employees and senior consulting agency to perform a scope 3 inventory calculation. We utilize
Climate Risk Management
leadership through surveys, educational workshops, and informational the Greenhouse Gas Protocol as the standard for greenhouse accounting
interviews. The outside firm reviewed internal documentation of our and reporting. We plan to share our emissions data in our 2024 CDP
We have developed several processes internally at Teleflex to help processes and provided Teleflex with recommendations furthering our submission later this year.
identify and manage climate-related risks. One of the ways is through
climate-related risk process and integrating mitigation and adaptation
our enterprise risk assessment. Since 2022, we have a dedicated section
plans into our corporate strategy. More detail on this process and the risks
can be found in the TCFD Index of this report.
38 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Emissions Reduction Targets
April 2022 April 2023 November 2023 December 2023 March 2024
We believe the Science-Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) framework provides
a clearly defined framework to help us decarbonize our business as well as
Committed to setting both Submitted targets for Targets were Targets published Teleflex external
reduce climate change-related risks. In developing our emission reduction
near-term reduction and validation with SBTi validated by SBTi on SBTi website announcement
targets, we worked with a leading third-party consulting agency to ensure
long-term net zero targets
they are in line with the SBTi framework.
in line with SBTi
Teleflex has committed to a near-term climate change target of 54.6%
absolute reduction of scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2032 (from a 2019
baseline). We have also committed to a near-term target of 32.5% absolute
reduction of scope 3 emissions from purchased goods and services,
upstream transportation and distribution, waste generated in operations
and business travel by 2032 (from a 2019 baseline). Additionally, Teleflex
has set a long-term net zero emissions target to be achieved by 2050 for
scopes 1, 2, and 3 (from a 2019 baseline).
8 8 8
Near term: by 2032 Near term: by 2032 Long-term: by 2050
Scope ➊ & ➋ Scope ➌ Scopes ➊, ➋
54.6% 32.5% Net Zero
absolute absolute & ➌ absolute
reduction reduction reduction
8 Based on a 2019 baseline
39 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Sustainable Procurement
Energy
Combating Climate Change
Electricity and gas usage are the largest contributor to our direct Through Energy Efficiency With Teleflex committing to Science-Based Targets, this brought
into sharp focus the importance of gaining strong support from
greenhouse gas emissions and thus are a big focus for us.
In 2023, our manufacturing facilities in Zdar and Hradec, our supply chain and the need to have good quality primary
Electricity Czech Republic; Chihuahua, Mexico; and Kulim, Malaysia environmental data to meet our emission reduction targets.
have implemented several improvements that have provided
During 2023, we executed an online sustainability survey with our top 100 raw
significant savings in electricity consumption. Improvements
Electricity is the largest energy source that we use in our direct
material suppliers to understand where they were on their carbon reduction
at these locations include:
operations and thus is key in reducing our total greenhouse gas
journey and the maturity of their programs. We received a 60% response rate
emissions at Teleflex. We are working to both reduce unnecessary usage ■ Adjusted chiller settings, including chilled water to the survey and gathered valuable information on their current sustainability
or wasted electricity and increase efficiency in our processes. In our
temperature, flow rate, compressor speed, and system status along with the direction they will take over the next 3 years. We
manufacturing and office locations, we have and will continue to look at
schedule were encouraged by the number of our suppliers that outlined that they
numerous projects such as LED lighting retrofits, motion sensors, high-
■ Changed fan speeds of exhaust and air handling have, or are in the process of, implementing a CSR program.
efficiency HVAC systems, and better management practices.
units to match the actual ventilation, which prevents
unnecessary energy usage while maintaining adequate To further support our ambitions, in the second half of 2023, we evaluated
Renewable Electricity
indoor air quality and ventilation standards several sustainability software platforms with the intent to help us better
■ Reorganized physical production process, resulting in a track, manage and report sustainability data relating to the performance of
We know that renewable electricity is a key component in decarbonizing our our supply chain. This will allow us to set sustainability goals and build an
reduction of approximately 7,700m2 of space requiring air
business. We now have on-site solar photovoltaic (PV) installations at 7 of our action plan to drive continuous improvement across our supply chain. In the
conditioning or lighting
manufacturing sites. We installed our first set of solar panels in 2015 and fourth quarter of 2023, we selected a preferred third-party software provider.
■ Added window tinting to reduce heat gain from sunlight
now have a total of approximately 5 MW (megawatt) of capacity and during We plan to implement the sustainability software and build our top 100 raw
and keep indoor spaces cooler, thereby reducing the
2023, we generated over 7.5 GWh (gigawatt hours) of renewable electricity. material suppliers into the platform in the first half of 2024. This engagement
need for air conditioning
We continue to investigate and invest in viable renewable electricity projects will be a critical input to the development of our Sustainable Procurement
■ Conducted regular tests on the compressed air systems
across our business. We are in the process of developing a more detailed Program for Teleflex and will provide valuable information around
to ensure leaks are found and fixed quickly
renewable electricity strategy with a leading consulting agency and plan to environmental sustainability, social impact, and ethics of our supply chain.
■ Replaced old ventilation motors with EC motors, saving
share more information on those plans in our 2024 report.
200 MWh of electricity per year.
During 2023, we also built sustainability capability across our
procurement function. We undertook a briefing where we detailed the
Continuing our Leadership in Renewable Energy
sustainability requirements expected from our supply chain and provided
Gas
In 2023, we commenced the installation of a new solar photovoltaic the information and material needed to allow our commodity managers
system at our Zdar, Czech Republic site. The new 1,642 panel system to build this into the Supplier Business Review process. Our plan is to
Natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) are the second largest
will have a total capacity of 756 kW and will produce an average of 709 continue our supply chain engagement on our sustainability expectations
source of energy that we use in our direct operations. As a part of our
MWh of electricity annually, covering approximately 13% of the site’s during 2024 as we build out our Sustainable Procurement Strategy.
climate action strategy, we continue to look at and implement projects
total electricity consumption.
that will reduce our reliance on gas, and we work to maximize our gas
efficiency where we have yet to eliminate its use.
40 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
People
Executive Sponsor: Colin Curran - VP, HR Global Operations
Pillar Lead: Maria Quaid - Senior Director, HR, Global Commercial
Talent Recruitment 43
Exceptional Employee Experience (E³) 45
Learning and Development 47
Benefits 49
Family Support 49
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 50
Employee Recognition 54
Employee Health and Safety 55
41 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
People is a major component of our
2023 2023
Core Values and we put people at the
center of everything we do. Careers 100% 24%
New hire Open roles
can go far at Teleflex. We support satisfaction rate filled internally
career growth through development
programs that help our employees
sharpen their skills and knowledge.
2023 2023
Competitive salaries and benefits,
challenging work, and talented co- Global new hires 55% Senior management 25%
were female were female
workers make Teleflex an excellent
place to have a career. We are
growing because of our people,
whose talent, character and initiative
2023 2023
make Teleflex a special place to work.
Average global Return to work
6.9 years 100%
workforce after parental
tenure leave in U.S.
42 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Talent Recruitment Recruitment and Onboarding
As we continue to grow as an organization and we hire in our Our talent recruitment team has several tools, resources, and avenues Hiring Manager satisfaction surveys, 97% in 202310, which reinforce the
many regions around the world, we put a focus on showing to reach potential candidates as we look to fill open roles within Teleflex. strength of our hiring processes, and the strength of the talent we hire.
candidates why Teleflex is such a special place. Teleflex We use job posting websites like LinkedIn, Glassdoor, Indeed and We are extremely proud of this feat and believe it shows that employees
employees are trusted partners of medical clinicians and the MedReps as well as university job boards, independent recruiters, and who join the organization are happy with the hiring process and felt that
patients they serve, and we highlight this to new candidates. internal referrals. When possible, we also take advantage of local career the description, details, and information provided about the role were
fairs at universities and colleges. accurate and truthful.
We have developed a world-class recruitment process and continue to operate
Glassdoor Ratings9 Teleflex Awarded Best
ourselves on an honest, open, and transparent recruiting, interviewing, and
hiring process. Throughout all stages in the process, we communicate all Workplaces in China
Teleflex has a 4 out of 5-star rating from
timelines, expectations, and compensation ranges in a clear manner to all
Glassdoor which is above the industry candidates. Our compensation offering is aligned with competitive market We’re proud to announce that Teleflex China was named
pay levels and we evaluate these levels through external analysis on a periodic one of the “Best Workplaces™ in Greater China 2023” by
average of 3.7 stars. Our current ratings
basis. We structure our compensation to include a role appropriate mix Great Place to Work®. Of the more than 280 companies in
also reflect that 76% of reviewers would
of base salary, short-term cash incentives and long-term incentives. the Greater China region surveyed, only 54 were awarded as
recommend Teleflex to a friend and that “Best Workplaces™ in Greater China 2023.” We are grateful to
87% of reviewers have indicated their At Teleflex, we are always working to ensure that our recruiting and receive this recognition, which was made possible through the
approval of our CEO. We are proud onboarding process are as good as they can be. As a part of that process, support of our APAC and China leadership teams and all of
we ask new hires to participate in a survey about the hiring process and our employees in China who have helped build our culture.
to have consistently high ratings on
onboarding. In 2023, we had an 87% response rate and a 100% satisfaction
Glassdoor with over 860 reviews.
rate in the Americas.10 Since 2018, we have had an overall 97% or
higher satisfaction rate. We have similarly consistent high scores in our

4.0
2023: 87% Response rate in the Americas
Recommended Approve
76% 87%
to a friend of CEO
100%
SATISFACTION
RATE
9 The Glassdoor ratings reflect the data as of December 2023 and may change in the future.
10 This data includes all U.S. exempt employees and portions of Latin America.
43 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Inclusive Recruiting
Our employees are proud to work at Teleflex and we have a history of strong Throughout the eight-week session, interns develop professional As a part of our larger DEI strategy, inclusive recruiting is a high priority
employee referrals for new hires. Our employee referral program has proven skills such as personal branding, networking, presentation techniques, at Teleflex. We have worked with our Global DEI Council to develop an
to be very successful in hiring good quality and highly trusted employees. interviewing best practices, cultural sensitivity, and awareness. approach to our recruiting method and process that we feel provides our
In 2023, 22% of U.S. hires11 for externally filled roles came via an employee hiring managers with a slate of candidates that reflects the communities
referral and we provided over $360,000 in additional compensation to Junior Achievement Ireland (JAI) works with industry and education in which we work and serve. We consider diversity to be in all aspects
employees as a referral bonus. The success of this program shows the partners to inspire young people to realize their potential by valuing including, but not limited to, gender, ethnic and racial background, age,
passion our employees have for the work we do at Teleflex so much so their education and developing the skills and attitudes needed to shape military status, and disabilities.
that they would recommend friends or family to become potential qualified their own future. Teleflex has partnered with JAI and 17 of our employees
candidates. In 2023, we expanded our employee referral program such that volunteered in a pilot program, teaching Junior Achievement programs, We employ various programs and initiatives to ensure a diverse candidate
every Teleflex location around the world has the opportunity to incorporate workshops and site visits. In total, 361 students in 7 schools worked with pool, collaborating with a number of Historically Black Colleges and
an employee referral bonus into their recruitment plan, encouraging the Teleflex volunteers and benefited from their JAI activities. By doing this, Universities (HBCUs) in the U.S. Additionally, we partner with several
referral of qualified candidates that meet the criteria of the program. we not only helped to educate the local youth, but we may see these Veteran and ex-military organizations, as well as various local community
talented young people join the Teleflex organization down the road. organizations. Our network extends to a number of community groups
like the Wounded Warrior Project, National Urban League, Dress for
2023: U.S. hires externally filled roles
Our office in China has created a trainee program which provides Success, and other labor associations, enabling us to seek out diverse
graduates with three job rotations in 18 months, including sales, talent effectively. We also work with talent agencies to source candidates,
22% marketing and commercial operations. Throughout these job rotations and we have worked with a number of external recruiting firms that help
VIA AN EMPLOYEE
the graduates will develop their commercial competencies, including ensure we are recruiting with a diverse slate of candidates for hiring
REFERRAL
business acumen, sales techniques, product knowledge, and analytical managers to elevate.
skills. This program is a great opportunity for graduates to receive
mentoring from senior leaders at Teleflex which can help them advance In our job descriptions we aim to use gender neutral phraseology to
their career development. make sure we are not discouraging potential candidates from applying.
One of the best ways to cultivate good talent is to do so early. We have a We have also begun pilot testing a masked resume process in which the
number of programs for early career professionals and young talent which When a new hire joins the organization in the U.S., our Keep In name or any other gender or racially identifying information are removed.
help us to begin the recruitment process even earlier. While we do not have Touch program is kicked off. The program is run through our Human Another key component of our inclusive recruiting strategy is to focus on
an enterprise-wide internship program, each country and department does Resources team and provides an avenue for us to ensure that the new the diversity of our internal interviewers throughout the process. In 2023,
have specific resourcing needs and will hire interns on a periodic basis. employee is happy and content in the new role. HR checks in with the 78% of our panel-based interviews included a gender-diverse group of
employee on a 3-6-9-month cycle and, if there are any reasons for employees and we continue to find ways to improve this.
The Teleflex Intern Development Experience (TIDE) is a U.S. program concerns or discontent, the hope is that we can help to solve the issue
focused on bolstering the unique attributes of Teleflex summer interns before the employee would decide to leave, encouraging retention from
aiming to provide them with career growth opportunities and the the start of their careers at Teleflex. All regions and countries have their
potential for permanent employment with Teleflex post-graduation. own specific program to check-in with new hires as they onboard within
the company to ensure they are happy and to address any concerns.
11 Does not include hourly employees
44 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Exceptional Employee Experience (E³)
It is important to provide a positive experience for all employees Team Building Events
throughout the entire employment process, from candidate
selection to employment and through to becoming an alumnus Surveys
Open Days
of Teleflex. We have developed a high-touch approach to our
employee management programs, which can be demonstrated
by our high average employee tenure at Teleflex. At the end of Posters Newsletters
2023, the average tenure of our workforce was 6.9 years, and 11.8
years for senior management.12 This really speaks to the culture
at Teleflex and the engaged work our employees do.
Internal
Roll up banners
Communications
2023: Average tenure of our workforce
Effective
Communication
6.9 11.8 Yammer Townhalls
YEARS
Methods
YEARS SENIOR MGT
(Internal and External)
In-person
Website meetings
When our workforce is engaged and happy to be at Teleflex it helps
build on our existing culture and plays a key role in delivering our long-
term growth strategy and customer focus. We perform an annual Global Lunch
and Learns
Employee Experience Survey across multiple areas of the business to On-site Screens
learn and understand the employee experience more broadly. Our 2023
survey was launched to over 6,400 employees, and we had an over 85%
On site Notice Boards
participation rate (up 3% from 2022). We had a strong score amongst Email
the 2023 surveys with an employee satisfaction (eSat) score of 73 and 75
(based on our two different survey cohort), which is just shy of the top Line Side Boards
25% of Glint benchmarks and is an important metric many companies
use to measure the employee experience. We received over 9,400
comments from nearly 3,000 different employees through the survey
12 Senior management positions are determined by employee job level (E-level) and generally represent
employees at Vice President and above.
45 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
process, and all the feedback received will empower managers and
leadership to understand, discuss, and address feedback transparently.
Teleflex uses an internal social networking site hosted by a leading software
provider to increase employee engagement and communication across
the organization. This platform allows our employees to communicate with
one another in an informal manner and share company or department
updates. The site provides a way for our Employee Resource Groups to
communicate about different events or activities going on.
Each of our sites and offices are also empowered to organize and host
events for employees to socialize and take a moment away from their
work. These events can range from volunteer events, lunch and learns,
ice cream socials, and holiday parties. We encourage local leaders to
organize such events to continue fostering our employee-centric culture
that makes Teleflex unique.
All Teleflex, employees have the right to collectively bargain and the freedom
to freely associate. As a global company, we have employees that are in a
union contract or in collective bargaining arrangements. As of the end of
2023, 6% of our employees globally were in such arrangements. We have
very effective and productive relationships with the representatives of these
employee groups where they exist in Teleflex.
In the event an employee does decide it is time for them to leave Teleflex
and move on to other opportunities, we conduct an exit interview process to
understand any reasons that may have led them to leave the organization.
We use the responses from this process and address these concerns.
46 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Learning and Development Employee Reviews
Development Programs
At Teleflex, we are dedicated to providing employees Our employees and managers meet on a regular basis to check-in and
We want to not just retain great talent but ensure there is a clear and
opportunities for growth, development and succession to realize ensure expectations of one another are understood and to work through
transparent path towards upward mobility, leadership growth, and
their potential that exists in the organization and to building a any learning opportunities. These check-ins, which are a global and
horizontal movement within the organization. We are happy to share
high-performance culture that supports our Core Values. enterprise-wide required process, also provide time for employees to
that 24% of open roles in 2023 were filled with internal candidates and
review progress on their self-identified career and development objectives
many of these being a promotion in title or role. This not only provides
(Career Pathway) on a quarterly basis, at minimum. Our managers
a great opportunity for current employees to grow and develop in their
2023: Open roles were filled
review the progress the employee has made on the development
careers, but also allows Teleflex to hire within, reduce hiring costs and
plans and provide the necessary support and resources to enable the
hire an individual we already know and trust.
strategic growth goals of the individual and the company. There are
24%
WITH INTERNAL
resources available for both employees and managers to support in the
Our Talent Development and HR teams have worked hard to develop the
CANDIDATES performance review and individual development plan processes.
“LEAD Behavioral Competencies” model, which has been rolled out to
several groups over 2023 with the remainder to be completed in 2024.
This will become the lens through which we assess and develop managers
and leaders across Teleflex and will have several supporting elements to it.
On-Demand Education Leading into the Future
We offer educational and training programs and support resources to our
employees primarily through our Teleflex Academy and Connect Learning
platforms. These platforms utilize our Core Curriculum programs to ■ Demonstrate sense of purpose and inspires ■ Communicates effectively
provide ample learning opportunities in each of our regions throughout ■ Takes accountability ■ Builds and sustains relationships
the calendar year. We offer both virtual and in person programming, ■ Demonstrates critical judgment ■ Plans and organizes
as well as in multiple languages to ensure all regions can utilize these
tools. We have also expanded our digital library for ‘learning on-the-go’.
Programs within our Core Curriculum and our own Facilitator Training
Course have received valuable external accreditation and certification. ■ Creates value for the customer ■ Develops people
■ Demonstrates continuous improvement ■ Builds high performance people and teams
In 2022, we kicked off our partnership with LinkedIn Learning, which ■ Creates a culture of inclusion and involvement ■ Develops growth mindset
allows our employees to access over 16,000 courses covering a wide range
of technical, business, software, and creative topics. LinkedIn Learning is a
fantastic resource for our employees and managers and offers everyone
the opportunity to learn at their own pace in multiple languages, making
the platform perfect for all of our sites around the world.
47 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Tuition Support
Nomination-Only Development
Programs Through our “Good to Great Coaching” program, we provide one-on- While Teleflex offers a wide range of training, education, and
one coaching to leaders throughout Teleflex. By creating a culture of development opportunities, we know that there is still a role for external
Teleflex Emerging Talent Program (TET) coaching we can support the individual and larger team at the same time schools, training, and universities. We offer fulltime U.S. employees
by empowering all to be at their best in any situation. We have grown our financial assistance through reimbursement of fees for tuition,
Participants are better prepared to take on or perform in
list of certified International Coaching Federation (ICF) coaches across the laboratory, registration, and other mandatory fees and expenses for
their individual contributor role and prepare for managerial
organization, allowing us to expand this opportunity to more employees courses and programs that expand or continue education related to an
competencies. They identify what personal success means;
who embrace the Core Values of Teleflex. employee’s role. Where available, our regions have a variety of programs
learn about their working and communication style; become
with local rules and criteria that apply.
aware of their engagement gap/develop an engagement plan;
We also offer a mentoring program as another way to develop and foster
build their personal brand; and discuss/explore critical thinking
talent. Our mentoring program focuses on helping employees manage In the U.S., we also have partnerships with two leading universities
and problem solving. This is a hybrid program covering 8
five key aspects of professional development: skills development, problem to allow employees to attend online courses and participate in online
modules via eLearning and live instructor-led training
solving, goal setting, career planning, and networking. Our program programs at discounted rates of up to 52% off. These universities offer
Teleflex Essentials of Management Program (TEM) is set up to be a 6-12 month engagement in which the Mentee and certificate, undergraduate, and graduate level programs for employees.
Mentor meet at minimum once a month and set up clear action plans for New employees can also apply for a grant to subsidize the costs through
The TEM program is an experiential learning program
addressing key development areas. one of the universities.
designed to develop new and existing managers and allow
them to learn and grow within their roles. It addresses the
In 2023, we commenced a new partnership with Guider, enhancing our Global
most important aspects of managing people and perspectives
Coaching and Mentoring program through software and process upgrades
across all levels, learning to inspire and influence and leading
for a better experience and level of effectiveness. Guider allows us to better
teams through conflict in a positive manner. This is a hybrid
facilitate the matching process, schedule sessions and track progress,
program covering eLearning and live instructor-led training.
resulting in an enhanced learning and user experience of our employees and
Teleflex Leadership Development Program (TLD) reducing potential restrictions while satisfying our requirements.
Our TLD program has been designed to bring our future leaders
to the next level. Focusing on understanding their own leadership
style, how they impact those around them and taking control of
their business relationships are essential to successful leadership.
Leadership requires a variety of skill sets across a spectrum of
needs, the TLD program will take them through dealing with
challenging situations, the health and well-being of their people
and understanding the leaders they have around them in the
business. This program is by invitation only and is offered to key
talent within Teleflex who are ready for the next level.
48 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Benefits Family Support
We believe our compensation and benefits offering is aligned to Creating and growing a family can be one of the most significant
competitive market pay levels. We offer these benefits packages milestones in one’s life, and we want to ensure that we support
to ensure we are taking care of our employees, not just from a that milestone as much as we can. In the U.S., we offer our
compensation standpoint but also on a personal level. full-time employees a Parental Leave Policy, which provides
birthing and non-birthing parents up to six weeks of paid time off
We offer all our eligible employees a comprehensive suite of healthcare
following the birth of a child as well as up to six additional weeks
benefits, as well as retirement plans for all employees. In the U.S., we also
of unpaid parental leave.
have specific policies addressing paid time off, flexible work arrangements,
employee assistance, parental leave, and family benefits. We also offer We are happy to share that in the U.S., 100% of employees who took
employees several additional benefits around employee discounts or parental leave in 2023 returned to work. Globally, we provide parental leave
special rates for services such as pet and auto insurance, legal in accordance with all local regulations and based on regional differences.
assistance, identity theft protection, and consumer discounts programs.
Our Global regions have policies addressing paid time off, flexible work Employees that have adopted children can utilize the same level of
arrangements, employee assistance, parental leave, and family benefits. leave as those with biological children. And we also offer an adoption
You can learn more about our U.S. benefits here. reimbursement program for up to two adoptions per employee to help
offset some of the costs involved in the adoption process.
Healthcare Benefits
For those employees who may need some additional support in their
One of the benefits we focus on the most at Teleflex for our employees is
fertility journey, Teleflex provides an additional level of benefits through
healthcare insurance and support. In each region and country, we offer
our partner, Progyny. Progyny offers specialized resources and financial
healthcare benefits based on local regulations and market practices. We
support for those seeking fertility treatments such as intrauterine
offer a benefits concierge service and access to telemedicine virtual care for
insemination (IUI) and in-vitro fertilization (IVF) and works to ensure that
our U.S. employees. In addition, employees can customize their healthcare
you will not run out of coverage mid-term or have high-cost claims.
plans through voluntary supplemental health benefits such as critical
illness, hospital indemnity and group accident insurance coverages.
A travel benefit is available for our full-time U.S. employees which
allows reimbursement for reasonable travel expenses for specialized
services, such as bariatric surgery, organ transplants and abortions,
if those services are not available in their local community or region.
Developments in the U.S. have underscored the importance of ensuring
equitable access to healthcare, across the spectrum of critical services.
49 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Rooted in our Core Values, Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) plays an 4. Ensure the rich, diversity of Teleflex talent is valued and
essential role in how we fulfill our purpose of improving the health intentionally woven into the fabric of how we make decisions and
Inclusive Employer Award
and quality of people’s lives – and this doesn’t stop with our products. operate as a company.
Teleflex was selected to receive the
Teleflex has always been committed to advancing DEI in all its forms across Teleflex is evaluated by the Human Rights
our workforce and maintaining a positive and inclusive work environment. Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index, a national Inclusive Employer Award at The Arc Mid-
The rich diversity of Teleflex talent is valued and intentionally woven into benchmarking tool on corporate policies, practices
South’s 28th Annual Awards & Benefit Gala.
the fabric of how we make decisions and operate as a company. Through and benefits pertinent to lesbian, gay, bisexual,
This Award honors an employer with an
embedding the principles of DEI into our activities, decisions, governance, transgender and queer employees. The Corporate
exceptional record of providing inclusive
innovations, and culture, we contribute to the achievement of accessible, Equality Index focuses on key criteria of workforce protections,
equitable and sustainable healthcare solutions for all. inclusive benefits, supporting an inclusive culture and corporate community employment opportunities
social responsibility and responsible citizenship. Receiving a score
and accommodations for people with
of 90 out of a possible 100 for the second year in a row, this benchmark
disabilities. The Arc Mid-South is a non
represents one of the many ways in which Teleflex is committed to
"To provide oversight, counsel and profit serving people with intellectual and
advancing DEI across our organization.
visibility to the importance, initiatives developmental disabilities and is a local
and progress related to Diversity, We make every effort to be inclusive of all suppliers regardless of race chapter of The Arc.
Equity & Inclusion in Teleflex." or ethnicity. Our Supplier Diversity & Small Business Statement
outlines our practices on working with diverse suppliers, both large and
small, to provide goods and services to Teleflex as part of our corporate
procurement process. We ensure that qualified, competitive diverse We conducted a deep dive into the employee experience of DEI
suppliers are given fair opportunity and consideration to participate in at Teleflex in 2022. In partnership with The Humphrey Group, we
Teleflex Global DEI Objectives
the procurement of goods and services. conducted over 20 in-depth interviews with influential and key leaders
1. Ensure Teleflex Core Values are lived throughout the company… throughout the organization. These leaders were given the opportunity
every day, at every level. Engagement on DEI to share their experiences, confidentially. In addition, the Humphrey
2. By indicator of diversity, the percentage of Teleflex employees by Group facilitated employee focus groups across the company to enable
employment category will reflect the talent market(s) in which we It is important that our employees hear from us about our progress and all strong feedback. We also sent out an anonymous DEI survey to about
work and compete. the resources available to them regarding DEI. We do this in various ways 500 employees across the business. The interviews, focus groups, and
3. We believe in equal pay for equal work. Teleflex is committed to fair including through our quarterly Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Newsletter, our survey results were used to review trends, sentiments and suggestions
and equitable compensation, taking into consideration the elements internal social networking sites, and by disseminating information through for next steps in our DEI journey.
that appropriately influence pay (e.g. experience, geographic senior leaders and managers to their employees. Our regional DEI Councils
location, and individual performance). also provided updates through their individual newsletters and intranet sites.
50 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) International Woman's Day
Our Employee Resource Groups (ERG), which were launched in 2016, are
an effective way to help all employees feel a genuine sense of equity and
belonging. These voluntary, employee-led groups, foster a diverse and
inclusive culture and environment while improving engagement with
over 2,000 employees.
■ Women Inspiring Learning and Leadership (WILL)
■ African American Professionals Network (AAPN)
■ PRISM (LGTBQ+)
■ OXYGEN for Emerging Professionals
■ Working Parents Network
■ Veteran’s ERG (VERG)
Our ERG community continues to grow, and new Employee Resource
Groups are created based on local and region employee needs. We
hold space for professional development and networking opportunities.
In 2023, our ERGs coordinated a range of impactful activities for their
members, communities, teams and colleagues around the world
that focused on initiatives such as supporting working parents and
caregivers, coordinating mentorship and development opportunities,
promoting cultural awareness and understanding, and connecting
employees with shared experiences, interests or backgrounds.
51 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Interview with Rodrigo Gutiérrez López, Driving a Culture of Inclusivity
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion in the corporate setting is often referred Tell us about yourself and your role in Teleflex? How are you personally, and as a DEI council member, applying your
to in terms of ethnicity, gender, and age. However, DEI is meant to take I am a Value Streams Manager located in Chihuahua City, Mexico. In Mexico, experience to drive meaningful change for others with disabilities?
into consideration all unique attributes and experiences of individuals, we have four facilities, and I am responsible for manufacturing and In the U.S., buildings are designed with disabilities in mind, but here in
including their abilities or disabilities. Disability is an integral element of operations at one of the facilities; the Barrancas facility. Mexico it is not the same. We find many places where you need help in
diversity and businesses can benefit from the diverse perspectives and bathrooms or to move from one site to another site. We need to raise
I started my career at Teleflex in 2006, one year after finishing school. I
experiences of being a disability-inclusive workforce. awareness on this topic because people don’t have this awareness. When
started as a Manufacturing Engineer and have held various roles since
you are a person without disabilities, you can create a plan. However,
then in many functions, including manufacturing warehouse and planning
We recently sat down with Rodrigo Gutierrez, Value Stream Manager in when you are a person with disabilities, you experience on your own if the
materials. It is 16 years later, and I still love working for Teleflex because
Mexico and regional DEI council member for Latin America at Teleflex, to places are good for disabilities or not.
our products help to improve the health and quality of people’s lives,
discuss his personal story and learn how Teleflex is building and maintaining
which is what they did for me. As a DEI council member, my role is to work with people in Barrancas and
a culture of inclusion to support our employees with disabilities.
the other facilities here in Mexico to raise this awareness and help make the
When I started at Teleflex, I didn’t have any health issues. However, in 2018,
modifications where I can for people of disabilities. We have held several
I had a serious issue with my back and needed a series of four surgeries.
meetings with human resources and the facilities on this topic, with the
Ironically, when I was in the operating room, I saw that the product kits to be
plan to fully adapt the facility and open up the possibilities for people with
used were manufactured by Teleflex in Mexico. It was very special to me.
disabilities within various positions. We are continuing to make additional
investments to support the community and working with human resources
When I was able to, I told my team this story and said that while we have
on employment efforts targeted to other individuals with specific needs.
a lot of things to deal with and a lot of decisions to make, please always
think about the decisions you make today, because they can make a
What advice do you have for others that are facing similar challenges?
difference tomorrow. This could be you or your family.
People say to me, “you are strong. you have a good attitude.” Yes, I do, but
we need to work a lot and make this awareness for people.
Did your health affect your ability to work?
When I spoke to my managers, I told them that I can’t walk because of
I talk with a lot of people about my case and to raise awareness. I tell
my surgeries. I said, you don’t need my legs, you need my brain. Our
them to be happy every day because you don’t know what can happen
conversation sparked more discussions within Teleflex, which in turn led
tomorrow and your life may be changed forever. So, every day you need
to the facility modifications that would benefit myself and others with
to work, you need to be happy with your family, your life, spouse, friends
disabilities. It would have been easy for Teleflex to say goodbye. But
Rodrigo Gutiérrez López because you don’t know what will happen tomorrow.
instead, they worked with me to accommodate specific needs.
Manufacturing Manager
5522 TTEELLEEFFLLEEXX 22002233 GGLLOOBBAALL IIMMPPAACCTT RREEPPOORRTT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
DEI Governance Compensation Fairness and Equity DEI Strategy
Our Global DEI Council, which is made up of a dozen executive-level Fairness and equity in our compensation programs are key components The role that DEI plays in advancing our culture and growing employee
leaders at Teleflex, works to manage and improve our diversity at of our DEI strategy. We first conducted a compensation study amongst engagement is vital to the continued success of our organization. As
Teleflex and is chaired by our U.S./Canada Regional Chair, Shanté our workforce in 2021 and conducted our second analysis in 2023. The a result, Teleflex identified the need to determine a strategic direction
Demary. We have four Regional DEI Councils, which are led by respective goal of the analysis is to determine whether we provide our employees for DEI and, in consultation with our DEI Councils and employees, we
regional leaders from the Global DEI Council. With roughly 60 members with fair and equitable compensation. We have reviewed our global defined a Global DEI Strategy for Teleflex. To develop this strategy we
from around the world, our Regional DEI Councils in APAC, EMEA, LATAM compensation programs with respect to gender, race and ethnicity; conducted leadership interviews, many focus groups, hundreds of
and the U.S. and Canada are representative of employees from all levels, however, due to data and privacy legislation, our analysis with respect to surveys, and several workshops.
functions, and regions of Teleflex, acting as a hub of activity to promote race and ethnicity was limited to the U.S.
the importance of DEI in Teleflex within their region. This Global DEI Strategy focuses on three key pillars of Communication,
We worked with external advisors to conduct the analysis, and job- Education and Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) and seeks to bring
related factors were considered. We are proud to report that no a consistent approach to how we embed the principles of DEI in our
US/CA Regional Lead (Chair)
systemic issues in fairness of our compensation programs was communications, provide our employees with opportunities to learn
identified. We conduct this type of analysis on a regular basis to ensure and engage with DEI and how we support the growth of our ERGs
we continue to compensate our employees equally based on job-related across the business.
LATAM Lead APAC Lead EMEA Lead factors and plan to do another analysis in 2025.
In addition, our Global DEI Strategy is supported by a DEI Guidelines
DEI Metrics that supports Teleflex employees in understanding the governance,
Inclusive Leadership Training
engagement, communication, education, and applications for DEI in
We measure and track numerous metrics related to diversity, equity, Teleflex and how through DEI, we can all drive meaningful change
In partnership with The Humphrey Group, a leading communication
and inclusion at Teleflex. We use these data points to help inform across the organization.
and training firm who are experts in the DEI space, we developed and
and adjust our DEI strategy and program. At the end of 2023, 59% of
implemented our Global Inclusive Leadership program with our senior
our global workforce was female and over 34% of our U.S. workforce
management. We initially launched the program in 2020 and have since
were non-white. At the end of 2023, over 25% of our members of
expanded the implementation of our Inclusive Leadership Program
senior management were women, and the average age of our senior
to include all managers globally. We have also created our Inclusive
management team was 52. While we are very proud of our overall
Mindset program for all our non-manager employees, and we added
company diversity, we continue to look for ways to further enhance
an Unconscious Bias educational video to our Learning Management
and improve our diversity. For a full list of all our metrics related to DEI,
System (Connect Learning Platform).
please refer to the Data Appendix attached or at the end of report.
53 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Employee Recognition Awards
We want to celebrate and recognize our employees for their Teleflex honors employees throughout the organization through various Teleflex Chairman’s Award
achievements, dedication, innovation, and integrity. We have awards, which focus on different achievements or criteria. Teleflex also
programs and awards that help to elevate these achievements on grants global, regional, and business unit awards based on varying The most prestigious and sought-after award is the Teleflex Chairman’s
an enterprise-level. criteria such as sales goals or exceeding employee expectations. Award. This award recognizes employees who make a significant
business impact while exemplifying Teleflex’s Core Value through one or
Smiles Program more of the following areas: innovation, customer focus, productivity, CSR
Impact Award
and inclusive culture, or quality. All full-time and part-time employees and
Our Smiles Program provides all employees globally the opportunities The purpose of this award is to reward outstanding contributions that teams globally are eligible, and finalists are determined by a global Award
to offer recognition to peers for outstanding effort in relation to our have a significant impact on the business. The award is meant to recognize Committee and the winner is then ultimately selected by the Teleflex
C.A.R.E. Principles and Teleflex Core Values. The program is rather simple: full-time or part-time employees that have demonstrated a specific Chairman. The winners can be seen listed in our Annual Report.
employees can give teammates ‘Smiles’ or nominations which translate achievement above and beyond the requirements and expectations for
into points that can be accumulated and redeemed for either Teleflex their position and have achieved outstanding results, while having modeled
swag such as bags or jackets or donated to a charitable organization. In and demonstrated behaviors in line with the Teleflex Core Values.
2023, almost 4,000 employees sent roughly 6,000 fellow colleagues more
than 87,000 Smiles, which is all up significantly from 2022. C.A.R.E. Award
Star Stories The C.A.R.E. award rewards full-time or part-time U.S. and Canadian
employees who have provided exceptional customer experiences
Teleflex Star Stories are designed to recognize and celebrate the through the demonstration of the C.A.R.E. Principles.
contributions of our Global Commercial workforce and highlight
the impact of our people and our products across business units, C.A.R.E. Principles
departments, and functions. This program provides more visibility into
■ Connect Personally – taking the time to understand what
the great things happening across the different groups within the
customers and colleagues value and their definition of success.
larger Global Commercial organization. Any employee can share a Star
■ Anticipate Needs – staying ahead of the curve and always thinking
Story via a submission form and these stories may be shared internally
about where things go next to deliver exceptional experiences.
to celebrate the impact of our employees based on a number of
■ Resolve Quickly – committing to timely replies to questions and
different areas: impact of Teleflex products on patient care, employees
concerns and making people feel heard.
demonstrating Core Values, examples of Customer Experience (CX)
■ Exceed Expectations – making efforts to surprise and delight with
excellence, CSR, or DEI.
every interaction to earn people’s trust and loyalty.
54 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Employee Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety Management
The health, safety, and wellbeing of our employees is an We have a global occupational health and safety management system, an employee or on-site contractor at our manufacturing and distribution
imperative for us. Our Global Environmental Health and Safety aligned to ISO 45001 (OSH Management Systems) with site-specific facilities in the past three years.13 In 2024, we will strive for continual
Management System is in place to protect our most valuable Core Management Systems (CMS), which is governed by our Global improvement on our Zero Harm journey.
assets – our people. Compliance with all applicable occupational Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) Manual. Our commercial
DART Rate
health and safety legislation is underpinned by our focus and offices are governed by a simplified occupational health and safety
continual movement toward our Zero Harm Vision. management protocol based on the local requirements. Each of our
manufacturing or operations sites has an EHS advisor. Employee 0.94 2019
You can find our Environmental, Health, and Safety policy here. health and safety at Teleflex is overseen by our Global EHS Director
alongside regional EHS Managers. Our Global EHS Director reports
2020
through our Global Operations HR organization and all the way to
0.76
senior management.
Our Athlone, Ireland site has become the first Teleflex site to
secure ISO certifications for the full site scope of operations - for its 2021
Employees and any other people at our sites who observe an EHS
Core Management System against both ISO 45001 and ISO 14001
0.59
related concern can report and escalate those concerns. They can easily
standards, and for its Energy Management System against the
2022
remove themselves from work situations that they believe could cause
ISO 50001 standard. The photo is at the presentation of the global
injury or ill health, while being assured protection from any reprisals or
Zero Harm Award and the framing of the ISO certificates. In the
0.42
retaliation. Our health and safety training is an essential part of the EHS
photo are Jean Mullally (Athlone EHS Advisor/Office Manager), 0.39 2023
program for all employees at Teleflex and is customized for each site’s
Brian Greham (Global EHS Director), Brendan Moran (Athlone
risk profile based on the site-specific hazards, rules, and requirements.
Site Lead/Senior Controller) and Aoife Flynn (EHS Coordinator).
To learn more about our employee health and safety program click here.
We track and monitor noise levels for our employees, where
pertinent, to protect them and their hearing health and for our local
communities. We utilize various types of soundproofing and test
periodically for these levels.
We track and monitor several occupational health and safety metrics
across our sites, regionally and globally. One of the topline metrics we
use to measure safety is the internationally comparable DART Rate (days
away/restricted or transfer), a calculation of the number of work-related
injuries or illnesses per 100 employees. We are extremely proud of our
teams focus on safety and have continually decreased our DART rate four
years running. We have not experienced a work-related fatality by either
13 DART Rate and fatality figures are across our manufacturing and distribution sites.
55 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Health and Wellness
Safety is a key focus for Teleflex, but we cannot discount the need
for health and wellness programs as well. Our health and wellness
programs include working initiatives related to nutrition, building in
adequate physical activity, stress management, heart health and more
to help our employees improve their health and wellbeing.
Instructor-Led Mindfulness and Resilience Training
Throughout the learning year, Teleflex offers regular open enrollment
Mindfulness and Resilience training facilitated by certified internal
facilitators. This instructor-led training allows participants to learn
about Mindfulness, True Life Resilience, and guides through live
practicing of tools and methodology.
Festive Wellness Week
Each year Teleflex hosts a week-long focus on wellbeing and closes the
year with positivity and focus. Each day the Global Talent Development
team hosts live sessions and/or guides employees towards eLearning
resources focusing on a topic related to physical, mental and emotional
wellbeing. Included in the daily communications are short mindfulness
practices that employees can listen to at a time that suits them best.
Wellness Wednesday
The Human Resources team based in the Athlone, Ireland office
partner with external vendors to offer Wellness Wednesday. Each
week an email communication will be sent out to all Athlone-based
employees with links to live webinars, encouragement towards
focused behaviors, or links to support systems.
56 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Community & Sustainable
Healthcare
Executive Sponsor: Michelle Fox - Corporate Vice President & Chief Medical Officer
Pillar Lead: John McDonald - Senior Director, Global Scientific Affairs
Community 59
Sustainable Healthcare 67
57 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
In this pillar of our CSR program,
2023 2023
we are focused on a number of key
Medical
areas within Teleflex including our $730,000 $8.5m
education Research
impact on our community, product grants grants
sustainability, and healthcare access
and equity. This pillar is focused on
the ‘do no harm’ credo in all of its
2023 2023
meanings, including with patients,
Healthcare
Sustainability
the community, and the planet. professionals 250,000 launched
Medical Advisory
educated Board
58 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Community
The relationship between Teleflex and its community is
17% Target: We committed to increasing the dollar amount given in medical
symbiotic. Community is a huge part of who we are at Teleflex,
education grants by 17% by the end of 2023 compared to 2022.
and we do our best to support and partner with all the different
communities we work in and with.
Medical Education Grants
We provide monetary and in-kind support for accredited medical
educational programs and events that promote scientific or educational
discourse and are consistent with our mission to improve health outcomes. 9% Progress: We had a decrease of 9% for 2023. While we did not meet
this goal, we will look to reassess and develop a new target in the future.
“As the Lead for Community and
Sustainable Healthcare, I am
delighted to be part of the Teleflex Women and Heart Disease Education
sustainability journey as we advance
The Teleflex Interventional Business Unit provided Cedars Sinai with a allied healthcare professionals regarding gender- and sex-specific differences
our many efforts in this area including
medical education grant to support the 17th Annual Women and Ischemic in cardiovascular disease, the impact these differences had on treatment
building the foundations for Heart Disease Symposium. The Symposium explored sex and gender-specific options, and the importance of identifying women at risk for cardiovascular
issues in ischemia with no obstructive CAD (INOCA), inclusion of women in disease, by utilizing the most current evidence-based treatment strategies for
sustainable products, embedding
cardiovascular disease leadership, management of chest pain and ischemic optimizing patient-centered care. Grant funds were crucial in organizing and
sustainability within our merger and
heart disease in women, COVID and Long Hauler Cardiac Conditions including executing this symposium, serving to off-set various expenses associated with
acquisition process, ensuring postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS) in women, menopause, accreditation, venue and technological infrastructure for virtual attendance
and ovarian aging in cardiovascular disease, Cardio-Obstetrics including options. The financial support from the grant ensured the accessibility of the
equitable access to our devices,
Preeclampsia, and new approaches and therapies for weight management. The conference to a wide audience, fostering greater dissemination of knowledge
broadening access to our training and
purpose of this conference was to close the knowledge gaps of physicians and and awareness about gender-specific disparities in cardiovascular health.
education materials.”
John McDonald, Grant requests are reviewed by our regional Grant Panels, which are include a needs assessment that clearly defines the unmet educational
comprised of representatives from our Business Units and our Finance need or gap that the proposed activity will address. In 2023, we provided
Senior Director, Global Scientific Affairs
and Compliance organizations and are chaired by members of our Clinical 73 medical educational grants equaling approximately $730,000.
and Medical Affairs organization. All educational grant requests must
59 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Supporting DEI with Henry Ford Health
The Teleflex Interventional Business Unit provided Henry Ford Health with
a medical education grant to support the 2023 Readying Youth Scientists $3.4m Target: We committed to increasing the dollar amount
for Excellence in Medicine, Health Equity, and Discovery (RYSE MED) allocated for directed grants to $3.4 million in 2023.
Program. This program boasts the following results:
■ Supported 20 metro Detroit high school scholars and 15
undergraduate and medical student mentors throughout an
intensive 6-week summer program.
■ Provided over 40 hours of engaging didactic presentations from
Henry Ford Health clinicians and researchers representing over
25 specialties and areas of research expertise.
$4.8m
Progress: We have increased the directed grants
■ Presented more than 25 hours of youth participatory action
research-based curriculum, giving young people the tools to
to nearly $4.8million.
conduct research that positively impacts health equity in their
communities.
■ Through the RYSE MED health equity project work, provided
an engaging learning environment focused on skill-building
Clinical Research Grants Human and Labor Rights
in health equity, research, advocacy, communication, oral
presentation, leadership, and teamwork.
■ And finally, offered mentoring circles with physicians, nurses, Teleflex is focused on helping to advance independent research. We We hold ourselves and our suppliers accountable with globally recognized
provide research grants and support to healthcare providers in labor standards established by organizations, such as the International
physician assistants, nurse practitioners, pharmacists,
areas that are complementary to Teleflex’s business and products. Labor Organization (ILO) and the U.S. Department of Labor among
researchers, optometrists, and near-peers to encourage
All incoming requests are reviewed and managed by Global Clinical others. Our Labor Standards Assurance Policy provides an outline to
long-term relationships that positively influence students'
Operations, which is a part of Clinical and Medical Affairs. This team our Labor Standards Assurance System (LSAS) program which is managed
understanding of their career pathways and how to navigate
reviews the requests to ensure that all supported studies and research by our Purchasing Controls Team and assesses our suppliers on a range
them successfully.
are conducted in accordance with the applicable study protocol, of labor and supplier standards. We also work with our suppliers to
The medical education grant provided by Teleflex helped to cover
applicable institutional policies, generally accepted standards of Good provide information on any conflict minerals we may use. For additional
student scholar and student mentor stipends. Stipends help those
Clinical Practice (GCP), and all applicable laws and regulations. In information, refer to our Conflict Minerals Policy Statement.14
engaged be able to focus on their experience in the summer without
2023, we issued 12 directed grants totaling nearly $4.8 million and 20
having to miss sessions due to a work conflict or simply being too
Teleflex is dedicated to upholding human rights for everyone, employee
Investigator Initiated Study (IIS) grants worth over $3.7 million.
exhausted to concentrate.
or not. We treat all our employees with dignity consistent with standards
14 Conflict minerals refer to tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold (commonly referred to as “3TG”), regardless of where they are sourced, processed or sold.
60 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
and practices recognized by the international community. We also
expect our suppliers to do the same. We do not condone and will not
accept any form of discrimination, harassment, involuntary labor or
child labor, and require compliance with applicable laws, rules, and $4.4m Target: We committed to increasing the dollar amount
regulations around working hours, wages, and benefits. We also fully allocated for IIS grants to $4.4 million in 2023.
support the rights of our employees and employees of our suppliers to
collectively bargain and freely associate.
We have received Level 3 accreditation of our Labor Standards program,
which complies with the U.K. National Health Service (NHS) Labour
Standards Assurance System (LSAS) program requirements. This is our third
year of level 3 accreditation. Our recent LSAS audit resulted in zero findings Progress: We have increased IIS grants to
$3.7m
and zero recommendations for improvement from our auditor. Within the
$3.7 million which is shy of our target, yet we are
LSAS program specifically, we have over 400 suppliers, and to date we have
proud to have seen a $2 million increase over 2022.
not identified any suppliers that have had significant labor standard issues.
We utilize a labor standards questionnaire form as part of our vendor
on-boarding process to maintain alignment with the Ethical Trading
Initiative (ETI). We periodically update the form to allow for easier the philanthropic spirit of Teleflex employees. Roughly 90% of the IRS 501(c)(3) requirements. We launched a pilot of our Foundation global
completion and interpretation of the questionnaire responses. In Foundation’s annual budget is allocated for giving and the remaining expansion in Ireland, allowing us to financially partner with some of the
2023, we evaluated third party providers of supplier audits to assist 10% goes towards management of the Foundation’s endowment, non-U.S. based charities that our Teleflex colleagues passionately and
us measure the standards of labor, health and safety, environmental administrative costs, and tax filing expenses. In addition, in 2021, locally support. Based on the experience of this pilot, our intention is to
performance, and ethics within our supply chain. In early 2024, we Teleflex made a commitment to donate over $1 million to the expand this offering into other global regions in the future.
plan to roll out the software platform across our supply chain, with a Foundation by the end of 2024. We are happy to share that by the
Aside from the employee-specific donations, the Teleflex Foundation
primary focus on our top suppliers and suppliers within the scope of end of 2023, one year ahead of schedule, Teleflex Incorporated
makes an annual gift to Americares, a global health-focused relief and
our Labor Standards program. This data will also be a critical input in fulfilled that commitment, which will allow the Foundation to further
development organization that supports people affected by disaster or
the development of our ethical procurement program for Teleflex and expand its important philanthropic work for years to come. In 2023,
poverty. Teleflex has been working with Americares since 2014.
support our ambition to engage with a greater number of suppliers. the Foundation donated a total of approximately $225,000, which is a
10% increase over last year. You can find more information about the The Teleflex Foundation encourages employee engagement through
Philanthropy Foundation at our website. the following programs which align to our company mission with
employee-driven social responsibility. There are three different ways that
Historically, the Foundation has only provided funds to US-based 501(c)
The Teleflex Foundation was established in 1979 with the sole objective
employees can get involved.
(3) tax exempt organizations. In 2022, the Foundation identified a
to positively impact quality of life in the community by harnessing
means by which certain non-U.S. based charities can satisfy the U.S.
61 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Make a Difference (MAD) Grant
The MAD grant program provides grants to healthcare related
charities with which Teleflex employees and their families are involved.
Employees can nominate charities during the open nomination
period each year and the Teleflex Foundation officers review these
nominations and prioritize them in large part based on the level
of employee engagement with the organization (for example, as
a volunteer or benefactor). In 2023, 17 eligible healthcare related
charities received MAD Grants.
Matching Gifts
The Foundation encourages charitable giving by Teleflex employees
and demonstrates our interest in supporting their community
investment concerns. The program matches gifts to most qualified
organizations and will match gifts of $50 and above, up to an annual
total of $2,000 per donor. In 2023, over 105 eligible charities received a
Matching Gift.
Team Volunteer Program
Employee teams consisting of 5 or more employees who participate
in an event such as walks and marathons, special events and one-
time fundraising initiatives can apply for a grant of $1,000 from the
Foundation for eligible organizations.
62 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Community Engagement
JOIN Act with Purpose, our employee-led community engagement program was launched in 2014. And since then, it
has had the mission of acting with purpose to advance Teleflex’s commitment to our community. JOIN, Act with Purpose
was created by our employees who are united under the same common goal and sense of purpose in their everyday
jobs and beyond. Our almost 60 JOIN Champions globally are individuals within each of our regional offices and facilities
that are dedicated to leading our local initiatives. These Champions represent coworkers and locations and assist in the
coordination of employee driven initiatives in the community. In 2023, we launched a new event registration system
for our JOIN events to provide an easier process for employees to register their events and a better way for Teleflex to
monitor and track metrics related to our efforts.
In October 2023, we organized our first global JOIN volunteer month. Employees across Teleflex were
invited to organize, manage and/or participate in various volunteering events and efforts throughout
the month of October. Employees were encouraged to volunteer in any way they could, including
through small events such as a local beach cleanup, creating a community garden, or similar activities.
VOLUNTEERING HEALTH COMMUNITY SUPPORT LOCAL INITIATIVES
Through our Volunteering pillar, we hope Our Health pillar focuses on Teleflex’s place Our Community Support pillar shines a The Local Initiatives pillar focuses on
to drive our activities to support charitable as a stakeholder in community healthcare light on the local communities of our sites site-specific JOIN activities. Our steering
organizations close to the hearts of our to actively support the health and quality of worldwide. Through global and regional committee supports our local JOIN
employees in the form of volunteering hours people’s lives. Some initiatives supported partnerships with local organizations, we champions in their efforts to organize JOIN
and charitable donations.
by our Health Pillar are employee mental work closely to identify community needs events by providing communication and
health awareness, blood donations, internal and provide support wherever possible. reporting tools to ensure there is large
training on healthcare needs and partnering engagement in JOIN activities throughout
with our communities in supporting local all our sites worldwide.
healthcare needs.
63 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Hear from a few of our Local JOIN Champions!
“Being a part of JOIN has not only allowed “Through JOIN activities, we not only help “I am proud to be a Teleflex JOIN
me to contribute to important causes but change the world for the better, but we also Champion. We are measured in terms of
has also provided an opportunity to learn help where there is a need and in doing so, businesses improving conditions for their
and grow as an individual. It goes beyond the we connect with each other. Even the employees, shareholders, communities,
regular routine, allowing me to connect with smallest stories matter and can change the and environment. But moral responsibility
my community and colleagues in meaningful world for the better. JOIN also provides a lot goes further, reflecting on the need for
ways. Through our JOIN activities it has of freedom to tailor specific activities to corporations to address fundamental
opened my eyes to diverse perspectives and local needs. Unique human stories are what ethical issues such as inclusion, dignity,
has allowed me to give back to the drive me on and also motivate me to be and equality.”
community in meaningful ways. The sense there for others in any situation."
Pooja G Rao
of fulfillment that comes from helping
Local Czech Republic Champion Team India Local Champion
others and making a positive impact is truly (Marie Šimonová, Štěpánka Soukupová,
priceless. It's heartening to see the difference Klára Večeřová, Adéla Dvořáková)
we can make collectively, and the friendships
formed through shared experiences add an
extra layer of joy to the journey!”
Nina Nguyen
HR Representative and U.S. Local Champion
64 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Wings for Life Blankets for a Cause Volunteer Week
The Wings for Life World Run is an annual global charity run where Our Wayne, Pennsylvania, U.S. employees celebrated national volunteer Our Morrisville [North Carolina, U.S.] site hosted a Volunteer Week with
runners are encouraged to participate wherever they live. The motto for week by creating dozens of no-sew fleece blankets that were donated to over 300 employees participating throughout the week. Events included:
2023 was “running for those who can’t.” There are paraplegic individuals the local Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP) neonatal intensive volunteering at the Raleigh Foodbank, sorting clothing donations at Note
throughout the world who use our intermittent catheters and it is care unit. Our CEO, Liam Kelly, and Chief HR Officer, Cam Hicks got
in The Pocket, providing meals at the local Ronald McDonald House,
important to our employees around the world to participate in the involved and made some blankets as well.
spreading joy and happiness at the Woodland Terrace Retirement Home,
event. 24 Teleflex runners from 10 countries took part and supported
and many more.
raising money.
65 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
JOIN Leadership Gives Back Planting Hope for Yangil Tribe Cycling For Children Through
The Žďár Hills
Our JOIN Steering Committee hosted their annual team strategy Our Philippines employees initiated a project to support the Yangil Tribe,
meeting in Athlone, Ireland, and they made it a priority to add in a a community deeply affected by the eruption of Mt. Pinatubo. They
Our Czech Republic employees participated in the 9th annual charity
volunteer activity. The group partnered with The Athlone Canal Heritage made a 5K trek to reach the Yangil Tribe village where they witnessed
event cycling for children through the Žďár hills. The charity bike ride is
Group to pick up litter and plant daffodil bulbs alongside an old canal the Tribe's lack of basic electricity, which served as a stark reminder of
organized to support children with cancer through the Krtek Children's
turned park. the global disparities that exist. By aiding in the reforestation of their
Oncology Foundation. Teleflex sponsored the event and raised almost
ancestral lands, employees contributed to the recovery of a community
$18,000 for the organization.
buried by volcanic ashes.
66 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Sustainable Healthcare
We view sustainable healthcare as healthcare that not only ■ Ethan Sims, MD, Emergency Medicine
Product Sterilization
delivers quality care to our patients, but also does so with  Medical Director for Sustainability at St. Luke’s Healthcare System
a do no harm mentality to the planet. Planetary health and  Founder and Board VP of the Idaho Clinicians for Climate Ethylene Oxide (EO) sterilization is a highly effective method used to
and Health
human health are inextricably linked, and it means sustainable deliver sterile devices to customers. Teleflex is optimizing its global
healthcare is a part of our mandate as a healthcare organization. ■ Jonathan Slutzman, MD, Emergency Medicine sterilization program by transitioning to sustainable EO cycles to
 Medical Director for Environmental Sustainability,
reduce the impact of fugitive emissions on the environment. The
Massachusetts General Hospital
Sustainability Medical Advisory Board new cycles will be designed to utilize less gas while maintaining
 Director of the Center for the Environment and Health,
acceptable sterility assurance levels and not affecting the safety or
Massachusetts General Hospital.
effectiveness of our sterile products. Teleflex will continue to partner
We are excited to announce the launch of the Teleflex Sustainability
with its sterilization providers to drive continuous improvements
Medical Advisory Board (SMAB), which will help identify opportunities to
Product Sustainability
while remaining compliant to current and future regulations. We will
improve and evolve our long-term strategy for sustainable healthcare.
begin transitioning to the new cycles in 2025.
The SMAB is comprised of independent experts in sustainability-related
At Teleflex, we have a commitment to developing impactful medical
topics. The specialist knowledge of these experts covers a broad range
devices for patients, healthcare providers, and caregivers. Our focus
Product Packaging
of topics such as: shaping and implementing ideas for environmental
when developing new products is to provide innovative, safe, and
and climate protection to entrepreneurial sustainability principles,
effective products that enhance clinical value by helping to improve Medical device packaging is developed with careful considerations
new product development and existing product viability, future-
patient and healthcare professional safety, enhance patient outcomes, regarding patient safety, protection of the devices, the clinical use
oriented business and international trade, sustainable leadership, and
and enable less invasive procedures. and the environment. Packaging often has several levels of materials
sustainability transformation as well as ESG key figures and sustainable
including the primary package which can provide a sterile barrier, a
finance. The SMAB had its first meeting in December 2023 and will
Teleflex has developed a product sustainability strategy with a focus on secondary level such as the shelf carton, and a third level that would
meet twice a year with additional meetings or consultations as needed.
the following areas: sterilization, product packaging, and materials. Our be comprised of the shipping box or pallet used. When we consider
The SMAB advises Teleflex on selected issues and critically assesses its
product sustainability work is managed directly in our Community & any sustainable packaging changes, we evaluate how those changes
sustainability performance as well as the company’s planned product
Sustainable Healthcare Pillar but is also supported by our Sustainability may impact the complexity of the packaging and safety of our patients.
sustainability activities.
Director who leads our Planet & Environment Pillar. In addition, as part Sustainability is one of the many areas that is now considered in our new
of the strategy, Teleflex is launching a training platform focused on product development process, including packaging.
Meet the members of our first Sustainability Medical Advisory Board:
promoting awareness of the diverse list of sustainability considerations
■ Lauren Berkow, MD, Anesthesia
 Co-Chair, University of Florida Health Shands that can be seamlessly integrated into the design of our product We continue to focus on reducing the amount of material used in our
portfolios. This program will offer insights into our ongoing efforts to product packaging and in our products themselves. Over the past few
Sustainability Committee
 Member, American Society of Anesthesiologists make a positive sustainability impact, how Teleflex is responding to the years, we have reduced material usage through targeted initiatives,
Committee on Environmental Health evolving regulatory standards, and concrete examples of actionable such as changing from high impact polystyrene trays to a flexible
■ Roger Harris, MBBS, Critical Care and Emergency Medicine steps that every team member can take to contribute to a more form fill seal package, moving to pre-filled syringe selection integrated
 Co-Founder of CODA, CODA Earth sustainable planet. packaging, reducing the corrugate size used for breathing circuits, and
67 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
reducing the size of polybags used to package certain products. Most versions of this with upwards of 22 different languages available toxicology program within the Biocompatibility function including
packaging materials at Teleflex are widely recyclable in nature, including across over 800 products. We continue to look at the viability and several toxicology professionals and a Board-Certified Toxicologist
HDPE hoops and clips, PE trays, Polystyrene trays, Tyvek (PE derivative), regulatory implications of adding more electronic IFUs into our (DABT). This program aligns with our dedication and commitment
corrugated paperboard, and shelf cartons (paperboard). We continue portfolio and will not remove paper IFUs entirely until the regulation to ensuring that our devices are rigorously assessed from a patient
to look for ways to increase the recyclability of our packaging while permits. For all of our electronic IFUs, you can visit our website here. safety perspective as well as supporting our R&D function on design
maintaining the quality and safety of our products for our patients. inputs related to material safety and manufacturing processes.
Product Materials
Material selection is often based on a full product lifecycle viewpoint that Sustainable Corporate Development
At Teleflex, we understand the potential impact that hazardous
includes many critical factors such as: sterilization, distribution, device
chemicals and materials used in our products and manufacturing Teleflex has grown over its decades-long history through new products, new
protection, clinical performance and understanding the methods of disposal
processes can have on both the environment and human health. We geographical markets, and through acquisition. The Teleflex Global Corporate
and recycling for the end user. Other key factors will include meeting any key
are committed to minimizing this impact through supplier and material Development and Strategy team explores partnerships, acquisitions, and
legal and regulatory requirements as well as localized end user practices.
management, reduction and replacement efforts, and compliance with joint ventures consistent with our global leadership in healthcare. As Teleflex
global safety standards where applicable and practicable. evaluates these opportunities, we carefully consider whether the opportunity
For example, several of our Anesthesia and Urology products that are
fits with our growth initiatives. We also see acquisitions as a key component
manufactured in Europe have shelf cartons that use post-consumer
We have conducted thorough assessments to identify hazardous to our health equity strategy as we are able to take technology and bring it to
recycled (PCR) material, which also reduce the use of ink and colorants.
materials in our product lines and manufacturing processes. As part markets and patients who otherwise would not have had access without our
Within our Surgical business, our products that are manufactured
of the EU MDR state-of-the-art remediation efforts, over 1,900 SKUs extensive global footprint. As a part of our sustainable healthcare journey, we
in Mexico are shipped to our customers around the world and use a
underwent design changes to replace materials of concern under have started to build CSR specific considerations into our due diligence process
high level of PCR content in the product shelf cartons. In total, we use
the governance of the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and for any new potential deal. We will pilot our first CSR scorecard for our next
approximately 87 metric tonnes of PCR material just for our shelf cartons.
Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) and Classification, Labeling, and corporate development deal. Additionally, we are working on better considering
Packaging (CLP) regulations. We have made several material changes CSR into the integration process for all new acquisitions. Doing so will allow us
We also have made plastic packaging a large focus for Teleflex and
in this process and implemented innovative design changes that have to better bring these new organizations into the larger Teleflex CSR program.
continue to balance using plastics that can meet our high-quality
replaced or minimized the need for such materials.
standards and performance requirements, while maintaining recyclability
In 2023, we acquired privately-held Palette Life Sciences AB. The
and reducing disposal concerns. We continue to look at switching from
We comply with all relevant local and global regulations, including acquisition expands the Teleflex Interventional Urology portfolio,
less favorable plastics to plastics that are more recyclable, such as moving
REACH and CLP Annex VI, ensuring our products meet the applicable which includes the UroLift™ System, to include Non-Animal Stabilized
from PVC film to PE, which is more commonly recyclable.
standards for safety and environmental impact. We extend our Hyaluronic Acid (NASHA) spacer and tissue bulking products that improve
sustainability principles to our supply chain, vetting suppliers to meet patient outcomes in urology and urogynecology disorders, colorectal
In some instances, physical instructions for use (IFU) reduction could
our standards for hazardous material management. conditions, and radiation oncology procedures. A key product of Palette
lead to a packaging size reduction as well. As per the European Union
Life Sciences is Barrigel™, a NASHA spacer designed to reduce radiation
Medical Device Regulation 2017/745 (MDR), we have products with
Additionally, in 2023, Teleflex established a foundational internal delivered to the rectum during prostate cancer radiation therapy, while
paper-form IFU packets, many of our products do have electronic
15 Mariados NF, Orio PF, Schiffman Z, et al. Hyaluronic acid spacer for hypofractionated prostate radiation therapy: a randomized clinical trial. JAMA Oncol. 2023; e1-e8
68 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
increasing tumor control and patient quality of life.15 Barrigel™ is easily 21 Where we started... Healthcare professionals can obtain continuing education contact
53 Where we were...
sculpted, highly visible on transrectal ultrasound (TRUS), biodegradable, hours (CEUs) through several of our courses and programs. We have
50 Where we are...
reversible, and offers one-step assembly in all sites of service. 60 Where we‘re going... partnerships with California Board of Registered Nursing, and the
Continuing Respiratory Education (CRCE) system of the American
Engagement with Customers Association of Respiratory Care (AARC), and American Association
50 of Critical Care Nurses for CEU accreditation.
We support our customers in multiple ways through products, education,
NPS
research and advances in technology. We connect personally with customers Throughout 2023, between both our in-person and virtual platforms, we
to understand their perspectives. We anticipate their needs based on the educated more than 250,000 healthcare professionals, up roughly 40% from
insights we develop and respond quickly with thoughtfulness and innovation. 2022, in 140 countries, on the safe and effective use of our products. We also
We exceed expectations by delivering exceptional experiences. Our provided healthcare professionals over 40,000 continuing education credits.
commitment to the customer experience (CX) is not limited by our job titles.
Product Training and Education
Every employee at Teleflex can and does have an impact on the customer.
2021: 130,000
The Clinical and Medical Affairs team within Teleflex is dedicated to 2022: 185,000
In the U.S., we use the Net Promoter Score (NPS) to measure the effectiveness
empowering our end users to develop the knowledge and skills necessary to
2023: 250,000
of our Customer Experience efforts. NPS is a recognized customer
consistently utilize our devices safely and effectively in the procedures they
loyalty score that assesses customers’ willingness to recommend a product,
undertake every day. We utilize our partnerships with medical organizations
service, or brand. Since establishing a baseline measurement in 2017, we
and academic institutions to aid in our efforts to evolve our training Educational Access and Equity
have increased our NPS by 29 points to 50. We strive to expand our program
programs. We offer cadaveric and high-fidelity simulation programs for
across other regions, and our goal is to achieve and maintain a score of 60+. All healthcare professionals and customers should have access
procedural education. In order to achieve this, extensive training content
to training and education of our products regardless of their size,
has been developed and is available to allow the team to deliver education
Each year we celebrate our customers by having a week dedicated to setting, or location. Teleflex Clinical and Medical Affairs (CMA) have
and training in a varied number of formats, including e-learning, speaker
learning about them, the patients they serve, and how our employees continued expanded geographic availability of key educational
programs, webinars, practical skills workshops, in-booth education or, often,
impact their work. CX Week 2023 marked our 6th anniversary of this offerings by adding virtual options where possible through our online
a combination of these different approaches depending on the learning
important forum, which is recorded and made available to all employees. and virtual training opportunities.
need and educational opportunity. Comprehensive online learning is also
It is only through our customers – healthcare providers from around
made available through Teleflex Academy our online learning platform.
the world – that we impact patient outcomes and improve lives. During It is well understood that course attendees usually learn more effectively
CX Week 2023, we also included sessions where employees could learn when taught in their own language, and therefore it is essential, when
Our programs are created from the collaboration of international
more about the importance of Corporate Social Responsibility, and the considering health equity within the medical device industry, that we
practitioners who are involved in the research, writing, reviewing, and
efforts being taken to positively impact customers. strive to have our procedural education provisions in languages other
process development of course work. These healthcare professionals have
than English within all the training modalities we offer. Our Teleflex
CSR has emerged as a key driver in CX, and research conducted by our CX significant experience with clinical research and training. They possess
Academy training content is available in multiple languages, and we
team within the EMEA region in 2023 revealed that commitment to CSR practical, insightful, and evidence-based understanding of the intricacies of
could have a direct positive impact on both customer satisfaction and loyalty. medical devices and are motivated to share their knowledge with others.
69 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
develop the materials with the various regional and cultural differences the ethical treatment of animals used in laboratory and educational settings of identified risks and detecting emerging risks on the basis of factual
where these products are used. These efforts have ensured relevant to advance patient safety and well-being, as well as compliance with all evidence. Teleflex is leveraging this real-world evidence and ensuring it is
content is widely available to clinicians using Teleflex products, applicable laws and regulations. We are committed to the principles of: available to the healthcare community e.g. Teleflex is sharing this clinical
expanding our ability to support the safe and effective use of our data amongst the healthcare community through presentations at clinical
■ Replacement - using alternative non-animal systems in place of live
products. CMA plans to continue its efforts to expand in this area, education conferences or publication in peer-reviewed journals.
animal utilization whenever possible
making content accessible in more languages and geographies to
ensure equitable access to educational programs. ■ Reduction - using the minimum number of animals possible to Teleflex is committed to making our device Summary of Safety and
achieve maximum information without compromising animal welfare Clinical Performance (SSCPs) available on EUDAMED (once active) for
With the Vascular CMA EMEA team, we now have clinical representation ■ Refinement - continually modifying procedures to limit the our Class III and implantable CE marked products. Doing this provides
in each of our direct countries allowing all procedural education to be public access to the summary of clinical data and other information
discomfort and distress to animals
delivered by a CMA instructor who can teach in the local language. about the safety and clinical performance of the medical device. The
Alongside this, most of our clinical presentations used for virtual or in Teleflex’s proactive post-market clinical follow up program collects clinical SSCP is an important source of information for intended users – both
person training are translated to each of these languages. In the past 2 performance and safety data (patient outcomes) over the lifetime of the healthcare professionals and patients. It is one of several means
years, we have also extended this initiative to content on Teleflex Academy device, with the aim of confirming the safety and performance throughout intended to fulfill the objectives of the Medical Device Regulation (MDR)
and have translated several courses, and intend to focus on enhancing the expected lifetime of the device, ensuring the continued acceptability to enhance transparency and provide adequate access to information.
utilization of these, and reviewing outstanding translation needs in 2024.
Clinical Research
Target: We commit to increasing the number of healthcare
19%
Clinical research is paramount to providing healthcare professionals and the
professionals trained each year by 19% by the end of 2023
medical community with evidence that outlines our products’ clinical benefits.
compared to 2022.
We conduct clinical research to help develop new products and expand
existing products using the principles of Good Clinical Practice and adhering
to all local and regional regulatory requirements. Our clinical research is
managed by Global Clinical Operations in conjunction with regional Clinical and
Medical Affairs team members and any clinical research initiated by Teleflex is
reviewed by an institutional review board or ethics committee. Any Teleflex
initiated research can be found on ClinicalTrials.gov and any patients that are
40%
Progress: We have increased the number of healthcare
interested in volunteering for a trial can find more information there as well.
professionals trained by roughly 40%.
Teleflex has developed an internal global work instruction which outlines the
process for the use of animals in connection with laboratory research and/
or training in support of Teleflex products. We are committed to ensuring
70 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
the health equity work within the Community & Sustainable Healthcare
Diversity in Clinical Research Gift of Life Initiative
pillar of our CSR program. Doing this has helped to ensure there is
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion is not just a focus for Teleflex employees cohesion between the two groups. In an effort to support the health and wellbeing of the communities
but as a medical technology manufacturer, we have an obligation Teleflex serves, Clinical and Medical Affairs (CMA) partnered with
to create products that are useful and safe for all genders, races, VOOM Foundation Product Donation Gift of Life to bring awareness to blood cancers, immune system
ethnicities, and backgrounds. We know that minorities and other disorders, and some inherited conditions and to give Teleflex
diverse groups have been underrepresented in clinical trials in the past In 2023, Teleflex received a humanitarian product donation request employees the opportunity to voluntarily register for the worldwide
in all healthcare, but we have the power and influence to change that. from VOOM Foundation, a non-profit medical humanitarian bone marrow registry. Gift of Life is a non-governmental organization
We first need to look at where the product will be going to market and organization that aims to raise the standard of care and create that facilitates bone marrow and blood stem cell transplants for
determine the local demographics of those locations to ensure we can a sustainable medical program in the country of Nigeria. VOOM people suffering from life threatening illnesses. 85 Teleflex employees
represent the diversity of that population. Considering diversity in the Foundation organizes medical missions to Nigeria with all-volunteer were swabbed and joined the bone marrow registry. Gift of Life has
clinical trial population will help to ensure that the products are being medical teams from the U.S. which provide education and training while a synergy with Teleflex given our OnControl product, which helps to
developed to meet the needs of the specific population and not based serving indigent patients. With almost 50% of Nigeria’s population living perform bone marrow biopsies.
on a population that is unrepresentative of that market. in poverty, in-kind product donations are essential to support VOOM’s
efforts. Teleflex donated products from our AEM, Surgical, Vascular, and
Healthcare Access and Equity Interventional Business Units for VOOM’s May and October 2023 open-
heart surgery education missions. Anthony was diagnosed with acute
We want our products to be available for as many patients as possible. Our coronary syndrome in 2021 and received surgery in May 2023 free of
humanitarian product donation program is one of the key components charge thanks to VOOM Foundation and their open-heart program!
to this work. Our humanitarian donation program aids patients in need
after a natural disaster or other global crisis. We used the World Health
Organization (WHO) Guidelines on Medical Device Donations to help provide
structure and guidance when we developed the program. Inbound requests
are reviewed by our Humanitarian Product Donation Working Group, which
is chaired by our Chief Medical Officer and comprised of representatives
from several of our non-commercial functions, including Clinical and
Medical Affairs, General Compliance, Trade Compliance and Regulatory. In
2023, Teleflex donated a total product value of nearly $150,000 worth of
Humanitarian Donation support which is a significant increase from 2022. All
humanitarian product donation requests can be made through our website.
Over the past year we have combined the health pillar of the JOIN
program, our employee-driven community engagement initiative, with
71 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Success in this area will impact the ability for all patients, regardless
Stop the Bleed
of socioeconomic status, to access care. We are also working with and
Lower socioeconomic areas often face higher rates of violence, accidents, identifying other patient advocacy groups to partner with to support
and trauma. Teaching individuals how to control bleeding in these their work and allow for more access to Teleflex products.
situations can help save lives before medical professionals arrive by
empowering community members to take action when needed which A key area of focus is on increasing patient medical policy coverage
can lead to a greater sense of control and self-reliance, which is especially in a variety of nations related to our products. One example of this
important in areas where emergency response times may be longer. work is the reimbursement partnership with the American Urological
The STOP THE BLEED (“STB”) program is one of the United States’ largest Association (AUA) on diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) initiatives.
public health campaigns. Its aim is to better prepare the public to save Through our involvement in the Medical Device Manufacturers
lives by raising awareness of basic actions to stop life-threatening bleeding Association and MassMedic we are also helping to raise awareness of
following everyday emergencies and man-made and natural disasters. this specific issue with medical device manufacturers. We are happy
to share that our Chief Medical Officer, Michelle Fox, not only serves
Incorporated in the training is Teleflex’s QuikClot™ Hemostatic Dressing, as a board member but also as the second vice chair of MassMedic.
which is an innovative product that helps in controlling bleeding. On March 8, 2023, International Women’s Day, Michelle joined other
Additionally, a new STB training module was developed by the STB Mass Medic Board members on a “fly in” to serve as champions of the
Coalition in cooperation with the Department of Defense (DOD) which MedTech industry across federal, state, and local government, advocating
specifically shows use of QuikClot™ as the choice hemostatic dressing to promote patient care policies and the significance of equity clinical
in their training video. In May of 2023, 54 Morrisville Teleflex employees trials research. We also use our voice for surgical sterilization issues and
and in October of 2023, 34 North America Distribution Center Teleflex will continue to help solve the concerns within the medical device supply
employees were trained by Teleflex AEM Clinical Affairs Managers on how chain. For 2024, we will explore the expansion of women’s health issues
Photo: L: Amber Anderson, R: Kat Renteria AEM Clinical Affairs Manager, Pictured with
to stop the bleed through 3 basic techniques – applying direct pressure, false legs that were used at the NADC so employees could learn how to STB. on the recently announced White House initiative.
packing a wound, and using a tourniquet. By teaching this course,
Teleflex can contribute to the overall public health in these communities to 800 people in 2024 and as more staff become approved trainers, we We conduct direct lobbying related to the Centers for Medicare and
by improving well-being and safety to the community members by can expect to see an increase going into 2025. Medicaid Services (CMS) changes and have mostly focused on providing
bridging the gap in healthcare disparities and promoting health equity increased access to our UroLift™ product. In 2023, our focus was
regardless of socioeconomic status. Our patient access initiative is led by our VP of Reimbursement and related to Medicare reimbursement rates, legislation, and interest in
Healthcare Policy who manages our Market Access team. They work removing administrative burdens related to prior authorization. In 2024,
We also have several AEM Clinical and Medical Affairs Managers who are to secure reimbursement and coverage for all Teleflex products to we plan to continue our efforts and focus on CMS reimbursement,
Stop the Bleed Trainers and cover most territories of the United States. ensure broader patient access and reduce overall healthcare costs with emphasis on potential reform for the Physician Fee Schedule,
These individuals will connect with their communities by hosting classes for patients. In 2023, we expanded our focus globally to secure public preservation of the office site of service and coverage for new and
through school programs and community events. This will help Clinical and government coverage for a range of Teleflex products. There are innovative products.
and Medical Affairs managers in other countries support this initiative. numerous applications and registrations active worldwide to expand
With the current approved training staff, Teleflex aims to provide training access to Teleflex’s large portfolio of products around the world.
72 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Product Quality and Safety
Our patients and healthcare professionals rely on Teleflex to provide Suppliers to Teleflex are required to demonstrate and provide evidence
safe, effective and dependable products. We have built a culture that they meet certain criteria including product quality, defect-free
“As a physician in the emergency
focused on making high quality products through Lean Manufacturing, products, and maintaining a quality system of their own. Supplier
including continuous improvement Kaizen events, clear and relevant management and supplier development are something we take very department, I require my medical
systematic processes and training to give manufacturing teams a better seriously within Teleflex and rolls into our supplier audit and supplier
devices to function safely and effectively
understanding about the importance and use of each component or quality program. Our Supply Chain and Quality leaders meet monthly for
to provide the best patient care. At
device to help them ensure quality manufacturing practices. a supplier quality review down to the individual supplier level. The team
reviews and signs off on any action plans and corrective action plans for Teleflex, I work to ensure that that is
Our message of quality is delivered throughout those suppliers that require improvement. More information on these exactly what happens for our clinicians.
our quality pillars: expectations can be found on our website.
Teleflex’s devotion to quality is a
Employees are trained on our Labour Standards Assurance System primary focus for all of our products and
Teleflex Quality Pillars We Will (LSAS) program, and we communicate our expectations with our is a source of pride for our employees.
suppliers. When suppliers are initially onboarded with Teleflex, they are
I find my job fulfilling knowing I am part
required to complete a labor standards questionnaire and the responses
Provide safe and effective
of a comprehensive team that is
High Quality products that perform to customer and supporting evidence are added to our vendor files for future reference.
requirements
We have an approved audit schedule for our suppliers with the frequency imperative for improved patient care.”
of audit driven by supplier risk. This risk is assigned based on a set of
Establish and maintain an effective
Christopher Ross, MD FRCPC FACEP FAAEM,
criteria as detailed within our documented procedure
quality system that complies with
Global Medical Safety Director
Compliant Medical Devices domestic and international standards
and regulatory requirements which Teleflex has established a Product Safety Review Board (PRSB). This
will result in compliant medical devices board provides a committee level review of evaluations where a Field
Safety Corrective Action (FSCA) is potentially warranted. Health Hazard
Supply products in a timely fashion
Evaluations address known or potential product safety concerns and
Outstanding Customer Service and respond to customer requests to
drive customer loyalty compliance related issues. While these decisions have historically
been made by, and are procedurally finalized by QA Leadership, the
committee provides the opportunity for a cross-functional review. CMA
Support the needs of healthcare
Support Healthcare Providers
providers and the patients they serve serves as an equitable partner in decision-making for safety concerns
in the field. Additionally, the PSRB is intended to ensure key functional
Design, manufacture and distribute areas are aligned on the corrective action strategy, risks and effectivity
Enhance Patient Outcomes products that enhance patient
plan associated with the strategy, and resources required for associated
outcomes
actions, such as rework, scrap, and CAPA.
73 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Company Awards & Thanks
To All Who Supported
Company Awards 75
Thanks To All Who Supported 76
74 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Company Awards
■ 2023 Best Place to Work Winner (MedReps)
■ NSAI Excellence Through People Certified (2021) Platinum Level
■ Forbes Best Employers For Diversity 2022
■ Human Rights Campaign 2023 Corporate Equality Index
■ Forbes 2021 America’s Best Midsize Employers
■ Forbes Best-In-State Employees (2020)
■ Great Place To Work (India) Feb 2024 - Feb 2025
■ Great Place To Work (China) Jun 2023 – Jun 2024
■ Great Place To Work (Malaysia) Jun 2023 – Jun 2024
■ Great Place To Work (Australia) Jun 2023 – Jun 2024
75 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People CCoommmmuunniittyy && AAppppeennddiixx
Responsibility & Governance SSuussttaaiinnaabbllee HHeeaalltthhccaarree
Thanks To All Who Supported
MY Ahsokomar Ramasamy, Regional EHS Director, Malaysia US Fran Kiedeisch, Director, Technical Services, U.S. MY Matthias Rohde, Facilities Director, Malaysia
US Alexis Alvarez, Senior Program Manager, Global Strategic R&D, U.S. US Greg Millican, EH&S Manager, U.S. US Matt Boretti, Director, Strategic Program, Customer Experience, U.S.
US Alyssa Bae, Manager, External Reporting, U.S. US Greg Stotts, President and General Manager OEM, U.S. UK Matt James, President EMEA and Global Urology Care, U.K.
US Amee Chokshi, Learning Management Manager, U.S. US Howard Cyr, Corporate VP, Chief Compliance Officer, U.S. US Matt Tomkin, Corporate VP, Business Development, U.S.
US Arkell Butler, Global Sterility Assurance Manager, U.S. US Jake Newman, President, Americas, U.S. US Michelle Fox, Corporate VP and Chief Medical Officer, U.S.
MY Asweny AP Kolanthaivelu, EHS Engineer, Malaysia US James Ferguson, President and GM, Surgical, U.S. US Nicole Keck, Senior Analyst, People Analytics, U.S.
US Brandon Hohl, Director, Finance, U.S. IE James Winters, Corporate VP, Manufacturing and Supply Chain, Ireland MY Norsurianti Karim, EHS Manager, Malaysia
IE Brendan Delaney, Director of Purchasing Controls, Ireland MY Jasfina Binti Ismail, EHS Engineer, Malaysia IN P Baburaj, Assistant Manager, Engineering, India
IE Brian Greham, Global Director EHS, Ireland US Jay White, Corporate VP and President, Global Commercial, U.S. US Patrick Gotebeski, Internal Audit Manager, U.S.
US Cameron Hicks, Corporate VP and Chief Human Resource Officer, U.S. IN Jitesh Kumar, Senior Engineering Manager, India CZ Petr Seifert, Facilities Manager, Czech Republic
US Christopher Rosss, Global Medical Safety Director, U.S. IE Joe Moran, IT & Facilities Manager, Ireland US Priscila Nelson, Senior EHS Advisor, U.S.
US Chuck Fliehman, VP, Business Practices, Information Security, Privacy MX Joel Ibarra, Regional EH&S Manager, Mexico MY Rashdannaim Bin Ismail, Senior Facilities Manager, Malaysia
and Compliance, U.S. US John Deren, Corporate VP, and Chief Accounting Officer, U.S. US Renee Twardzik, Senior Manager - Global Corporate Communications, U.S.
IE Colin Curran, VP Human Resources, Global Operations, Ireland IE John McDonald, Senior Director, Clinical and Medical Affairs, Ireland IT Roberta Griggio, Deputy Compliance Officer, EMEA, Italy
US Daniel Logue, Corporate VP, General Counsel and Secretary, U.S. US John Mooney, Internal Audit Manager, U.S. US Roger Graham, President and GM, Interventional, U.S.
UK Daniel Price, Corporate VP, Commercial Finance, U.K. US JP Delaney, Sr Manager, Global Packaging, U.S. US Ron Aplin, VP, Global Quality Engineering, RAQA, U.S.
US Danielle O’Brien, VP Finance - Assistant Corporate Controller, U.S. IE Karen Boylan, Corporate VP, Strategic Projects, Ireland US Sam Miriello, Senior Regional EHS Manager U.S. and EMEA
IE David O’Flynn, Sustainability Director, Ireland US Kelly Walsh, Sr Accountant, Accounting and Reporting, U.S. US Sara Eslinger, Senior Director, Product Quality Assurance, U.S.
US Deborah McCarthy-Platz, EHS and Facilities Engineer, U.S. US Kevin Robinson, President and GM, Anesthesia and Emergency Medicine, U.S. US Saron Djeregna, Global Manager, Risk Management, Training and Transparency, U.S.
US Derek Noah, Senior Manager, Sustainability Strategy and Reporting, U.S. MX Lucia Amezcua, Sustainability Analyst, Mexico ZA Shameema Mohamed, Compliance Manager, Critical Care & Indirect, South Africa
US Diana Clifford, VP, Total Rewards, U.S. US Lauren Madalian, Group Compliance Administrator, U.S. US Shanté Demary, Director of Strategic Pricing and Contract Management, U.S.
IE Dominik Reterski, Corporate VP, QA/RA, Ireland US Lawrence Keusch, VP, Investor Relations and Strategy Development, U.S. US Sharon Haughney, Director, Talent Acquisition-The Americas, U.S.
US Eliza Filipancic, Project Specialist, Clinical and Medical Affairs, U.S. US Liam Kelly, Chairman, President and CEO, U.S. US Stephen Young, Senior EHS Engineer, U.S.
NL Emma Pollard, Senior Director Global Talent Development, Netherlands US Lisa Kudlacz, President and GM, Vascular, U.S. US Thomas Powell, Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer, U.S.
IE Emmet Dalton, VP, Global Brand, Digital, and Communications, Ireland US Mara Dauterman, Senior Manager, Global Biocompatibility and Microbiology, U.S. US Tim Duffy, VP, and Chief Information Officer, U.S.
US Eric Halsey, Senior Global Marketing Manager, Surgical, U.S. IE Maria Quaid, Senior Director, HR, Ireland US Tosin Lediju, EHS Engineer, U.S.
US Eric Kopelson, Director, Corporate Development, U.S. US Marie Hendrixson, VP, Internal Audit, U.S. US Whitney Reynolds, VP Global Customer Experience, U.S.
US Erica Battin, Global HR Business Partner, U.S. US Martha Smigel, EHS Engineer, U.S.
SG Evelyn Sin, VP, HR - APAC and EMEA, Singapore IE Mary O’Malley, Creative Director International, Marketing Communications
International, Ireland
76 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Data Appendix
Ethics & Governance 78
People 79
Community & Sustainable Healthcare 88
77 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Data Appendix
Ethics & Governance
Board of Directors by Gender Board of Directors by Ethnicity Board of Directors Average Tenure Board of Directors Average Age
2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023
78% 67% 67% Male 100% 89% 78% White 8.0 7.6 6.6 Years 65.0 64.1 62.8 Years
22% 33% 33% Female 0% 11% 22% Non-white
Completion Rate of Code of Ethics Training Known information security or data security breaches
2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023
97% 116
96%
97%
16 This breach was determined to be immaterial and did not result in any monetary damages or losses.
7788 TTEELLEEFFLLEEXX 22002233 GGLLOOBBAALL IIMMPPAACCTT RREEPPOORRTT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
People
Talent Recruitment Employee Engagement % of open roles filled with
internal candidates
2022 2023 2022 2023 2022 2023
27% 22%% of U.S. hires for externally 83% 85% Employee experience 24% 24% Total
filled roles came via an survey response rate
employee referral
87% 87% New hire response rate 77 75 Employee experience survey
satisfaction score (eSat)
100% 100%New hire survey
satisfaction rate
$460,000 $360,000Employee referral bonus sum
7799 TTEELLEEFFLLEEXX 22002233 GGLLOOBBAALL IIMMPPAACCTT RREEPPOORRTT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
People
Global New Hires - Gender Global New Hires - Age Band Global New Hires - Region U.S. New Hires - Ethnicity
2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023
2,305 3,304 2,104 Female 2,143 3,271 1,909 <30 961 2,010 286 Asia-Pacific 1 3 4 American Indian
57.2% 58.4% 55.2% 53.1% 57.9% 50.1% 23.8% 35.6% 7.5% 0.1% 0.3% 0.4% /Alaskan Native
1,727 2,345 1,703 Male 1,137 1,336 1,059 30-39 355 543 259 Europe, Middle 97 127 121 Asian
42.8% 41.5% 44.7% 28.2% 23.6% 27.8% 8.8% 9.6% 6.8% East and Africa 10.8% 12.6% 11.6%
1 5 5 Unknown/ 501 706 579 40-49 1,838 2,087 2,221 Latin 97 231 253 Black
0.0% 0.1% 0.1% Undeclared 12.4% 12.5% 15.2% 45.6% 36.9% 58.3% America 24.7% 22.9% 24.3%
4,033 5,654 3,812 Grand Total 252 341 265 50+ 879 1,014 1,046 North 13 25 85 Choose not
6.3% 6.0% 6.9% 21.8% 17.9% 27.4% America 1.5% 2.5% 8.1% to answer
4,033 5,654 3,812 Grand Total 4,033 5,654 3,812 Grand Total 1 2 2 Hawaiian/Other
0.1% 0.2% 0.2% Pacific Island
65 97 89 Hispanic
7.2% 9.6% 8.5%
22 22 28 Two or
2.4% 2.2% 2.7% More Races
479 501 461 White
53.2% 49.7% 44.2%
900 1008 1,043 Grand Total
8800 TTEELLEEFFLLEEXX 22002233 GGLLOOBBAALL IIMMPPAACCTT RREEPPOORRTT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
People
Global Tenure - Workforce Global Tenure - Senior Management12 Global Workforce - Turnover Rate Global Senior Management12
- Turnover Rate
2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023
2,706 3,543 2,034 <1 7 4 2 <1 8.2% 9.5% 15.2% Involuntary 9.5% 6.6% 12.1% Involuntary
18.8% 22.9% 14.2% 7.2% 4.4% 2.4%
20.0% 21.7% 20.5% Voluntary 14.7% 8.8% 6.0% Voluntary
2,766 2,808 4,003 1-2 7 11 9 1-2
28.2% 31.2% 35.7% Total 24.2% 15.4% 18.1% Total
19.2% 18.2% 28.0% 7.2% 12.1% 11.0%
3,328 3,349 2,772 3-5 15 12 14 3-5
23.2% 21.6% 19.3% 15.5% 13.2% 17.1%
2,284 2,454 2,517 6-11 24 21 16 6-11
15.9% 15.9% 17.6% 24.7% 23.1% 19.5%
1,024 1,034 873 11-14 20 20 21 11-14
7.1% 6.7% 6.1% 20.6% 22.0% 25.6%
2,267 2,281 2,117 15+ 24 23 20 15+
15.8% 14.7% 14.8% 24.8% 25.2% 24.4%
14,375 15,469 14,316 Grand Total 97 91 82 Grand Total
7.1 6.8 6.9 Average Tenure 10.8 10.8 11.8 Grand Total
8811 TTEELLEEFFLLEEXX 22002233 GGLLOOBBAALL IIMMPPAACCTT RREEPPOORRTT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
People
Training hours in 2023 for full-time Training hours in 2023 for full-time % returned to work after parental
non-manufacturing employees non-manufacturing employees leave (U.S. only)
(via Connect Learning Platform) (via Connect Learning Platform)
2022 2023 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023
7.2 7.9 Male 8.6 6.5 Senior Management8 97% 98% 100% Male
8.0 8.7 Female 10.0 13.1 Manager 98% 97% 100% Female
3.8 5.6 Other 6.8 7.8 Individual Contributor 98% 98% 100% Total
6.4 4.5 Support Staff
8822 TTEELLEEFFLLEEXX 22002233 GGLLOOBBAALL IIMMPPAACCTT RREEPPOORRTT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
People
U.S. Parental Leave 2023
Eligible for Parental Leave # of Employees that used Unpaid Parental Leave Used18 Returned to Work
Paid Parental Leave17
3,899 91 32 91
Total Total Total Total
2,131 Male 56 Male 11 Male 56 Male
1,760 Female 35 Female 21 Female 35 Female
8 Other 0 Other 0 Other 0 Other
17 Includes parental leave that was initiated in 2023
18 Unpaid parental leave is used after paid parental leave is exhausted
8833 TTEELLEEFFLLEEXX 22002233 GGLLOOBBAALL IIMMPPAACCTT RREEPPOORRTT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
People
Region - Workforce Global Gender - Senior Management8 Global Gender - Workforce Region - Senior Management8
2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023
3,633 4,458 4,174 Asia-Pacific 22 23 21 Female 8,501 9,089 8,376 Female 4 3 4 Asia-Pacific
25.3% 28.8% 29.2% 22.7% 25.3% 25.3% 59.1% 58.8% 58.5% 4.1% 3.3% 4.9%
3,037 3,126 2,841 Europe, Middle 75 68 61 Male 5,859 6,372 5,931 Male 21 17 15 Europe, Middle
21.1% 20.2% 19.8% East and Africa 77.3% 74.7% 74.7% 40.8% 41.2% 41.4% 21.7% 18.7% 18.3% East and Africa
3,947 4,042 3,281 Latin 97 91 82 Grand Total 15 8 9 Other 72 71 63 North
27.5% 26.1% 22.9% America 0.1% 0.0% 0.1% 74.2% 78.0% 76.8% America
3,758 3,843 4,020 North 14,375 15,469 14,316 Grand Total 97 91 82 Grand Total
26.1% 24.9% 28.1% America
14,375 15,469 14,316 Grand Total
8844 TTEELLEEFFLLEEXX 22002233 GGLLOOBBAALL IIMMPPAACCTT RREEPPOORRTT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
People
U.S. Ethnicity - Workforce U.S. Ethnicity - Senior Management8 Global Terminations - Gender Global Terminations - Age Band
2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023
15 16 18 American Indian 1 1 1 American Indian 6 1 4 Undeclared/ 1,760 2,253 2,140 <30
0.4% 0.4% 0.5% /Alaskan Native 1.4% 1.4% 1.6% /Alaskan Native 0.2% 0.0% 0.1% Unknown 43.2% 46.7% 42.1%
502 514 474 Asian 3 3 2 Asian
2,363 2,878 2,835 Female 1,132 1,192 1,381 30-39
13.5% 13.5% 11.9% 4.1% 4.2% 3.2%
57.9% 59.7% 55.7% 27.8% 24.7% 27.1%
484 462 478 Black 1 1 3 Choose not
13.0% 12.1% 12.0% 1.4% 1.4% 4.7% to answer 1,709 1,945 2,250 Male 659 698 884 40-49
41.9% 40.3% 44.2% 16.1% 14.5% 17.4%
56 60 185 Choose not 2 2 2 Hispanic
1.5% 1.6% 4.6% to answer 2.8% 2.8% 3.2% 4,078 4,824 5,089 Grand Total 527 681 684 50+
12.9% 14.1% 13.4%
6 8 5 Hawaiian/Other 1 1 0 Two or
0.2% 0.2% 0.1% Pacific Island 1.4% 1.4% 0.0% More Races
4,078 4,824 5,089 Grand Total
273 315 338 Hispanic 64 63 55 White
7.3% 8.3% 8.5% 88.9% 88.8% 87.3%
77 75 75 Two or 72 71 63 Grand Total
2.1% 2.0% 1.9% More Races
2,311 2,356 2,409 White
62.0% 61.9% 60.5%
3,724 3,806 3,982 Grand Total
8855 TTEELLEEFFLLEEXX 22002233 GGLLOOBBAALL IIMMPPAACCTT RREEPPOORRTT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
People
Global Senior Management Global Senior Management Global Senior Management8 Global Workforce - Age Band
Terminations - Age Band Terminations - Gender - Age Band
2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023
0 0 0 <30 16 10 13 Male 8 3 2 30-39 3,509 4,080 3,427 <30
0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 69.6% 71.4% 86.7% 8.3% 3.3% 2.4% 24.4% 26.4% 24.0%
1 0 0 30-39 7 4 2 Female 38 35 26 40-49 3,943 4,203 4,054 30-39
4.4% 0.0% 0.0% 30.4% 28.6% 13.3% 39.2% 38.5% 31.7% 27.4% 27.1% 28.3%
7 3 6 40-49 0 0 0 Other 51 53 54 50+ 3,792 3,909 3,712 40-49
30.4% 21.4% 40.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 52.5% 58.2% 65.9% 26.4% 25.3% 25.9%
15 11 9 50+ 23 14 15 Grand Total 97 91 82 Grand Total 3,131 3,277 3,123 50+
65.2% 78.6% 60.0% 50.3 51.2 52.1 Average Age 21.8% 21.2% 21.8%
23 14 15 Grand Total 14,375 15,469 14,316 Grand Total
40.0 39.4 40.0 Average Age
8866 TTEELLEEFFLLEEXX 22002233 GGLLOOBBAALL IIMMPPAACCTT RREEPPOORRTT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
People Community & Sustainable Healthcare
DART Rate Fatalities Medical Education Grants IIS Clinical Research Grants
0.94 2019 0 2019
37
3
2020 0 2020
3
0.76
2021 0 2021 # of Grants 73 13 # of Grants 20
0.59
2022 0 2022
70
0.42
0.39 2023 0 2023
2021 2022 2023 2022 2023
37 70 73 # of Grants 13 20 # of Grants
$700,000 $800,000 $730,000 Total Dollars $1.7 million $3.7 million Total Dollars
8877 TTEELLEEFFLLEEXX 22002233 GGLLOOBBAALL IIMMPPAACCTT RREEPPOORRTT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Community & Sustainable Healthcare
Directed Clinical Research Grants Product Education Teleflex Foundation
# of Healthcare
Total Money
8 # of Grants 12 Professionals
Donated
Educated
2021 2022 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023
8 12 # of Grants 130,000 185,000 250,000# HCPs Educated $195,000 $205,000 $225,000 Total Money Donated
$1 million $4.8 million Total Dollars
- 29 17 Number of MAD Grants
- 100 105 Number of Matching Gift
8888 TTEELLEEFFLLEEXX 22002233 GGLLOOBBAALL IIMMPPAACCTT RREEPPOORRTT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Teleflex Corporate Policies
Teleflex Corporate Policies 90
89 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Teleflex Corporate Policies
Teleflex has an extensive list of corporate policies that provide a ■ Code of Ethics ■ Global Reseller Management
framework for our global approach to compliance.  Set of standards and behaviors we require for conducting business  Lays out procedures and requirements for resellers to comply with
with integrity and with high ethical and legal standards. other Teleflex policies such as our Code of Ethics and Anti-
 Available in 17 languages to allow all our employees and business Corruption Policy.
Teleflex also operates in line with many standardized industry codes
partners to adhere to global compliance guidelines. ■ Global Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) on Marketing
of conduct, including those published by AdvaMed (U.S. and China),
 Reviewed on an annual basis to consider any changes or updates Communications
MedTech Europe, APACMed, SAMED (South African Medical Device),
(most recently updated in 2023)  This policy outlines the requirements and processes for approval
ABIMED (Brazilian Association of the Health Technology Industry), and
■ Conflict Minerals Policy of various types of marketing communications relating to our
the MTAA (Medical Trade Association of Australia).
 We work with our suppliers to provide clear and transparent products and services.
information on any conflict minerals we may use. This policy  The approval process includes different functions within the
Below is a list of many (but not all) of our external and internal policies:
provides more details on this program and our stance. organization, including representatives from Marketing, Clinical and
■ Acceptable Use and Responsibilities Policy ■ EHS Statement Document Medical Affairs, Regulatory Affairs, and Legal.
 Policy establishes the requirements, prohibitions, and Company  Detailed document which provides additional details about our ■ Healthcare Provider Compensation Determination Policy
practices that apply to the use of Teleflex’s Systems, Information
Employee, Health, and Safety program and how it is managed  This policy outlines the method to determine the fair market value
Assets, and Third-party systems supporting Teleflex business
within Teleflex of compensation to be paid to a covered recipient in accordance
activities by employees and authorized agents of Teleflex.
■ Global EHS Policy Statement with public disclosure requirements and Teleflex policies, as well
The requirements and restrictions set forth in this policy is designed
 Policy that sets worth how we approach our Environmental, Health, as the Sunshine Act, AdvaMed, and other legal, regulatory and
to protect the Company and its employees, Systems, and
and Safety work within Teleflex ethical guidelines.
Information Assets in compliance with applicable law and
■ Global IT and Cybersecurity Policy ■ Healthcare Provider Payment Tracking Policy
best practices.
 This policy establishes the requirements and responsibilities  Provides guidance to ensure proper disclosure of payments made
■ Anti-Corruption Policy
for maintaining confidentiality, integrity, and availability of Teleflex to Healthcare Professionals in accordance with applicable law.
 Provides information on how we identify and reduce any potential
information assets. Control requirements include defined roles,  In the U.S., we report payments broken down by the state (where
corruption risks.
responsibilities, and practices for ensuring that information assets necessary) and this can be viewed on the U.S. Centers for Medicare
 Defines what is considered corruption and provides some examples
are appropriately secured through the full information and Medicaid Open Payments website.
of possible scenarios of which employees should be aware.
management lifecycle from initiation to archival and purge.  In Europe, we report payments in several countries and in line with
■ CMA Policy on Responding to Requests Related to Off-Label
■ Global Reimbursement and Health Economics Policy the MedTech Europe Code.
Information  This policy explains internal processes for providing Healthcare  For all our other regions, we report payments at the level required
 Relevant employees are trained to promptly refer requests for
Professionals and Government Officials with coding, coverage, by law.
off-label information to Teleflex Clinical and Medical Affairs (CMA) payment, reimbursement, and health economics information ■ Human Capital Development Statement
to be handled in accordance with cur-rent FDA and other applicable
related to Teleflex products, as well as Teleflex’s efforts to engage  Provides a detailed summary about how Teleflex approaches
legal and regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which we
with payers and GOs relating to obtaining coverage for, and access human capital management and some of the programs we offer
do business.
to, Teleflex products.
90 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
■ Integrity Code ■ Supplier Diversity Statement
 A set of policies to ensure Teleflex conducts business ethically when  This statement provides details to how we approach working with
it comes to interactions with healthcare professionals (HCP), diversity businesses and small businesses.
patients, governments, and other external professionals. ■ Supplier Ethics Statement
 Policies include subject matters such as HCP engagement,  High level statement as to the expectations Teleflex has for its
educational and research grants, gift and entertainment, and suppliers regarding ethics and social responsibility.
humanitarian aid and charitable donations. ■ Third-Party Integrity Code
■ Labor Standards Assurance (LSAS) Policy  Standards of business conduct for all of our Third-Party
 Outlines the standards in which Teleflex requires its employees and Representatives19
suppliers to ad-here to related to human and labor rights including  To support for our Third-Party Representatives to develop their
areas such as fair working practices, whistleblowing, and freedom own integrity policies, we have made the Teleflex Integrity Policies
of association. and Procedures available to them to aid in their development.
■ Reporting Non-Compliance and Enforcement  In order to centralize and standardize our due diligence, we utilize a
 Provides details to Teleflex’s internal processes and lines of third-party management platform to facilitate the due diligence
communication for reporting suspected noncompliance and of our Third-Party Representatives.
internal processes for imposing disciplinary actions for non-  Available in nine different languages
compliance of internal policies and IPPs ■ Teleflex Environmental Statement
■ Sales Compensations Terms and Conditions  This statement outlines our approach and commitment to
 We have an internal document that outlines the clear and environmental sustainability and the activities that we conduct to
transparent process in which our sales team is compensated, and meet these objectives.
the standards set for payout. ■ Teleflex Supplier Expectations
■ Social Media Policy  We have a strict set of expectations for our suppliers to ensure we
 This policy requires all individuals working on behalf of Teleflex are best in class when it comes to our supply chain and
to create and use social media in accordance with this policy and manufacturing process
related Teleflex Global Digital Communications standards and ■ Travel and Expense Policy
Global Brand guidelines. Teleflex has developed this policy to  This Policy establishes guidelines governing the reimbursement
help protect its reputation and brands, prevent disclosure of its of travel and other business-related expenses. Individual business
confidential business information, and facilitate compliance with units may also have requirements on specific travel and business
applicable laws and regulations. expenses that are more restrictive.
■ Statement of Engagement on Public Policy Issues ■ Quality Standards
 Teleflex’s approach and stance on public policy engagement with  The minimum standards at which suppliers must meet when it
political organizations and with industry groups and trade comes to the quality of the products or raw materials that are
associations supplied to Teleflex
19 Teleflex considers Third-Party Representatives resellers, sales agents, and vendors.
91 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Reporting and Disclosure
Appendices
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 94
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 99
Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 102
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) 109
92 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Teleflex has aligned the 2023 Global
Impact Report with various
reporting frameworks including the
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI),
Sustainability Accounting Standards
Board (SASB), Taskforce on Climate-
Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD),
and shown our alignment with the
United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals (UN SDGs).
93 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
Statement of use Teleflex has reported in accordance with the GRI Standards for the period January 1, 2023, to December 31, 2023.
GRI 1 used GRI 1: Foundation 2021
GRI 2021 Standards Disclosure Location
General Disclosures
2-1 Organizational details "Teleflex at a Glance"
2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting "About this Report"
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point "About this Report"
2-4 Restatements of information None
2-5 External assurance None
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships Annual Report (10K)
2-7 Employees "Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion"
2-8 Workers who are not employees Omitted – information not available at this time.
GRI 2: General
Disclosures 2021 2-9 Governance structure and composition Investor Relations
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body Investor Relations
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body Investor Relations
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of impacts "Corporate Social Responsibility"
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts "Corporate Social Responsibility"
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting "Corporate Social Responsibility"
2-15 Conflicts of interest Investor Relations
2-16 Communication of critical concerns Investor Relations
94 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
GRI 2021 Standards Disclosure Location
General Disclosures
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body Investor Relations
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body Investor Relations
2-19 Remuneration policies Investor Relations
2-20 Process to determine remuneration Investor Relations
2-21 Annual total compensation ratio Investor Relations
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy “CEO Message” and “Corporate Social Responsibility Chair Message”
2-23 Policy commitments Corporate Social Responsibility
GRI 2: General
2-24 Embedding policy commitments Corporate Social Responsibility
Disclosures 2021
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts Throughout report
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns Code of Ethics
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations As a public company, we report information regarding material legal proceedings in our Exchange Act
filings. Please see the Company’s relevant Exchange Act filings for additional information.
2-28 Membership associations "Industry Groups and Trade Associations"
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement "Stakeholder Engagement”
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements Teleflex Labour Standards Assurance Policy
Material Topics
3-1 Process to determine material topics “Materiality Assessment”
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3-2 List of material topics “Corporate Social Responsibility”
Economic Performance
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics Annual Report (10K)
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Annual Report (10K)
GRI 201: Economic
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Annual Report (10K)
Performance 2016
201-4 Financial assistance received from government Annual Report (10K)
95 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
GRI 2021 Standards Disclosure Location
Anti-corruption
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics “A Culture of Compliance”
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption “A Culture of Compliance”
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures “A Culture of Compliance”
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken As a public company, we report information regarding material legal proceedings in our Exchange Act
filings. Please see the Company’s relevant Exchange Act filings for additional information.
Anti-competitive behavior
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics “A Culture of Compliance”
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices As a public company, we report information regarding material legal proceedings in our Exchange Act
GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016
filings. Please see the Company’s relevant Exchange Act filings for additional information.
Waste
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics “Waste”
306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts “Waste” and “Product Sustainability”
GRI 306: Waste 2020
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts “Waste” and “Product Sustainability”
Employment
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics “People”
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover ”Inclusive Recruiting” and “Exceptional Employee Experience”
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part- ”Benefits”
GRI 401: Employment 2016
time employees
401-3 Parental leave ”Family Support”
96 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
GRI 2021 Standards Disclosure Location
Occupational health and safety
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics ”Employee Health and Safety”
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system ”Employee Health and Safety”
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation ”Employee Health and Safety”
403-3 Occupational health services ”Employee Health and Safety”
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety ”Employee Health and Safety”
GRI 403: Occupational Health and
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety ”Employee Health and Safety”
Safety 2018
403-6 Promotion of worker health ”Employee Health and Safety”
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by ”Employee Health and Safety”
business relationships
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system ”Employee Health and Safety”
Training and education
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics ”Learning and Development”
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee ”Learning and Development”
GRI 404: Training and
Education 2016
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs ”Learning and Development”
Diversity and equal opportunity
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics ”Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion”
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees ”DEI Metrics”
Opportunity 2016
Public policy
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics “Public Policy”
GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions $0.00 USD in 2023
97 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
GRI 2021 Standards Disclosure Location
Customer health and safety
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics “Product Quality and Safety”
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories Teleflex reviews its products for health and safety impacts based on our QMS (Quality Management
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and System) and the governing regulations, particularly ISO13485 and 21CFR820, Teleflex does not
GRI 416: Customer Health
services differentiate reviews for improvement or safety impact by product or service category.
and Safety 2016
Teleflex did not have any incidents of non-compliance that resulted in a warning (i.e. warning letter),
fine or penalty in 2023.
Marketing and labeling
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics ”Sales and Marketing Practices”
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling As a public company, we report information regarding material legal proceedings in our Exchange Act
filings. Please see the Company’s relevant Exchange Act filings for additional information.
GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications As a public company, we report information regarding material legal proceedings in our Exchange Act
filings. Please see the Company’s relevant Exchange Act filings for additional information.
Customer privacy
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics ”Information Security and Data Privacy”
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of ”Information Security and Data Privacy”
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016
customer data
98 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)
TOPIC SASB Code Metric Disclosure/Explanation
HC-MS-240a.1 Ratio of weighted average rate of net price increases (for all Teleflex works with distributors and healthcare providers to agree to a price that is fair. This process
products) to the annual increase in the U.S. Consumer Price Index differs product to product and country to country. Teleflex does not provide pricing information at this
time. Factors that affect price would typically be the commercial competitive environment, geographical
market, volume commitment or duration of contract commitment, and customer segment (e.g. hospital,
distributor, military).
Affordability and Pricing HC-MS-240a.2 Description of how price information for each product is disclosed to Prices are communicated through distributors or directly with healthcare providers by way of a contract,
customers or to their agents tender, price quote, or similar pricing agreement. In these documents, a selling price is provided, which
is either based on the approved list price (current standard selling prices available to all customers) or
approved special price (negotiated price specific to the customer). These documents also include the
fulfillment conditions for discounts and/or rebates, if any. As these documents are typically regarded as
confidential information, relevant confidentiality clauses will be included in these purchasing agreements.
HC-MS-250a.1 Number of recalls issued, total units recalled ■ 2023 Class 1 recalls20: 3
z # of units affected: 51,033,417
■ For more information regarding recalls please refer to the F.D.A. Medical Device Recall Database
HC-MS-250a.2 List of products listed in the FDA’s MedWatch Safety Alerts for Human MedWatch: The FDA Safety Information and Adverse Event Reporting Program
Medical Products database
Product Safety
HC-MS-250a.3 Number of fatalities related to products as reported in the FDA MAUDE - Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience
Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience
HC-MS-250a.4 Number of FDA enforcement actions taken in response to violations None
of current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP), by type Note: This response is based on considering an “FDA enforcement action” to be the issuance of an FDA warning
letter, which Teleflex did not receive in 2023.
HC-MS-270a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings As a public company, we report information regarding material legal proceedings in our Exchange Act
associated with false marketing claims filings. Please see the Company’s relevant Exchange Act filings for additional information.
Ethical Marketing
HC-MS-270a.2 Description of code of ethics governing promotion of off-label “Sales and Marketing Practices”
use of products
20 Differences compared with data on FDA websites may be due to timeframe (the date Teleflex takes an action may differ from the date FDA classifies that action), definition of “recall” (FDA data includes actions taken even if the product is not removed or
corrected), and classification by product group vs. product code (FDA counts each impacted product code within a product family as a distinct recall).
99 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
TOPIC SASB Code Metric Disclosure/Explanation
HC-MS-410a.1 Discussion of process to assess and manage environmental and human "Product Sustainability”
health considerations associated with chemicals in products, and meet
demand for sustainable products
Product Design and Lifecycle
Management
HC-MS-410a.2 Total amount of products accepted for take-back and reused, At Teleflex we have several reusable products. While we take back some products for repair or
recycled, or donated, broken down by: (1) devices and equipment recycling, we have not yet established a system to quantify the extent of product takeback.
and (2) supplies
HC-MS-430a.1 Percentage of (1) entity's facilities and (2) Tier I suppliers' facilities In 2023, the Teleflex Global EHS function deployed EHS audits on several selected sites through our
participating in third-party audit programs for manufacturing and Compliance Assurance Program delivered by independent third-party auditors.
product quality
For more information regarding our management of suppliers and audits please refer to the below
websites:
■ https://teleflex.com/global/suppliers/ethics/Teleflex-LSAS-Policy-04-24-01-2020.pdf
■ https://teleflex.com/usa/en/suppliers/teleflex-supplier-expectations/
■ https://teleflex.com/usa/en/suppliers/teleflex-supplier-expectations/
HC-MS-430a.2 Description of efforts to maintain traceability within the We have traceability from raw material to distribution to end customer through various processes and
Supply Chain Management
distribution chain controls. From the time we purchase raw materials until they are received at our manufacturing sites,
we are able to track those materials through our logistics carrier via a carrier tracking reference and TMS
(Transport Management System) reference linked to the shipment. From manufacturing to distribution
centers and from distribution centers to end customers the same process is used. Once the products reach
the end customer, proof of delivery is required to ensure receipt. The entire process is tracked through
our enterprise resource planning (ERP) system with the purchase order number, customer or vendor
information, container reference number, house of bill lading, and any other shipping information.
HC-MS-430a.3 Description of the management of risks associated with the use of Conflict Minerals Policy
critical materials
HC-MS-510a.1 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings As a public company, we report information regarding material legal proceedings in our Exchange Act
associated with bribery or corruption filings. Please see the Company’s relevant Exchange Act filings for additional information.
Business Ethics
HC-MS-510a.2 Description of code of ethics governing interactions with Code of Ethics (page 7) and Teleflex Integrity Code
healthcare professionals
100 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
TOPIC SASB Code Metric Disclosure/Explanation
HC-MS-000.A Number of units sold by product category
Anesthesia 82,934,349
Interventional Urology 354,522
Interventional 5,394,101
OEM 140,245,824
Other 4,644,031
Activity Metric
Respiratory 35,346,619
Surgical 31,974,900
Urology Care 91,501,650
Vascular Access 21,171,634
Grand Total 413,567,630
101 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
TOPIC Description Recommended disclosures Response
Disclose the organization’s governance around climate-related a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and “Climate Action Governance”
risks and opportunities. Disclose the actual and potential impacts opportunities.
Governance
of climate-related risks and opportunities b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing
climate-related risks and opportunities.
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the Teleflex recognizes the importance of identifying and assessing
and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and organization has identified over the short, medium, and long term. the impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities over the
financial planning where such information is material. b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities short, medium, and long term. We evaluate both transition and
on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning. physical climate-related risks to determine the relative importance
c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking of each. Transition risks are associated with the transition to a
into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including low-carbon global economy and include current and emerging
a 2°C or lower scenario. regulatory risks, technology risks, market risks, and reputational
risks. Physical risks arise from the physical damage due to climate
change – these can be short-term events such as extreme weather
events, or long-term changes in weather patterns and sea levels.
We consider climate-related risks and opportunities over the short-
term (1-3 years), medium-term (3-10 years) and long-term (10+ years)
time horizons. In conjunction with a third-party, Teleflex conducted
Strategy
our first Climate Risk Assessment in 2023. This first Assessment
focused on transition risk, involving stakeholder engagement and
scenario analysis to identify relevant risks, assess their impact, and
evaluate our business resilience related to these risks.
In this initial assessment, three transition risks were found to be
most relevant for Teleflex. These included regulatory risk related to
a price on emissions, reputational risk linked to a shift in customer
behavior towards lower carbon options, and market risk linked to
the cost and availability of raw materials. Our exposure to these
risks was further assessed through a scenario analysis exercise
that helped us determine our potential risk exposure under
different scenarios and our preparedness to mitigate these risks.
102 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
TOPIC Description Recommended disclosures Response
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the To conduct this analysis, we leveraged data from seven climate
and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and organization has identified over the short, medium, and long term. scenarios designed by the Network for Greening the Financial
financial planning where such information is material. b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities System (NGFS), which were developed by central banks and
on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning. financial institutions from eight major economies and build on IPCC
c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking assessments, socio-economic assumptions and three integrated
into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including assessment models to explore the implications of climate-related
a 2°C or lower scenario. transition and physical risks. The following table includes the end-
of-century temperature alignments of each scenario, as well as a
description of their main characteristics.
Policy and legal risk: Carbon pricing
Temperature
Scenario Name Description
(2100)
Stringent climate policies and technological innovation in near term
Net Zero 2050 1.4 °C
drives emissions reductions
Strategy Significant reduction in energy demand and carbon pricing policies
Low Demand 1.4 °C
drive low-carbon technologies and reduced economic activity
Below 2°C 1.6 °C Gradual increase in stringency of climate policies
Annual emissions do not decrease until 2030, after 2030, strong
Delayed Transition 1.6 °C
climate policies result in significant economic impacts
Delayed and fragmented climate action results in a high physical and
Fragmented World 2.3 °C
transition risk scenario
Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs), including all pledged
NDCs 2.6 °C
targets are met
Only currently implemented policies remain in place, resulting in a
Current Policies 3+ °C
high physical risk scenario
Each of the seven NGFS scenarios integrates carbon price
assumptions which serves as an indicator for the level of
regulatory risk exposure.
103 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
TOPIC Description Recommended disclosures Response
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the These carbon prices also represent a proxy for policy ambition and
and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and organization has identified over the short, medium, and long term. are influenced by the timing of policy implementation, regional
financial planning where such information is material. b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities distribution of policy mechanisms, and technology deployment.
on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning. By examining Teleflex’s exposure to carbon pricing and regulatory
c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking risk across seven different scenarios, we can better prepare for the
into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including uncertainty surrounding these risks.
a 2°C or lower scenario. Our analysis assessed potential impacts for a business-as-usual
growth pathway and a pathway aligned with reducing our
emissions in line with our Science Based Target (SBT). Risk levels
were modeled out to 2050 in line with the target year for our net
zero SBT. The analysis showed that Teleflex will face the most
exposure under a Net Zero 2050 scenario, with the exposure
decreasing if Teleflex follows an emission reduction trajectory in
line with our SBT. The results highlighted the value of pursuing
Strategy
and achieving emissions reductions as a strategy to reduce carbon
related risk exposure. Investments related to achieving Teleflex’s
SBT may result in avoided cost exposure to future carbon pricing.
Teleflex is committed to supporting a low carbon future and
implementing initiatives in line with achieving emissions reductions
that will improve resilience and competitiveness.
There are several ways Teleflex plans to reduce our carbon
footprint. We are exploring options regarding clean energy,
such as additional on-site renewables, renewable energy power
purchase agreements (PPAs), and securing energy attribute
certificates such as renewable energy certificates. As part of
our commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, we
are taking steps across our business to reduce the possibility of
climate-warming refrigerant gases leaking into the atmosphere.
104 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
TOPIC Description Recommended disclosures Response
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the In 2022, for example, we replaced over 30 chiller, refrigerant, and
and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and organization has identified over the short, medium, and long term. HVAC units across five sites. This resulted in the removal of ozone
financial planning where such information is material. b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities depleting refrigerants (R-22), lowering our global warming potential
on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning. risk, and reducing power demand by over 500kW.
c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking More information can be found in our Climate Action section of
into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including this report.
a 2°C or lower scenario.
Market risk: Change in customer behavior towards lower carbon options
Teleflex is committed to maintaining its competitive market
position as the world transitions to a low-carbon economy. Markets
and reputation represent key risk areas in this transition, and
managing these risks will go hand in hand with managing Teleflex’s
market position and brand. In this first round of scenario analysis,
Strategy Teleflex took important steps to understanding the complex forces
associated with how our market position and reputation could be
affected by climate change and a shift in customer and consumer
sentiment and behavior.
In order to evaluate Teleflex’s exposure to a shift in demand towards
low-carbon products, we used gross domestic product (GDP) loss
due to climate change as a proxy for customer and consumer
sentiment and behavior. This analysis leveraged Teleflex’s 2022 sales
revenue data to gauge country-specific exposure to these impacts.
Sales revenue projections were combined with NGFS scenario
assumptions to determine a potential annual financial impact under
each scenario. This provided an estimate of Teleflex’s exposure to a
shift in consumer behavior towards low-carbon products.
105 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
TOPIC Description Recommended disclosures Response
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the The following simplifying assumptions were made in the analysis:
and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and organization has identified over the short, medium, and long term.
■ All sales revenue streams were assumed to be affected
financial planning where such information is material. b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities
identically by a shift in consumer behavior, regardless of
on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning.
carbon intensity of the products.
c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking ■ Consumers in all regions were assumed to react in the same
into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including
way in the face of GDP losses due to climate change.
a 2°C or lower scenario.
■ Consumer sentiment and behavior regarding demand for
low-carbon products was assumed to change in tandem with
changes in GDP due to climate change.
The analysis found that under all scenarios, the projected loss
in sales will increase over time, and it will be higher under lower
climate ambition scenarios such as the Current Policies, NDCs and
Fragmented World scenarios, as the impacts of climate change
will be higher, thereby negatively impacting GDP. In order to
Strategy mitigate these risks, Teleflex is taking steps to allow for a greater
understanding of the emissions intensity of all of our products and
undertaking initiatives to reduce product carbon footprints.
Technology risk: Cost and availability of energy and raw materials
While supply chain risks can straddle many climate-related risk
categories, a change in production and product technology will drive
changes in supply chain costs and force companies to make supply
chain adjustments in order to adapt to and mitigate these risks.
As a medical device and technology producer and supplier,
Teleflex offers many products that are single-use and contain a
variety of components made of steel, plastic, rubber, chemicals,
and many other materials. The production of these components
requires sourcing of raw materials from the Fossil Fuel, Metals
Manufacturing, and Chemicals industries.
106 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
TOPIC Description Recommended disclosures Response
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the The processing of these raw materials and manufacturing of our
and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and organization has identified over the short, medium, and long term. medical devices can result in high emissions, and these materials
financial planning where such information is material. b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities and production processes will likely undergo changes as the
on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning. world transitions to more climate-friendly products.
c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking Teleflex tracks many supply chain risks, and a transition to a low
into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including carbon economy introduces additional risks that may overlap
a 2°C or lower scenario. with traditional trade and geopolitical risks. In this reporting
period, Teleflex has taken important steps to understand how
climate change may impact supply chain and procurement costs.
The analysis leveraged Teleflex’s 2023 procurement data by
country and product to estimate how a change in key commodity
prices may impact supply chain costs over each of the seven
NGFS scenarios. Coal, oil, natural gas, and industrial gas prices
were used to gauge how raw material costs could increase as the
economy decarbonizes.
Strategy
The following assumptions were made in the analysis:
■ Raw material inputs remain constant regarding each product’s
manufacturing process over the time horizons studied
■ Other fixed and variable costs were assumed to remain constant
While more analysis is needed to better understand this risk
and how it relates to other supply chain risks for Teleflex, initial
results show that raw material costs have the potential to
materially impact Teleflex in the coming decades as the economy
transitions away from a carbon-intensive production. Teleflex will
continue to monitor this risk and develop strategies to mitigate
and adapt to potential climate-related and geopolitical impacts.
We also share about our climate change risks in our Teleflex
Annual Report (10K)
107 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
TOPIC Description Recommended disclosures Response
Disclose how the organization identifies, assesses, and manages a) Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and “Climate Risk Management”
climate-related risks. assessing climate-related risks.
b) Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-
Risk Management related risks.
c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and
managing climate-related risks are integrated into the
organization’s overall risk management.
Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage a) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess “Emissions Reduction Targets”
relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy
information is material. and risk management process. Teleflex is planning to report Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the
Metrics and Targets b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 2024 CDP Assessment later this year.
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks.
c) Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-
related risks and opportunities and performance against targets.
108 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs)
Teleflex CSR Pillar UN Sustainable Development Goal UN Sustainable Development Indicator
Goal 16 (Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions): 16.3 Promote the rule of law at the national and international levels and ensure equal access to justice
Principles of Ethics
Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for for all
& Governance
all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels 16.5 Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms
Goal 3 (Good Health & Well-Being): 3.9 By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and
Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages air, water and soil pollution and contamination
Goal 6 (Clean Water & Sanitation): 6.3 By 2030, improve water quality by reducing pollution, eliminating dumping and minimizing
Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all release of hazardous chemicals and materials, halving the proportion of untreated wastewater
and substantially increasing recycling and safe reuse globally
6.4 By 2030, substantially increase water-use efficiency across all sectors and ensure sustainable
withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address water scarcity and substantially reduce the
number of people suffering from water scarcity
Goal 7 (Affordable & Clean Energy): 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix
Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all 7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency
Goal 8 (Decent Work & Economic Growth): 8.4 Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource efficiency in consumption and production
Planet & Environment Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and endeavour to decouple economic growth from environmental degradation, in accordance
and decent work for all with the 10Year Framework of Programmes on Sustainable Consumption and Production, with
developed countries taking the lead
Goal 9 (Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure): 9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased
Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and
industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities
Goal 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities): 11.6 By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying special
Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management
Goal 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production): 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources
Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse
12.6 Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable
practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle
109 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Teleflex CSR Pillar UN Sustainable Development Goal UN Sustainable Development Indicator
Goal 13 (Climate Action): 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all
Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts countries
13.3 Improve education, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity on climate change
mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning
Goal 14 (Life Below Water): 14.1 By 2025, prevent and significantly reduce marine pollution of all kinds, in particular from land-
Planet & Environment
Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development based activities, including marine debris and nutrient pollution
Goal 15 (Life on Land): 15.3 By 2030, combat desertification, restore degraded land and soil, including land affected by
Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, desertification, drought and floods, and strive to achieve a land degradation-neutral world
combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss
Goal 3 (Good Health & Well-Being): 3.7 By 2030, ensure universal access to sexual and reproductive health-care services, including for
Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages family planning, information and education, and the integration of reproductive health into
national strategies and programmes
3.8 Achieve universal health coverage, including financial risk protection, access to quality essential
health-care services and access to safe, effective, quality and affordable essential medicines
and vaccines for all
Goal 4 (Quality Education): 4.3 By 2030, ensure equal access for all women and men to affordable and quality technical,
Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all vocational and tertiary education, including university
4.4 By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant skills,
People
including technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship
4.5 By 2030, eliminate gender disparities in education and ensure equal access to all levels of
education and vocational training for the vulnerable, including persons with disabilities,
indigenous peoples and children in vulnerable situations
4.7 By 2030, ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote
sustainable development, including, among others, through education for sustainable
development and sustainable lifestyles, human rights, gender equality, promotion of a culture
of peace and non-violence, global citizenship and appreciation of cultural diversity and of
culture’s contribution to sustainable development
110 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Teleflex CSR Pillar UN Sustainable Development Goal UN Sustainable Development Indicator
Goal 5 (Gender Equality): 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere
Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls 5.4 Recognize and value unpaid care and domestic work through the provision of public services,
infrastructure and social protection policies and the promotion of shared responsibility within
the household and the family as nationally appropriate
5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all
People
levels of decision-making in political, economic and public life
Goal 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth): 8.5 By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all women and men,
Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment including for young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value
and decent work for all 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers,
including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment
Goal 3 (Good Health & Well-Being): 3.1 By 2030, reduce the global maternal mortality ratio to less than 70 per 100,000 live births
Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages 3.2 By 2030, end preventable deaths of newborns and children under 5 years of age, with all
countries aiming to reduce neonatal mortality to at least as low as 12 per 1,000 live births and
under-5 mortality to at least as low as 25 per 1,000 live births
3.4 By 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from non-communicable diseases through
prevention and treatment and promote mental health and well-being
3.7 By 2030, ensure universal access to sexual and reproductive health-care services, including for
family planning, information and education, and the integration of reproductive health into
national strategies and programmes
Community & Sustainable
3.8 Achieve universal health coverage, including financial risk protection, access to quality essential
Healthcare
health-care services and access to safe, effective, quality and affordable essential medicines
and vaccines for all
Goal 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth): 8.2 Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversification, technological upgrading
Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and innovation, including through a focus on high-value added and labour-intensive sectors
and decent work for all 8.7 Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and
human trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour,
including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms
8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers,
including migrant workers, in particular women migrants, and those in precarious employment
111 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
Welcome Teleflex at a Glance Corporate Social Ethics Planet & Environment People Community & Appendix
Responsibility & Governance Sustainable Healthcare
Teleflex CSR Pillar UN Sustainable Development Goal UN Sustainable Development Indicator
Goal 9 (Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure): 9.5 Enhance scientific research, upgrade the technological capabilities of industrial sectors in all
Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster countries, in particular developing countries, including, by 2030, encouraging innovation and
innovation substantially increasing the number of research and development workers per 1 million people
Community & Sustainable and public and private research and development spending
Healthcare
Goal 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities): 11.1 By 2030, ensure access for all to adequate, safe and affordable housing and basic services and
Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable upgrade slums
11.4 Strengthen efforts to protect and safeguard the world’s cultural and natural heritage
112 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
113 TELEFLEX 2023 GLOBAL IMPACT REPORT
